PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
October 21, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

2 7 3 C 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, October 21, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 2/ 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Crews, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Miss Key, and Mr. Wilbanks, 
Technical Assistants, Office of the 
Secretary 
(V r.. 
tuv,. 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
•i/ Withdrew from meeting and returned at points indicated in minutes. 
2J Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

2737 
10/21/71 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously a letter 
to First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New 
York, granting consent to purchase stock of FNCB Gulf Finance Ltd., a 
finance company to be formed in Dubai, Trucial States, and to continue 
to hold the stock after the company issues certain debt instruments. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to Citizens and 
Southern International Corporation, Atlanta, Georgia, granting consent 
to the acquisition of shares of Central American Exchange Bank, 
Georgetown, Cayman Islands, through a reduction in capital stock out-
standing. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to First National 
City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, Nex^ York, granting con-
sent to the continued holding of shares of National City Financial 
Trust Ltd., London, England, after the latter incurs certain direct 
ar*d indirect debt obligations. A copy of the letter is attached as 
•Item No. 3. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Terrebonne 
Corporation, Houma, Louisiana, to become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of shares of the successor by merger to Bank of Terre-
bonne and Trust Company, also of Houma, and authorized the issuance of 
a n order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
-jtemjqo. 4. 
^lii-il-.Lnn, nf .nrr.i,, r^n!,.!. 
A t-v; >" <- 
„ ! 
h,, •! >„.,n 

2738 
10/21/71 
-3-
The Board approved unanimously a letter to all Federal 
Reserve Banks approving a revision of the Loss Sharing Agreement of 
the Federal Reserve Banks, as adopted at the meeting of the Conference 
°f Presidents on September 20, 1971, with respect to the sharing of 
losses on loans made under the third paragraph of section 13 of the 
Federal Reserve Act. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
First at Orlando Corporation. The Division of Supervision 
and Regulation, in a memorandum dated October 14, 1971, presented 
aPplications by First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, (1) to 
Squire shares of National Bank of Sarasota, Sarasota, Florida, and 
(2) to acquire shares of National Bank Gulf Gate, Sarasota County, 
Florida. The Division recommended denial of the first application and 
approval of the second. The Banking Markets Section concurred. 
By unanimous vote the Board denied the application with 
respect to National Bank of Sarasota and approved the application with 
respect to National Bank Gulf Gate. It was understood that the neces-
Sary documents reflecting these decisions would be prepared for the 
Sard's consideration. 
Mortgage subsidiaries of holding companies. Pursuant to the 
Understanding at the meeting on October 12, 1971, the Legal Division 
Submitted, with a memorandum dated October 19, a proposed notice of 
faring regarding the public interest aspects of bank holding company 
^quisitio ns of mortgage companies. A draft letter also had been 

10/21/71 
-4-
prepared to invite participation in the hearing by several bank holding 
companies that had pending applications to acquire mortgage companies. 
Discussion centered on the questions to which participants 
in the hearing would be asked to address themselves. The view was 
expressed that the questions listed in the draft notice were overly 
academic and directed toward economists, whereas the Board needed to 
know the nature of business of the applicants in order to provide a 
small sampling of the mortgage company problem. One suggestion was 
that the applicants be requested to respond to any of a list of ques-
tions upon which they believed they could throw light that would be 
helpful to the Board. However, support developed for a suggestion 
that some questions be directed specifically to applicants and others 
to members of the public. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that the 
questions would be reframed in the light of preferences expressed. 
Subject to that change, the notice of hearing and the letter to orga-
nizations having applications pending were approved unanimously. A 
C0Py of the notice sent to the Federal Register is attached under 
-I-tem^No. 6, along with a copy of the letter sent to one of the appli-
cants. 
First National Factors. A memorandum from the Banking 
Markets Section and the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
October 19, 1971, noted that the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston had 

2740 
10/21/71 
-5-
received an application from First National Factors, Boston, 
Massachusetts, a subsidiary of First National Boston Corporation, to 
acquire certain assets of Crompton-Richmond Co., Inc. Factors, New 
York City. The Boston Bank's Research Department suggested that the 
application raised significant competitive issues and that the Board's 
decision would have important implications for the future of the 
factoring industry. Therefore, the Board's staff recommended that a 
hearing be held in connection with the case. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that a formal hearing 
should be held before a hearing examiner. One of the objectives of the 
statute was to avoid unfair competition, and he believed that the fac-
toring industry was one in which there might be unfair competition by 
banks. The staff had brought out that of the 27 major factoring com-
panies, 12 were already owned by banks or bank holding companies. In 
his view, the Board had a responsibility to allow the other 15 compa-
res to present their views regarding what they faced as individual 
concerns if acquisitions by banks or bank holding companies continued. 
Comments by other members of the Board indicated a preference 
an informal type of hearing, although some reservations were 
e*Pressed regarding the benefit to be derived. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board approved the 
h°lding of an informal hearing, with the understanding that the 15 
^jor factoring companies not owned by banks or bank holding companies 
V.r. L , 
,.>w„n . j .. . . 
... . 
. . 
.... , t : • . 

10/21/71 
-6-
would be informed by letter that the hearing would be held. A copy of 
the notice sent to the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 7. 
Governor Mitchell then withdrew. 
Advisory services by holding companies. In August 1971 the 
Board published for comment a proposal to add to the list of activi-
ties permissible for bank holding companies under Section 4(c)(8) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act, serving as investment advisor to mutual 
funds and closed-end investment companies. 
In a memorandum dated October 1, 1971, the Legal Division 
summarized comments received. One opponent, Investment Company 
Institute, had requested a hearing and the Division recommended that 
the Board grant the request. 
Discussion brought out that the questions to be resolved 
Were principally of a technical legal nature, and there was agreement 
with a suggestion that it would therefore be appropriate for the Legal 
Division to conduct the hearing, with participation by Mr. Solomon. 
The holding of a hearing of that type was approved unani-
mously. 
a copy of the notice subsequently sent to the Federal Register 
is attached as Item No. 8. 
Federal Criminal Code. The Office of Management and Budget 
had requested the Board's views on a legislative proposal of the 
Department of Justice to broaden those provisions of the Federal 
^riminal Code making it a crime for an employee of a financial insti-
tution to receive a bribe in return for the procurement of a loan. A 

2 742 
10/21/71 
-7-
draft reply submitted with a memorandum from the Legal Division dated 
October 18, 1971, would indicate Board endorsement of the legislative 
proposal but recommend its extension to holding company situations. 
The letter was approved unanimously. A copy is attached as 
.Item No. 9. 
Security Pacific Overseas Corp. The Division of Supervision 
and Regulation, in a memorandum dated October 14, 1971, presented an 
aPplication by Security Pacific Overseas Corp., Los Angeles, 
California, (a) to continue to hold the stock of Security Pacific Over-
seas Investment Corporation, an offshore company organized under 
Calif ornia law, after it issues certain debt obligations under terms 
described in the memorandum, and (b) to obtain Board rulings with 
respect to the status of the proposed borrowings under Regulations D, 
Reserves of Member Banks, M, Foreign Activities of National Banks, and 
Interest on Deposits, and the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint 
Program. The Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco recommended 
aPproval of the application and the Division concurred, subject to 
Salifications reflected in an attached draft letter. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the letter. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 10. It was understood that the sub-
stance of the letter would be published as an interpretation. 
Governor Mitchell returned to the meeting at this point. 
Adela Investment Company. On August 17, 1971, the Board 
c°nsidered an inquiry by counsel for Adela Investment Company S.A. 

2743 
10/21/71 
-8-
regarding the possible effect on Edge corporations that owned interests 
in the company of proposed direct or indirect minority investments by 
the company in Arguay, Inc., and similar enterprises. Several members 
°f the Board were inclined to the view that the proposed arrangement 
involved doing business within the U.S. that was not incidental to 
international or foreign business and therefore would not be permis-
sible for Edge corporations. Central to that issue was the question 
whether Adela Investment Company would control Arguay. Action was 
deferred pending the development of additional information. 
A memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
dated October 12, 1971, presented data believed to justify a conclu-
sion that the proposed relationship would not constitute control, and 
therefore the Division reiterated its recommendation that the Board 
n°t object to the proposed investment or similar ones of a minor 
nature. A draft letter in those terms had previously been submitted. 
After discussion, the Board approved the letter. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 11. Governor Brimmer dissented from this action 
because he continued to believe that the arrangement would constitute, 
for participant Edge corporations, the conduct of business in the U.S. 
n°t incidental to their international business. 
Multiple Edge corporations. In a memorandum dated October 19, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation analyzed the policy 
aspects of multiple locations for Edge corporations established by any 

2744 
10/21/71 
-9-
one bank. The Board had previously approved establishment of these 
corporations on a case-by-case basis, but had not had occasion to 
authorize more than three for any single bank. However, two of seven 
pending applications contemplated a fourth Edge corporation for the 
applicants. 
The memorandum noted that the current applications, along 
with other indications that the development of multiple Edge corpora-
tions might be gaining momentum, raised a policy question of whether a 
Proliferation of such corporations was in the public interest or 
whether limits should be established. The Division recommended that 
at this time the Board place no limit on the number or the location of 
the Edge corporations a single bank might establish. 
Today's discussion indicated that a majority of the members 
Present favored some limit on the number of Edge corporations a bank 
could establish. Suggestions were made for a limit of three corpora-
tions, and agreement upon that general limit was extended to recognize 
the merit of another suggestion that a given bank might be allowed to 
have an Edge corporation on each of the four borders of the country. 
The general position taken by the Board was of immediate 
r®levance to the applications described in the following paragraphs. 
Citizens and Southern. The Board approved unanimously the 
aPplication of The Citizens and Southern National Bank, Savannah, 
(1) for permission to organize a corporation under 

10/21/71 
-10-
section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act to be known as Citizens and 
Southern International Bank of New Orleans, with its head office in 
New Orleans, Louisiana; and (2) the request of the parent organization 
for permission to transfer certain assets to and from its several Edge 
corporation subsidiaries. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant, 
which transmitted a preliminary permit for Citizens and Southern Inter-
national Bank of New Orleans, is attached as Item No. 12. 
First National Bank of Boston. The Board approved unanimously 
an application by The First National Bank of Boston, Boston, Massachu-
setts, for permission to organize a corporation under section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act to be known as Bank of Boston International of 
Miami, and to be located in Miami, Florida. A copy of the letter sent 
to the applicant, which transmitted a preliminary permit, is attached 
as Item No. 13. 
Governor Sherrill then withdrew. 
Grandfather rights of holding companies. In a memorandum 
dated October 15, 1971, the Legal Division presented a question aris-
ing under the provisions of section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act 
that generally required holding companies to discontinue nonpermis-
S3-ble nonbanking activities within two years of their formation. The 
Congress had conferred certain benefits with respect to nonbanking 
activities on those companies that controlled a single bank on Decem-
ber 31, 1970, and thus became subject to the Bank Holding Company Act. 

2746 
10/21/71 
-11-
In some cases the companies were given ten years rather than two within 
which to divest, in others no divestiture was required, and in a few 
cases an exemption was provided. 
The question had arisen whether a one-bank holding company 
would lose those benefits when it acquired an additional bank. If the 
grandfather rights were conceived as being in the nature of vested 
rights rather than as privileges dependent upon their possessors' 
continuing status as one-bank holding companies, the grandfathered 
companies would be placed at a competitive advantage relative to all 
other multibank holding companies whether established before or after 
the 1970 amendments. (The question was relevant to two pending appli-
cations, one of which, by First National City Corporation, New York, 
New York, was listed on today's agenda.) 
After analysis of the merits of several possible courses of 
action, the Legal Division recommended that the Board publish for com-
ment a proposed amendment to Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, 
that would explicitly provide that the acquisition of a second bank 
would result in the prospective relinquishment of any section 4 grand-
father rights created under the 1970 amendments. Pending the adoption 
such a rule, the Division further recommended that any order 
aPproving the acquisition of a second bank by a one-bank holding com-
pany contain an explicit provision regarding the divestiture or 
cessation of nonbanking shares or activities, and that a letter (a 
draft of which was attached) be sent to all one-bank applicants in 

2747 
10/21/71 
-12-
pending cases notifying them that they might lose whatever special 
exemptions they had under section 4 if the Board adopted the proposed 
amendment. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved publication 
of the proposed amendment for comment. A copy of the notice sent to 
the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 14. The Division's 
recommendations regarding notification of applicants were also 
approved unanimously. 
First National City Corporation. The Board unanimously 
approved the application of First National City Corporation, New York, 
New York, to acquire shares of Citibank, National Association, North 
Bay Shore, Town of Islip, Suffolk County, New York (a proposed new 
bank), and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting this deci-
sion. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 15. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2748 
BDARD • F G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
205'jl 
Item No. 11 
10/1/71 
ADUHESS •rncIAL correspondence 
TO T H E 
B D A W D 
October 21, 1971 
n t 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 30, 1971, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to pur-
chase and hold 100 per cent of the capital stock of FNCB Gulf Finance 
Ltd. ("FNCB-Gulf"), a finance company to be formed in Dubai, Trucial 
States, at a cost of approximately $10,500, provided such shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
arJ. f •;..,:,••..•': 
•: • : . : • 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of FNCB-Gulf by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in FNCB-Gulf if FNCB-Gulf at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under » 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if FNCB-Gulf establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Dubai or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCB 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FNCB-Gulf as it may require from 
time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FNCB-
Gulf be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if FNCB-Gulf were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
; 

2749 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
; i; 
" ! • I 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the iiTJiiediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by FNCB-Gulf in Dubai, 
in the currency of that country. 
As also requested in your letter, consent is granted for 
iFNCOIC to continue to hold the shares of FNCB-Gulf after FNCB-Gulf 
issues and has outstanding debt instruments with maturities in excess 
of one year in an aggregate amount up to the equivalent of approx-
imately $5,000,000. 
The Board has noted that as of August 31, 1971, the foreign 
loans and investments of First National City Bank and its subsidiaries, 
exceeded the Guideline ceiling applicable under the Foreign Credit 
Restraint Program. The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that those foreign loans and investments will be reduced 
a s soon as possible to a level consistent with the Guidelines; that 
the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines; and that full consideration is being given to the prior-
ities for U.S. export financing and for meeting the credit needs of 
developing countries. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2750 
B O A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 11 
10/2/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O H K E N P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
• O A R D 
October 21, 1971 
Citizens and Southern 
International Corporation 
Box 
Atlanta, Georgia 30302 
Gentl eraen: 
As requested in your letter of August 31, 1971, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("CSIC") 
to acquire up to 49 per cent of the outstanding shares of 
Central American Exchange Bank ("CAEB"), Georgetown, Cayman 
Islands^ through a reduction in the capital stock of the bank, 
Provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date 
°f this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed acquisition of shares 
CAEB by CSIC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That CSIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in CAEB if CAEB at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if CAEB establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in the Cayman Islands or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to CSIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CSIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of CAEB as it may require from time 
to t ime; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CAEB 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if CAEB were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
y, i : 

:: m 
k 
2751 
Citizens and Southern 
International Corporation 
-2-
H i * 
. 
(4) That CSIC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of CAEB at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of CAEB, after giving 
effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
, °f the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by CAEB in the Cayman 
Islands in the currency of that country. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the acquisition will not involve a transfer of additional funds, 
either directly or indirectly, from the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
• i< ' • - 
• , , 
. * 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

275 
r<J 
D D A R D D F G G V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
10/21/71 
A D O F I T S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C N K H E S P U N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
U D A M O 
October 21, 1971 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 30, 1971, the Board 
°f Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to con-
tinue to hold all of the shares of National City Financial Trust Ltd. 
\ NcpT"), London, England, after NCFT purchases all of the shares of 
Campbell Discount Co. Ltd. ("Campbell"), Lincoln, England, at a cost 
approximately $8,400,000, and Campbell issues debt obligations 
With maturities in excess of one year up to approximately $6,000,000, 
Provided the acquisition of Campbell shares is accomplished within 
one y e a r f r o m t h e d a t e o f t h i g l e t t e r # 
T n t h i s connection, the pur-
FN 
G f n d h o l d i n g o f scares of Campbell in excess of 10 per cent of 
'NCOlC's capital and surplus is also approved. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
shares of Campbell by NCFT is granted subject to the following 
Editions: 
(1) 
(2) 
That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of Campbell if Campbell at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Gov-
ernors, purchase arid hold stock, or if Campbell 
establishes any branch or agency or takes any ac-
tion or undertakes any operation in England or 
elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time would 
not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Campbell as it may require from 
time to time: and 

^ r J o 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
Campbell be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if Campbell 
were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by Campbell in England 
in the currency of that country. 
Your attention is also directed to a recent interpreta-
tion issued by the Board relating to leasing activities. 
H 
' 
-
" 
" 
; • 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
'.V; 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of Campbell. 
The Board also grants consent for FNCOIC to continue to 
hold the shares of NCFT after NCFT incurs borrowings with maturities 
in excess of one year up to a total of approximately $8,400,000. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the acquisition will be made with the resources of NCFT and will not 
involve any transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from 
the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
• i 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

UNITED STATES OF 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF 
WASHINGTON, 
2754 
Item No. 4 
10/21/71 
AMERICA 
THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
TERREBONNE CORPORATION, 
HOUllla, Louisiana, 
bank
a
i
PPr°Val o f a c t i o n to become a 
I 0 n d i n 8 coinpany through acquisition 
Terr ^ p e r c e n t of the voting shares of 
toms ° n n e B a n k a n d T r u s t Company, Houma, 
Batlk 
t h e s u c c e s s°r by merger to 
Honn, ° Terrebonne and Trust Company, 
uma> Louisiana. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
SectiQ 
n 3(a)(l) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 C p R 
222.3(a)), an application by The Terrebonne Corporation, Houma, 
a n a, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby Applicant 
W°ui(i b ecome a bank holding company through the acquisition of 100 
6 n t o f the voting shares of Terrebonne Bank and Trust Company, 
Uma> L 
* °uisiana, the successor by merger to Bank of Terrebonne and 
"Ust Pn 
°*pany, Houma, Louisiana ("Bank"). 

- 2 -
The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
except as a vehicle for the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. 
Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor 
organization is treated as a proposed acquisition of shares of Bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Louisiana State Bank Commis-
sioner and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
offered no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 31, 1971 (36 Federal Register 17466), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
W a s forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
c°nsideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
a H those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
tlle factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the bank concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to he served, and finds that: 
Applicant is a newly organized corporation. Upon consummation 
o f this proposal, Applicant will control $62.95 million in deposits, 
^presenting 1 per cent of total commercial deposits in Louisiana. 
(Banking data are as of December 31, 1970, unless otherwise noted.) 

275E 
- 3 -
Bank ($62.95 million in deposits) operates in the Houma 
banking market and has eight offices located therein. It controls 
26.7 per cent (as of August 31, 1971) of the commercial deposits in 
the relevant market, which is approximated by Terrebonne Parish and 
the cities of Thibodaux and Raceland in Lafourche Parish. On the 
basis of deposits, Bank is the largest of seven banking organizations 
i n that market. 
Applicant was recently organized for the purpose of consummating 
this proposal and has no present operations or subsidiaries. Therefore, 
c°nsummation of this proposal would eliminate neither existing or potential 
competition, nor does it appear that there would be any adverse effects 
otl any bank in the market. Applicant's financial condition and future 
Prospects are dependent on those of Bank. The financial and managerial 
^sources and future prospects of Bank are satisfactory and consistent 
w*th approval of this application. Although consummation of the pro-
posal would not have any immediate effects on the convenience and needs 
the community, considerations related to these factors are consistent 
WJ-th approval. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the 
Pr°P°sal would be in the public interest and that the application should 
b e approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that said 
aPPlication be and hereby is approved, for the reasons summarized above, 
pr°vided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 

2757 
- 4 -
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 21, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Daane. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
' > 
': - 
U < A-: " • ••• : »C . . 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B D A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
2758 
Item No. 11 
10/5/71 
A D D R E S S OrriCIAL C U R R E Q P O N C E N C C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R O 
October 22, 1971 
The Board has approved the proposed revision of the 
Loss Sharing Agreement, as adopted at the meeting of the Conference 
of Presidents on September 20, 1971, with respect to the sharing 
of losses on loans made under the third paragraph of Section 13 
of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Printed copies of the revision will be forwarded to your 
Bank when they are received from the Chairman of the Insurance 
Committee. After executed copies have been received back from all 
Federal Reserve Banks the Board will notify your Bank by telegram 
and, as provided in Section 17 of the Agreement, the revision will 
become effective as of the date of such notice. 
T0 THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Very truly yours, 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

Item No. ' 
10/21/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 222] 
[Reg. Y] 
BANK li OLD IMG COMPANIES 
Notice of Hearing Regarding Public Interest Considerations 
m Acquisition by holding Companies of Certain Mortgage Companies 
and Possible Rule Haking 
The Board has under consideration several applications by 
bank holding companies to acquire companies engaged in the business 
°f extending credit secured by real estate and buying, selling, and 
servicing mortgages (mortgage companies).1/ 
The Board has previously determined that this activity is 
closely related to the business of banking (36 F.R. 10777) . Under the 
Board's Regulation Y, bank holding companies may engage in this activity 
£e novo without filing an application with the Board. Bank holding 
companies may engage in this activity through the acquisition of a 
Koing concern only upon filing an application and following a deter-
mination by the Board that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
w U l be in the public interest, giving consideration to the relevant 
factors specified in section 4(c)(8) of the Bank holding Company Act. 
XilG differentiation between de novo entry and acquisition of a going 
concern is justified because of the increase in competition by a new 
entrant into the market. 
-/Applications as to which notice has either been published or sent for 
Publication in the Federal Register are: (1) BTNB Corp., Birmingham, 
t o a ^ u l r e C o b b 3> 
& "'all Mortgage Co., Birmingham (36 F.R. 
RMT 
F i r S C U n i ° n W a t i o n a l Bancorp., Charlotte, N.C., to acquire 
^id-HcGee & Co., Jackson, Miss. (36 F.A. 14358)j (3) First Chicago Corp. 
^acquire I. J. Markin & Co., Chicago (35 F.R. 14679), (4) Crocker 
tiona! corp., San Francisco, to acquire Ralph C. Sutro Co., Los Angeles 
v t> t.R. 1789/)i (5) Central national Chicago Corp., to acquire Union 
^ a l t y Mortgage Co., Chicago (36 F.R. 1*430;, (6) U. S. Bancorp., Portland 
lia 
a c q u l r e Securities Inter Mountain, Portland; and (7) Marine 
ancorporation, Seattle, to retain Coast Mortgage Co., Seattle. 

The applications pending before the Board suggest the need 
to explore the question whether the public interest requires the 
^position of limitations on the size, geographic area, and type of 
activities of going-concern mortgage companies that may be acquired 
b y b a n k Elding companies. They also raise the question whether 
c-ertain types of acquisitions of such companies shoul'd be permissible 
° n the same basis as de novo entry. 
The Board has decided to explore these questions at a hear-
ine to be conducted by available members of the Board in the Board 
R°om of its building at 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, Washington, 
D.c 
XT 
on November 8, 1971. Interested persons are invited to partici-
Patt> but they need not participate by presenting material orally at 
^earing to have their views considered. All views expressed in 
71 itten comments on the matter that are received before November 23, 
l97i 
. 
> v/i.i.1 be given consideration. Such material will be made available 
for inspection and copying upon request, except as provided in § 261.6(a) 
0f the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of Information. 
Besides assisting the Board in its determination of pending 
^Plications, the Board expects that the hearing will enable it to 
adont- .» 
simplified procedures for acquisition of mortgage companies where 
the bni 
dJ.ance of the public interest factors the Board is required to 
er will usually be favorable. It also expects that the hearing 
enable it to indicate what types of proposed acquisitions will 
1101 br accepted and those that will be considered only if the appli-
C a n t ( \ 
va; agrees that certain activities will be discontinued promptly 
Upcj^ 
acquisition of the company involved or (b) demonstrates that the 
ftrtfcio 
°mpetitive or other adverse effects of the proposed transaction 

_ 3 _ 
2781 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by greater convenience, 
Eains in efficiency, or other benefits to the public. 
Persons interested in participating in the hearing by pre-
senting material orally should inform the Secretary of the Board in 
writing not later than November 1, 1971. Each person admitted as a 
Party to the proceeding will be given up to 30 minutes to present his 
views. 
The Board asks that persons who have applications under con-
sideration by the Board submit responses, either orally at the hearing 
0 r i n writing by November 23, to the following: 
(1) What services are now provided by the mortgage company 
that Applicant proposes to acquire? To what extent are these various 
services offered separately to customers and to what extent are they 
Packaged? 
(For example, should construction financing and the per-
manent financing of new properties be considered separate services or 
tlle these two services generally offered to customers as a package?) 
^hich, if any, of the services performed by the mortgage company are 
n°w offered by the holding company or its subsidiaries? To what extent 
Would existing competition in the markets served be reduced or enhanced 
by the proposed acquisition? 
(2) What are the expected advantages to the holding 
c°mpany from this acquisition? IIow do these advantages differ from 
those that could be achieved by organizing a new mortgage banking 
subsidiary? 
(3) IJh at public benefits can be expected from the proposed 
acquisition? In particular, explain how, if at all, greater efficiencies, 
greater convenience, improved service or lower charges would result. 

276 
- 4 -
(4) Does the proposed mortgage company subsidiary engage in 
any activities that have not been designated by the Board as being 
- C l ° S e l y 
r e l a t e d 
t 0 b a n k i " S ? 
what extent, if any, should activities 
S U C h a S 
construction, and real estate development be 
regarded as incidental activities necessary to carry on the business 
| 
the mortgage company? If activities have not been designated by the 
B°ard as being closely related to banking, what would be the effect 
o f ceasing to engage in those activities? 
Other interested persons are invited to submit responses 
t 0 the foregoing questions as they apply to the particular applications 
llnder consideration or generally. Such persons, as well as persons 
v h o have applications under consideration, may also wish to express 
neir views on the following: 
(a) What are the geographic markets corresponding to the 
vari0us services offered by mortgage banking companies? Are they 
national, regional or local? Are small builders and developers limited 
sources of mortgage financing within their local areas? 
(b) In obtaining their financing, to what extent are small 
l0l"tgage companies limited to local commercial banks? 
(c) To what extent can an independent commercial bank con-
tin 
U g Its business relationships with a mortgage company that becomes 
f t JHated with a competing commercial bank? To what extent can an 
°Pendent mortgage company continue to look to a bank holding company 
0 r its source of credit after that holding company has acquired a 
*0tnPeting mortgage company? 

2762 
~ 5 -
(d) Are there reasons to believe that acquisitions of mortgage 
companies by bank holding companies would foster a concentration of 
economic resources that would be detrimental to the public interest? 
(e) What limitations, if any, should apply to a holding 
company's investment in mortgage companies to protect against unfair 
competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices, 
including the soundness of the holding company itself as well as its 
subsidiary banks? 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 21, 1971. 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Ml 
_ . 
. . 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
ISEAL] 
uo i. 
Xi'J-z 
. iviji • ' ! 
vxii .. a 
(•:) v:/ 
• 

2784 
B D A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
U F 
T H E 
I
T
E
M 
N
O . 
6 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
10/21/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20b51 
A B L 1 R E S S 
OFFICIAL. C O H R £13 P Q N D F N C F 
TO T H E 
O0A*?D 
October 22, 1971 
11TNB Corporation 
112 North 20th Street 
Birmingham, Alabama 35202 
Gentlemen: 
I am writing with reference to your application to acquire 
Cobbs, Allen & Hall Mortgage Company. 
The Board has decided that the public interest aspects of 
your application and other holding company applications to acquire 
Mortgage companies should be explored at a public hearing before 
available members of the Board. A copy of a notice of hearing that 
the Board has forwarded to the Federal Register for publication is 
enclosed. 
You are invited to participate in the hearing by filing 
written material or by making an oral statement. As indicated in 
the notice, we would appreciate your informing us by the close of 
business November 1, 1971, whether you plan to make an oral statement. 
Whatever course of action you decide to follow, the Board would 
appreciate your responding to questions (1) through (4) set forth in 
the notice of bearing as they apply to the proposed transaction des-
cribed in your application. 
The Board regrets the delay in processing your application 
that is inherent in its decision to conduct the hearing. However, the 
Board is confident that you will agree with its desire to consider the 
public interest aspects as comprehensively as possible with a view 
toward the fairest resolution of your application, as well as toward 
facilitating the processing of future similar applications. 
To be sure that there is no misunderstanding, the Board 
has asked that I indicate to you that the 91-day period referred to 
In section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act following which an 
aPplication will be deemed to be approved will not begin to run until 
after the complete record in the matter, including the hearing, is 
Presented to the Board. Nonetheless, you may be assured that the 
Board is making every reasonable effort to expedite processing of 
your application and expects to act on its before the end of 1971. 
Very truly yours, 
' ' 
' 
• I i
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Enclosure 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

27G 
Item No. 7 
10/21/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEI1 
FIRST NATIONAL BOSTON CORPORATION 
Proposed Acquisition of Crompton-Richmond Co., Inc. Factors 
First National Boston Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, 
a hank holding company, has applied, pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of 
fche Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and § 222.4(b)(2) 
> i* • 
the Board's Regulation Y, for permission to acquire from Crompton-
Richmond Co., Inc. Factors, New York, New York, 92 factoring contracts 
d approximately $8 million in loans receivable. Notice of the appli-
Cation was published in the Boston Globe on September 2, 1971, in the 
Vj 
e w Y o r k Times on September 2, 1971, and in the Atlanta Constitution 
on September 4, 1.971. 
The application may be inspected at the offices 
of <-y» 
the Board of Governors or at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. 
The proposed subsidiary would engage in the business of 
a factoring company. Such activity has been specified by the Board in 
§ 222.4(a) of Regulation Y as permissible for bank holding companies, 
S u ject to Board approval of individual proposals in accordance with 
t h e Procedures of § 222.4(b). 
The application suggests the need to explore the question 
whether the public interest requires the imposition of limitations on 
tb 
G size of going-concern factoring companies that may be acquired 
bank holding companies. It also raises the question of the extent 
to v?hich, if any, a bank holding company that engages in the factoring 
business should be permitted to expand that business through acquisition 
OF a going concern. 

276G 
- 4 -
The Board lias decided to explore these questions at a hearing 
to be conducted by available members of the Board in the Board Room of 
it:8 building at 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, Washington, D. C.5 
n inovember .12, 1971. Interested persons are invited to participate, 
u t they need not participate by presenting material oi'alJ.y at the 
caring to have their views considered. All views expressed in written 
comments on the matter that are received before November 26, 1971, will 
•L 
e given consideration. Such material will be made available for inspec-
and copying upon request, except as provided in § 261.6(a) of the 
B°ardf
s Rules Regarding Availability of Information. 
Besides assisting the Board in its determination of the pending 
aW-ication, the Board expects that the hearing will enable it to 
jij 
U0Pt simplified 
procedures for acquisition of factoring companies where 
4 0 balance of the public interest factors the Board is required to 
c°nsider will usually be. favorable. It also expects that the hearing 
iif-fisgi 
1 enable it to indicate what types of proposed acquisitions will t;ot 
bp 
ccepted and those that will be considered only if the applicant 
/ V 
agrees that certain activities will be discontinued promptly 
UP°n acquisition of the company involved or (b) demonstrates that the 
anti r> 
^competitive or other adverse effects of the proposed transaction 
clearly outweighed in the public interest by greater convenience, 
FTRJ J lis in efficiency, or other benefits to the public. 
Persons interested in participating in the hearing by pre-
8°ntlug material orally should inform the Secretary of the Board in 

2767 
- 3 -
Siting not later than November 4, 1971. Each person admitted as a 
Party to the proceeding will be given up to 30 minutes to present his 
views. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 21, 1971. 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
w 
-Ik 
• • 
ts/i 
• V :.... ':> 5'A V ' -
, 
. . 
„ 
'.^•Ui'i/ . 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
" • ,t. ' • 
• fj ... . 
(SEAI,] 
t • • 
. • 
! \ 
•1" 

Item No. £768 
10/21/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
~~ 112" CFR Part 222] 
- 
• 
. . 
XX; 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
J, ' 
»ltk 
_ 
j / 
» 
k 
. 
A 
, . 
„ 
. 
, 
. 
. r* '' 
> s v 
Notice of Hearing Regarding Investment Company Activities 
1 
By notice published in the Federal Register on August 25, 1971 
federal Register 16695), the Board of Governors proposed to add to 
til 
G i l st of activities that it has determined to be closely related to 
^aukin S or managing or controlling banks (5 222.4(a) of Regulation Y) 
the f0-» i 
owing; "serving as investment adviser to an investment company 
ted under the Investment Company Act of 1940," 
The Investment Company Institute has submitted a memorandum of 
" in >? 
4 * U c h it expresses, among others, the following views: (1) The 
-ed amendment would permit bank holding companies to acquire 
c°Qipanie 
o engaged in the issuance, sale and distribution of securities 
Vithin th 
' 
of the Glass-Steagall Act (48 Stat. 162); (2) the 
0(id e m e n d^ent involves a violation of the Glass-Steagall Act even 
IP led to an investment adviser subsidiary whose sole function is 
t o Provide • 
investment advice; (3) the proposed amendment would require 
violative of the intent of Congress in enacting the Bank 
5 Company Act Amendments of 1970. 
T h e I G I h a G a s k e d for a hearing on this matter and, pursuant 
Such 
equest, the Board has directed that such a hearing be held in 
120? 
- of 
building at 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, K. W. 
^h i n t > t 
- 
». C., on November 12, 1971, beginning at 10 o'clock a.m. 

2769 
t. y»v 
^ 
* 
• 2-
0raao 
0 'Comic 11, General Counsel to the Board, and Frederic Solomon, 
Erector of the Board's Division of Supervision and Regulation, have 
been designated by the Board to preside at such hearing. 
Interested persons are invited to participate by presenting 
views on all issues raised by the pending proposal and by the 
I c x s memorandum of law. That memorandum, along with all other comments 
ubfQitted on the pending proposal, are available for inspection and 
°Pying in Room 1020 of the Beard's building. Interested persons need 
Participate in the hearing through oral presentation in order to 
n their views considered* All views previously expressed in written 
t ; 
ents on the pending proposal are under consideration by the Board, 
Persons interested in participating in the hearing by 
°enting material orally should inform the Secretary of the Board in 
not later than November 1, 19710 Each person admitted as a 
Patty f 
c o 
proceeding will be given up to 30 minutes to present his 
Anyone wishing to submit written comments on issues raised at 
hearing may do so at any time before the close of business 
**°VGl*ber 
1971. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 21, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
\\ , in 
v.-- 
v
^ 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAt) 

B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• r 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
2770 
Item No. 11 
10/36/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
R uF?RESra N DE NC t 
TO THE BOA.5D 
October 21, 1971 
Mr. Wilfred IT. Rommel 
Assistant Director for 
legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
i 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request for the views of the 
Board of Governors on a legislative proposal submitted to the 
Congress by the Attorney General to amend section 215, and to re-
peal section 216, of Title IB of the Federal Criminal Code. Sec-
tions 215 and 216 prohibit receipt by employees of certain financial 
institutions, including commercial banks, of any commission, gift, 
or other consideration in relation to the procurement: of any loan 
or in relation to other specified transactions. 
The legislative proposal would add Federally-insured 
savings and loan associations and Federal credit unions to the 
list of financial Institutions covered by the proscriptions of , 
sections 2.15 and 216 and would incorporate into one section all of 
the substantive matters presently proscribed in those separate sec-
I
tions to the end that all financial instit:utions_organized, insured 
or regulated by a Federal agency would be subject to uniform rules 
regarding the integrity of their operations. Thus, the present pro-
scriptions of section 216 relating to the receipt of a benefit "in 
connection with any transaction or business" of the financial in-
stitutions covered therein would be applied to all of the financial 
institutions covered by the legislative proposal. 
The legislative proposal also would make clear that the 
receipt by the persons enumerated of any benefit, either directly 
* or indirectly, in connection with any such transaction or business 
of such financial institution is prohibited. Further, .the legisla-
tive proposal would specifically prohibit, and subject to criminal 
penalties, the direct.or indirect offer, gift, or payment of a benefit 

2771 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
-2-
to an employee of such a financial institution. As is set forth 
in the memorandum from the Attorney General, which accompanied 
the legislative proposal, section 215 as presently worded does not 
specifically refer to the person offering or paying the commission 
or making the gift. Such persons may actually be the moving parties 
in financial bribery transactions, especially in cases involving 
organised crime. 
The Hoard of Governors favors the enactment of this 
legislative proposal, which would make more explicit and uniform 
the proscriptions concerning offers and receipt of benefits relating 
to financial transactions. The Board recommends insertion in pro-
posed sections 21.5(a) and (b) of the words "or any corporation, 
partnership, business trust, association, or similar organization 
which controls such a bank or savings and loan association in ouch 
a manner as to be a bank holding company or a savings and loan hold-
ing company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 or the 
National Housing Act" after the words "savings and loan association" 
to make clear that employees of a bank holding company or savings 
3-M loan holding company who may not technically be employees of a 
covered financial subsidiary of such holding company would be pre-
cluded from accepting bribes in connection with transactions or 
business of such a subsidiary. By making this technical change in 
the legislative proposal it would appear that an avenue for possible 
evasions of the statutory proscriptions would be foreclosed. 
The Board appreciates the opportunity to comment on the 
legi slative p rop o s al* 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith. 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

< < Aj 
of cow! •. 
-IK 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R B 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 10 
10/21/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20ii51 
A D D R E S S 
D F F I N I A L 
C D R H C S P D N U T N C E 
TO T H E 
D O A W D 
October 21, 1971 
Security Pacific Overseas Corp. 
561 South Spring Street 
Los Angeles, California 
90013 
\ n,'J J 
• 
;• - • 
; >>i' ; 
• 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of May 28, 1971, the Board 
°£ Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("SPOC") to continue 
to hold the shares of Security Pacific Overseas Investment Corpora-
tion ("SPOIC") after SPOIC issues unsecured notes, either at one 
time or from time to time, for sale only outside of the United States, 
in an amount not to exceed $25,000,000, the proceeds of which will be 
used exclusively in the foreign business of SPOIC, with particular 
emphasis on equity investments, and alternatively, (1) maturing in 
three to five years, with the notes and the guaranty of Security 
Pacific National Bank ("SPNB") not being payable in the United States, 
( 2) maturities of at least seven years, with the notes' and SPNB's 
guaranty payable in the United States and/or overseas, but with the 
guaranty expressly subordinated to the claims of SPNB's depositors, 
0 r (3) maturing in three to five years, with notes payable only to 
arid at SPNB's London branch. 
The Board has also reviewed the questions with regard to 
these borrowings on which you requested affirmative rulings. As to 
the application of Regulations D and Q, the Board has concluded that 
the notes, as described under the three alternatives, would be exempt 
from the provisions of those Regulations, provided that under alter-
native (2) the wording of the guaranty is in conformity with the pro-
visions of Sections 204.1(f) (3)(i) and 217.1(f) (3)(i) of Regulations D 
aricl Q, respectively. 
You also requested that the borrowings by SPOIC or any loan 
hy the London branch of SPNB to SPOIC not be considered as subject-
to reserves under Section 2.04.5(c) of Regulation D or Section. 213.7(b) 
oC Regulation M. The reserve requirements of those Sections were in-
tended to influence flows of funds into the domestic banking system 

Security Pacific Overseas Corp. 
for domestic purposes and not to interfere with financing arrange-
ments conducted essentially outside the United States for foreign 
loans and investments. That purpose is recognized in the exemption 
contained in the last-named Section for loans to U.S. residents 
"to enable the borrower to comply with requirements of the Office 
of Foreign Direct Investments, Department of Commerce." That ex-
emption was adopted with particular reference to domestic financing 
subsidiaries of U.S. corporations employed to borrow funds abroad 
to finance foreign direct investments and other foreign operations. 
the light of these considerations, and since SPOIC has been or-
ganized for a similar purpose and its foreign borrowings are to be 
used exclusively to finance loans and investments outside the United 
States, the Board has concluded that a comparable exemption for SPOIC 
(and similar subsidiaries of Edge Corporations) is warranted. Ac-
cordingly, the Board would not consider the aforementioned Sections 
of Regulations D and M as applicable to the borrowings made by SPOIC 
under this authority. 
With regard to the execution of or payments pursuant to 
the guaranty of SPNB, or the loan by SPNB's London branch to SPOIC, 
the Eoard would not consider either the execution of a guaranty or 
the granting of the proposed medium-term loan as constituting an 
investment by SPNB in SPOIC or SPOC. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the foreign lending and investment activities will be governed by the 
Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines, in particular by those provisions 
tthich call for the foreign assets of SPOIC, minus outstanding amounts 
°f foreign borrowings of SPOIC of an original maturity of three years 
more, 'to be consolidated with the foreign assets of your Corpora-
tion for the purposes of the Guidelines. It is further understood 
that SPOIC will not employ its resources, other than those equal to 
foreign borrowings outstanding and of an original maturity of three 
years or more, in any way that would conflict with the provisions of 
Sections II.A.3 and II.K*3 of the Guidelines. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

p i ® . -
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20531 
2774 
Item No. 11 
10/21/71 
At'DMtss ornciAL cnRUESPUNOCNc: 
TO THE BOAliO 
October 21, 1971 
! s«Hivan L Cromwell 
Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
> 
This is in response to your letters of March 30 and April 15, 
19719 regarding proposed direct or indirect minority investments by 
Aflela Investment Company S.A. ("ADELA") in Arguay, Inc. ("Arguay") and 
. similar companies, and the possible effect thereof on the Edge Corpora-
tions which hold stock of ADELA, 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act provides for Edge 
Corporations to acquire the stock of other companies, but not of those 
eugaged ir the "general business" of selling merchandise in the United 
States or transacting any business in the United States which is not 
incidental" to the company's international business. It would appear 
that Arguay1s proposed activities, and hence those of companies under-
taking similar operations, would prevent the direct acquisition of 
their stock by Edge Corporations. 
However, ADELA is a foreign-chartered company in whicH n 
number of Edge Corporations each owns a small minority interest. Based 
11 the information supplied by you, the Board has concluded that ADELA's 
Proposed investment in Arguay and minority investments in similar com-
panies> totaling a maximum of $500,000 as mentioned in your letter, 
would not cause ADELA to become engaged in the "general business" of 
S eHing merchandise in the United States and that those investments 
Would be "incidental" to ADELA1s foreign or international business of 
providing equity and loan financing for private industry in Latin America. 
nerefore, the acquisition or holding of stock of ADELA by Edge Corpora-
tions would not be inappropriate under the statutory provisions re-
ferred to above. 

2775 
Sullivan & Cromwell 
-2-
However, in the circumstances, the Board wishes to be kept 
informed, either directly or through the Edge Corporations holding 
stock of ADELA. regarding the activities of any companies similar 
to Arguay, in whose stock ADELA makes an investment, and also as to 
* any changes in the operations of any such companies. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2776 
BOARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
Df:' THf= 
Item No. 12 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
10/21/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
'^VtW' 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L CDKRE&PDNDENCE 
TO T H E 
H O A R D 
October 21, 1971 
^he Citizens and Southern 
National Bank 
0,. Box 4899 
Atlanta, Georgia 30302 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organisation Certificate, dated March 1., 1971, 
of 
Citizens and Southern International Bank of New Orleans, New 
Cleans, Louisiana, and there is enclosed a preliminary permit 
Authorizing that Corporation to exercise such of the powers con-
ferred by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental 
-fcnd preliminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
ky Section 2 5(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
Authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board 
*7ill issue its final permit to commence business, the president, 
Measurer, or secretary, together with at least three of the direc-
tors, must certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United 
States; (2.) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held 
ftnd owned by citizens of the United States, by corporations the 
c°ntrolling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United 
States, chartered under the laws of the United States or of a State 
the United States, or by firms or companies the controlling in-
terest in which is owned by citizens of the United States; and 
{3) that of tho authorized capital stock specified in the Articles 
Association at least 25 per cent has been paid in in cash and 
•that each shareholder has individually paid in in cash at least 
per cent of his stock subscription. Thereafter, the treasurer 
c>r secretary shall certify to the payment of the remaining instal-
ments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 

The. Citizens and Southern 
National Bank 
In accordance with the request in your application of 
March 1, 1.971, as amended by your letters of April 2 and Nay 24, 
1971, on behalf of Citizens and Southern International Bank of 
New Orleans, the Board is disposed, when the Corporation's final 
permit is issued, to grant consent for it to acquire from Citizens 
and Southern International Corporation ("CSIC"), Atlanta, Georgia, 
about 17.4 per cent of the shares of Corporacion Financiera del 
Valle} Cali, Colombia, and about 23.8 per cent of the shares of Centr 
American Exchange Bank, Georgetown, Cayman Islands, at costs of 
aPproximately $365,000 and $500,000, respectively. 
As requested in your letters of March 1, April 2, and 
May 24, 1971, the Board also grants consent for Citizens and Southern 
International Bank ("CSIB"), Miami, Florida, to purchase and hold 
additional shares, up to about 17.1 per cent of the outstanding, of 
Banco de Occidente, Calx, Colombia, at a cost of approximately 
$402,000, and to purchase from CSIC and hold about 805 per cent of 
shares of Jamaica Citizens Bank ("JCB"), Kingston, Jamaica, at 
a cost of approximately $200,000, provided such shares are acquired 
Within one year from the date of this letter. In this connection, 
approval is also granted for the purchase and holding of shares of 
Banco de Occidente by CSIB in excess of the applicable limitations 
SGt forth in the provisions of Section 25(a) /12 U.S.C. 615(c)_/ of 
the Federal Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. The 
Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of shares of 
^CiJ by CSIB is granted subject to the same conditions as set forth 
111 the Board's letter of January 6, 1967, granting consent for CSIC 
to acquire shares of JCB„ 
It is understood that CSIC plans to reduce its paid-in 
surplus of: $2,000,000 to $200,000 through the return of $1,800,000 
t° Citizens and Southern National Bank which originally made the 
contribution to surplus. The Board of Governors interposes no 
Ejection to this plan. However, in view of the unusual capital 
structure of your Corporations, it is to be understood that no reduc-
tion in the surplus accounts of any of your Corporations shall be 
n)ade without the. Board's prior approval. 
Your attention is directed to the fact that Citizens and 
Southern International Bank of New Orleans will have no separate 
kase under the foreign credit restraint effort and any foreign loans 
° r investments will need to be made under the ceiling of The Citizens 
ari(l Southern National Bank. Accordingly, the foregoing approval is 

2
W
§ 
The Citizens and Southern 
National Bank 
-3-
.••• • f - i • • 
given with the understanding that any foreign loans and investments 
of the Corporation will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to your bank and its affiliates and that 
full consideration will be given to the priorities for U.S. export 
financing and for meeting the credit needs of developing countries. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2778 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
D F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
October 21, 1971 
Preliminary Permit 
XT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it 
by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this 
/ 
day approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated •March'1, 1971, of CITIZENS AND SOUTHERN INTERNATIONAL BANK OF 
NEW ORLEANS duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that 
CITIZENS AND SOUTHERN INTERNATIONAL BANK OF NEW ORLEANS is authorized 
to exercise such of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) 
as are incidental and preliminary to its organization pending the 
issuance by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of 
a final permit generally to commence business in accordance with 
the provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations 
°f the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
• ; •,« If :\ y . ; • ' v „ '. < '• r ' K ' 5 .L O • I ! i ;: v.' O; • ? .'."• : L.;, 
Pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2780 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 13 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
10/21/71 
flip 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O K F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
October 21, 1971 
'Cly'ft •" \ | 
- ' i I 
' - • 
:. ;: 
•• • 
^ 
'••.-• 
• t'i 
, ] • . 
y .. 
• .< 
' ... 
• 
; i - • •• 
J. Warren Olmsted 
Executive Vice President 
tfhe First National Bank of Boston 
Milk Street 
Boston, Massachusetts 02110 
Dear Mr. Olmsted: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of Association 
the Organization Certificate, dated June 1, 1971, of Bank of Boston 
international of Miami, Miami, Florida, and there is enclosed a pre-
liminary permit authorizing that Corporation to exercise such of trie 
Powers conferred by Section 2.5(a) of the Federal Reserve Act as are 
incidental and preliminary to its organisation. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, the 
Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred by 
Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
Authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
issue its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
° r secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
Certify (i) that each director is a citizen of the United States; "(2) 
that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned by 
^tizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling interest 
which is owned by citizens of the United States", chartered under 
^ 
laws of the United States or of a State of the United States or by 
^irms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned by 
citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital 
stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent 
has been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individually 
Paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. There-
after, the treasurer or secretary shall certify to the payment of the 
Remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with 
law. 

2781 
Mr. J. Warren Olmsted 
-2-
Your attention is directed to the fact that Bank of Boston 
International of Miami will have no separate base under the foreign 
credit restraint effort and that any foreign loans and investments 
will need to be made under the ceiling of The First National Bank 
of Boston. Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with the 
understanding that any foreign loans and investments of the Corpora-
tion will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as 
they apply to your bank and its affiliates and that full considera-
tion will be given to the priorities for U.S. expoift financing and 
for meeting the credit needs of developing countries. 
Very truly yours, 
> 
. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
driv.i;«j Mi-1 I !«;: ..,•}• 
ir,: y.j^-r/-. V:..r 
::.w 
- — < ; V . • • 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

SK&fi® 
B O A R • OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E 5Y5TEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
£ D 5 5 I 
October 21, 1971 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of the 
f 
Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
C v ; v:. 
Con;:., i 
- irc-i^oc: • 
• 
dated June 1, 1.971, of BANK OF BOSTON INTERNATIONAL OF MIAMI duly 
f 
filed V7ith said Board of Governors, and that BANK OF BOSTON 
INTERNATIONAL OF MIAMI is authorized to exercise such of the powers 
> ^ 
. . 
. . 
• 
conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and 
prel iminary to its organization pending the issuance by the Board 
• t 
... 
• 
' 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final„permit 
generally to commence business in accordance with the provisions 
said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
' 
• v 
• 
. 
.. 
. 
. 
. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
By 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
v 
^ . ';> 
1M., 
- 
rrl. •. • . - • 1 
r--" -'« ' ' * ' ; 
-.l.-.K. . . . : 
.^V.^il i 
< < • ' U ItW.' ^
^ 
• - ? * 

2783 
Item No. 14 
10/21/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(12 CFR Part 222] 
[Reg. Y) 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Effect of Acquisition of Additional Bank on Benefits 
Conferred on Certain One-Bank Holding Companies 
Section 4 of the Holding Company Act generally requires 
*• '1 ti > *•> 
• " 
h°lding companies to discontinue nonpermissible nonbanlcing activities 
V,ltMn two years of their formation, but Congress conferred certain 
b e^ft t s w i t h r e s p e c t t 0 nonbanlcing activities on those companies which 
Strolled a single bank on December 31, 1970, and thus became subject 
t0 the Bank Holding Company Act by operation of law. In some cases, the 
c-0mpanie.s are given ten years rather than two within which to divest, 
in others uo divestiture is required, and in a few cases there may be 
^ C a p t i o n from the section 4 prohibitions in their entirety, prospec-
t^vely 0 s 
a s retrospectively. 
To clarify the nature of these benefits as privileges contingent 
their possessors' continuing status as one-bank holding companies 
.u 'i : ~ r 
tather than as vested rights, the Board is considering amending Regulation Y, 
U n d e* authority of section 3, section 4, and section 5(b) of the Act, to 
^ovide that the acquisition or merger by a one-bank holding company of 
actional, bank would cause that company to lose whatever special exemptions 
f r o* section 4 that it had. In general, a company that controlled one bank 
M e m b e r 31, 1970, would have two years from its acquisition of a second 
banI< in which to cease nonbanking activities or qualify them under another 
• ' • • s 

27M 
-2-
iVi .r, ..... 
....... 
, 
:' 
Provision of section 4, unless its right to continue the activity 
v>ould otherwise expire within a shorter period. The Board would 
^serve the right to preserve, by order, 1970 section 4 grandfather 
riShts of a company which acquires an additional bank to save it from 
! .a! { ) 
.v ..... .. . 
s 
- 
: 
failing, or in any other situation in which the application of the 
S^neral rule would be manifestly unfair or contrary to the public 
forest. 
The Board proposes to amend 5 222,3 of Regulation Y by adding 
Q 
subsection as follows: 
5 222,3 Acquinition of Bonk Shares or Assets. 
* -k * i; rt 
(c) Effect of bank acquisition o n ^ e i ^ U * ^ 
For the purposes of this subsection: 
(a) 'The term "company grandfathered in 1970" means any company 
l,hl-ch became a bank holding company on December 31, 1970, as a result- of 
thG Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970, and includes any company 
dGfined in section 2(b) of the Act as a "company covered in 1970," 
(b) The term "1970 section 4 grandfather rights" means all 
tlSUts and privileges, whether arising under section 4(a)(2) or 4(c)(ii) 
0 f the Act or otherwise, held by a company grandfathered in 1970 to hold 
squire any nonbank shares or engage in any nonbanking activities to 
' Bteater extent or for a longer period than would be permitted under 
Action 4 of the Act in the case of any bank holding company which is 
n o t a company grandfathered in 1970, 

2785 
-3-
(2) Except to the extent otherwise provided by order of the 
B°nrd in S p e c l f i c cases, any company grandfathered in 1970 which acquires 
anV"bank (by merger with its subsidiary bank or otherwise) or acquires 
Cor*trol of any bank (as control is defined in section 2(a)(2) of the Act) 
a*ter December 31, 1970, shall be deemed to have prospectively relinquished 
itf5 1970 section 4 grandfather rights on the date of such acquisition, and 
^ 
such right shall terminate on the earlier of the following dates: 
(i) the date upon which it would terminate if the company 
ha<i become a bank holding company for the first time on the date of 
the acquisition; 
(ii) the date upon which it would terminate without 
deference to this section. 
* k 
* 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, interested 
PGl*5ot\s a r Q i n v J L t e d t o cubmit relevant data, views, or arguments. Any such 
^ ^ i a l should be submitted in writing to the Secretary, Board of Governors 
the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received not 
la* 
than December 1, 1971. 
Such material will be made available for in-
SpGction and copying upon request, except as provided in § 261.6(a) of the 
Bo °rd's rules regarding availability of information. 
By order of tha Board of Governors, October 21, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
•vy>; 
tSEA L] 

Item No. 11 
10/15/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST NATIONAL CITY CORPORATION, 
York, New York, 
f°r approval of acquisition of 100 per 
*?ent of the voting shares (less 
Irectors' qualifying shares) of 
J-itibank, N.A., Town of Islip, 
^°rth Bay Shore, Suffolk County, 
York. a proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First National City Corporation, 
York, New York, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) 
of Citibank, N.A., Town of Islip, North Bay Shore, Suffolk County, 
York ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 

2 7 8 7 
- 2 -
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller 
recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 25, 1971 (36 Federal Register 16715), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
tion. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the bank concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and 
finds that: 
Applicant, the second largest banking organization in New York, 
controls one bank with total domestic deposits of $12,412 billion, repre-
senting 14.1 per cent of the State's total deposits. (All banking data 
are as of December 31, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company formations 
and acquisitions through September 30, 1971.) Since Bank is a proposed 
new bank, consummation of the proposal will not increase deposit concentra-
tion in any market. 
Bank, which will not be opened if the application is denied, 
w°nld serve primarily the Babylon-Islip banking market. The closest 

2788 
- 3 -
banking office of Applicant's bank, which is prohibited from branching 
into Suffolk County, is located 11.5 miles west of Bank in the adjoining 
Nassau County market and, there are many banking offices in the intervening 
area. Consummation of the proposed transaction would have neither 
adverse effects on existing or potential competition in any relevant 
area nor have adverse effects on any competing banks. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
Applicant and Bank are satisfactory, and consistent with approval. 
Applicant proposes that Bank will provide the community with a full 
range of commercial banking services and offer somewhat lower rates on 
^stallment and mortgage loans than area banks presently offer. Accord-
ingly, considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
immunity to be served lend some weight for approval. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest 
and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that said 
aPPlication be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized above, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
tlle thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
three months after the date of this Order, and provided further 
that ( c) Citibank, N.A., Town of Islip, North Bay Shore, Suffolk County, 
York, shall be open for business not later than six months after 
date of this Order. The periods prescribed in (b) and (c) hereof 
Inay be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
ank of New York pursuant to delegated authority; and 

2789 
- 4 -
It is further ordered, That upon the consummation of the 
Proposed transaction, Applicant shall not retain or acquire any non-
bank shares or engage in any nonbanking activities to a greater extent 
°r for a longer period than would apply in the case of a bank holding 
c°mpany which became such on the date of such consummation, except to 
the extent otherwise permitted in any regulation of the Board hereafter 
adopted specifically relating to the effect of the acquisition of an 
additional bank on the status of nonbank shares and activities of a 
°ne-bank holding company formed prior to 1971, or unless the Board 
fails to adopt any such regulation before the expiration of two years 
after the consummation of the proposed acquisition. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 21, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson, Daane and 
Sherrill. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
. [SEAL] 
