609 
Minutes for 
January 9, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
A 

6 6 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, January 9, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Koch, Williams, Axilrod, Gramley, Sigel, 
Smith, Eckert, Altmann, Ettin, Fisher, Gehman, 
Keir, Rosenblatt, Thompson, Trueblood, and 
Zeisel of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Katz, Irvine, Reynolds, 
Wood, Bryant, Emery, Gekker, Gemmill, Kohn, 
Maroni, and Mills, and Mrs. Junz of the 
Division of International Finance 
Economic review. Members of the research staff presented a 
review of selected international financial developments and trends in 
domestic business and financial conditions, the reports being based to 

67 
1/9/67 
-2-
some extent on materials that had been distributed in preparation for 
tomorrow's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of 
the relevant documentation have been placed in the Committee's files. 
The members of the research divisions except Messrs. Brill, 
Solomon, Smith, and Thompson then withdrew and the following entered: 
Messrs. Hackley, Shay, and Via of the Legal Division 
M r . Golden of the Division of R e s e a r c h and Statistics 
Messrs. Leavitt, Egertson, Maguire, and Maurer of the 
Division of Examinations 
Approved items. The following letters were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made available 
to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective item numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Elk Horn Bank and Trust Company, 
1 
Arkadelphia, Arkansas, approving the 
establishment of an in-town branch and an 
investment in bank premises, and commenting 
on the bank's capital position. 
Letter to Washington County State Bank, 
2 
Brenham, Texas, approving the establishment 
of an in-town branch and commenting on the 
bank's capital position. 
Application to exercise trust powers. In June 1966 the 
G. W. Jones Exchange Bank, Marcellus, Michigan, requested permission 
to exercise generally the power of testamentary trustee. In August 
the Board advised the bank that no objection would be interposed to 
the acceptance of two specific accounts, then in probate, for which 

68 
1/9/67 
-3-
the bank was named as testamentary trustee. However, the Board noted 
the continued unsatisfactory condition of the bank and stipulated that 
no other testamentary trusteeships should be accepted without prior 
permission from the Board. 
In a letter dated September 2, 1966, the 
bank requested that the Board reconsider its decision. The bank was 
advised that action on the request would be deferred pending review of 
the report of examination of the bank being made as of September 3, 1966. 
A distributed m e m o r a n d u m from the Division of Examinations dated 
December 9, 1966, reviewed the condition of the bank as reflected by the 
examination and recommended against granting the request for extension 
of fiduciary activities. 
In light of the continued unsatisfactory 
condition of the bank, it w a s suggested that the Chicago Reserve Bank 
be instructed to examine the bank at least twice during 1967 and in 
subsequent years until improvement w a s obtained or it had been demon-
strated that the approach was ineffective. 
In discussion, members of the Board referred to certain 
assertions in the bank's letter of September 2, 1966, and observed that 
they were not dealt with specifically in the proposed reply to the mem-
ber bank. 
If the criticisms disputed by the member bank in its letter 
were justified, they felt that the justification should be spelled out 
in the reply. 
In addition, it was noted that the M i c h i g a n State Commissioner 
of Banking had approved the member bank's request for permission to 

5 
1/9/67 
-3-
act as testamentary trustee, and a suggestion was made that the views 
of the Commissioner regarding the bank be ascertained. 
It was further 
suggested that a top examiner for the Chicago Reserve Bank should be 
assigned to examine the member bank and determine to what extent the 
criticisms of the bank and its operations over a long period of years 
were warranted; and that, if necessary, action should be taken under 
the recent legislation authorizing the issuance of cease and desist 
orders. 
In light of the foregoing comments by members of the Board, 
the request of the member bank was referred back to the Division of 
Examinations for further review. 
Application of Security Bank and Trust Company. 
There had 
been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated 
January 6, 1967, and other pertinent papers relating to an application 
by Security Bank and Trust Company, Lincoln Park, Michigan, to merge 
First National Bank of Allen Park, Allen Park, Michigan. The memorandum 
brought out that consummation of the proposed merger would eliminate 
significant competition between the two banks and that Security Bank 
would then have the only banking offices in Allen Park. However, numer-
ous banking alternatives would remain in adjacent communities and in 
downtown Detroit, where many residents of Allen Park commuted for employ-
ment. First National Bank was confronted with heavy loan losses and lack 
of adequate management, which problems could be solved by the proposed 

70 
1/9/67 
-3-
merger. 
It was believed that those factors outweighed the adverse 
competitive effect, and approval of the application was recommended. 
The Acting Comptroller of the Currency had certified in a 
letter to the Board dated December 23, 1966, that, in the opinion of 
his Office, an emergency condition existed requiring expeditious action 
on the application. Accordingly, competitive factor reports were 
requested on a 10-day basis. The two banks involved in the proposal 
planned to hold stockholders' meetings on January 17 and would like to 
consummate the merger the following day. The State Commissioner of 
Banking had advised that he was prepared to approve the merger immedi-
ately upon action by the shareholders. 
In his competitive factor report the Comptroller mentioned the 
large number of banks and other financial institutions providing competi-
tion in the general area and expressed the view that the merger would not 
have an adverse effect on banking competition in the area. 
The Federal 
Deposit Insurance C o r p o r a t i o n concluded that the elements of competition 
usually presented did not here exist and that the effect on competition 
would not be unfavorable. 
M r . E g e r t s o n advised orally that although the competitive factor 
report from the Department of Justice had not yet been received, he had 
been told in telephone conversation this m o r n i n g that, in view of the 
condition of First N a t i o n a l Bank, the Department would not regard the 
competitive effect as unfavorable if no other reasonable alternatives 
were available. 

7 1 
1/9/67 
-3-
Mr. Egertson also discussed a visit to the Board's offices on 
December 29, 1966, by Robert A. Sanregret, an attorney of Wyandotte, 
Michigan, who indicated that he was representing a group, certain members 
of whom were associated with a national bank in Wyandotte, that he wished 
to file a letter of protest to the proposed merger in view of its anti-
competitive effects, and that he would like to have a copy of the merger 
application. Mr. Sanregret stated that his group would like to purchase 
the stock of First National Bank and retain that bank as an operating 
institution. He indicated that if the Security application was denied, 
his group would then negotiate. A. letter of protest was received from 
Mr. Sanregret under date of January 3, 1967, but no offer apparently 
had yet been submitted by him to the bank on behalf of his group. Mr. 
Solomon had discussed the matter with the Comptroller's Office, and he 
(Mr. Egertson) had talked with Assistant Vice President Fults of the 
Chicago Reserve Bank. Mr. Fults knew of no firm offer having been made, 
but he was going to check with the two banks involved in the proposed 
merger. 
There followed discussion of the apparent value of the A l l e n 
Park bank to a purchaser and of the terms of the offer that had been 
made by Security Bank and Trust Company. 
From this discussion, it 
appeared that Security Bank was not offering a substantial premium. 
M r . Solomon then stated that he understood the Comptroller of 
the Currency w a s w r i t i n g a letter to the Board commenting on the proposal 
of M r . Sanregret and expressing the view that it was not a feasible 

72 
1/9/67 
-3-
alternative. Mr. Solomon did not know on what basis the Comptroller 
would make that statement. However, it appeared that the Comptroller 
considered prompt action to remedy the Allen Park bank's situation 
essential, since its deposits were already beginning to decline and the 
bank would have to publish a condition statement shortly that would show 
a serious impairment of capital. 
Governor Shepardson commented that if no satisfactory alternative 
solution was available, the decision on the merger application would seem 
to be clearly indicated. However, it was not clear to him that a valid 
alternative might not exist. 
Mr. Solomon replied that one reason he had gotten in touch with 
the Comptroller's Office was to determine whether the Comptroller regarded 
the Sanregret proposal as a feasible solution to a problem involving a 
national bank that was in trouble. He understood, as he had said before, 
that a letter would be forthcoming from the Comptroller expressing the 
opinion that the Sanregret proposal offered no satisfactory alternative. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether it was not the Board's 
responsibility to determine whether a feasible alternative existed and 
whether it would not be appropriate to get in touch with Mr. Sanregret. 
Mr. Egertson said that on January 5 a reply had been made to 
Mr. Sanregret's January 3 letter pointing out that members of the Board's 
staff working on this matter were of the view that any suggested alter-
native to the proposed merger should be one susceptible of prompt 
implementation. Nothing further had been heard from Mr. Sanregret. 

73 
1/9/67 
-3-
There ensued questions bringing out that under the law the 
proposed merger could not be consummated for five days following action 
by the Board, which meant that if the merger was to be consummated on 
January 18, the Board would have to approve the proposal no later than 
Friday, January 13. 
After further comments by members of the Board to the effect that 
it would seem desirable to get in touch with Mr. Sanregret to determine 
whether his group wished to make a prompt and firm offer, Governor 
Robertson proposed that the Board agree that the proposed merger should 
be approved in time to permit consummation on January 18 unless it was 
ascertained that there had been some other firm offer meriting considera-
tion as an alternative. He suggested that this could be ascertained 
through the Detroit Branch of the Chicago Reserve Bank, and any party 
making an offer should clearly understand that he would have to convince 
the Comptroller of the Currency the offer represented an acceptable 
alternative to the proposed merger. 
C h a i r m a n M a r t i n then suggested that the matter be held over for 
further exploration along the lines suggested by Governor R o b e r t s o n , and 
the matter w a s left on that basis. 
Participation in symposium. 
A distributed m e m o r a n d u m from M r . 
Brill dated January 6, 1967, noted that the annual economic symposium 
of the A m e r i c a n Bankers A s s o c i a t i o n would be held in W a s h i n g t o n on 
A p r i l 6, 1967, the theme of the m e e t i n g being "Money, Interest Rates, 

74 
1/9/67 
-3-
and Economic Activity." 
The Board's staff had been invited to present a 
chart show reviewing monetary policy issues in the post-war period, w i t h 
the understanding that the staff would have a free hand to select the 
areas to be covered as it saw fit. 
M r . Brill recommended that the staff be given permission to 
accept the invitation, subject to its being able to w o r k out w i t h the 
program committee a suitable delineation of the scope of the analysis. 
He pointed out, however, that the project would require considerable 
staff effort for a substantial period of time. 
In discussion certain possibilities for narrowing the scope of 
the analysis w e r e suggested for consideration, and the staff then w a s 
authorized to accept the invitation to present the chart show, w i t h the 
understanding that the details would be worked out by M r . Brill in 
further negotiations w i t h the symposium's program committee. 

75 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
1/9/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOAR D 
January 9, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Elk Horn Bank and Trust Company, 
Arkadelphia, Arkansas. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment by Elk Horn Bank and Trust Company, 
Arkadelphia, Arkansas, of a branch at the intersection of 14th 
and Pine Streets, Arkadelphia, Arkansas, provided the branch is 
established within six months from the date of this letter. 
The Board of Governors also approves pursuant to section 
24A of the Federal Reserve Act an investment of $5C,000 in bank 
premises incident to the establishment of this branch. The latter 
amount includes $26,000 for land. 
It is the Board's understanding that careful consideration 
is being given to your bank's capital position. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary 

76 
'•ftot^ 
BOARD 
OF 
GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
1/9/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CQRRESPONOENCf 
TO THE BOARD 
January 9, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Washington County State Bank, 
Brenham, Texas. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Washington County 
State Bank, Brenham, Texas, of a branch at the northeast 
corner of the intersection of North Baylor and Vulcan 
Streets, Brenham, Texas, provided the branch is established 
within six months from the date of this letter. 
The Board urges that careful consideration be 
given to all means of strengthening your bank's somewhat 
less than satisfactory capital position. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
