p -
PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
October 15, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Burns 
Robertson 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Maisel 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 
a 
^ 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes. 

Z&33 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, October 15, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
First National State Bancorporation. 
The Board authorized the 
issuance of an order and statement reflecting approval, on October 1, 
1970, of the application of First National State Bancorporation, Newark, 
New Jersey, to become a bank holding company through acquisition of 
shares of four banks in New Jersey (which would be in addition to those 
of one bank already held). 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are 
attached under Item No. 1. 

2834 
10/15/70 
-2-
Bank holding company decisions. After review of documentation 
that had been distributed, the Board unanimously approved the following 
applications and authorized the issuance of relevant orders: 
Application of Broward Bancshares, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, 
Florida, to acquire shares of Lauderdale Lakes National 
Bank, Lauderdale Lakes, Florida, a proposed new bank (order 
attached as Item No. 2); and 
Application of Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, 
Florida, to acquire shares of The American Bank in Auburndale, 
Auburndale, Florida, a proposed new bank (order attached as 
Item No. 3). 
Foreign banking matters. 
Today's agenda called for consideration 
of the following applications: 
First Chicago International Finance Corporation, Chicago, 
Illinois, for permission to acquire all of the shares of 
First Chicago Limited, a merchant bank in London, England; 
and 
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, 
New York, for permission (a) to purchase up to 100 per 
cent of the shares of a finance company to be formed in 
Bangkok, Thailand, and (b) for that company to issue 
debentures, bonds, promissory notes, or similar obliga-
tions up to a total of approximately $5,000,000. 
Governor Mitchell raised a general question whether it was 
feasible, with respect to applications to acquire foreign subsidiaries, 
to restrict the ability of the parent organization to assume losses for 
which it was not legally obligated. 
His suggestion arose from the recent 
incident in which United California Bank, Los Angeles, California, had 
assumed up to $40 million of the liabilities of its liquidating Swiss 

2835 
10/15/70 
-3-
subsidiary. While he believed that the primary responsibility in that 
case attached to the management of the bank, he was concerned that the 
Board might stand somewhat in the light of tolerating an undue exposure 
to risk. Therefore, it seemed to him that it might be appropriate at 
least in some situations for the Board to specify that liabilities with 
respect to subsidiaries should be limited to the equity interest of the 
parent, and to require the parent to exercise sufficiently tight super-
vision over its subsidiary to preclude developments such as the United 
California Bank loss. In any event, he regretted the possible impli-
cations of the latter event and would like to give evidence that the 
i 
i, 
> 
. . . . . . 
Board was concerned with forestalling similar situations in the future. 
> 
. . . v 
He also felt uneasy about the adequacy of the reports that were required 
• -: 
< !> rv'l . 
. 
• i ; V-O : 
regarding the operations of subsidiaries, although that was a separate 
f
 
. r n t L'
1
 < t '• 
f 
. 
t 
• . ••• ; • 
- •
 
:
 
' 
question. 
Chairman Burns agreed that parent banks should tighten up on 
supervision of foreign subsidiaries, but he thought that the question 
of limitation of losses needed more study. In the United California 
Bank case, he was not sure that it was possible to exercise sufficiently 
close regulatory supervision under Swiss law, and there was some question 
in his mind whether the Board should stand in the way if a bank that had 
a strong capital structure (which United California Bank did not) chose 
to make good the losses of a subsidiary. 

Z8S6 
10/15/70 
-4-
Governor Brimmer said he shared Governor Mitchell's concern, 
and in continuing comments he described a recent conversation he had 
had with a prominent banker whose institution conducted extensive for-
eign operations. The latter had indicated that if his bank's name was 
identified with a foreign subsidiary, the parent bank would support the 
• • . . j i 
. 
subsidiary to whatever extent was necessary to avoid the possibility of 
any loss being associated with the parent. Governor Brimmer observed that 
that attitude, which might be taken as typical of large banks that 
engaged in foreign business, splintered the distinction between a branch 
and a subsidiary, because the parent bank would be giving the subsidiary 
the same backing that would be given to a branch, which was an integral 
part of the bank. That being so, unless there could be agreement that 
losses through a subsidiary would be limited to what was required by 
law, it should be expected that the parent bank would extend aid beyond 
•'}-„•. . >\ > 
v 
.1 .'I'-) r 
• ' 
" 
that point if occasion arose. 
Governor Brimmer also expressed the view that examinations proce-
dures for foreign operations were faulty, and at his instance there ensued 
a discussion of the evolution of current examining procedures. 
The discussion then reverted to the need for maintaining a proper 
that'. 
{foreign 
'>.<*; fmHo&tin.i; 
. th'i 
trd 
o th-jn to 
relationship between a bank's capital position and the potential risk to 
which the bank was exposed through a foreign subsidiary. Comment was 
made that heretofore capital structure had been judged from the point 

2837 
10/15/70 
-5-
of view of the parent bank's own operations plus the extent of its 
equity interest in foreign subsidiaries, whereas it was now apparent 
that account should be taken of the possibility of foreign losses 
extending beyond stock ownership. 
It was observed that the recent 
trend was toward subsidiaries rather than branches in foreign countries, 
and that the scope of foreign operations was widening. One suggestion 
discussed was a case-by-case approach in which applicants would be 
requested to state their intentions with respect to assuming any loss 
that might occur and, if more than an equity proportion of assumption 
was contemplated, requiring that capital be correspondingly strong. 
However, the predominant view was in favor of a general position rather 
than an individual application approach, especially in view of the task 
force work now in progress regarding the foreign operations of U.S. banks. 
Views were expressed in favor of a general statement, to be 
issued as promptly as possible so that not too much time would elapse 
between the publicity regarding the United California Bank loss in Swit-
zerland and the expression of the Board's concern. Governors Robertson 
and Brimmer suggested that a letter be sent to all banking organizations 
that had foreign subsidiaries indicating that the Board expected them to 
exercise sufficiently strict supervision of their foreign operations to 
preclude losses such as had recently come to light, and that in consid-
ering future applications for acquisition of subsidiaries the Board 

10/15/70 
-6-
would take into account the adequacy of capital in relation to potential 
liabilities arising out of foreign operations, with a continuing review 
of capital adequacy in light of growth of foreign operations. 
It was understood that the staff would draft a letter along 
the lines described for the Board's consideration. 
Further comments on the United California Bank occurrence included 
comments on the bearing of the Swiss secrecy laws and the adequacy of 
reports regarding the operations of subsidiaries. 
It was brought out 
that whereas the Board had indicated (in a letter dated September 16, 
1970) that the bank's proposed plan to assume its subsidiary's losses 
did not conflict with Federal law or regulation and that the Board did 
not interpose any objection to the arrangement, the language had been 
construed by United California Bank as indicating that the Board approved 
the plan. It was understood that a Los Angeles newspaper had obtained 
the text of a reply the Board had made to an inquiry by Representative 
Patman regarding the Board's position in the matter. There was agree-
ment with a suggestion that copies of the exchange of correspondence 
with Representative Patman be sent to United California Bank with a 
letter requesting that care be taken to describe accurately the position 
the Board had taken. 
Unanimous approval was given to the sending of a letter to 
United California Bank in the form attached as Item No. 4. 

10/15/70 
-7-
The applications of First Chicago International Finance Corpo-
ration and Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation were then 
approved unanimously. Copies of the letters sent to the applicants are 
attached as Items 5 and 6, respectively. 
PEFCO procedures. 
In a memorandum dated October 14, 1970, 
Governor Brimmer referred to the Board's actions in August 1970 regard-
ing the Private Export Funding Corporation and the widened scope of 
authority delegated to him to act on matters relating to the organiza-
tion and operation of the corporation. His understanding of the Board's 
position on issues that had been treated either explicitly in the 
documentation that had been presented or that might have been only 
implicit in those papers and the Board's deliberations was stated in 
essence as follows: 
i •.
 
1
 >. 
;. . • < 
; 
, 
PEFCO as a "non-controlled" corporation. 
In consenting 
to the acquisition by an Edge Act corporation of a control-
ling interest in a subsidiary, it had been the Board's prac-
tice to impose conditions so that the subsidiary was made 
subject to section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act and 
Regulation K (Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and 
Financing under the Federal Reserve Act) to the same extent 
as the Edge Act corporation itself. In the case of PEFCO, 
no one bank, whether investing through its own Edge Act cor-
poration or through a multi-bank-owned Edge Act corporation, 
would be able to exercise control. First, the organization's 
articles of agreement stipulate that no bank initially may 
acquire more than 6 per cent of ownership, nor, at any time, 
more than 7-1/2 per cent. Second, ownership will be widely 
diffused, perhaps among as many as 40 or 50 shareholding 
banks. 
In these circumstances, it did not appear necessary 

2 8 1 0 
10/15/70 
-8-
to lay down the standard conditions that PEFCO be limited 
by the statutory and regulatory provisions governing Edge 
Act corporations. 
The letters of consent for investments 
in PEFCO would not contain any conditions restricting oper-
ations although they would contain a qualification that 
PEFCO activities be confined to the financing of exports 
in the ways outlined in the PEFCO application of May 13, 
1970. A proposed general form of consent letter was 
attached to the memorandum. 
Non-precedential nature of Board action. The Board's 
position that PEFCO be considered a "non-controlled" sub-
sidiary of one or more Edge Act corporations in the sense 
described need not lead to any weakening of the Board's 
policy toward Edge Act corporation investments in other 
cases. 
Governor Brimmer believed that the Board should 
remain free to decide in which cases the degree of control 
by an Edge Act corporation of a subsidiary justified impos-
ing the standard conditions. 
Examination. Governor Brimmer did not consider a 
requirement for periodic examination of this novel venture 
necessary, but an ever-present opportunity for initiating 
either occasional or regular examinations was advisable. 
Accordingly, he recommended that consents contain a condi-
tion that the shareholding Edge Act corporations and PEFCO 
itself stand ready to provide the Board with information 
on PEFCO's activities and that the Board may examine PEFCO 
when it deems desirable. 
After a discussion during which several points regarding the 
operations of PEFCO were clarified, there was agreement upon the under-
standings Governor Brimmer had outlined and the form of consent letter 
he proposed. 
Retirement allowance agreement. 
The Division of Personnel 
Administration, in a memorandum dated October 2, 1970, recommended 
approval of and commented upon a supplemental retirement allowance 

2841 
10/15/70 
-9-
agreement proposed to be entered into between the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago and President Robert P. Mayo of that Bank. The proposed 
agreement conformed to the conditions set forth in the Board's letter 
of June 11, 1970, addressed to all Federal Reserve Bank Chairmen. 
It 
was the first such agreement under the revised formula, i.e., 40 per 
cent of the final average salary, less 50 per cent of primary Social 
Security benefits, prorated for less than 30 years' service. A draft 
letter of approval was attached. 
The letter and the agreement were approved unanimously. 
Copies 
are attached under Item No. 7. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
>» 

2 S 4 2 
Item No. 1 
10/15/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST NATIONAL STATE BANCORPORATION, 
Newark, New Jersey, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
voting shares of four banks in the 
State of New Jersey. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First National State Bancorporation, 
Newark, New Jersey, which owns presently all (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the voting shares of First National State Bank of New Jersey, 
Newark, New Jersey, for prior approval of the Board of action whereby 
Applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
8 0
 per cent or more of the voting shares of the following New Jersey 
hanks, or their successorsby merger: 
City National Bank, Hackcnsack; 

2843 
The Warren County National Bank, Washington; The Edison Bank, South Plafnfield; 
and First National Bank of Spring Lake, Spring Lakei 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
and the New Jersey Commissioner of Banks, and requested their views and 
recommendations. The Comptroller recommended approval; the Commissioner 
replied that the application,as a whole, has substantial merit. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 30, 1970 (35 Federal Register 12240), which 
Provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application 
w
a s forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
The time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 15 
1970. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governor Maisel and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
(SEAL) 
Deputy Secretary. 

2g44 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST NATIONAL STATE BANCORPORATION, NEWARK, NEW JERSEY, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
First National State Bancorporation, Newark, New Jersey 
("Applicant"), which presently owns all (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the voting shares of First National State Bank of New Jersey, 
Newark, New Jersey ("National State"), has filed with the Board, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application 
approval of action to become a bank holding company through the 
fl
cquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of the following 
N e
w Jersey banks, or their successors by merger: 
City National Bank, 
Hackensack ("City National"); The Warren County National Bank, Washington 
("Warren National"); The Edison Bank ("Edison Bank"); and First National 
Bank of Spring Lake ("Spring Lake National"). 
The successor banks have 
8
ignificance primarily as the means of accomplishing the acquisition of 
a
H of the voting shares of the banks to be merged into them. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. - As 
S q u i r e d by section 3(b) of the Act, written notice of receipt of the 

-2-
2845 
application was given to, and views and recommendations requested of, 
the Comptroller of the Currency and the State Bank Commissioner of 
New Jersey. The Comptroller recommended approval; the Commissioner 
replied that the application, as a vhole, has substantial merit. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
he substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
In each case, the Board is required to take into 
consideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant's 
l i s t i n g subsidiary, National State (deposits $737 million), is the 
largest bank in New J e r s e y O n consummation of the acquisition by 
Applicant of Warren National (deposits $33 million), City National 
V 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1969, and reflect holding company 
°rmations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

-3-
2846 
(deposits $41 million), Edison Bank (deposits $64 million), and Spring 
Lake National (deposits $18 million), Applicant would become the 
largest of three bank holding companies in the State, controlling 
^.5 per cent of the bank deposits in the State; the 10 largest banking 
organizations would control 39.3 per cent of such deposits in the State, 
a
n increase of 1.1 per cent. 
The 1969 amendments to the New Jersey Banking Law, which 
Permitted State-wide bank holding companies, divided the State into 
three banking districts, with branching permitted within district lines, 
subject to a "home office protection" provision, and to "branch office 
protection" in towns with a population of less than 7,500. 
National 
State, City National, and Warren National are located in the First Banking 
District. Edison Bank and Spring Lake National are located in the Second 
Banking District. 
National State operates principally within a four county area 
centered in Newark. 
It is the largest of 33 banks in that area, controlling 
per cent of the deposits therein, and approximately 10 per cent of the 
deposits in the First Banking District. City National is the thirteenth 
largest of 37 banks headquartered in the Paterson market (Bergen and 
Passaic Counties), controlling 1.3 per cent of the deposits held by banks 
in that market. Warren National has three offices, all located in Warren 
County, in the extreme Western portion of the First Banking District. 
Its 
®ain office is located in Washington (population 6,500) at the fringe of 

2847 
-4-
the Phillipsburg, New Jersey - Easton, Pennsylvania market; it is the 
fifth largest of 11 banks operating in that area. 
Its two other offices 
are located in the Hackettstown area; in terms of local deposits, Warren 
National is the third largest of six banks in that area. 
In the Second Banking District, Edison bank is the third 
largest of 18 banks operating in the New Brunswick area (Middlesex . 
County), with 10 per cent of that area's deposits. 
Spring Lake National 
is the ninth largest of twelve banks operating in Monmouth County. 
Applicant's two proposed subsidiaries in the Second District hold 
a
Pproximately 2 per cent of deposits in that District. 
There is little existing competition between any of Applicant's 
Present and proposed subsidiaries. National State, being the largest 
organization in 
the State, does obtain a significant portion of its loans 
from the New Brunswick area. However, the size and nature of these loans 
Q
re such that the $64 million Edison Bank cannot or does not compete for 
them, 
it may also be noted that the Newark market (in which National 
State is located) and the Paterson market (in which City National is located) 
a
re contiguous. 
Since the latter market is oriented towards New York City, 
however, neither bank presently is a significant competitor in the other's 
market. 
Consummation of the acquisitions is unlikely to foreclose 
substantial future competition. The four proposed affiliates are essentially 
retail institutions serving separate local markets. Because of the 

-5 
Z&18 
distances involved, the relatively small size of the proposed subsidiaries, 
and the intense competition in each area, it is unlikely that any of 
the proposed subsidiaries would choose to or could successfully compete 
in areas served by the other banks> 
Although National State has the 
resources and legal ability to branch or merge into areas served by 
Applicant's two proposed First District subsidiaries, the foreclosure 
°f this possible competition would not substantially affect those markets 
because of the significant competition presently existing therein and the 
relatively small size of the proposed subsidiaries. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its present and proposed subsidiaries 
i s
 satisfactory. Considerations relating to the managements and prospects of 
G
ach are also consistent with approval of the application. Although none 
the banks has deficiencies which could not be resolved without the 
Proposed affiliation, the proposal would assure needed management depth 
a
nd successor management to the proposed subsidiaries. 
The banking factors are consistent with approval of the 
a
Pplication. 

^849 
-6-
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of the communities affected by Applicant's proposal 
are being adequately served by present banking facilities. 
However, 
while there is likely to be little effect on the areas served by 
National State, the areas served by each of the proposed subsidiaries 
would benefit from increased lending capacity, more specialized services, 
and improved operating efficiency of the banks involved. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
communities involved lend weight in support of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
S e
ction 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
October 15, 1970. 

2SS0 
Item No. 2 
10/15/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
BROWARD BANCSHARES, INC.,
 
1 
Fort Lauderdale, Florida, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 80
 
1 
per cent or more of the voting
 
1 
shares of Lauderdale Lakes National
 
1 
Bank, Lauderdale Lakes, Florida,
 
1 
a
 proposed new bank. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Broward Bancshares, Inc., 
F
°rt Lauderdale, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Lauderdale Lakes National Bank, 
Lauderdale Lakes, Florida ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
b i t t e n notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 

the Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The 
Comptroller offered no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 2, 1970 (35 Federal Register 13910), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
a
n d views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
tion. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and prospects of Applicant and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such 
consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the twelfth largest banking organization and bank 
holding company in Florida, has three subsidiary banks with $210 million 
in deposits, which represent 1.7 per cent of total deposits of all 
Florida banks. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1969, adjusted 
to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the 
Board to date.) 
Since Bank is a proposed new bank, consummation of the 
Proposal would not increase concentration in any market. 
Bank would be located in the western suburban area of Fort 
Lauderdale, and would serve a rapidly growing area (population 59,000) 

2852 
-3-
consisting of Lauderdale Lakes, Sunrise Golf Village and an unincor-
porated part of Broward County. Applicant's three subsidiaries, all 
located in Fort Lauderdale, are 5.2 to 7.3 miles from Bank, with six 
competing banks located in the intervening area. Bank would be the 
only bank located within the immediate area which 
it would serve. 
It does not appear that existing competition would be eliminated, 
or significant potential competition foreclosed, by consummation of 
the present proposal. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consumma-
tion of the proposed acquisition would not have significant adverse 
effects on competition in any relevant area. The banking factors, 
as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank, are regarded 
as consistent with approval. The proposal will provide the immediate 
area served by Bank with its only banking facility, which, with 
Applicant's assistance, will have full-service capability. 
It is 
the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
would be in the public interest, and that the application should be 
approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, and provided 

2853 
-4-
*urthei: that (c) Lauderdale Lakes National Bank shall be open for 
business not later than six months after the date of this Order. 
The periods described in (b) and (c) hereof may be extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 15 , 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governors Daane, Maisel, and 
Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

2854 
Item No. 3 
10/15/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
,WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC.,
 
1 
Jacksonville, Florida,
 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
The American Bank in Auburndale, 
Auburndale, Florida, a proposed new
 
1 
bank. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
!842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(!2 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., 
Jacksonville, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
rcore of the voting shares of The American Bank in Auburndale, 
Auburndale, Florida ("Auburndale Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
b i t t e n notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 

^855 
k'&i1 
Banking of the State of Florida,and requested his views and recommen-
dation. The Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 5, 1970 (35 Federal Register 14176), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for 
i f c
s consideration. 
The time for filing comments and views has expired 
a n
d all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
t h e
 proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources of the Applicant and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
needs of the communities to be served and finds that: 
Applicant presently controls 23 banks which hold deposits of 
* million, representing 5.2 per cent of total deposits held by 
^l°rida's commercial banks, and is the State's third largest bank 
h i d i n g company. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1969, 
Justed to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
b y
 ^ e Board to date.) Applicant's acquisition of the proposed new bank 
°
U l d h a v e 
n o
 immediate effect on concentration of banking resources. 
Applicant's two closest subsidiaries, with deposits of $29 
l l
i o n and $6 million, are located five and seven miles southeast of 
u b u
r n d a l e Bank, at Winter Haven and Cypress Gardens, respectively. 

2856 
Applicant's Winter Haven bank is the fourth largest and its bank in 
Cypress Gardens is the smallest of 11 banks in the Auburndale area, 
which range in deposit size from $6 million to $91 million. The town 
°f Auburndale has one bank with deposits of more than $11 million. 
Applicant's present subsidiary banks do not derive any significant 
amount of their business from the area proposed to be served by Auburn-
dale Bank. The consummation of this proposal would serve to stimulate 
competition in the Auburndale area; no existing competition would be 
eliminated nor significant potential competition foreclosed, nor would 
there be undue adverse effects on any competing banks. 
The financial condition and management of Applicant's group 
and Auburndale Bank are satisfactory, and the prospects for each appear 
favorable. Considerations concerning community convenience and needs 
add some weight in favor of approval of the application because of the 
benefits to be derived by the community from an additional banking 
facility. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
w
°uld be in the public interest, and that the application should be 
approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 

i 
2857 
and provided further that (c) The American Bank in Auburndale shall 
be opened for business not later than six months after the date of 
this Order. The periods described in (b) and (c) hereof may be extended 
for cood 
cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 15, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, l-litchell, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governors Daane, Maisel and 
Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

CV CoC'.. 
Mssm, 
BOARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
2858 
Item No. 4 
10/15/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 15, 1970 
United California Bank 
600 South Spring Street 
Los Angeles, California 
90054 
Gentlemen: 
The Board has recently responded to a letter of October 1, 
1970 from Chairman Patman of the House Committee on Banking and 
Currency wherein Chairman Patman refers to press accounts concerning 
the reported losses in the United California Bank in Basle, A.G. and 
the undertakings by United California Bank, Los Angeles, to indemnify 
depositors and creditors of the Swiss Bank. Referring to the press 
reports, Chairman Patman has inquired specifically with respect to 
the reported "approval" of the proposal by United California Bank, 
Los Angeles, to cover losses of the Swiss Bank. A copy of Chairman 
Patman's October 1 letter and the reply by the Board's Vice Chairman 
Robertson of October 13 are enclosed. 
Your attention is directed to the third paragraph of Vice 
Chairman Robertson's letter wherein Chairman Patman's attention is 
directed to the fact that "The Board did not approve the proposed 
arrangement but only stated that the decision taken by the Bank 
(United California Bank, Los Angeles) did not conflict with any 
Federal law or regulation administered by the Board, and that the 
Board did not interpose any objection to the arrangement." 
In 
furnishing you with copies of the correspondence exchanged between 
the Board and Chairman Patman, the Board wishes brought to your 
attention its concern as to the potential for public misunderstand-
ing of the Board's action of September 16, 1970. The Board urges 
that on any occasion that representatives of your Bank allude to 
the Board's September 16 action, care be taken to state precisely 
and accurately the nature of the Board's action. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary 
Enci osures 

2859 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 5 
10/15/70 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 15, 1970 
First Chicago International 
Finance Corporation, 
One First National Plaza, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60670 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of July 22, 1970, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FCIFC") to pur-
chase and hold all of the shares of First Chicago Limited ("FCL"), 
London, England, at a cost of approximately $600,000, provided the 
shares are acquired within two and one-half years from the date of 
this letter. 
In this connection, approval is also granted for the 
purchase and holding of shares of FCL in excess of 15 per cent of 
your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of FCL by FCIFC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions : 
(1) 
That FCIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FCL if FCL at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if FCL establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in the United Kingdom or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to FCIFC; 
(2) 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, FCIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FCL as it may require from time 
to time; and 

^855 
First Chicago International 
Finance Corporation 
-2-
(3) 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions, for its 
own account other than as underwriter or dealer, by 
FCL be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if FCL were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
The Board has considered your requests regarding FCL's 
activities as a broker, dealer, and underwriter of securities. 
That 
consideration included the fact that FCIFC is not engaged in banking; 
and especially the relationship between the possible acquisitions of 
certain stocks as a result of such activities and the statutory pro-
hibition on the purchase and holding of stock of a corporation "en-
gaged in the general business of buying or selling goods, wares, 
merchandise or commodities in the United States," or "transacting 
any business in the United States except such as in the judgment of 
the Board. . .may be incidental to its international or foreign 
business. . .." 
It was the judgment of the Board that in a foreign 
country where such transactions are usual in connection with the 
business of banking or other financial operations, and provided such 
stocks were acquired for underwriting or dealing but not as invest-
ments, and were not held for an unreasonable time, such acquisitions 
would not be inconsistent with the quoted statutory prohibition. 
Accordingly, the Board concluded that it would be permis-
sible for FCL under the aforementioned condition to act as dealer 
and underwriter of stocks (including rights to acquire stocks), in-
cluding shares of issuers engaged in the types of business cited in 
the preceding paragraph, so long as stocks so acquired were disposed 
°f within a reasonable length of time and provided that the specific 
consent of the Board be obtained for any acquisitions of stock of 
individual issuers, not covered in the case of underwriting opera-
tions by firm commitments from sub-underwriters or other purchasers, 
in excess of $500,000 or 25 per cent of the voting shares of any 
company. 

2 8 6 1 
First Chicago International 
Finance Corporation 
-3-
'J. 
' * i; - : 
• 
As indicated in condition (3) in the fourth paragraph of 
this letter, stocks acquired in connection with underwriting and 
dealing in securities need not be reported in accordance with Sec-
tion 211.8(d) of Regulation K. 
However, they are to be reported as 
a separate class (together with date of acquisition) in any Call 
Report of Condition or in any other information requested regarding 
FCL in accordance with condition (2) above. Also, full information 
on FCL's activities as a broker, dealer, or underwriter of securi-
ties is to be made available on request during any examination of 
FCIFC. 
The foregoing applies only to acquisitions of stocks as 
a
 result of underwriting operations or in connection with maintaining 
a dealer's inventory. All other acquisitions of stock by FCL, for 
Portfolio investment purposes or otherwise, are subject to the pro-
visions of Section 211.8 of Regulation K under,the condition (1) 
herein applied. 
Investments by FCL in debt obligations carrying 
rights to acquire shares are covered by a published interpretation 
°f the Board (1969 Federal Reserve Bulletin 548). 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
a s
 they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, The First National Bank of Chicago and its other 
subsidiaries, and that due consideration is being given to the 
Priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

BDARD OF G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
6/15/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 15, 1970. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 3, 1970, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("CM0EC") 
to purchase and hold up to 100 per cent of the shares of a finance 
company formed under the laws of Thailand ("Company"), at a cost 
of approximately $500,000, provided such shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. The Board also grants con-
sent for CMOBC to continue to hold the shares of Company after 
Company issues and has outstanding debentures, bonds, promissory 
n
°tes (other than notes due within one year), or similar obligations 
U
P to a total of approximately $5,000,000. 
Sv 
: 
.V 
I'. /i 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
the shares of Company by CMOBC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That CMOBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of Company if Company at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a .corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could ; 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if Company establishes any branch 
or agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Thailand or elsewhere, in any manner, which at 
the time would not be permissible to CMOBC; 
(2) 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, CMOBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of Company as it may require from time to 
time; 

2 8 6 3 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
(3) 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Company 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if Company were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That Company will confine its leasing activities 
essentially to the leasing of property under leases 
under which Company will recover the full costs of 
acquisition and any other expenses expected to be 
incurred by Company during the lease, and that Company 
shall not acquire property for leasing before the 
prospective lessee has executed the lease agreement. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
o f
 the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by Company in Thailand 
x
n the currency of that country. 
When the proposed acquisition is made, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
fi
ank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
°f Association, and By-Laws of Company. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
n
ow in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association) ana 
l t s
 other subsidiaries, and that due consideration is being given 
to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

• ' ^ C B m * . 
•f^lRES^.-
B d A R D OF G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
2864 
Item No. 7 
10/15/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 15, 1970 
N 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
M r . Ward J. Larson 
Senior Vice President and 
General Counsel 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Chicago, Illinois 
60690 
Dear M r . Larson: 
This refers to your letter of September 28, 1970, enclosing 
four copies of an Agreement dated September 24, 1970, between the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and M r . Robert P. Mayo to provide 
him a minimum retirement allowance under centain stated conditions. 
The Board of Governors approves the Agreement as entered 
into between the Bank and M r . Mayo, and as the Secretary of the 
Board, I have affixed my -signature in the appropriate place on all 
copies of the Agreement. One copy of the Agreement has been retained 
for the Board's files; the other three copies are returned herewith. 
Yours sincerely 
Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosures 

2 8 6 5 
For and in consideration of the mutual promises of each party hereto, 
nis Agreement is entered into between ROBERT P. MAYO and the FEDERAL RESERVE BANK 
0 P
 CHICAGO, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. 
Subject to all of the applicable provisions of law, ROBERT P . MAYO agrees 
t o S e
r v e as an officer of the said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK as long as such service 
be mutually agreeable to the parties hereto. 
For and on account of such service, said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK shall pay 
Sai
<i ROBERT P . MAYO as follows: 
(1) Said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK shall pay to said ROBERT P. 
MAYO a salary at the rate of $60,000 per annum during the 
period ending December 31, 1970, and thereafter during his 
service as an officer of said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK and prior 
to his retirement his salary shall be as determined from 
time to time in accordance with applicable provisions of law; 
(2) 
If, having attained the age of 65, said ROBERT P . MAYO 
shall retire with not less than 10 years of service creditable 
under the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks, and 
if he is President of said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK at the time 
of his retirement, said FEDERAL RESERVE BATIK shall pay to said 
ROBERT P . MAYO after such retirement and during the remainder 
of his lifetime an amount per annum which, together with his 
regular retirement allowance under the Retirement System of 
the Federal Reserve Banks (without regard to optional benefits 
or conversion, or additional voluntary contributions), will 
aggregate a sura equal to U0 per cent of his final average salary 
(as defined in Sec. 2.15 of the Rules Gud Regulations of the 
Retirement System, as amended effective January 1 , 1970), less 

2 8 ( * > 
50 per cent of his primary Federal Old Age Insurance B e n e f i t s — . 
such reduction to be prorated if he has less than 30 
years of creditable service; and 
(3) If, without having attained the age of 65, said ROBERT P. 
MAYO shall retire with not less than 10 years of service cred-
itable under the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks, 
and if he is President of said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK at the time 
of his retirement, the aggregate sum equal to ^0 per cent of his 
final"average salary referred to in the preceding paragraph (2) 
shall be reduced by the application of the then current table 
of pension reduction factors of the Bank Plan of the Retirement 
System of the Federal Reserve Banks, and the portion of the 
aggregate that is payable by said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK shall be 
the difference between the dollar amount represented by such 
V 
lesser percentage of salary and the regular retirement allowance 
payable at the attained age by said Retirement System. 
This Agreement does not obligate the said ROBERT P. MAYO to remain as an 
C e r
 of the said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK, and does not constitute an Agreement by 
the ilk} V 
°
dl
<i FEDERAL RESERVE BANK or the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
that h 
n e
 w i n continue in such capacity; it does not obligate the said FEDERAL RESERVE 
I
 B
% 
t n 
appoint, reappoint, or continue him as an officer, nor does it obligate the 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System to approve his appointment or re-
n
tment or his compensation. 
v. > 

• 
2 8 6 7 
Witness our hands and seals this 
^ 
day of - S T A ^ T T u i L ^ . i ^ „ 
r. 
x
ng this agreement in quadruplicate originals. 
1 9 T 0 , 
A
u e s t : 
^tarv" 
ROBERT P . MAYO 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
Chairman of ^he Board of Directors 
F, 
The above Agreement has been approved by the Eoard of Governors of the 
1,1 t> 
reserve System and in witness thereof, the seal of the said Board is attached 
N 
i t s
 secretary has affixed his signature. 
Dated at Washington, D . C . , this 
15th 
^ 
Of 
October 
Ssfeober 15, 1970. 
DatiJ 
, 
1 9 7 0 . 
(SEAL) 
(signed) Robert C . Holland 
Secretary 
