MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 5, 1972 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
tern on Tuesday, December 5, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 

12/5/72 
-2-
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on November 27 and by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
New York, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San Francisco on November 30, 1972, 
of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would 
be sent to those Banks. 
Pursuant to a recommendation by the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations, in which the Committee on Organization, Compensation, 
and Building Plans concurred in a memorandum of November 28, 19 72, the 
Board unanimously approved an increase of 16 positions in the 1972 employ-
ment ceiling of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The New York Reserve 
Bank was informed of the Committee's approval in a letter of December 4, 
1972. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of The Citizens 
Bank of Georgia, Stone Mountain, Georgia, for (1) admission to membership 
in the Federal Reserve System; (2) establishment of an in-town branch; 
and (3) an investment in bank premises. Copies of the letters sent to 
the bank are attached under Item No. 1. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order reflecting approval 
on November 2, 1972, of the application of Marshall & Ilsley Corporation, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of American Bank and Trust Company, 
Racine, Wisconsin. A copy of the order is attached under Item No. 2, along 
w
ith the dissenting statement of Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 

' 3434 
12/5/72 
-3-
The Board authorized the issuance of an order reflecting denial 
on November 7, 1972, of the application of First Railroad & Banking Company 
of Georgia, Augusta, Georgia, to acquire the mortgage banking assets of 
Southern Finance Corporation, Augusta, Georgia. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Poplar Insur-
ance Agency, Inc., Poplar, Montana, (1) to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of shares of Traders State Bank of Poplar Montana, 
Poplar, Montana; and (2) to retain shares of a general insurance agency 
that operated in a community with a population of less than 5,000. 
Issu-
ance of an order reflecting that decision was also authorized. 
A copy is 
attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Century Banc-
shares, Inc., Parsons, Kansas, (1) to become a bank holding company through 
the retention of shares of The First National Bank of Parsons, Parsons, 
Kansas; and (2) to retain Century Bancshares, Inc., - Insurance Division, 
which operated as a limited insurance agency selling credit life and credit 
accident and health insurance to borrowing customers of The First National 
Bank of Parsons. Issuance of an order reflecting that decision was also 
authorized. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Security 
Corporation, Salt Lake City, Utah, to acquire shares of First Security Bank 
°f Price, National Association, Price, Utah, a proposed new bank, and 

3435 
12/5/72 
-4-
authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of American National 
Holding Company, Kalamazoo, Michigan, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to The Niles National Bank and Trust Company, Niles, Michigan, 
a n d
 authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Elmer Crosley 
and Sons Investment Corporation, Center, Nebraska, to become a bank 
holding company through acquisition of shares of Center State Bank, Center, 
Nebraska, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 8. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Security National 
Corporation, Sioux City, Iowa, to acquire shares of Northwestern State 
Bank of Orange City, Orange City, Iowa, and authorized the issuance of 
an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached 
Item No. 9. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to Chase Manhattan Over-
seas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent to the 
acquisition of shares of Kam Yuan Choy Mo Limited, Hong Kong, and to 
the continued holding of those shares after the latter issues certain 
debt obligations. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 10. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to First National City 
fi
ank, New York, New York, granting permission for the acquisition of shares 

3436 
12/5/72 
-5-
of La Banque de Polynesie, S.A., Papeete, Tahiti, French Polynesia. A copy 
of the letter is attached as Item No. 11. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to First National City 
Bank, New York, New York, granting permission for the acquisition of shares 
of The Wang Lee Chan Bank, Ltd., Dhonburi, Thailand. A copy of the letter 
is attached as Item No. 12. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Negotiable orders of withdrawal. On November 28, 1972, the Board 
discussed several suggested courses of action with respect to the recent 
practice of mutual savings banks in Massachusetts in permitting the use 
of negotiable orders of withdrawal from interest-bearing savings accounts. 
At that time it was decided that the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and 
the Board's staff would continue to devote attention to the situation, and 
that the possibility of a public hearing to explore several aspects of 
the matter would be discussed with the Interagency Coordinating Committee 
on Bank Regulation. 
At today's meeting Mr. Melnicoff reported that staff had met with 
representatives of the Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Rhode Island 
bankers associations, who had expressed a strong desire to be placed on a 
m o r e 
e
qual competitive basis with mutual savings banks in Massachusetts. 
They favored either the prohibition of the use by savings banks of nego-
tiable orders of withdrawal or amendments to Regulation Q, Interest on 
Deposits, that would allow commercial banks to offer services similar to 
those being offered by the Massachusetts savings banks. The representatives 

3437 
12/5/72 
-6-
had indicated that they were scheduled to meet with the Massachusetts 
State Banking Commissioner to explore the alternatives that might be 
available at the State level. 
Mr. Melnicoff also reported that the Coordinating Committee had 
not been in favor of a public hearing at this time. The Committee had 
decided to invite the Massachusetts State Banking Commissioner to meet 
with representatives of the Committee to discuss the Massachusetts 
problem and to ascertain the intentions of the Commissioner. 
After brief discussion it was agreed that the Board would delay 
action with respect to the situation pending the outcome of the Coordinating 
Committee's discussion with the Massachusetts Banking Commissioner. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation. In a memorandum 
dated November 13, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation rec-
ommended approval of the applications of Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking 
Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of the following: 
(1) a finance company to be formed in Bermuda; 
(2) 
a bank and trust company to be formed in Georgetown, 
Cayman Islands; 
(3) a financial holding company to be formed in the New 
Hebrides ; and 
(4) 
a finance company to be formed in the United States, 
to raise offshore funds to be used abroad. 
After discussion the Board approved the applications, Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer dissenting with respect to numbers (1), (2), and 
(3) above. A copy of the letter sent to Chase Manhattan is attached as 

3438 
12/5/72 
-7-
Real and personal property leasing. On November 20, 1972, the 
Board considered a revised proposal to amend Regulation Y , Bank Holding 
Companies, that would include real and personal property leasing as 
permissible activities for bank holding companies. At that time further 
documentation was requested. 
The following documentation had been distributed prior to today's 
meeting: 
(1) memorandum dated October 26, 1972, from the Legal 
Division, the Division of Supervision and Regulation, 
and the Banking Markets Section; 
(2) memorandum dated October 27, 1972, from the Banking 
Markets Section; 
(3) memorandum dated November 21, 1972, from the Legal 
Division; 
(4) memorandum dated November 21, 1972, from the Legal 
Division and the Division of Supervision and Regu-
lation; and 
(5) memorandum dated November 30, 1972, from Mr. Holland. 
The proposal presented in Mr. Holland's memorandum reflected the 
recommendation of the Legal Division and of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation that the salvage value of real property should be zero in 
determining the amount that the lessor was required to recover over the 
term of the lease. It also incorporated language that (a) acknowledged 
that real property was likely to have some market value at the end of 
the lease; (b) recognized the practice of the lessor selling the property 
at the conclusion of the lease; and (c) accepted the ability of the lessor 

3-139 
12/5/72 
-8-
to take some part of his profit in the form of an equity-type return as 
long as the cost of the land and financing was fully recovered over the 
term of the lease. 
Following an exchange of views focusing primarily on the question 
of salvage value, the Board unanimously approved publication for comment 
of the revised proposal to amend Regulation Y presented in Mr. Holland's 
memorandum. A copy of the proposal as published in the Federal Register 
is attached under Item No. 14, along with a copy of the related press 
release. 
Congressional testimony. The Board discussed a draft of testimony 
to be presented by Chairman Burns before the Subcommittee on Priorities 
and Economy in Government of the Joint Economic Committee on December 7, 
1972, While there was general agreement on the overall tone and content 
of the draft, several suggestions were made with respect to certain portions. 
was understood that the statement would be edited in the light of these 
suggestions and that it would be presented in a final form satisfactory to 
Chairman Burns. 
(Note: A copy of the statement as presented had been 
placed in the Board's files.) 
Insurance activities. On September 21, 1972, the Board considered 
a proposal to amend Regulation Y , Bank Holding Companies, to permit the 
underwriting of credit life and credit accident and health insurance by 
bank holding companies. At that time the Board requested the development 
o f
 further information regarding the question. 

35 v 9 
12/5/72 
-9-
Documentation that had been distributed prior to today's meeting 
included: 
(1) memorandum dated August 1, 1972, from the Banking 
Markets Section; 
(2) memorandum dated August 2, 1972, from the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation; 
(3) memoranda dated August 4 and September 20, 1972, 
from the Legal Division; and 
(4) memorandum dated November 27, 1972, from the Banking 
Markets Section and the Legal Division. 
In number (4) above staff recommended approval of a proposed 
amendment to Regulation Y , together with a corresponding interpretation 
that would impose upon an applicant the requirement of demonstrating best 
efforts to provide insurance at the lowest practicable cost to its borrow-
ers. The requirement would take the quantitative form of a demonstration 
that a certain per cent of gross premiums received would be returned to 
the insured in the form of benefits. 
During the discussion concern was expressed with respect to the 
quantitative aspect of the proposal. 
It was believed that the Board should 
not strive to establish rates in connection with a particular activity. 
It 
was then pointed out that in the absence of the quantitative measure, there 
exist no public benefit in support of the activity. 
Ensuing discussion developed general support for the view that 
the public benefit test could be satisfied by requiring each applicant 
to demonstrate the public benefit to be derived from its entrance into the 

12/5/72 
-10-
insurance underwriting field; the benefit might be the prospective 
lowering of rates charged for the insurance. It was understood that 
staff would prepare documentation reflecting that approach. 
Review of grandfathered activities. 
In a memorandum dated 
September 28, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the 
Banking Markets Section recommended that no termination should be required 
in the indefinite grandfather authority under the Bank Holding Company 
Act regarding the nonbanking activities of The Western and Southern Life 
Insurance Company, Cincinnati, Ohio. 
After brief discussion the Board agreed that no termination should 
be required in the company's grandfather authority. 
It was understood 
that a determination to that effect would be prepared. 
Request for reconsideration. 
By order dated May 2, 1972, the 
Board denied the application of R.I.H.T. Corporation, Providence, Rhode 
Island, to participate in the development of real estate in an urban 
renewal project in Pawtucket, Rhode Island. 
In a memorandum dated November 28, 19 72, the Legal Division stated 
that R.I.H.T. Corporation had submitted a request for reconsideration of 
the Board's decision. The Division further stated that the request pre-
sented no relevant facts that were not previously considered by the Board 
or that would make reconsideration appropriate. The Legal Division, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation, and the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston recommended denial of the request. 

12/5/72 
-11-
The Board unanimously denied the request for reconsideration 
a n d
 authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 15. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

dte/fr mfetf 
3503 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N • R 5 
a
r
T
H
E 
^ S m k : . 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 1 
12/5/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
. 
'FT^-L ! . L V ^ S } / VJ * 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P Q N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 5, 1972 
Board of Directors, 
The Citizens Bank of Georgia, 
Stone Mountain, Georgia. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application of The Citizens Bank of Georgia, Stone Mountain, Georgia, 
for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, subject to the numbered 
conditions set forth: 
1. 
Such bank at ail times shall conduct ics business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made 
in the general character of its business or in the scope 
of the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other cor-
porate responsibilities. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in^ 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
c
o p i G S of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 

The Citizens Bank or Georgia 
- 2 -
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Eoard of 
Directors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy of such 
resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Arrangements 
will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of 
Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required 
reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve 
B
ank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the 
ank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership 
l n
 the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bark will be glad to 
Q
ssist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal. Reserve 
^ystem and at any time to discuss with representatives of your bank means 
A
Or making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A . Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board. 
Enclosure. 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• V o S l M V - 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 5, 1972 
Board of Directors 
The. Citizens Bank of Georgia 
Stone Mountain, Georgia 
I 
. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment of a branch of The Citizens Bank of 
Georgia at 468 Redan Road, Stone Mountain, Georgia, provided 
plans for increasing capital stock by 2,970 shares are consum-
mated prior to the establishment of the proposed branch and chat 
the branch is established within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
The Board also approves, pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act, an investment in bank 
premises of an amount not to exceed $325,000 to be used in commo-
tions with the establishment of this branch. 
! 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 2 
12/5/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MARSHALL & ILSLEY CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Marshall & Ilsley Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s
 applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
U
*S.C, 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of American Bank and Trust Company, Racine, Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3
(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired, and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
( 1 2
 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 15 banks with aggregate deposits of 
million, representing 6.7 per cent of total deposits held by 
banks in Wisconsin, and is the second largest banking organization 
l n 
t h e
 State. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, and 
reflect holding company acquisitions and formations approved through 
September 30, 1972.) The acquisition of Bank (deposits of $42.6 
m i
llion) would increase Applicant's share of State deposits by only 
percentage point, and it would remain the second largest banking 
°rganieation in Wisconsin. 

3 ^ 0 7 
-2-
Bank ranks second among the 14 banks serving Racine County 
(Bank's relevant market) and holds approximately 12.3 per cent of 
a r e a 
d e
P°sits. 
(The largest bank holds 26.4 per cent of such deposits.) 
The State's largest banking organization controls the market's fourth 
largest bank which holds 7.7 per cent of area deposits. In addition, 
two other banking organizations are represented in the market. It 
a
PPears that consummation of this proposal would not have an adverse 
effect on other area banks. 
The closest of Applicant's subsidiary banking offices is 
located in the adjacent Milwaukee market, 26 miles north of Bank. 
e r e
 is no meaningful competition between these offices or between 
^ i 
nl
< and any of Applicant's subsidiary offices. Moreover, in view of 
fcho 
number of intervening banks, the State's restrictive branching 
l a W S
'
 a n d
 distances separating the offices, it is unlikely that any 
s
ubstantial amount of competition would develop in the future. 
The Board has considered a recommendation from the Department 
o f
 Justice which concluded that the proposed acquisition may eliminate 
some direct competition between Applicant's lead bank located in 
Milwaukee and Bank. The Department also advised that the entry of 
Applicant into the Racine market through acquisition of Bank would 
L a v e
 an adverse effect on potential competition especially in view 
O £ J j. 
4 C
s capabilities for either de novo or foothold entry. 

-3-
Regarding the elimination of existing competition, the 
record indicates that less than X per cent of Bank's deposits and 
2 P
e
r cent of its loans originate in Milwaukee County where Applicant's 
l e a d 
b a n k 
i s
 located. It appears that only minimal existing competi-
t io 
uould be eliminated by consummation of this proposal. 
Applicant's 
n t r y 
i n t o 
t h e
 Racine area by de novo means does not appear to be 
Particularly attractive at this time. There has been a general decline 
business in the downtown area where Bank is located, and population 
growth has not kept pace with the surrounding area. Retail trade and 
industry have moved out of the downtown area. 
Bank does not appear to be an aggressive competitor in the 
» its deposits have not significantly increased since year-end 
1967 
» and its loan growth has been significantly below the average 
rate of growth for other area banks. Its loan to deposit ratio has 
s
° been low. Bank, at the present time, does not appear to be a 
likelv 
y Prospect for a lead bank in a new bank holding company group. 
In view 
« 
t 
or Bank s conservative management and the presence of other 
°
r g G b a n k
i n g organizations in the market, it appears unlikely, 
absent thi 
t r
U s proposal, that Bank would become a significant competitive 
force i 
, 
n
 the market. On the record before it the Board concludes 
tha t competitive considerations are consistent with approval of this 
application. 

3503 
-4-
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant, 
its subsidiary banks, and Bank are considered to be generally satis-
factory, and prospects for each appear favorable. Banking factors 
are consistent with approval of the application. It appears that 
there are no major banking needs of the Racine community which are 
Presently unserved. However, the affiliation of Bank with Applicant 
would enable it to become a more aggressive competitor in its exten-
sion of credit. Applicant also proposes to introduce new services at 
Bank to include check-credit, trust services, and international banking 
services. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
e
 community to be served are consistent with and lend some weight 
t o i 7 a r d
 approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest, 
a n d
 that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
f°r the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
c
°nsunimated (
a
) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
e
ffective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the 
e
ffective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 

) 
-5-
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,A/ effective December 5, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Sheehan and 
ucher. Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and 
rircmer. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

O . ? 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
We do not concur with the majority in their approval of 
Applicant's proposal. We believe that the acquisition of the second 
largest bank in the Racine market by the State's second largest banking 
organization will have an adverse effect on area and Statewide banking 
competition and also on the concentration of banking resources. 
Applicant controls 15 banks with aggregate deposits of 
almost three quarters of a billion dollars. With its resources, it 
could establish a new bank in the area which would provide an alternate 
source of banking services to the community and increase competition 
w i
thin the city and county of Racine. Or, in the alternative, another 
less anticompetitive mode of entry would be the acquisition of one 
of the several smaller area banks. 
We are concerned x^ith concentration data which indicate 
a s
 of December 31, 1971, that the city's largest bank holds 37 per 
cent of deposits in Racine, and that the city's four largest banks 
collectively hold 77 per cent of such total deposits. The concentra-
t o r picture in the county is almost as grim with the four largest 
b
anka holding approximately 55 per cent of aggregate county deposits. 
State banking is also highly concentrated. Applicant (the second 
Isrgest Wisconsin banking organization) together with the first and 
third largest, controls 29 per cent of aggregate deposits for commer-
c i a
l banks in the State. The unchecked expansion of the largest 

Wisconsin holding companies by acquisition of large market area banks 
can lead to an unhealthy concentration of banking in the hands of a 
few large banking organizations. 
We reiterate here the warnings previously forecast that 
expansion by the large bank holding companies in Visconisn "should 
be subjected to the closest scrutiny under strict public interest 
1/ 
standards." 
We can find no overriding public benefits resulting 
f
rom this proposal which would require the Board's approval notwith-
standing the objectionable anticompetitive consequences; 
The bank-
ing needs of the communties are admittedly being satisfactorily 
served. 
In order to prevent further increases in the concentra-
tion of banking resources in Wisconsin and to preserve - and increase 
competition, we are convinced that the largest banking organizations 
in Wisconsin should be required to enter local markets in the State 
b
y the least anticompetitive means. They should not be allowed to 
enter through acquisition of a large market area bank - as proposed 
here. 
On the basis of the record, it is our judgment that the 
Proposed acquisition would not be in the public interest, and the 
a
PPlication should be denied. 
y 
1970 Federal Reserve Bulletin 83ft. 

3513 
i 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/5/72 
I 
i| I 
PIR^T RAILROAD & BANKING COMPANY OF GEORGIA 
Order Denying Approval for Acquisition of Mortgage Banking Assets 
of Southern Finance Corporation 
First Railroad & Banking Company of Georgia, Augusta, 
G e
orgia, a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank 
molding Company Act has applied for the Board's approval, under 
§ 4
< 0 ( 8 ) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, 
Squire the mortgage banking assets of Southern Finance Corporation, 
Augusta r a 
4 -i/ 
> Georgia. 
Applicant has stated it intends to combine the 
^ t g a g e banking assets of Southern Finance Corporation and the mortgage 
b
a n k m g assets of Applicant's banking subsidiary, Georgia Railroad 
asking and Trust Company, Augusta, Georgia, together with the assets 
another of Applicant's subsidiaries, First of Georgia Mortgage Com-
p 
n
V > Augusta, Georgia a n d , through the latter corporation, to engage in 
o r t
gage banking activities. The proposed mortgage banking activities 
e the solicitation of mortgage customers to purchase mortgage re-
demption . 
insurance and credit accident and health insurance under a 
8
 °
U
P policy which names the lender as the insured. Such activities have 
G e n d e t e r m i
n e d by the Board to be closely related to the business of 
bankine (~\ o CFR 225.4(a)). A bank holding company may acquire a company 
engage . 
an activity determined by the Board to be closely related to 
banking 
Provided that the proposed acquisition is warranted under the 
Relevant- 
u 
c
 Public interest factors specified in § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
b u s
iness 
finance Corporation also engages in real estate brokerage, 
a
P P H e d
 
m a n a 8 e m e n t
»
 
a n
d real estate development, but Applicant has not 
to acquire assets related to such activities. 

35 
-2-
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, 
has been duly published (37 Federal Register 17238). The time for 
filing comments and views has expired and none has been timely received. 
Applicant, a one-bank holding company, controls the Georgia 
Railroad Banking and Trust Company, Augusta, Georgia ("Bank"), the fifth 
largest bank in Georgia with deposits of $165.9 million representing 
2
«0 per cent of the State's commercial banking deposits. (Banking data 
are as of December 31, 1971.) Bank is the largest banking institution 
in the Augusta market^ and, as of June 30, 1970, held 42.0 per cent 
0 f m a
rket deposits. Bank makes construction loans and mortgage loans 
for 1-4 family residences and, as of April 21, 1972, Bank had a mortgage 
servicing volume of $37.1 million, 25 per cent of which it was servicing 
f
°r its own account. During 1971, Applicant organized First of Georgia 
Mortgage Company de novo, but said company is not presently engaged in 
mortgage banking activities. 
Southern Finance Corporation ("Southern") is headquartered 
in Augusta, and operates a branch office in Savannah. Based on the 
total volume of mortgages serviced, Southern ranks as the sixth largest 
amo 
If 
n
8 13 mortgage banking companies operating in the Augusta market 
a n
d as the 274th largest mortgage company in the nation."^ As 
o f
 April 21, 1972, Southern had a servicing volume of $68.5 million. 
jS The Augusta market is approximated by Richmond and Columbia Counties 
in Georgia and Aiken County in South Carolina. 
f 
As of December 31, 1971. 
^ 
As of June 30, 1971. 

3515 
-3-
During 1971, Southern reported mortgage originations of $10.4 million 
°f which $9.7 million were in the Augusta market while Bank's originations 
within the Augusta market were $11.3 million. 
Consummation of the proposal would eliminate existing com-
petition in the Augusta market for the making of construction loans and 
t h e m a
king of mortgage loans for 1-4 family residences, by eliminating 
a n a l
ternative source for such loans. During 1971, Southern originated 
million of 1-4 family residential mortgages in the Augusta market 
representing 9.2 per cent of the market total while Bank's originations 
Counted to $3.1 million or 4.4 per cent of the relevant market. Approval 
o f
 the acquisition, therefore, would eliminate significant competition 
i n
 the market for 1-4 family residential mortgages while increasing 
Applicant's market share from 4.4 per cent to 13.6 per cent. During 
l 9 7
l , Southern originated construction loans of 3.2 million in the Augusta 
m a
rket while Bank originated $8.2 million during the same period. Approval 
°f the application would increase Applicant's share of the construction 
l o a n m a r
k e t in the Augusta area from 9.7 per cent to 13.5 per cent. 
Bank and Southern compete for mortgage servicing business 
i n
 the Augusta market; and, although neither organization presently 
^akes loans on income producing properties, both are considered capable 
so. Consummation of the proposal is likely to eliminate some 
o r a
Petition with respect to mortgage servicing activities, and some 

~ 3516 
-4-
potential competition with respect to income producing properties, 
although not to a significant degree as these types of activities 
appear to have a regional or national market rather than a local market. 
Southern is a closely-held family company with a limited 
capital base. Applicant states that Southern's ability to expand its 
operations is handicapped by such limitation. While it appears that 
Southern's growth potential is limited to some extent, it has experienced 
an impressive growth in the volume of mortgages originated, volume of 
mortgages serviced, and annual net income over the past five years and, 
l n 1 9 7 1
>
 
l t :
 opened a branch office in Savannah. 
Applicant acknowledges that approval of the application would 
e
liminate some competition within the Augusta market. However, as factors 
diminishing the adverse competitive impact, Applicant points to the 
number of competitors within that market and the decline in the combined 
arket shares of Southern and Bank between 1966 and 1971 as large 
r
egional o r 
i 
national mortgage companies have entered the market. Applicant 
e r
 states that approval of the acquisition would be pro-competitive 
since t-K 
e combined mortgage company operation it has proposed would have 
s u f
ficienh ^ 
resources to enter the Atlanta market and to fully develop 
Southern
1 
s recent entrance into the Savannah area. These considerations 
and other 
Possible benefits cited by Applicant provide some support for 
p
 oval but, in the Board's judgment, are outweighed by the prospect 
e]
-lmination of existing competition between the largest banking 
N a t i o n within the Augusta market (based on market deposits) and 
a n
 Independtm* 
K n c
 mortgage company whose mortgage banking operations are 
Principai -i 
^ y conducted in that same market. 

~ 3517 
-5-
I l 
I 
" 
V 
, 
Based upon the foregoikg ank other considerations tefiected 
in the record, the Board has determined that public interest 
benefits that the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) do not 
outweigh possible adverse effects. Accordingly, the acquisition is hereby 
denied. 
5/ 
By order of the Board of Governors," effective December 5, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretarv of the Board 
[SEAL] 
17 Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 
a
nd Daane. 

3518 
Item No. 4 
12/5/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
POPLAR INSURANCE AGENCY, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company and 
Continuation of Insurance Agency Activities 
Poplar Insurance Agency, Inc., Poplar, Montana, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t
 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company 
through acquisition of 93,34 per cent of the voting shares of 
Traders State Bank of Poplar Montana, Poplar, Montana ("Bank"). 
At the same time, Applicant has applied for the Board's 
approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and 
§ 2 2 5
-^(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to continue to engage 
in the activities of a general insurance agency in a community of 
l e s
s than 5,000 persons. 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given 
in 
accordance with §§ 3 and 4 of the Act, and the time for filing 
cottirr.ments and views has expired. The Board has considered the 
applications and all comments received in the light of the factors 
S e t
 forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)), and the con-
siderations specified in § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
Applicant was incorporated early in 1972 and, in April, 
acquired the insurance agency activities that previously had been 
conducted as a proprietorship by Applicant's principal shareholders. 
Applicant also owns a building and some equipment valued at approxi-
C e
i y $35 thousand that It hns stated it will divest itself of 

-2-
3519 
within two years in accordance with § 4(a)(2) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1843(a)(2)). Bank, with deposits of $5.7 million, controls 16.3 per 
cent of commercial bank deposits in the Roosevelt County banking 
market, ranks fourth in size of the five banks in the market, and 
is the only bank in Poplar. (Banking data are as of December 31, 1971.) 
As the principal owners of Applicant presently own 93.34 per cent of 
the shares of Bank, the proposed transaction involves only a change 
from individual to corporate ownership, and if consummated will have 
no adverse effects on existing or potential competition. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
resources and prospects of Applicant and Bank appear to be satis-
factory and consistent with approval. In this regard, the Board 
notes that a substantially equivalent offer to purchase shares has 
keen made to Bank's minority shareholders. Although Applicant will 
assume certain debts incurred when Bank and the insurance agency 
activities were acquired by Applicant's principal shareholders, 
as individuals, the servicing of such debt does not appear to place 
an undue strain on Bank. Considerations related to the convenience 
and needs of the communities involved are also consistent with 
approval. Accordingly, it is the Board's judgment that consummation 
the transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
acquisition of Bank should be approved. 
Applicant operates a general insurance agency from Bank's 
Premises in Poplar, a community of less than 5,000 persons. The 
Board has previously determined by regulation that the conduct of 

-3-
i 
a
 general insurance agency in a community of less than 5,000 persons 
is closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)(iii)(a)) . 
Although Bank, itself, sells credit life and credit accident 
a
"d health insurance, consummation of the present proposal would not 
eliminate any competition between Applicant and Bank for insurance 
sales, because both are under common control. Further, there is 
n o
 evidence in the record indicating that consummation of the proposal 
w
ould result in any undue concentration of resources, unfair competi-
tion, conflicts of interest, unsound banking practices, or other 
Averse effects on the public interest. It does appear that approval 
°f the application will assure the community of Poplar a convenient 
source of insurance agency services. Based upon the foregoing and 
°ther considerations reflected in the record, the Board has determined 
that the public interest factors that the Board is required to consider 
regarding the continuation of Applicant's insurance agency activities 
a r
e favorable and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications to acquire Bank 
aricl
 to continue to engage in insurance agency activities are approved 
f o r
 the reasons summarized above. The acquisition of Bank shall not 
b e
 consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
th 
e
 effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
8o
°d cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
p u r
suant to delegated authority. The determination, as to the insur-
a n c e
 agency activities, is subject to the conditions set forth in 

35,21 
-4-
section 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require 
such modification or termination of the activities of a holding company 
°r any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure com-
pliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's 
regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,"^ effective December 5, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting; 
Governor 
Mitchell. 

3 5 . 2 2 
Item No. 5 
12/5/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CENTURY BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company and 
Continuation of Insurance Agency Activities 
Century Bancshares, Inc., Pardons, Kansas, has applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through acquisition of 
81*96 per cent of the voting shares of The First National Bank of Parsons, 
Parsons, Kansas ("Bank"). 
At the same time, Applicant has applied for the Board's approval, 
under § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and § 225.4(b)(2) of the 
Board's Regulation Y , to continue to engage in the sale of credit life and 
credit accident and health insurance in connection with extensions of credit 
b
V Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in accordance 
wj
-th §§ 3 and 4 of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
e x
Pired and the Board has considered the applications and all comments 
received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 
U
-S.C. 1842(c)), and the considerations specified in § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
Applicant acquired control of 81.96 per cent of the shares of 
Bank without prior approval of the Board on February 25, 1971. At the same 
time, Applicant acquired the insurance business from a former owner of shares 
o f
 Bank. On June 22, 1971, the Board in order to avoid the imposition 
o f
 unnecessary hardships, issued an order which provided that any company 

3523 
-2-
which acquired a bank between December 31, 1970, and that date, without 
securing prior Board approval because the company lacked knowledge of the 
Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970, might file an application to 
retain the bank and thus cure its violation of the Act. In this connection, 
however, the Board provided that the standards to be applied to applications 
t o r e t
a i n shares would be the same as those normally applied to applications 
f°r prior approval. Applicant apparently acted without knowledge of the Act, 
and the application has been considered on that basis. 
Control of Bank, with deposits of $9.4 million as of December 31, 
1 9
7 l , was purchased by Applicant in February, 1971. Since that transaction 
transferred ownership from a one-bank holding company to Applicant which 
has no other subsidiaries, approval of the proposal will have no adverse 
effects on existing or potential competition. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and Bank 
a
Ppear to be consistent with approval. Although Applicant has incurred 
considerable debt in acquiring Bank, it appears that Applicant can adequately 
S e
rvice its debt without placing an undue strain on Bank. The Board notes 
t h
at Applicant has made an offer to acquire shares from minority shareholders 
that i s substantially equivalent to the February 25, 1971 purchase price. 
Prior to acquisition by Applicant, Bank was owned by a series of 
absentee corporate owners. Principals of Applicant reside in Parsons and 
^ u s , ownership of Bank has returned to local control and management. Such 
r e t
u r n may be expected to make Bank more responsive to the convenience and 
U e e d s
 °f the communities involved and lends support for approval. It is 
t h e
 Board's judgment that Applicant's acquisition of Bank is in the public 
l n t
erest and the application should be approved. 

3524 
-3-
Applicant also proposes to continue to engage in certain 
insurance agency activities acquired from a former shareholder of Bank at 
the same time Bank was acquired. The proposed activities are limited to 
the sale of credit life, and credit accident and health insurance in connec-
tion with extensions of credit by Bank. The Board has previously determined 
b
y regulation that such activities are closely related to banking (12 CFR 
225.4(a)(9)). 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consummation 
of the proposal would result in any undue concentration of resources, unfair 
competition, conflicts of interests, unsound banking practices, or other 
adverse effects on the public interest. Credit life and credit accident 
and health insurance is available to the public in connection with borrowing 
transactions and approval of the application will assure that borrowers from 
Bank have an opportunity to purchase such insurance if they so desire. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in the record, 
the Board has determined that the public interest factors the Board is required 
to consider under § 4(c)(8) regarding Applicant's continued sale of such 
insurance are favorable and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications to acquire Bank and 
to continue to engage in certain insurance agency activities are approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The acquisition of Bank shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date 
of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 

-4-
o r
 by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. The Board's determination, as to insurance agency activities, 
is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and 
t o t h
e Board's authority to require such modification or termination of 
the activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board 
finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of 
the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to 
Prevent evasion thereof. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 5, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
B r
i m m e r
l n 8
 
'
t h ± S a c t i o n : 
c h a i r m a n
 Burns and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
Sheehan and *Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

3526 
Item No. 6 
12/5/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST SECURITY CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Security Corporation, Salt Lake City, Utah, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 97.5 per cent of the 
voting shares of First Security Bank of Price, N. A., Price, Utah 
( Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of the application affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired 
a n d 
n
°ne have been timely received. The Board has considered the 
a
Pplication in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
( l 2
 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls four banks with aggregate deposits of 
a b o u t
 $609 million representing approximately 29 per cent of the 
deposits in commercial banks in Utah. 
(All banking data are as of 
December 31, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding company acquisitions 
a n d
 formations approved by the Board through October 31, 1972.) 
Since 
h , 
is a proposed new bank, no existing competition would be 
^Iminated as a result of consummation of the proposal. 
Furthermore, 
it 
a
Ppears unlikely that consummation of the proposal would have an 
a<
*verse effect on potential competition. Applicant is not now repre-
er
*ted 
price banking market <its nearest subsidiary being 58 

3527 
-37-
m i l e s d i s t a n t ) , a n d n o n e o f its b a n k i n g s u b s i d i a r i e s is a b l e to b r a n c h 
into the P r i c e a r e a d u e to the h o m e o f f i c e p r o t e c t i o n p r o v i s i o n s o f 
U t a h b r a n c h i n g l a w . 
O n t h e o t h e r h a n d , e s t a b l i s h m e n t o f a n e w b a n k 
b
y A p p l i c a n t s h o u l d e n h a n c e c o m p e t i t i o n in t h e P r i c e a r e a b y 
i n c r e a s i n g 
the n u m b e r o f a l t e r n a t i v e s o u r c e s o f b a n k i n g s e r v i c e s f r o m t h r e e t o f o u r . 
°n the b a s i s o f t h e f o r e g o i n g a n d the f a c t s o f r e c o r d , the B o a r d 
c o n c l u d e s t h a t c o n s u m m a t i o n o f the t r a n s a c t i o n w o u l d n o t a d v e r s e l y 
a f f e c t c o m p e t i t i o n in any r e l e v a n t a r e a a n d s h o u l d p r o m o t e 
c o m p e t i t i o n 
in the P r i c e a r e a . 
T h e r e f o r e , c o m p e t i t i v e c o n s i d e r a t i o n s a r e c o n -
3
i s t e n t w i t h , a n d l e n d s o m e w e i g h t t o w a r d , a p p r o v a l o f the 
a p p l i c a t i o n . 
T h e f i n a n c i a l a n d m a n a g e r i a l r e s o u r c e s a n d f u t u r e p r o s p e c t s 
o f
 A p p l i c a n t a n d its s u b s i d i a r y b a n k s a r e g e n e r a l l y s a t i s f a c t o r y a n d 
c o n s i s t e n t w i t h a p p r o v a l o f t h e a p p l i c a t i o n . 
B a n k h a s n o 
f i n a n c i a l 
°
r
 o p e r a t i n g h i s t o r y . 
H o w e v e r , its m a n a g e m e n t w o u l d b e p r o v i d e d b y 
A p p l i c a n t , a n d its p r o s p e c t s a p p e a r f a v o r a b l e . 
T h e r e f o r e , b a n k i n g 
factor c o n s i d e r a t i o n s as t h e y r e l a t e to B a n k a r e c o n s i s t e n t w i t h 
a p p r o v a l o f the a p p l i c a t i o n . 
C o n s i d e r a t i o n s r e l a t i n g t o t h e 
c o n v e n i e n c e a n d n e e d s o f t h e c o m m u n i t y to b e s e r v e d l e n d s o m e w e i g h t 
t o
 a p p r o v a l o f t h e a p p l i c a t i o n s i n c e c u s t o m e r s in the a r e a s h o u l d 
b e
n e f i t from an a d d i t i o n a l s o u r c e o f b a n k i n g s e r v i c e s . 
T h e B o a r d 
finds t h a t t h e p r o p o s e d a p p l i c a t i o n is in t h e p u b l i c i n t e r e s t a n d 
s h
<>uld be a p p r o v e d . 

3528 
-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date 
of this Order and (c) Bank shall be open for business not later than 
six months after the date of this Order. Each of the periods described 
i n
 (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective December 5, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
y 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Governor 
Mitchell. 

3529 
Item No. 7 
12/5/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
AMERICAN NATIONAL HOLDING COMPANY 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
American National Holding Company, Kalamazoo, Michigan, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting 
shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by 
m e
tger to The Niles National Bank and Trust Company, Niles, 
Michigan ("Bank"). 
The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no signifi-
cance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting 
shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares 
o f
 the successor organization is treated herein as the proposed 
acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
i 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
a n d
 all comments received in light of the factors set forth in 
5 3
(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls one bank with deposits of approximately 
$i83 million, representing less than 1 per cent of total deposits 
ifc commercial banks in Michigan, and is the eighteenth largest 
banking organization in the State. (All banking data are as of 

3530 
-2-
December 31, 1971.) Upon acquisition of Bank ($2.9 million deposits), 
Applicant's share of State deposits would remain less than 1 per cent, 
a
nd Applicant's ranking among the State's banking organizations would 
remain unchanged. 
Bank, which x-;as organized in 1970 by the management and 
shareholders of Applicant, serves the South Bend banking market 
(approximated by an area encompassed within a ten-mile radius of 
N
iles and including the city of South Bend, Indiana) and, with 
approximately 0.5 per cent of market deposits, is the eighth largest 
nine banks operating therein. 
Bank derives an insignificant portion of its deposits from 
the areas served by any of Applicant's present or proposed banking 
subsidiaries. The closest office of Applicant's present or pro-
Posed subsidiary is the Lawrence branch office of Applicant's 
existing subsidiary bank, located approximately 30 miles north -
n
°rthwest of Bank's sole office. It appears, therefore, that no 
s i
enifi Cant competition between Bank and any of Applicant's present 
proposed subsidiary banks would be eliminated as a result of 
c
°nsummation of Applicant's proposal. Moreover, it appears unlikely 
» 
fc
hat any significant competition would develop between any of Appli-
C a
nt' s present or proposed subsidiaries and Bank in the future due 
t o
 the distances separating the banking offices, the number of 
banks in. the intervening areas, and State laws restricting branching. 

3531 
-3-
Even though Bank may legally branch into the same areas in which 
Applicant's present and one of its proposed subsidiary banks may 
branch, in view of the relatively sparse populations of the areas 
involved, such a prospect appears remote. On the basis of the 
facts of record, the Board concludes that consummation of the 
Proposed acquisition would have no significant adverse effects on 
existing competition, nor would it foreclose the development of 
significant competition. 
The financial condition, managerial resources, and 
Prospects of Applicant are considered satisfactory and consistent 
^ith approval of the application. The same conclusions apply 
w
ith respect to Applicant's present subsidiary particularly in 
v
i e w of Applicant's recent contribution of $2-1/2 million to 
t h e 
e
quity account of that bank. The financial condition, managerial 
resources, and future prospects of Bank appear favorable, Considera-
t
ions relating to banking factors, therefore, are consistent with 
a
Pproval of the application. Although Applicant does not intend 
t o
 introduce any services at Bank not presently available in the 
community, considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
o f
 the communities to be served are consistent with approval of 
^ e application, 
I t 
t h e Board's judgment that consummation of 
th 
6
 Proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
J . L e
 application should be approved. 

On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,^ effective December 5, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
!7~Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Governor 
Mitchell. 

3533 
Item No. 8 
12/5/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ELMER CROSLEY AND SONS INVESTMENT CORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Elmer Crosley and Sons Investment Corporation, Center, Nebraska, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company 
through acquisition of 79.4 per ccnt or r:cre of the voting shares of Center 
State Dank, Center, Nsbjask* ("Dank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3
(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a n
d the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
i n
 light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant was organized for the purpose of owning and operating 
B a
nk which holds deposits of $1 million. 
(All banking data are as of 
June 30, 1972.) 
Since Applicant has no present operations or subsidiaries, 
l t
 appears that consummation of the proposal would not significantly 
affect existing or potential competition, nor have an adverse effect on 
°ther area banks. Competitive considerations are consistent with approval 
o f
 the application. 
The financial condition of Applicant, its management, and 
f u
ture proapects are dependent on those same conditions as they exist 
in Bank. it appears that Applio,nnt would he capable of financing the 
a c
quisition debt in view of Bank's record of earnings. The financial 

- 2 -
3534 
condition of Bank is considered to be generally satisfactory and its 
management capable. Prospects for Applicant and Bank are favorable, 
and banking factors are consistent with approval of the application. 
Bank is the only banking institution in the Town of Center 
which has a population of approximately 100. It appears that the 
Proposed formation would enable Bank to better serve the convenience 
and needs of the community, and considerations relating to that 
aspect of the proposal are consistent with approval of the applica-
tion. it is the Board's judgment that the transaction would be in 
the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
0 r
 by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
Q u
thority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective December 5, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
^ 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
M i t c h * 1
B r i m m e r
>
 
s h f t e h a n
> 
Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Governor 

3 5 3 5 
Item No. 9 
hif 
12/5/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SECURITY NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Security National Corporation, Sioux City, Iowa, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Northwestern State Bank of Orange City, Orange City, Iowa 
("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
wi
-th § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired, and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 
U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls one bank with total deposits of $98.9 
Million, representing 1.3 per cent of total commercial bank deposits 
held by Iowa banks, and is the eighth largest bank holding company and 
hanking organization in the State. 
(All banking data are as of 
J u
ne 30, 1972, and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions 
approved by the Board through November 15, 1972.) The acquisition of 
Bank ($18 million deposits) would increase Applicant's share of Iov/a 
^posits by .2 of one percentage point, and its rank among the State's 

-46-
o ' - o r 
O . l J b 
banking organizations would not change. Consummation of the acquisition 
would not result in a significant increase in the concentration of 
banking resources on either a local or Statewide basis. 
Bank, headquartered in Orange City with its one branch office 
located eight miles southeast of the main office, is the second 
largest of 14 banks in its market area (approximated by Orange City 
and environs) and controls 14.4 per cent of the deposits therein. 
The largest bank in the market holds 15.5 per cent of market deposits 
and three other area banks of comparable size (but smaller than Bank) 
hold 11.7, 10.5 and 9.8 per cent, respectively, of total market deposits. 
The nearest office of Applicant's subsidiary to an office of Bank is 
located 35 miles to the southwest. There is no significant present 
competition between any of these offices and, in view of the distances 
involved and the large 
number of banks located in the intervening 
area, it appears unlikely that consummation of the proposal would 
foreclose the development of significant potential competition. 
In 
addition, Applicant's entry into the area de novo is considered an 
unlikely alternative in view of another application pending before 
S t
ate authorities for the chartering of a new bank in Orange City. 
°n the basis of the foregoing and the facts of record, it appears that 
competitive considerations are consistent with approval of the applica-
tion. 
Considerations relating to banking factors are consistent with 
a
Pproval of the application since the financial conditions and 

-3-
3537 
managerial resources of Applicant, its present subsidiary, and Bank 
are considered to be generally satisfactory and the proepects of each 
appear favorable. Applicant states that it will assist Bank in 
Expanding and improving its banking services, particularly in the areas 
of lending and fiduciary services and financial and investment counseling. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served, therefore, are regarded as consistent with approval of 
the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed trans-
action would be in the public interest and that the application should 
be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended, for good cause by the Board, 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective December 5, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith~~ 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
T7~Voting for this action: Chairman. Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Governor 
Mitchell. 

fFLSfW^/^" 
m
m
; 
„ ,_„ , ^ _ 
_ 
IteiTl NO. 10 
B U A R D 
OF G D V E R N D R S 
12/5/72 
O f G o v ' / - . 
O F 
T
H
E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WfrJ&W 
• 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
v(y i M 
A D D R E S S 
O r n C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 5, 1972 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 25, 1972, the Board 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation, ("CMOBC"), to pur-
chase and hold all the shares of Kam Yuan Choy Mo Limited, ("KYCM"), 
Hong Kong, at a cost of approximately $18,250, provided the shares 
are acquired within one year from the dace of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
shares of KYCM by CMOBC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(1) That CMOBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in KYCM if KYCM at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to chose permis-
sible to a corporation in which a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if KYCM establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Hong Kong or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to CMOBC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CMOBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of KYCM as it may require from time 
•:o time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by KYCM 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if KYCM were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-49-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) 
of Regulation K. 
You have requested consent for KYCM to engage in the busi-
ness of underwriting or dealing in securities. The Board has deter-
mined that such activities are usual in the business of banking in 
Hong Kong. The Board's consent to such activities is conditioned 
upon your Corporation's obtaining the prior consent of the Board for 
the continued holding of shares of KYCM should KYCM acquire stock of 
individual issuers costing in excess of $500,000 or representing 
25 per cent of the voting shares of any company, except in the case 
of underwriting operations covered by firm commitments from subunder-
W i t e r s or other purchasers. With respect to trading in securities 
in which Corporations are prohibited from investing by the provisions 
of the eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, 
the Board's consent is further conditioned on the fact that KYCM will 
acquire such shares only as dealer or underwriter, maintain a size 
and turnover of inventory that is reasonable in relation to demand, 
and dispose, of such shares within a reasonable time. 
T.n this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they 
are to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of 
acquisition, on any Call Report of Condition or similar report: re-
quested by the Board. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of KYCM. 
Hie Board also grants consent for CM03C to continue co hold 
the shares of KYCM after KYCM issues and has outstanding at a given 
time debt obligations with a maturity in excess of one year in s. total 
amount not to exceed 20 times KYCM's paid-in capital or $365,000, 
whichever is the lesser. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the in-
vestment: will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
fs they apply to The Chase Manhattan Bank, National Association, and 
its affiliates. 
Very truly j'ours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 11 
or T H E 
12/5/72 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2055t 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R H E S P O N D E N C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 5, 1972 
First National City Bank 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 25, 1.972, the 
Board of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M , for your bank, ("FNCB") , to 
purchase and hold 47.5 per cent of the shares of La Banqu.e de 
Polynesie, S„A., ("BP"), Papeete, Tahiti, at a total cost of 
approximately $730,000, provided the shares are acquired within one 
year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed holding of the shares 
of BP by FNCB is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if BP shall in any manner engage 
in any activity or take any action whatsoever 
that would not be permissible if BP were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) cf 
the Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
FNCB will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of BP as it may re-
quire from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
UP be reported under Section 211.3(d) of Regu-
lation K in the same manner as if BP were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) cf 
the Federal Reserve Act. 

First National City Bank 
-2" 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
You have requested consent for BP to engage in the business 
of underwriting or dealing in securities. The Board's consent to 
such activities is conditioned upon your bank's obtaining the pricr 
consent of the Board for the continued holding of shares of BP should 
BP acquire stock of individual issuers costing in excess cf $500,000 
or representing 25 per cent of the voting shares of any company, 
except in the case of underwriting operations covered by firm commit-
ments from subunderwriters or other purchasers. With respect to 
trading in securities in which Corporations are prohibited from in-
vesting by the provisions of the eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act, the Board's consent is further condi-
tioned on the fact that BP will acquire such shares only as dealer 
or underwriter, maintain a size and turnover of inventory that is 
reasonable in relation to demand, and dispose of such shares within 
a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they 
are to be reported as a separate class, together with the dace of 
acquisition, on any Call Report of Condition or similar report 
requested by the Board. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that 
the investment, will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to FNCB and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D DP" G O V E R N O R S 
. • ' O V C O V - - 
O
F
T
H
C 
Item No. 12 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
12/5/72 
. /At v .vv'. A' \ ("> • 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
f^LK^f:-' 
December 5, 1972 
First National City Bank 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gent!emen: 
As requested in your letter of July 18. 1972, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Regulation M, for First National City Bank, ("FNCB"), 
New York, New York, to purchase and hold up to 40 per cent of the stock 
of The Wang Lee Chan Bank, Ltd., ("WLCB"), Dhonburi, Thailand, at a 
total cost of approximately $1,600,000, provided the shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Beard's consent to the proposed holding of the shares 
of WLCB by FN03 is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if WLCE shall in any manner engage 
in any activity or take any action whatsoever 
that would not be permissible if WLCB were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
FNCB will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of WLCB as it may re-
quire from time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
WLCB be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if WLCB were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act; and 

First National City Bank 
- 2 -
3543 
(4) That FNCB shall not carry on its books the shares 
of WLCB at a net amount in excess of its propor-
tionate share of the book capital accounts cf WLCB, 
after giving effect to the elimination of all 
known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
°f the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), 
and ( c ) of Regulation K. 
You have requested consent for WLCB to engage in the busi-
ness of underwriting or dealing in securities. The Board has deter-
mined that such activities are usual in the business of banking in 
Thailand. The Board's consent to such activities is conditioned 
upon your bank's obtaining the prior consent of the Board for the 
continued holding of shares of WLCB should WLCB acquire stock of 
individual issuers costing in excess of $500,000 or representing 
25 per cent of the voting shares of any company, except in the case 
of underwriting operations covered by firm commitments from sub-
underwriters or other purchasers. With respect tc trading in secu-
rities in which Corporations are prohibited from investing by the 
provisions of the eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) cf the Federal 
Reserve Act, the Board's consent is further conditioned on the fact 
that WLCB will acquire such shares only as dealer or underwriter, 
maintain a size and turnover of inventory that is reasonable in 
relation to demand, and dispose of such shares within a reasonable 
time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
he reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation IC. However, they 
are to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of 
acquisition, cn any Call Report of Condition or similar report re-
quested by the Board. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment: wili be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to year bank ard its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D G F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m 
N o > 
1 3 
OF THE 
12/5/72 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
C . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O R F L C I A L 
C O R R E B P 0 N D E N C 
T D 
T H E 
U U A R D 
December 6. 1972 
Cnase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
1
 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New iTorlc, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 4, 1972, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("CMOBC") to purchase and 
hold all of the stock of a finance company to be formed in Bermuda ("FC"), 
a
 hank and trust company to be formed in George Town, Cayman Islands ("TC"), 
*-;\
a
ncial
 a n d
 banking holding company to be formed in the Kew Hebrides 
V/;"''
5
 >
 a n
"
 
a
 
finance subsidiary to be uci lized eventually for raising 
^Artjhcrs lands for use abroad ("FS") , at a total cost of approximately 
? -00,000, provided that at least $10,000 is invested in the shares of 
each company within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of FC by CMOBC is granted subject to uhe following conditions: 
(1) That CMOBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in FC if FC at any time fails to re-
strict its activities to those permissible to a cor-
poration in which a corporation organized under Sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with the 
consent or the Board of Governors, purchase and hold 
stonk, or if FC establishes any branch or agency or 
taices any action or undertakes any operation in Bermuda 
or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time would 
not be permissible to CMOBC; 
(2) That, \7hen required, by the Board of Governors, CMOBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FC as it may require from time to 
time; and 
(3) That arr, share acquisitions or dispositions by FC be 
• eported under Section 211.8(d) of P*e?ulation K in the 
same manner as if FC were a corporation organized under 
S c e t icn 25 ( a ) o £ t h e F e d c :>: a I Re. s e r v e Ac t. 
TI 'I S. .'•<*;• •• - . W , 
\ < 
• 
^ 
M ! ' 
; 
M ys^ 

3545 
To: 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2--
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by FC in Bermuda in the cur-
rency of that country. 
The Board's consents to the purchase and holding of the 
shares of TC, IIC, and FS are granted subject to the same conditions 
as sot forth in the preceding two paragraphs, substituting TC, HC, and 
PS, respectively, for FC, and Cayman Islands, New Hebrides and United 
States j respectively, for Bermuda. The suspension does not apply to FS. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of FC, TC, HC, and FS. 
The foregoing consents are given with the understanding that 
the investments in FC, TC and 1IC will be made within the Foreign Credit 
Restraint Guidelines as they apply to The Chase Manhattan Bank, National 
Association;, and that FS will be governed by such Guidelines, in par-
ticular by those provisions which call for the foreign assets of FS 
ininus outstanding amounts of. foreign borrowings by FS of an original 
maturity of three years or more to be consolidated with the foreign 
assets of your Corporation for the purposes of the Guidelines. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

• >> ' 
i r ' l : 
1 Pi 
4- 
' * 
Cf CC'.V 
'-"J 
i 
: r 
11: 
3548 
Pc r Immed i a t e re 12a r, < 
Item No. 14 
12/5/72 
D e c e rab e r 6 , 197 2 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
invited comment on a revised proposal t:o permit bank holding companies 
to lease both real and personal property under substantially the same 
conditions, The proposal was published for comment to be received 
through January 5, 1973. 
If adopted 5 the proposal would supersede the existing 
regulatory provision authorizing bank holding compeniey to engage, in 
Personal property leasing, and would put leaning of both re«l ana per-
e
ona}. property under a 
C O T O S I O H net of roles. Today's proposal takes 
l
-Ue place of a proposal published February 18, 1972, concerned with 
real property leasing only, and it takes account of comment received 
V
y the Board following that proposal. 
In announcing the proposal, the Board said: 
"remitting bank holding companies to ect as agent, broker or 
advj Rer in connection with financial leases, as proposed to be autho-
rised} would not give bank holding companies authority to act es 
^•na-cal agents, or brokers for veal or personal property transactions 
not. oM.o. raise meeting the conditions cet forth in this regulation. 
though certain additional restrictions would,as a technical matter, 
D
e imposed on personal property leasing, they are not intended or 
0>
-pected to have any practical effect on persona? property leasing cf 
holv'ii.v.% cowpntitcs, an presently authorised by the Coard." 

-57-
3547 
The Board proposed that "Leasing real and personal property 
or acting as agent, broker or adviser in leasing such property" be a 
Permissible activity for bank holding companies, provided the following 
conditions are met: 
1.. The lease is to serve as the functional equivalent 
of an extension of credit to the lessee of the 
property; 
2. The property to be leased is acquired specifically 
for the leasing transaction under consideration; 
3. The lease is on a nonoperating -basis; 
At the inception cf the initial lease the effect 
of the transaction (and, with respect to municipal 
corporations only, reasonably anticipated future 
transactions) will yield a return from (1) rentals, 
(2*! estimated tax benefits (investment tax credit 
and tax deferral from accelerated depreciation) and 
(3) in the case of persona? property, but not re?J.^ 
property* the estimated salvage value at the end cf 
the minimum useful life allowed by the Internal 
Revenue Service, that will compensate the lessor 
for not less than the lessor's full investment in ^ 
the property plus the estimated total cost of 
financing the property over the term of the lease; 
5. At the expiration of the lease all interest in the 
property shall be liquidated as soon as practicable 
but in no event later than two years from the 
expiration of the lease, and 
6. The maximum term of the lease, including renewals, 
shall, be no more than 30 years. 
The proposal is one of a series the Board has made concerning 
activities r e g a r d e d as closely related to banking under the 1970 A m e n d -
ments to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, and thus permissible 
activities for l-ank holding companies, subject to Board rpproval in 
individual caues. 
A copy oc the proposal to attached.' 

3 5 4 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Fait 225] 
[Reg. Y] 
Nonbankir.g Activities of Bank Holding Companies 
The Board of Governors has considered the c o u n t s received on 
its proposal (37 Federal Register 4098) to penult hank holding companies, 
under the authority of section 4(c)(8) of the tank Holding C o m p a q Act, to 
engage in real property leasing under certain conditions. Upon further con-
sideration of the regulatory proposal the Board Believes it is desirable to 
have uniformity of regulation with regard to the leasing activities of bank 
holdlag companies. Accordingly, the Board proposes to amend section 
. 
225.4(a) ot Regulation Y to permit bank holding companies, subject to the 
Procedures of section 225.4(b), to engage in the leasing of both real «>d 
Personal property under substantially the same conditions. 
If the proposal is adopted, it would supercede the existing 
r e g m a l ; o r y provision authorising bank holding companies to engage in personal 
/ 
' 
M
I rvp 
Property leasing (12 CFR 225.4(a)(6)) and related interpretation vl.. CI* 
225.123(d)). Permitting bank holding companies to act as agent., broker or 
adviser in connection with financial leases, as proposed to bo authorised, 
«ould not give bank holding companies authority to act as general agents or 
brokers for real or personal property transactions not otherwise meeting the 
conditions set forth in this regulation. Although certain additional re-
strictions would, a& a technical matter, be imposed on personal property 
'easing, they are not intended or expected to. have any practical effect or 

3549 
-2-
personal property leasing operations of bank holding companies, as presently 
authorized by the Board. Furthermore, although the proposal would not per.it 
the recognition o* residual value for real property leased in computation of 
the lessor
1
 is "full pay-out" recovery, it is understood that such property 
b , sold at the expiration of the lease for a price that would produce 
some additional return to the lessor. 
The text of the proposed amendment reads as follows; 
§ 225 . 4 —NodbankjLng J^c tiyJJ^jjas • 
(a) Activities closely related to banking or managing or controliin-
banks. * * * The following activities have been determined by the Board to 
be an closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a 
proper incident thereto: 
•k 
* 
(6) Leasing real and personal property or acting as agent, broker 
or adviser in leasing such property provided: 
(i) the lease is tc serve as the functional equivalent of an 
extension of credit to the lessee of the property;. 
(ii) 
the property to be leased is acquired specifically for 
the leasing transaction under consideration; 
(iii) the lease is on a nonoperating basis; 
( l v > 
at the inception of the initial lease the effect of the 
transaction (and, with respect to municipal corporations only, 

o . - k x ) 
reasonably anticipated future transactions*) will yield a return from 
(1) rentals, <2> estimated tax benefits (investment tax credit and tax 
deferral from accelerated depreciation) and (3) in the case of personal 
property > but not real property, the estimated salvage value at the end 
of the minimum useful life allowed by the Internal Revenue. Service, that 
will compensate the lessor for not less then the lessor's full invest-
ment in the property plus the estimated total cost of financing the 
property over the term of the lease;** 
(v) at the expiration of the lease all interest in the property 
uholl be liquidated as soon as practicable but in no event later than 
two years from the expiration of the lease; and 
(vi) the maximum term of the lease, including renewals, shall 
be no more than 30 years. 
* 
To aid in the. consideration of this matter by the Board, interested 
Persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or argument. Any 
such material should be submitted in writing to the Secretary, Board of 
^
h
T
^
^
^
^
d
T
^
t 
by law some municipal corporations may not 
enter j n t o a 3«ase for a period in excess of one year. Such an xtnpedim,.-
does not p r o h i b i t a company authorized under S 225.4(a) from enter ng into 
a l e a - v?t-h the m u n i c i p a l i t y 
i f the company reasonably ant cxpa.e 
that 
then.uaic£lity will renew the lease annually until such time as the company 
in ^uliy compensated for its investment in the leased property plus its 
costs o. financing the property. Further 
a company authorized un,,t 
Sr 
M - 0
 
T
rav a J so engage in a so-callcd "bridge" .tease rinancing ox PC* 
J i - ^ o U t v . b ^ not r,,l property, .here the lease is short term pending 
completion of" long term financing, by the same or f ^ h e r J^nder 
p r o p ( ? r t y 
** The estimate by the lessor of the total cost of finaiu 
ovev 
t e r a i of the lease shojld reflect., among other tftc.or« 
the tetm 
the modes of financing available to the lessor 
ue cr d 
XHtSr* of the lessor and rr,.vail.(ng rates in tae money ana capital m u , . k t . 

-4-
Govetnore of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. ?0551, tc be 
received not later than January 5, 1973. Such material will be made 
available for inspection and copying upon request except as provided in 
section 261.6(a) of the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of Information. 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, December 5, 1972 
(Signed) Michael A . Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary cf the Board 
^ 
b ; 

Item No. 15 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/5/72 
r 
R.I.H.T, CORPORATION 
Order Denying Request for Reconsideration 
R.I.H.T. Corporation, Providence, Rhode Island, has 
requested reconsideration of the Order of the Board of Governors 
dated May 2, 1972, whereby the Board denied the application of 
^•I.H.T, Corporation for the Board
f
s approval under section 4(c)(8) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act and section 225.4(b)(1) of the 
Board's Regulation Y to participate, through Washington Row Com-
pany, its wholly-owned subsidiary, as a limited partner, in 
Slater Mall Associates, a Rhode Island limited partnership, in 
the development of a parcel of real estate in the urban renewal 
f 
Project known as the "Slater Mall Urban Renewal Area Project, 
R
. I . R-ll" in the city of Pawtucket, Rhode Island. 
The Board has reviewed the request for reconsideration 
which was received on September 29, 1972, and finds that it does 
n
ot present relevant facts that, for good cause shown, were not 
previously presented to the Board. Further Applicant has not 
raised any new considerations that were not previously considered 
b
y the Board. Accordingly, and since it does not otherwise appear 
that reconsideration would be appropriate in the public interest, 
the request for reconsideration is hereby denied. 
By order of the Board of G o v e r n o r s e f f e c t i v e December 5, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
; 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
D a
a n e , Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Governor 
Mitchell. 
