Minutes for 
April 14, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 1/ 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
JMk 
1/ Meeting with Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks. 

A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
• i 
r. 
: 
Banks was held in the Board Room of the Federal Reserve Building 
in Washington, D. C., at 2:45 p.m. on Monday, April 14, 1969. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
• V 
» 
i 
Messrs. Morris, Bopp, Hickman, Heflin, 
Kimbrel, Scanlon, Galusha, Clay, 
Coldwell, and Swan, Presidents of 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 
Philadelphia,.Cleveland, Richmond, 
Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, 
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco, 
respectively 
Messrs. Treiber, Lewis, and Merritt, First 
Vice Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of New York, St. Louis, and 
San Francisco, respectively 
Mr. Farmer, Senior Vice President and 
General Counsel, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond 
Judge Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., Consultant 
1/ Entered at point indicated in minutes. 

4/14/69 
-2-
This meeting was called for the purpose of considering 
recommendations of the Conference of Presidents with respect to 
a proposed policy for unionization and collective bargaining 
within the Federal Reserve System. The Conference of Presidents 
had met prior to this joint meeting. 
Chairman Scanlon stated that the Conference Committee on 
Management and Personnel had reviewed the third draft of a pro-
posed policy statement, prepared by Judge Pierce under date of 
April 3, 1969, and that President Galusha, as Chairman of the 
Committee, had then reported to the Conference this morning, 
following which there was a thorough discussion during which each 
President expressed his opinions. 
Several Presidents felt that 
unionization efforts should be resisted and believed that guide-
lines, if any, should be general in nature and used only for 
internal System purposes. However, the major point of difference 
centered on whether there were advantages to adopting Executive 
Order 10988, with minor modifications, rather than developing a 
separate set of guidelines. 
Chairman Scanlon then turned to President Galusha, who 
said that the Committee on Management and Personnel (Messrs. 
Trelber, Bopp, Lewis, and himself) had met prior to the Conference 
Meeting with Messrs. Swan, Merritt, Pierce, and Sherrill. 
The 

4/14/69 
-3-
group considered whether the Reserve Banks should rely on their 
statutory exemption and resist all unionization efforts or whether 
it would be preferable to develop a uniform policy as a framework 
for dealing with unionization and collective bargaining. The latter 
alternative was unanimously favored; the other approach was believed 
to be untenable. Accordingly, the following alternative possibilities 
were considered by the Committee: 
(1) to stay within the pattern of the Labor 
Management Relations Act of 1947, as 
amended; 
(2) to adopt Executive Order 10988; 
(3) to incorporate Executive Order 10988 
in a policy statement with minor 
technical exceptions appropriate to 
the Federal Reserve System; or 
(4) to adopt an independent policy state-
ment derived principally from the 
Executive Order. 
With one dissent (Mr. Bopp), the latter course was approved. 
The 
question of the form that the final document should take was also 
considered, and with one reservation it was agreed that the document 
should take the form of an order emanating from the Board of Governors 
One member (Mr. Treiber) felt that the Conference of Presidents should 
initiate the action from which Board approval would follow. The 
document prepared by Judge Pierce reflected the views of the Committee 

4/14/69 
-4-
with the one dissent previously noted. However, a change was 
suggested in the composition of the System labor relations panel 
provided in the document, and it was also agreed that there should 
be a preamble. 
The preamble would indicate that although the 
Federal Reserve Banks were not covered by either Executive Order 
10988 or the Labor Management Relations Act, their employees should 
be allowed to belong to a union if they chose. 
The preamble would 
further indicate that in light of the feeling that employees should 
be permitted to organize, if they chose, guidelines were being 
adopted patterned generally after Executive Order 10988. 
Chairman Scanlon said that the Conference of Presidents 
had eventually accepted the report of the Committee on Management 
and Personnel with one member (Mr. Coldwell) abstaining. As to 
the make-up of the labor relations panel, a majority of the Con-
ference felt that Reserve Bank Presidents should not be included 
and that the panel should be composed of two members of the Board 
of Governors and a public member selected by the Board. 
This 
would depend to some extent, perhaps, on what policy the Board 
might adopt vis-a-vis its own employees. 
While the members of the Conference agreed that the prompt 
adoption of guidelines was essential, Chairman Scanlon said, the 
Presidents thought there was good reason to contact their directors 

4/14/69 
-5-
prior to any announcement of the adoption of guidelines. 
Accordingly 
it was planned that the Presidents would transmit the reactions of 
their directors to President Galusha not later than April 25, which 
would permit further joint discussion between the Board of Governors 
and the Presidents to take place on April 29. It was believed that 
if President Swan was in a position to announce to union representa-
tives in San Francisco that a policy would be available around the 
end of April, that would alleviate the pressure being exerted on 
him. 
There followed further reference to President Swan's con-
versations with union representatives, during which discussion he 
stated that thus far he had not given them any specific date by 
which a System policy would be available. He felt that it would 
be most desirable if he could do so, but that the worst thing 
would be to fix a specific date and then not meet it. 
With regard to the composition of the proposed labor rela-
tions panel, Chairman Scanlon noted that President Galusha was 
not in agreement with omitting Reserve Bank Presidents from that 
body. 
President Galusha expressed the view that the inclusion of 
Presidents would provide a valuable experience input. He agreed 
that a President should not participate when there was an issue 

1 2 * > 1 
4/14/69 
-6-
before the panel directly involving his Bank. With that exception, 
however, he could not see that the inclusion of Presidents would 
be different in its connotations from the inclusion of members of 
the Board of Governors. While he would yield to the judgment of 
his peers on this matter, he did feel that the best talent should 
be brought to bear on the kinds of problems that would come before 
the panel, and Reserve Bank Presidents, because of their experience, 
would add a quality to the deliberations that would be useful. 
President Swan expressed the view that the inclusion of 
Presidents on the panel might weaken acceptance of the whole 
formula by labor and by the public. He thought it well, in those 
circumstances, to confine System membership to members of the 
Board of Governors, the body that would have issued the covering 
document. 
Chairman Scanlon said that President Swan had summarized 
the majority view and then asked whether any member of the Con-
ference had changed his thinking. The ensuing discussion did not 
so indicate. However, in the course of it question was raised 
about the anticipated policy with respect to Board employees and 
whether a similar panel was envisaged. Governor Sherrill expressed 
the opinion, in this regard, that it would not be inappropriate for 
Board members to sit on a review panel. It was not important, 
in 

1 2 9 5 
4/14/69 
-7-
his judgment, that the policy document relative to Board employees 
be the same document as that relating to the Reserve Banks, although 
the concepts embodied in each should be compatible. 
Governor Maisel 
noted that the Board would have to decide whether Executive Order 
10988 should be applicable in its own case, and Judge Pierce said 
he wanted to make it clear that he had envisaged his policy docu-
ment as covering only the Federal Reserve Banks. 
At this point President Coldwell explained why he had ab-
stained from voting on the recommendation of the Conference of 
Presidents. He had abstained, he said, rather than to cast a 
negative vote. However, his interpretation of the draft document 
was that it contemplated the development of unionization in all 
of the Federal Reserve Banks, and in his opinion this was some-
thing that should be resisted. He agreed that it would not be 
feasible to attempt to stand on the exemption of the Reserve Banks 
from both the Executive Order and the Labor Management Relations 
Act, but he would like to retain as much flexibility as possible. 
He would hope that any public statement would be minimal, perhaps 
simply that Reserve Bank employees had the right to organize. As 
he saw it, the proposed guidelines would distinctly limit the 
management of the Reserve Banks in handling operations, certainly 
in comparison with procedures to date. He would suggest that 

1 2 9 5 
4/14/69 
-8-
the Board issue an S-letter to the Reserve Banks indicating that, 
while the Federal Reserve Banks were not legally bound by the 
Executive Order, they should abide by the spirit of that order 
in the sense that the right of employees to join a labor organiza-
tion, if they chose, was recognized. 
his Bank that any policy statement should be in the form of broad 
guidelines that each Reserve Bank could use in its discretion. 
However, as discussion among the Banks progressed, it became 
apparent that that approach would not be satisfactory. 
First, 
a Bank actually engaged in negotiating with a union would like 
to be able to cite a System policy and thus resist some pressure. 
Second, a Bank not so engaged might feel that a Bank so engaged 
would make concessions and agreements unacceptable to the first 
Bank. These reasons counseled in favor of a uniform policy. 
There might be some doubt whether the Board's authority with 
respect to compensation and general supervision extended to promul-
gating an order or regulation or prescribing detailed rules. 
On 
the other hand, Reserve Banks would find it advantageous to take 
certain action or refrain from action in consideration of mutual 
interests. 
Therefore, it seemed that any policy statement should 
constitute an agreement among the Reserve Banks from which they 
Mr. Treiber said it had been the initial thinking within 

4/14/69 
-9-
would not deviate, and such a statement could then be approved by 
the Board of Governors in its supervisory capacity. 
President Kimbrel observed that, like Mr. Treiber, he felt 
rather strongly that the proposed course of action would tend to 
erode some of the prerogatives of Reserve Bank directors, whose 
keen interest in the affairs of the Banks was needed. This gave 
him some concern. As he listened to the discussions of the Con-
ference of Presidents, however, he had come to feel that this issue 
had been explored as well as it could, that the Reserve Banks found 
themselves in an untenable position, and that it was necessary to 
be practical. 
At this point Chairman Martin joined the meeting and the 
discussion that had occurred thus far was summarized for his benefit. 
President Bopp then explained the view that he had pre-
sented within the Committee on Management and Personnel. 
It was 
agreed, he thought, that it would be preferable if the Reserve 
Banks could deal with their employees directly rather than through 
a bargaining organization. 
The difference of opinion appeared 
when it came to the appropriate procedure to be followed in the 
event employees chose to organize. It was his view that bargaining 
should be approached in good faith in order to resolve difficult 
problems. He would not, therefore, remove from the area of bar-
gaining issues such as compensation. His second preference would 

1 2 < j 8 
4/14/69 
-10-
have been a minimum of change from Executive Order 10988, but he 
realized that that course might lead the Reserve Banks eventually 
to Civil Service. He had finally concluded that it would be best 
if a unanimous position could be taken by the Conference of Presi-
dents, and he had voted for the Pierce document, as modified, on 
that basis. 
and said that he had tried to arrive at a balanced position. 
If 
nothing were done by the Board or the Reserve Banks, he believed 
the Congress might well remove the current exemption and force 
the System under Executive Order 10988. At least one President 
had suggested going pretty much the route of Taft-Hartley, but 
he (Mr. Pierce) did not think the Reserve Banks were geared up 
for it. There would be many problems that they did not even 
realize. Another President had suggested just adopting Executive 
Order 10988. While that would have some appeal, there were also 
problems in that route, including those involving Civil Service 
and relationships with the rest of the Government. He felt, and 
he believed most of the Presidents now did also, that the best 
alternative was to develop a policy based essentially on the 
Executive Order but modified to meet the particular problems 
of the Reserve Banks. That is what he had tried to do. In his 
Judge Pierce noted that a difficult problem was involved 

4/14/69 
-11-
opinion the proposed document was better than the Executive Order, 
not only from the point of view of the Reserve Banks but also from 
the point of view of the unions. He agreed that it would be 
advisable to include a preamble of the kind that the Conference 
of Presidents had recommended. 
The di scussion then turned again to the question of pro-
cedures from this point forward, particularly the question of 
presentation of the matter by the Presidents to their respective 
Boards of Directors. 
There seemed to be general agreement that 
the directors should not be placed in the position of being asked 
to vote on the proposed policy guidelines. 
Instead, it was be-
lieved that the matter should be presented to the directors in 
terms of informing them and soliciting their comments on any 
specific problems in the Pierce document that may have been over-
looked. 
In the circumstances, it was suggested that it would be 
helpful if the Board of Governors were to discuss the document 
further tomorrow and consider approving it in principle. 
As to the problem with which President Swan was confronted, 
it was agreed that if the Board tomorrow approved the proposed 
guidelines in principle, President Swan would be notified so that 
he might advise the labor representatives that the adoption of a 
System policy could be expected no later than the week beginning 
Hay 4. 

1300 
4/14/69 
-12-
Secretary's Note: 
On April 15 the Board 
of Governors approved the Pierce draft in 
principle, subject to modification along 
lines that had been recommended by the 
Conference of Presidents. 
The Presidents 
were informed by wire of that action on 
the part of the Board. 
It was understood 
that further discussion between the Board 
and the Presidents, if needed, could take 
place on April 29 and that it was contem-
plated that the policy statement would be 
finally adopted not later than the week 
beginning May 4. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
