-67) 
Minutes for September 17, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 1/ 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of tho Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
1J Meeting with the Federal Advisory Council. 

3469 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board 
Room of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D. C. , at 
10:30 a.m. on Tuesday, September 17, 1968. 
PRESENT. Mr, Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr, Daane 
Mr. Ma isel 
Mr. Brimmer " 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Simmen, Still, Mayer, Wilkinson, 
Craft, Kennedy, Fox, Nason, Conn, 
Stewart, and Larkin, Members of the 
Federal Advisory Council from the 
First, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, 
Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, Eleventh, 
and Twelfth Federal Reserve Districts, 
respectively 
Mr. William H. Moore, Chairman, Bankers Trust 
Company, New York, New York 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of the 
Council 
The Council member from the Second District, Mr. George S. 
Moore, was unable to be present at this meeting, and in his absence 
the District was represented by Mr. William H. Moore. 

9/17/68 
-2-
o<\ 
t u 
It was agreed, since Chairman Martin had to leave shortly 
to begin an out-of-town trip, to turn first to topic 2-F on the 
agenda, as follows: 
What are the Council's views regarding the appro-
priate role of one-bank holding companies in the 
U.S. banking structure? 
Does the Council have 
comments on a proper legislative framework for 
the operations of such companies? 
The members of the Council are in favor of expanding 
the financial fields in which commercial banks are allowed 
to operate. 
If such new areas are in the public interest, 
banks should be permitted to engage in them directly, or 
through subsidiaries, or through a holding company. 
The 
majority of the members of the Council do not believe that 
one-bank holding companies should be allowed to become con-
glomerates . 
President Mayer remarked that an earlier draft of the 
Council's statement had indicated that the majority of the members 
did not believe that one-bank holding companies should be allowed 
to engage in nonfinancial activities. 
However, those words had 
been deleted because they were not easily susceptible of definition. 
The Council had also deleted a paragraph that attempted to identify 
elements that would be important in the framing of legislation. 
The Council had concluded that in order to reply adequately to 
that part of the question it would be necessary to review the law 
thoroughly. 
In the absence of such a review, for which there had 
not been sufficient opportunity, any suggestions offered might 
have been wide of the mark. 

9/17/68 
-3-
There was agreement by a majority of the Council, 
President Mayer continued, that one-bank holding companies 
should not be allowed to become conglomerates. 
However, at 
least one member present dissented from that view, as did the 
member from the Second District, who was not present. A number 
of the members had rather strong views on the matter, which the 
Board might be interested to hear. 
Chairman Martin stated that the Board would like to hear 
both the strong and the more moderate views. 
President Mayer then turned to Mr. Simmen, who remarked 
that he had a personal interest in the question because his bank, 
through a plan of reorganization and merger, was about to become 
wholly owned by a one-bank holding company. 
The bank had taken 
this step because, although the 64th or 65th largest bank in the 
U.S., it was confined to the limits of the small State of Rhode 
Island. 
Also, for the past year or so the bank had been in the 
courts because of litigation brought by a service bureau con-
tending that the City of Providence and the bank had no right 
to enter into a contract whereby the bank would operate the 
city's computer. 
The bank had felt for some time that there 
was a need to compartmentalize in order to provide specialized 
services for which it was qualified, rather than just to compete 
with nearby smaller banks for deposits. 
To accomplish that 

9/17/68 
-4-
purpose through a registered bank holding company had seemed out 
of the question not only because of the competitive situation in 
the small State but also because the bank would then be restricted 
from going beyond State lines. 
Mr. Simmen believed it would be well to proceed cautiously 
with respect to legislation, in the absence, of apparent problems 
regarding the several hundred holding companies that already owned 
only one bank. 
If legislation were approached without careful 
study, restrictions might be imposed that would inhibit expansion 
of services through one-bank holding companies in much the same 
way banks were now hampered. 
In the case of his own bank, the 
published proxy statement to stockholders had specified that the 
purpose of the new arrangement was to engage in financially-
related activities. 
The plan had been approved by 85 per cent 
of the stockholders, with objections from less than 1 per cent. 
Moreover, he understood that the Comptroller of the Currency would 
have examining power with respect to any activity of the holding 
company, and thus examiners could determine whether or not unsound 
paper was being thrust upon the bank or whether the holding company 
was engaging in any activity that would impinge on the record of 
the bank. 
Chairman Martin inquired whether Mr. Simmen visualized 
that consideration might be given to engaging in a completely 
nonfinancial activity and whether he would regard that as proper. 

\J*-x < O 
9/17/68 
-5-
Mr. Simmen replied that management had no such plans in 
mind. 
The organization would be capable in the leasing field and 
in rendering computer services to customers. 
As indicated in the 
proxy statement, however, the organization would plan to stay 
within the areas it knew best. 
In response to a question by Governor Robertson, Mr. Simmen 
indicated that at the moment he would not be inclined to oppose a 
limitation that would confine one-bank holding companies to activities 
related to banking and financing. 
President Mayer suggested that it woald seem preferable if 
any such limitations could be specified by the banking agencies. 
If the Congress had to deal with the question, it would be subjected 
to many pressures, with unpredictable results. 
Governor Robertson then read from a list of activities being 
conducted by the several hundred existing one-bank holding companies. 
In response to a question whether the businesses mentioned were con-
ducted by holding companies the organization of which had been 
initiated by a bank, Governor Robertson indicated that the list 
encompassed all holding companies that owned one bank, regardless 
of the manner in which the holding company had come into being. 
Mr. Still commented that his bank--of moderate size--was 
considering the formation of a one-bank holding company, one reason 
being that management viewed the bank as otherwise vulnerable to 
takeover by interests with which it might not care to be associated. 

3474 
9/17/68 
-6-
Governor Robertson recognized the point but observed that 
any limitations, statutory or administrative, presumably would 
have to apply across the board. 
Mr. Kennedy noted that the majority of the Council had 
taken a position in favor of one-bank holding companies, operating 
in banking and related fields. 
The majority would not favor con-
glomerates, engaging in the diversity of operations Governor 
Robertson had cited. Mr. Kennedy felt strongly that banks--and 
their holding companies — should stay within the area of financing; 
troubles had occurred in the past when banks stepped out of that 
area. However, he would be loath to see the problem of definition 
submitted to the Congress because its ramifications were so great 
that inequities might result. 
That was why the Council had been 
probing into whether the Board had authority to issue regulations 
on the subject and whether specific legislation could be avoided. 
The situation was critical at this stage because many banks, 
observing the accelerating trend toward formation of one-bank 
holding companies, were apprehensive of being frozen out if they 
did not take such action now. 
Mr. Conn remarked that although the intent of Congress 
had been well expressed in the 1956 Act with respect to registered 
bank holding companies, there appeared to be a complete hiatus in 

9/17/68 
-7-
the law with respect to one-bank holding companies. 
This per-
mitted a development that the Congress apparently had never 
intended. 
It was unfortunate that, while the activities of 
multi-bank holding companies were limited by statute and by 
the Board, holding companies that owned only one bank could 
engage in the range of operations suggested by the list Governor 
Robertson had read. 
He had no objection to an extension of 
powers within the field of banking, but if banking institutions 
went beyond that: field they ran the risk that some of their 
powers would be given also to other types of institutions, such 
as savings and loan associations. 
If banks were to engage in 
the steel business, for example, they would have little basis 
for urging that no one else should be permitted to engage in 
the banking business. 
If banks spread their operations too far, Mr. Conn 
continued, sooner or later there were bound to be abuses. 
For 
example, if a steel company owned a bank through a holding 
company, it could select the management. 
If the steel company 
then wanted to place some of its paper in the bank, the manage-
ment would scarcely be in a position to refuse. 
He did not 
believe the examination process would be an adequate safeguard; 
a bank could hardly be stronger than its owners, and a bank 
examiner did not have sufficient knowledge to appraise the 

3476 
9/17/68 
-8-
operations of a steel company or a dairy. 
Yet if the steel 
company or dairy went broke, the bank was bound to be affected. 
If abuses occurred and legislation was passed, all banks were 
likely to be hurt. Although bankers might have the respect of 
Congress as bankers, they would not have the same support upon 
moving out to nonbanking fields. 
Many Congressmen would cer-
tainly view any extension of banking powers as contrary to the 
public interest, and he feared that inroads might in fact be 
made on the latitude now available to the banks. 
If the Board 
had regulatory authority in this area, and he.supposed such 
authority must exist somewhere, he believed it would be in the 
public interest, and in the interest of banking, to specify by 
regulation that the powers of one-bank holding companies could 
not exceed those exercised by registered bank holding companies. 
Governor Brimmer said it was his understanding that the 
Board did not have such power; because of the loophole in the 
law, the organizers of a one-bank holding company need not apply 
to the Board for approval. 
For a number of years the Board had 
recommended to the Congress repeatedly that the definition of a 
bank holding company be extended to encompass companies that 
owned only one bank, and thus put them on the same footing as 
companies that were now required to register. 
He inquired 
whether the Council was suggesting that the Board drop that 
campaign. 

9/17/68 
-9-
President Mayer replied that the Council was merely 
expressing concern that if the subject was opened up in the 
Congress many interests would press to restrict banks unduly, 
perhaps to an even smaller area than their present scope of 
operations. 
Governor Sherrill pointed out that if one-bank holding 
companies initiated by banks were limited to financially-related 
activities, nonbank corporations presumably would be precluded 
from owning banks. 
He inquired whether the Council's thinking 
implied acceptance of that principle. 
President Mayer said the Council's thinking had been 
mainly in terms of what the banks were doing. 
The other angle 
had not been given full consideration. 
The Council members 
did not have sufficient knowledge on that, score to have formed 
a judgment, although it was known that there were some hundreds 
°f companies that owned a bank and that fact was intuitively a 
matter of some concern. 
His personal view, President Mayer continued, was that 
the current trend for so many organizations of all types to buy 
up other unrelated enterprises was unwholesome. 
The main purpose 
of many such transactions seemed to be the aggrandizement of 
individuals or corporate interests, rather than promotion of the 
public welfare. 
He could not foresee the ultimate social effect 
of this trend, but he suspected it might not be good. 
It seemed 

3478 
9/17/68 
-10-
evident that no one would want to take over an insurance company, 
for example, unless he hoped to gain access to the company's 
reserves, and banks might also become targets. 
If such a motive 
became apparent, one could appreciate the difficulty of the 
problem that would confront the bank supervisors. 
Mr. Wilkinson associated himself with President Mayer's 
views. 
Mr. Conn, referring to Governor Sherrill's earlier 
inquiry, expressed the view that a distinct difference was 
involved. 
If an insurance company, for example, owned 50 per 
cent of a bank, the bank must continue to operate within the 
normal purview of banking. 
If the insurance company's financial 
condition deteriorated, only its stock ownership in the bank 
would be jeopardized. 
This was to be distinguished from a 
situation where a bank organized a holding company and through 
entered into other businesses concerning which it had no 
real knowledge. 
Mr. Kennedy said he regarded the whole question of bank 
ownership as a serious matter. 
Despite supervisory efforts, a 
bank could easily get loaded with poor paper. 
This was a prob-
lem that went beyond the question of banks being owned by holding 
companies. 
There was danger that any corporation owning a bank 
could load the bank with unsound paper. 

9/17/68 
-11-
Mr. Fox commented that it seemed to him the dangers 
would be just as real in the case, of ownership of a bank by 
a wealthy individual or group of individuals. 
The law at least 
had some safeguards written into it that restricted the ability 
of a bank to finance an affiliated corporation- 
His reasons 
for dissenting from the majority position were similar to those 
Mr. Simmen had mentioned. 
Everyone's views were conditioned 
upon his own experience and particular problems., 
Banks in his 
area suffered under growth restrictions about as severe as those 
in any part of the country. 
Branching was narrowly limited, and 
the registered bank holding company route seemed to be precluded 
for practical purposes. 
Although his bank had no specific plans 
at the moment, the one-bank holding company route appeared to 
offer the only feasible way to participate in a general growth 
Pattern. 
Fears had been expressed regarding the solvency of 
banks if the trend toward one-bank holding companies persisted, 
but in several existing situations of which he had knowledge 
the banks had made excellent progress. 
The problems of which 
he had heard stemmed in large measure not from irresponsible 
corporate ownership but from irresponsible individual or group 
ownership. 
If there were loopholes in the law, he believed it 
would be preferable to amend the law in terms of the type of 
credit a bank could extend to sister companies than to attack 
the whole holding company concept. 

3180 
9/17/68 
-12-
In answer to a question about banks going into unrelated 
businesses, Mr. Fox said he would not want to be restricted. 
The 
bulk of his bank's deposits came from large corporate customers 
whose confidence in the bank was vital, and the bank was not 
likely to jeopardize that confidence by involving itself in 
ventures that might endanger its solvency. 
He saw no reason in 
principle why a one-bank holding company should not be permitted 
to buy a hotel, for example. 
In response to further questions, Mr. Fox said he did not 
see why a bank charter should be refused to a,corporation and 
granted to a group of individuals who could not provide anywhere 
near the same degree of strength. 
If a community need existed, he 
would not refuse a charter simply because it was applied for by a 
corporation. 
As to the responsibility of a bank to allocate 
resources in the public interest, he believed the profit motive 
°f a bank under corporate ownership would lead it to be just as 
responsive in that respect as one that was owned by individuals. 
In summary, he saw no reason to change the rules relative 
to granting bank charters simply because the bank was to be owned 
by a corporation. 
This did not mean, of course, that anyone who 
could afford it should be granted a charter, but the rules followed 
t o date need not be changed simply to exclude corporate ownership. 
Governor Brimmer expressed an interest in hearing the 
Council's view, since the majority believed one bank holding 
companies should be restricted to financial activities, on the 
aPpropriate range of such activities. 

9/17/68 
-13-
President Mayer replied that the Council's thinking had 
been basically in broad terms--that banks should stay in lines 
of business that had some relation to banking. 
No attempt had 
been made to name such lines of business, and in his own mind he 
could not at the moment develop a serviceable definition. 
There followed an exchange of comments regarding the 
question of the authority to determine what activities were 
appropriate within the structure of registered bank holding 
companies, and Governor Maisel recalled that a number of years 
ago, in the Transamerica case, the Board had edopted a very 
narrow view of incidental activities. 
He wondered whether the 
majority of the Council was still thinking in terms of such a 
limited concept. 
Mr. Nason observed that all of the Council 
held the general view that there should be some liberalization 
°f the activities in which banks were permitted to engage, 
either individually or through holding company arrangements. 
Governor Maisel inquired whether the thinking of the majority 
would be broad enough to encompass, for example, insurance 
and instalment finance activities, and several responses were 
In the affirmative. 
Governor Daane inquired whether the Council believed 
that conglomerate holding companies were unsound per se. 
The 
trend of the times was in that direction. 
The question, then, 
was whether the situation would be better or worse if banks were 
left out. 

9/17/68 
-14-
President Mayer said he would not be prepared to classify 
all conglomerates as bad. 
Some had experienced sound growth. 
He 
had an intuitive feeling that some that had grown very rapidly 
might not be sound, but only time would tell. 
Mr. Moore noted that many people were forming conglomerates 
because they were hemmed in from further growth of earning power 
within their own industries, for a variety of reasons. 
Some of 
this pressure was now being felt by the banks, which were not 
growing as rapidly as the rest of the economy and were trying to 
find some way to stay in the parade. 
This was the crux of the 
problem. Although individual members of the Council might view 
the issue in the light of the particular problems of their own 
institutions, all were agreed that some liberalization was needed 
and that it was vital for some way to be found in which the bank-
ing industry could grow in its own or related areas to keep pace 
with the rest of the economy. 
Otherwise the banks would fall 
behind. Like railroading, banking would at some point no longer 
be considered a good business for capital or personnel. 
Mr. Kennedy observed that the Council's statement should 
not be read as condemning conglomerates per se. The focus of 
that statement had been on banks going into unrelated lines of 
business through the formation of one-bank holding companies. 
He did not recall any consideration having been given to the 

9/17/68 
-15-
other side of the question. 
President Mayer agreed, noting that 
the Council was not fully prepared to respond to the question 
involved in ownership of banks by corporations engaged in other 
bu smesses. 
At this point President Mayer remarked that the Council 
member from the Second District, Mr. George Moore, had submitted 
certain comments in writing. 
At the Board's request, President 
Mayer read Mr. Moore's comments, as follows? 
One-bank holding companies have been a part of the 
corporate financial industry for many years. 
They 
have served the public interest by usefully providing 
capital and management for commercial banks. 
We regard 
this as an appropriate role for the one-bank holding 
company, which should continue to contribute to the 
, 
growth and diversification of financial services to the 
public. 
Banks owned by a one-bank holding company are 
now covered by the same supervisory laws as all other 
banks. 
Such supervisory regulation in our opinion is 
ample. 
The fact that a bank has a single corporate 
stockholder rather than a group of individual or insti-
tutional stockholders should not require the introduction 
of a new layer of supervision. 
Our opinion is that: 
1. 
There are no visible abuses. 
2. 
Regulatory agencies have already sufficient powers 
to prevent any abuses from developing and to nip 
them in the bud. 
The Comptroller of the Currency 
is outspoken in saying this. 
3. 
The public wants and deserves and will support 
aggressive constructive competition in financial 
services on a broad front and the congeneric finan-
cial holding company is the best vehicle to do this. 
There are many reasons such as capital-debt ratios, 
which vary from business to business in the financial 
world, which support the theory that it is better to 
do some of these things, such as factoring and leasing, 

3484 
9/17/68 
-16-
via the separate corporate route in a financial 
family affiliated with the bank instead of having 
it all in the bank itself, wholly apart from the 
questions which might be raised as to whether a 
bank may legally perform these functions. 
Mr. Nason remarked that he and the president of his bank's 
parent holding company both felt strongly about two points. 
First, banks should not be owned by conglomerate interests, be-
cause the banks might then be less motivated to serve the public. 
Banks enjoyed certain unique privileges, but they also had certain 
obligations to the community, such as allocating funds, which might 
not be handled responsibly if ownership chose to use the bank's 
resources selfishly. 
Second, it would be grossly unfair to accord 
one-bank holding companies extensive privileges not accorded regis-
tered bank holding companies. 
He would be well satisfied, Mr. Nason 
added, if the definition of what was related to banking was not 
spelled out in the law but was left as a regulatory decision for 
the Board. 
Governor Sherrill inquired whether, since the fundamental 
problem leading to the desire to get outside the confines of bank-
ing was growth of profits, the Council members believed that a 
restriction to financially-related activities, with a definition 
that was not too stringent, would provide sufficient room for 
growth for at least several years to come. 
Replies by several 
Members of the Council were generally affirmative, though Mr. Fox 
responded in the negative. 

9/17/68 
-17-
Mr. Conn commented that the growth of banks had, generally 
speaking, been satisfactory. 
Net operating earnings had been 
increasing, and the industry was in a sound position. 
Banks 
enjoyed special privileges conferred upon them by legislation, 
and they operated on other people's money. 
Yet they were not 
satisfied and wanted to engage in other activities, while at the 
same time arguing that others should not be permitted to engage 
in banking. 
Mr. Fox remarked that if there were a different kind of 
banking structure in his area he might feel l-ess strongly about 
the need for new avenues of expansion. 
In his area there were 
many activities that required funds and the banks were limited 
in achieving deposit growth. 
Governor Robertson said he could remember well the 
events of the 1920's and 1930's that had led to the passage of 
the Glass-Steagall Act. 
Because of the abuses that had occurred, 
the banking fraternity found itself without influence in the 
framing of corrective legislation. 
It seemed to him that many 
of the same mistakes were being repeated in the present period. 
He hoped that the Council would continue to study the question 
of the proper scope of bank activities and offer recommendations 
soon, because he thought that legislation would be forthcoming. 
If abuses occurred before solutions were found, the banking 
industry would not get the kind of legislation it preferred, 
but something much more restrictive. 

9/17/68 
-18-
v> 1 
The other topics were then taken up in the order pre-
sented on the agenda. 
(Chairman Martin had left the meeting 
during the course of the foregoing discussion.) 
1. Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. 
How does the Council appraise the 
general economic outlook for the fall 
and winter, now that the tax increase 
has taken effect? 
Comments would be 
especially helpful on the probable 
extent and duration of the steel inven-
tory adjustment, on indications from 
customer contacts of capital investment 
plans, and on indications of any cut-
backs resulting from reductions in 
Federal Government purchases -or new 
orders. 
The Council anticipates that the rise in business 
activity in the fall and winter months will moderate now 
that the tax increase is in effect. 
The slowing of eco-
nomic activity also will reflect the liquidation of steel 
inventories accumulated during the summer months in 
anticipation of a steel strike. 
The estimates of the 
build-up of steel inventories suggest that the adjust-
ment will last at least through this calendar year. 
Contacts with customers indicate that capital 
investment plans are proceeding on schedule, with some 
step-up in outlays as corporate managements strive to 
offset increasing labor costs. 
The larger investment 
outlays also cover a rise in the cost of plant and equip-
ment. 
The members of the Council reported that they had 
little indication from their customer contacts of cutbacks 
in output resulting from reductions in Federal Government 
new orders or purchases. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether Council members had any 
feeling about the extent to which consumers might be attempting 
to maintain their expenditures by increasing their borrowing and 
by drawing down their savings. 
He was somewhat puzzled by the lack 

9/17/68 
-19-
of response to the surtax in the consumer sector, 
He would 
have thought that by now the figures would have begun to reflect 
some reduction in the rate of expansion of consumer expenditures. 
Mr. Kennedy responded that the Council members were also 
concerned about the level of consumer spending and the delayed 
impact of the tax package. 
The most recent available information 
on retail sales reflected all-time highs. 
Comments by directors 
of his bank indicated some expectation that October or November 
might see a beginning of the dampening of consumer spending that 
had been anticipated in September. 
Governor Daane inquired to what extent Council members 
believed that the strength of the consumer sector reflected wide-
spread inflationary expectations. 
Mr. Kennedy commented that it was hard to judge. 
Con-
sumers felt that prices were going up rather than down, generally 
speaking, and they were aware that serious unemployment or a real 
economic downturn were probably not in the picture; the danger of 
fi seal overkill had been largely dismissed from people's minds. 
However, he doubted that consumer goods were being purchased to 
any large extent simply as a hedge against price rises. 
President 
Mayer suggested that the successful clean-up of the 1968 model 
automobiles may have reflected to some degree expectations of 
substantially higher prices for the 1969 models. 
Another comment 

<r\ / 
9/17/68 
-20-
was to the effect that there had been so many wage and salary 
increases throughout the corporate and public sectors that many 
people were not feeling the pinch of the tax increase as much 
as they otherwise would have. 
B. What is the outlook for the cost 
and availability of mortgage funds 
and for residential construction 
activity in the Council members' 
respective regions? 
The supply of funds for residential construction 
activity and mortgages has improved, and the members of 
the Council expect that this trend will, continue. 
This 
development, together with the generally lower structure 
of interest rates which has characterized the money market, 
has resulted in slightly lower mortgage rates. 
With an 
increase in the availability of mortgage funds, some further 
decline in rates may occur. 
In some States, the relaxation 
' of usury laws has increased the supply of mortgage funds. 
Governor Robertson inquired to what extent, if any, banks 
had been increasing their percentages of real estate loans in the 
'' i • 
past year or so, and Governor Maisel remarked on the recent increase 
of real estate loans in the New York area. 
Mr. Moore commented that with the recent relaxation of 
legally permissible rates in the State, there had been some increase 
in mortgages on single-family dwellings. 
However, apartment pro-
jects appeared to be drying up somewhat because of the prohibitive 
cost of land. 
Governor Maisel asked if the volume of construction 
might represent in part the working out of a backlog, and Mr. Moore 
agreed that it might, because earlier a great deal of mortgage money 
had gone out of the State in search of better rates. 

9/17/68 
-21-
Governor Brimmer, reverting to Governor Robertson's 
question, observed that figures he had reviewed in the spring 
°f this year indicated that real estate loans as a proportion 
°f total assets of commercial banks had receded somewhat from 
the position reached in 1967, which reflected an increase over 
1964-65. 
He inquired about the position of banks with which 
Council members were affiliated. 
Mr. Moore said that real estate loans represented only 
a small percentage of total assets at his bank, as at most of 
the large New York City banks. 
He did not think his bank would 
be increasing that percentage substantially, in view of the 
bank's location and the nature of its business. 
For banks out-
side New York City, real estate loans were a major portfolio 
^-teni, and he believed those banks would be adding to them. 
President Mayer noted that his bank had continued making 
mortgage loans under all conditions. 
The bank operated a lot of 
branches, and the making of mortgages was an important item of 
business 
However, the bank's ratio of real estate loans to 
°ther loans was probably less than it had been four or five 
years ago because of the large increase in total loans. 
In response to an inquiry by Governor Robertson regarding 
the ratio of mortgages held by banks to those held by nonbank 
institutions, response was made that a decline probably had 
occurred. 

3490 
9/17/68 
-22-
The Council expects business loan demand in the fall 
to rise only seasonally. 
A number of the Council reported 
some shifting of short-term financing into the commercial 
paper market. 
There has been little evidence of debt repay-
ment through the issuance of long-term securities. 
However, 
several members of the Council anticipate such a development 
if and when the long-term interest rates decline somewhat 
further. 
Governor Brimmer observed that at one time some banks were 
expressing concern about the competitive aspects of the commercial 
Paper market and were urging the Board to do something. 
He inquired 
how the Council members now viewed that market. 
President Mayer replied that he looked upon it more kindly 
tha n he had some time ago, because he did not know what would have 
been done during the recent period of expansion if the commercial 
Paper market had not been available to meet some of the financing 
demands. 
Mr. Moore expressed the view that,academically speaking, 
the commercial paper market did present a serious competitive 
Problem. 
A great deal of financing was being done through that 
market that banks otherwise would have done. 
It was a serious 
competitor when a bank was looking for loans, even though the 
market was supported and made possible by the banks. 
What, if 
anything, should be done about the problem, he could not say. 
2. A. 
What is the. Council s assessment of the 
probable strength of business loan demand 
in the fall? Have there been any indica-
tions of a further shifting of short-term 
financing into the commercial paper market, 
or of corporate intent to repay debt through 
the issuance of long-term securities? 

3431 
9/17/68 
-23-
Mr. Mayer said he was not so sure that the commercial 
paper market was as fully dependent on the banks as might be 
thought. 
He suspected that buyers could be found for much of 
the commercial paper even if it was not backed by bank credit 
lines. 
Mr. Kennedy agreed with President Mayer's view. 
Some 
commercial paper was being issued without any real backing. 
He 
believed there was some cause for concern on that account. 
But 
the problem came down essentially to the matter of rates and he 
had no suggestions as to what might be done. 
Mr. Nason observed that the commercial paper market had 
been a valuable device during the credit crunch of 1966, and 
that it was a profitable device as far as his bank was concerned. 
c. 
• , 
• • • •,••'>iv-• 
: - .v.• • 
' 
.• 
. 
. . . < • . . . : • 
It provided a way to accommodate next-to-prime, customers with 
ease, while the bank could maintain contact by virtue of its 
supporting lines of credit. 
He did not foresee a period when 
his bank would have difficulty in finding profitable investments 
for its available funds. 
Mr. Fox expressed agreement with Mr. Nason's comments. 
B. 
What are the Council's views regard-
ing the liquidity position of banks? 
Does it believe that banks would wish 
to increase holdings of short-term 
securities substantially if they could 
obtain funds from CD's or other deposit 
sources? 

3492 
9/17/68 
-24-
The members of the Council believe, that most 
bankers in the money centers would like to improve 
their liquidity positions. 
They would like to in-
crease their holdings of short-term securities if they 
could profitably obtain funds of the proper maturities 
from CD's or other deposit sources. 
President Mayer expressed the view that most of the banks 
would be hesitant about increasing their holdings of securities 
unless matched by CD's in approximately the same maturity range. 
£c 
: . 
Governor Sherrill noted that there had been a slight rise 
recently in rates outside New York City for 30-59 day CD's and he 
inquired what factors might have been involved, 
Mr. Moore replied that although money had been somewhat 
easier recently, there had not been any big break in rates. 
They 
had drifted down, and some were likely to back up occasionally, 
but the changes were likely to be temporary. 
The occurrence to 
which Governor Sherrill referred may have had some relationship 
to the approaching tax date. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether the Council was con-
cerned about what might be interpreted as a speculative, position 
in securities at this point. 
Some banks had taken large positions, 
apparently expecting interest rate changes that would provide 
capital gains. 
Mr. Kennedy questioned the use of the word "speculative." 
As a dealer bank, his institution participated in markets. 
For 
a while, buyers were not to be found, and the dealers were caught. 

A 
|T"\1 
9/17/68 
-25-
i 
A number of nondealer banks that had at one. stage withdrawn from 
the municipals market had recently been buying heavily as a port-
folio adjustment move. 
Governor Mitchell agreed that perhaps speculation might 
be too strong a term. 
However, some, institutions were in over-
ci l, 
' ' > ' ' •".• 
extended positions and were heavily dependent on a turn in rates. 
It was natural for an institution to increase its position 
moderately in anticipation of a turnaround in rates, but some of 
the positions appeared immoderate. 
C. 
Does the Council believe that banks 
will significantly increase their 
interest in mortgages and municipal 
bonds, now that interest rates have 
declined somewhat and there is less 
pressure on current positions? 
If the pressure on the current positions of banks 
eases further, the Council believes that banks will in-
crease their holdings of mortgages and municipal bonds. 
Mr. Nason observed that the Board's question covered two 
different kinds of investments. 
Governor Sherrill inquired to 
which of the types banks were likely to give precedence, and several 
members named municipals. 
D. 
What is the Council's view regarding 
current and prospective inflows of 
consumer-type time deposits? 
Has the 
recent tax increase had any noticeable 
effect on such flows? 
It is difficult to determine at this early date 
whether the recent tax increase has had an effect on the 
consumer savings flow. 
Savings are increasing, but at a 
slower rate than a year ago. Most members of the Council 

9/17/68 
-26-
anticipate that the inflows of consumer-type deposits 
may moderate further in the months ahead. 
This will 
reflect the impact of the recent tax increase and the 
rise in social security tax payments that will take 
effect early in the year. 
President Mayer remarked that this question was posed 
at a rather difficult time. Among other things, August always 
tended to be an erratic month, and it was not easy to draw con-
clusions from the data. 
E. 
What are the views of Council members on 
the recent Board action allowing State 
member banks, under specified conditions, 
to own and operate certain kinds of sub-
sidiary corporations and loan production 
offices? 
In general, the members of the Council look with 
favor on the recent Board action allowing State member 
banks under specified conditions to own and operate 
certain kinds of subsidiary corporations and loan pro-
duction offices. 
This reflects not only a more flexible 
approach to bank operations permitting an expansion of 
bank services, but more importantly, the action also 
tends to equate the competitive position of State member 
banks with national banks. 
Governor Sherrill inquired whether any of the Council members 
had misgivings about the establishment of offices to produce loans 
across State lines. 
After comments by several members reflecting uncertainty 
about the impact of the ruling on State laws, Mr. Larkin expressed 
the view that the banking community had not yet really appraised the 
effect of the ruling and therefore it was too early to say what the 
response would be. He doubted that there would be any misuse of the 

3495 
9/17/68 
-27-
decision for the time beings 
In fact, he was not sure what would 
be regarded as constituting an abuse. 
Possibly, to go to an 
extreme, the conduct of nationwide banking through loan production 
offices would be so regarded. 
However, it was impossible now to 
predict the ultimate effect, or to define "proper use," and develop-
ments would have to be awaited. 
President Mayer remarked that a bank presumably would have 
little immediate interest in the ruling if its problem was to 
obtain deposits to make the loans already available to it within 
its own community, and Mr. Conn observed that if a large New York 
City bank, for example, established a loan production office in 
Oklahoma City it would have to generate a lot of loans to make up 
for the balances it would lose. 
Mr. Moore commented that, despite 
such risk, some banks might choose to establish such offices because 
they would rather have, the loans than the deposits. 
Mr„ Fox noted 
that many banks already had "walking loan production offices." 
The 
opportunity now permitted seemed to involve just a question of 
degree. 
Mr. Conn said that within the framework of the interpreta-
tion he could not see that branch banking was involved. 
The estab-
lishment of loan production offices would not appear to be contrary 
to the laws of Oklahoma, except perhaps in the sense of foreign 
banks coming into the State and doing business. 
An arrangement 
whereby an office simply generated loans did not seem very different 
from what was already being done. 

9/17/68 
-28-
3 4 3 6 
3. Balance of payments. 
How does the Council appraise the outlook 
for the. remainder of the year for (1) demands 
for Euro-dollar loans at foreign branches of 
U.S. banks, (2) Euro-dollars advanced by 
branches to home offices, and (3) direct bor-
rowings from foreign banks by U.S. banks 
(i.e., not through foreign branches)? 
The Council anticipates a continued strong demand 
for Euro-dollar loans at foreign branches of U.S. banks. 
There is some evidence, however, that this demand is not 
quite as intensive as it was earlier in the year. 
The 
somewhat lessened pressure on the reserve positions of 
U.S. banks suggests that the volume of Euro-dollars 
advanced by branches to home offices may decline. 
The 
same pattern is likely co characterize direct borrowing 
from foreign banks by U.S. banks. 
Mr. Kennedy said that when the foreign credit restraint 
guidelines were stiffened at the first of the year there had been 
a great demand by many corporations to insure that their foreign 
credit needs would be met. 
Because of this demand most banks that 
operated in the foreign field built up Euro-dollar credits that had 
not been entirely used. 
Now that the credit lines were fairly well 
established for this year, his guess was that there would be some 
further use of them as corporations were required to answer to the 
Department of Commerce toward the end of the ye.ar0 
Governor Robertson asked whether the Council had given any 
consideration to the problem involved in the. move by a number of 
banks to establish "shell" facilities in the Bahamas. 
President 
Mayer replied that the Council had not discussed the question. 
It 

9/17/68 
-29-
was his personal feeling, however, that there was a degree of 
risk in such operations that some banks might not envisage, for 
example, if a period of stringency in the Euro-dollar market 
should occur. 
Governor Maisel referred to the Council's statement and 
inquired whether there was not the possibility that Euro-dollar 
rates might decline faster than CD rates, thus maintaining the 
relative attractiveness of Euro-dollars. 
Mr. Moore commented that although Euro-dollar rates had 
eased slightly they were still relatively high. 
Even though the 
demand for such funds might not be quite so intense, there was 
a great deal of activity in that market, with many people involved 
in borrowing various amounts. 
Mr. Kennedy observed that the question involved not only 
the use. of Euro-dollars but also the supply of them, which depended 
in part upon actions of foreign central banks and the Bank for 
International Settlements. 
Moreover, it must be remembered Euro-
dollars were used extensively by parties in a variety of countries, 
not just the U.S. 
Some U.S. banks had been worried about the supply 
of Euro-dollars drying up and what: they would do if it did, but so 
far they had been able, to get by. 
In the case of his bank, the. 
choice between Euro-dollars and CD's was primarily reliant on 
comparative rates at any given time. 

9/17/68 
-30-
4. Are there any particular suggestions that 
the members of the Council would wish to 
convey to the Board regarding its imple-
mentation of the Truth-in-Lending legis-
lation? 
One key feature of the Truth-in-Lending Act is 
that consumer financing and consumer instalment sales are 
to be treated basically alike. 
This was a feature that 
the banking industry fought hard to achieve. 
In the case 
of term loans, instalment loans, and revolving loans, 
creditors must disclose the annual charge on the same 
basis. 
For a time, it appeared that department stores 
might be permitted to mention only the monthly interest 
rate on revolving credits whereas banks would have to 
specify the simple, annual rate. 
The. Council believes that in carrying out the pro-
posed equal treatment of consumer financing and consumer 
sales industries, the detailed regulation to be. promulgated 
by the Federal Reserve System should aim at as much uni-
formity as possible within any industry and between one 
industry and another. 
There are several leading examples 
of this: 
1. With regard to instalment sales by stores 
of one kind or another, the time-price 
differential is clearly a finance charge, 
comparable to interest rates on instalment; 
loans. 
Therefore, retail stores should not 
be given any competitive edge vis-a-vis banks 
and other lenders in the terms and conditions 
of contracts and advertising of time-price 
sales, as compared to the contract and condi-
tions of advertising pertinent to instalment 
loans made by banks and other lenders. 
2. With regard to the advertising of credit cards, 
the rules should be made, precise to insure 
competitive equality as between banks and other 
issuers of credit cards. 
It is clear that, with 
the possible exception of credit unions, the 
interest rates and other terms offered to bor-
rowers by commercial banks will be more favorable 
than those offered by others--e.g., department 
stores, oil companies, etc. 
The fact that bank 

9/17/68 
-31-
terms are more advantageous to the public 
should not be allowed to be diluted by 
permitting retail stores to advertise in 
a way that conceals this matter. 
There are several other matters pertaining to bank 
credit cards that are worth noting* 
1. 
Since the merchant discount feature does 
not tend to change, prices to consumers, 
there should be no requirement that the 
merchant discount: be included in the re-
quired computation of finance charges made 
to holders of bank credit cards. 
20 
Since, late charges, where applicable, are 
intended to compensate banks for the special 
handling costs and other costs associated 
with late payments, there, should be. no 
requirement that late charges be included 
in the required computation of finance 
charges to holders of bank credit cards. 
Finally, it should be noted that the Truth-in-Lending 
Act authorized the Federal Reserve Board to waive the Federal 
statute in the case of any State which enacts substantially 
similar legislation and enforces it effectively, 
During the 
long period in which the Truth-in-Lending Act was being con-
sidered in the Congress, the general position of the banking 
industry was that it would be preferable to have legislation 
in the field of the disclosure of finance charges enacted by 
the States, partly because the whole area of interest rates, 
usury laws and creditors' remedies were already under State 
regulation and could be adequately handled by the States, and 
partly because it was felt that if the Federal Government got 
into the field of disclosure of finance charges, it would soon 
go beyond that into the field of creditors 
remedies --which in 
fact proved to be the case in the Truth-in-Lending Act, 
Given 
the foregoing background, therefore, we would favor action by 
the Federal Reserve that would facilitate the transfer of 
administration of truth-in-1 ending programs to the States 
under State legislation as quickly as possible, provided only 
that such State administration would not interfere with the 
need for uniform administrative interpretation and hence com-
petitive equality as between banks, other lenders, and retail 
establishments in terms of required contracts, statements of 
finance charges, and advertising of credit terms. 

yj'j X\J 
9/17/68 
-32-
President Mayer remarked that the Council's answer had 
drawn upon a memorandum prepared by the staff of the bank of 
one of the members. 
In general, banks had found that merchants' 
representatives were able to serve their own interests well, at 
the level of State legislatures, frequently to the disadvantage 
of the banks. 
The Council believed it would be unfortunate if 
the same thing were permitted to happen in the case of the Federal 
truth-in-lending regulations. 
The principle of like treatment in 
the Federal statute had been hard won, and the banking industry 
would hate to see it eroded. 
Governor Robertson commented that the drafting of the 
basic truth-in-lending regulation was almost completed, and that 
it was hoped to publish the draft regulation for comment by the 
middle of October. 
He urged that the Council members give careful 
consideration to the draft regulation and let the Board have their 
suggestions, even before the next meeting of the Council if possible. 
The Truth-in-Lending Advisory Committee, on which the banking indus-
try was represented, had met last week, and some revisions were to 
be made in the draft regulation as a result of that meeting. 
He 
did not believe there was any point that the Council had mentioned 
in its answer that had not been covered. 
However, on a matter as 
broad and complex as this, something may have been overlooked. 
It 
was expected that public comments would be allowed until the middle 
of November, after which they would be analyzed by staff and reviewed 

9/17/68 
-33-
by the Advisory Committee. 
Plans called for issuing the regulation 
about January 15, 1969, so as to provide a period of several months 
before its effective date, July 1, 1969. 
The Council could be especially helpful, Governor Robertson 
continued, with respect to the educational program. 
It would be 
necessary to educate lenders and sellers as to what was expected of 
them, and the banks could play a real part. 
There would remain the 
problem of educating the users of credit, and at this point he could 
not say exactly how the program would be carried out. Another probL 
related to the need for uniform enforcement: 
Several agencies would 
be involved, with the Board's own enforcement chore applying only 
to State member banks. 
Governor Robertson concluded by mentioning that the ultimate 
goal was to shift the administration of truth-in-lending from the 
Federal Government to the States. 
The Federal law provided that 
this shift could take place with respect to any State that adopted 
substantially similar requirements. 
However, there would also be 
the question whether the State's enforcement machinery was adequate. 
5. What are the Council's view on monetary and 
credit policy under current circumstances? 
iW.r . , ; 
. • 
, . : 
• 
: f 
C c. i ,-.• - .MGul d 
. 
. 
The Council is aware, of the difficulties of deter-
mining credit policy because of the delayed impact of the 
recently enacted fiscal legislation and the lags involved 
in monetary policy. 
However, because of the apparent 
continued strength in the economy, as evidenced by the 
behavior of most indicators, including retail sales, 
automobile deliveries, and new orders, as well as the 
persistence of the upward pressure on prices, many members 
of the Council believe the recent reduction in the discount 
rate may have been premature. 
It is highly important that 

9/17/68 
-34-
the beneficial effects of fiscal restraint not be lost and 
that the strength of inflationary pressures be lessened. 
If and when additional reserves need to be supplied 
to the system, the Council believes that consideration 
should be given to a small reduction in reserve require-
ments rather than using open market operations. 
In response to Governor Daane3s request for elaboration of 
the last part of the Council's statement, President Mayer said the 
Council thought basically that reserve requirements should come down. 
Mr. Kennedy observed that it seemed only reasonable that changes in 
reserve requirements should not all be in one direction. 
If the 
requirements were increased at times when credit contraction was 
needed — as they had been--they should be lowered if and when the 
situation warranted. 
Governor Robertson said he would assume none of the Council 
members believed that monetary policy should be easing at the present 
time, and responses indicated that the appropriate stance would be 
to mark time. 
Governor Brimmer noted that when reserve requirements were 
changed it was generally expected that the new rates would remain in 
Place for quite some time. 
He wondered whether the Council was sug-
gesting that smaller and more frequent changes should be made. 
Mr. Kennedy responded that no such suggestion was intended. 
Reserve requirements were a blunt policy instrument, and open market 
operations should be used to effect day-to-day adjustments. 
However, 
if a need appeared for expansion of the economy, the opportunity 
should be used to reduce the present requirements, which were too 

O O u J 
9/17/68 
-35-
high. 
That could be done when a reasonably large amount of reserves 
was to be added, and the change in reserve requirements could be 
partially offset by open market operations if necessary. 
Mr. Wilkinson then reverted to the question of the proper 
scope of bank activities and observed that strategically the bank-
ing system was facing a real problem. 
The rise in resources and 
interest rates had permitted the banks to hold their percentage 
earned on assets fairly well, but there was a grinding pressure 
on profit margins because labor costs and money costs were con-
tinually going up. 
Just as Dupont had lessened its dependence 
on rayon by going to nylon, the banking industry had to press 
outward toward new services to buttress the profits available 
from its traditional operations. 
It was this basic issue that 
the banking industry was trying to meet. 
Governor Daane inquired whether Mr. Wilkinson believed 
that the cost of money to the banks would be structurally much 
higher, in response to which Mr. Wilkinson said his guess was that 
the ability of banks to reduce the cost of their raw material 
would become much less flexible. 
The cost of the bulk of their 
time money was not going to be as flexible as one might think, 
and the pressure on profit margins would increase. 
Mr. Kennedy added that banks were trying to serve their 
customers better. 
A revolution was going on in the business world, 

9/17/68 
-36-
and customers were demanding a broader range of services. 
If 
banks could not meet the needs, their customers would go else-
where. 
It would be better if solutions could be found for 
meeting these needs within the existing framework. 
While it was 
true that there was a profit motive in providing new services, 
many of the services banks were now in position to provide were 
needed for economic growth. 
Mr. Wilkinson commented that the greater the degree to 
which banks could move along such lines, the less would be. the 
pressure to go into other businesses. 
Governor Sherrill said he took it that Mr. Wilkinson 
would like to encourage liberalization in interpreting what 
might be thought of as the field of financing. 
He had sympathy 
with that viewpoint. 
But if it was assumed that there should be 
a boundary, and the present one was not proper, the question was 
where the new boundary should be drawn. 
Mr. Wilkinson expressed the view that experimentation 
would be necessary. 
Governor Maisel referred to the restrictions imposed by 
State 
laws, and Mr. Wilkinson said his personal feeling was that 
the Board should exercise its best judgment within the confines 
°f the Federal law. 
That would put pressure on the States to 
modify their laws. 

3505 
9/17/68 
-37-
Mr. Conn commented that there was a limit on how far the 
framework of Federal law could be stretched in interpreting the 
term "incidental poweis" in section 5136 of the Revised Statutes 
At some point it might be necessary to seek liberalizing legis-
lation. 
It was understood that the next meeting of the Federal 
Advisory Council would be held November 18-19, 1968. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
