FR 609 
tRev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
September 24, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes 

/ i ) 8 
Minutes of a meeting of members of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on Thursday, September 24, 1970. 
The meeting was held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Veenstra, Statistical Analyst, Division 
of Data Processing 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Actions taken at this meeting were subject to ratification 
at the next meeting of the Board at which a quorum was present. 

9/24/70 
-2-
The following letters were approved unanimously after 
consideration of background material that had been made available 
to the Board. Copies are attached under the item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to First National City Overseas 
1 
Investment Corporation, New York, New York, 
granting consent to purchase all of the 
outstanding shares and additional newly-
issued shares of Companhia de Turismo, 
Promocoes e Administracao, Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil. 
Letter to Bamerical International Financial 
2 
Corporation, San Francisco, California, 
granting consent to acquire shares of a 
new financing company to be formed in England. 
Letter to The Hamilton Bank, Hamilton Township, 
3 
New Jersey, approving its application for 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The first letter, as approved, included a paragraph emphasiz-
ing limitations on the activities of the foreign subsidiary. 
Call report item. In a memorandum dated September 18, 
. : •• J , . Uii'i Oil oi 
Hi - 
1 U«J' • •
 ;
 z 
• 
; 
' 
• 
1970, Messrs. Veenstra and Sigel recommended that a memorandum item 
', 
- 
•: f„:i I . call 
i 
uoct 
w.i'i 3 tthzv. 
\ • rov d • ." .• • 
be added on the back of the form for the fall call report to gather 
information from State member banks regarding outstanding loans 
sold with recourse, express or implied, to affiliates and to others. 
The item had already been incorporated in the form to be used for 
national banks, looking toward a possible broader change in 
treat-
ment of loans sold. Although the Board's staff would have preferred 

o>-«« 
A'.* • 1 
9/24/70 
-3-
to obtain more comprehensive information, it recommended going along 
with the inclusion of the item. The report form of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation had already been printed without the item, but 
the FDIC staff was considering proposing to its board the use of a slip-
sheet to collect similar information. 
During discussion Mr. Veenstra reported that the staff of the 
FDIC had decided not to recommend that the Corporation call for the 
information. Only a few insured nonmember banks presumably had such 
transactions. 
Governor Robertson suggested that the Board's staff request 
that the staff of the FDIC at least refer the question to its board, 
and report back to him if any reluctance was encountered. 
Governor Sherrill said he felt strongly that if any such infor-
mation was to be obtained at the December call there should be unifor-
mity in the reporting forms used by the several agencies. 
The inclusion of the memorandum item in the form for the State 
member bank fall call report was then approved unanimously. 
(Note: 
Attached as Item No. 4 is a copy of the letter subsequently sent to the 
Federal Reserve Banks concerning the fall call.) 
First New Mexico Bankshare Corporation. The Board authorized 
the issuance of an order and statement reflecting approval, on Septem-
ber 16, 1970, of the application of First New Mexico Bankshare Corpora-
tion, Albuquerque, New Mexico, to become a bank holding company through 

t JL.JL 
9/24/70 
-4-
acquisition of shares of four banks in New Mexico (which would be in 
addition to those of one bank already held). Copies of the documents, 
in the form in which they were issued, are attached under Item No. 5. 
Bank holding company applications. There was preliminary 
discussion of pending applications by Colorado CNB Bankshares, Inc., 
Denver, Colorado; Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas; Security 
Financial Services, Inc., Sheboygan, Wisconsin; and Bank Securities, 
Inc., Alamogordo, New Mexico, for the purpose of giving guidance to 
the staff regarding the drafting of orders and statements that it was 
thought would prove to be appropriate when the Board acted upon the 
applications. 
Export financing. Governor Brimmer referred to recent discus-
sions of the possibility of an inquiry of relatively small scale to 
determine whether or not the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint program 
was having an adverse effect on export financing. He described the 
development and framework of a plan that, in essence, involved request-
ing that the VFCR officers at the Federal Reserve Banks survey banks in 
their districts regarding instances in which export loans allegedly had 
been denied because of the program, with additional inquiries to be 
made of exporters. Two sets of questions had been drafted, upon which 
the Reserve Banks would be asked to comment. He expected letters for 
that purpose to be sent today, and he proposed also that a press 
release be issued in the form reflected in a draft that he distributed. 

^ 7 1 2 
9/24/70 
-5-
The inquiry procedures outlined by Governor Brimmer were noted 
and the press release was approved unanimously in the form attached as 
Item No. 6. 
Balance of payments program. Governor Brimmer indicated that 
he expected to attend a meeting at the Treasury Department next week 
at which discussion of possible modifications of the balance of pay-
ments program would be initiated. He mentioned various alternatives 
that probably would be considered and requested that the Board give 
some guidance as to the stance it wished to take. 
It was understood that the staff would develop documentation 
as a basis for discussion of the question Governor Brimmer had raised. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Of GOV; 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
i *. 
s> 
l
l
i 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CQRRESPCNOENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
9/24/70 
September 24, 1970 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 18, 1970, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to pur-
chase and hold all of the outstanding shares and additional newly-
issued shares of Companhia de Turismo, Promocoes e Administracao 
("CTPA"), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, at a cost of approximately 
$50,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of CTPA by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in CTPA if CTPA at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if CTPA establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Brazil or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of CTPA as it may require from time 
to time; 

2*; 1 4 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
- 2 -
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CTPA be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if CTPA were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That FNCOIC shall not carry on its books the shares of 
CTPA at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of CTPA, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by CTPA in Brazil in 
the currency of that country. 
The foregoing consent should not be construed as approval 
of exercise by CTPA of all of its powers generally described in your 
letter of August 18, 1970. Corporations may be organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act for the limited purpose of 
engaging in "international or foreign banking or other international 
or foreign financial operations". In advance of its undertaking, 
each activity of CTPA should be evaluated in light of subparagraph (1) 
above for its possible effect on permissibility of your continued 
ownership of shares of stock in CTPA and with due regard to the scope 
of activities permissible to you and (under the terms of the Board's 
consent) to CTPA under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of CTPA. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation and First National City Bank and its other subsidiaries, 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

i . 15 
B O A R D • F 
G O V E R N O R S 
.'of COW/. 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
9/24/70 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
September 24, 1970 
Bamerical International 
Financial Corporation, 
Bank of America Plaza, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 5, 1970, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("BIFC") to pur-
chase and hold 90 per cent of the shares of a financing company to 
be formed in England ("FCE") at a cost of approximately $540,000, 
provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of FCE by BIFC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(1) That BIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FCE if FCE at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if FCE establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in the United Kingdom or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to BIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FCE as it may require from time 
to time; and 

2716 
Bamerical International 
Financial Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FCE be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if FCE were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by FCE in the United Kingdom 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of FCE. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association 
and its other subsidiaries, and that due consideration is being given 
to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N • R S 
O? GOvA*. 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
9/24/70 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
September 24, 1970 
Board of Directors, 
The Hamilton Bank, 
Hamilton Township, New Jersey 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of The Hamilton Bank, Hamilton Township, 
New Jersey, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
effective if and when the bank opens for business under appro-
priate State authorization, subject to the numbered conditions 
hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank 
shall have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of 
not less than $750,000, and other capital funds of 
not less than $750,000. 

2718 
Board of Directors 
-2-
The Hamilton Bank 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to Commence 
Business has been issued. A certified copy of such resolution, to-
gether with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition 
numbered 3, should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia. Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment 
for an appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept 
the deposit of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
limited to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies 
to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is 
advised that all of the requirements have been complied with and that 
the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued 
to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate 
of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

271.9 
Item No. 4 
9/24/70 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
ber 1, 1970 
Dear Sir: 
The required supply of copies of the following forms is 
being forwarded to your Bank under separate cover for use of member 
State banks and their affiliates in submitting reports as of the 
1970 fall call date. A copy of each form is attached. 
Form FR 105 (Call No. 197, Revised April 1959), Report of 
Condition of State member banks. 
Form FR 105e (Revised April 19G9), Publisher's Copy of 
Report of Condition of State member banks. 
Form FR 105e-l (Revised April 1969), Publisher's Copy 
of Report of Condition of State member banks for joint 
State and Federal Reserve requirements. 
Form FR 220 (Revised September 1966), Report of Affiliate. 
Form FR 220a (Revised September 1966), Publisher's Copy 
of Report of Affiliate. 
As at all recent spring and fall call dates, this report is 
n
 tho short form which excludes the detailed schedules of loans, 
vestments, and deposits required at the June and December call dates. 
s
pecial unpublished memorandum item has been included on the back 
the condition report form for this call date to collect information 
^ loans sold with recourse. This information will also be collected 
national banks by means of an identical memorandum item. 
'•"of cow 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D O R E S ! 
-ffALRlf?:-
Oct 

Special procedures probably will be adopted to obtain this information 
from nonmember insured banks. 
There is no change in the reporting requirements for Reports 
of Affiliates or in the requirements for publication of such reports. 
Detailed instructions as to information required and as to the cir-
cumstances for waiver of Reports.of Affiliates are printed on the back 
of Form FR 220. 
Special reports of loans to executive officers will be 
required on the same basi3 as for previous calls. No standard form 
has been devised for these reports. 
It will not be necessary to keypunch for the Board's use all 
condition data reported at the fall call date. However, it is planned 
to keypunch and tabulate the special memorandum item on loans sold with 
recourse with selected items from the report. A separate page of 
s u p p l e m e n t a l instructions for reporting loans sold with recourse will 
e forwarded to your Bank at a later date, along with processing instructions 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
/ 
Deputy Secretary. 
^closures. 

UNITED STATES OF 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF 
WASHINGTON, 
Item No. 5 
AMERICA 
9/24/70 
THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
D. C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST NEW MEXICO BANKSHARE CORPORATION, 
Albuquerque, New Mexico, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of First National Bank of Rio 
Arriba, Espanola; The Merchants Bank, 
Gallup; First National Bank in Raton, 
Raton; and Security National Bank of 
Roswell, Roswell, all in New Mexico. 
ORDER AFPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First New Mexico Bankshare 
Corporation, Albuquerque, New Mexico, for the Board's prior approval 
of action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of First 
National Bank of Rio Arriba, Espanola; The Merchants Bank, Gallup; 
First National Bank in Ratop, Raton; and Security National Bank of 
Roswell, Roswell, all in New Mexico. 

-2-
o ^ o o 
t 
C^tJ 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and the New Mexico Commissioner of Banking, and requested 
their views and recommendations. The Comptroller recommended approval 
of the application, and the Commissioner offered no objection to approval. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 22, 1970 (35 Federal Register 11724), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
tion. The time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 24 , 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Brimmer, and Sherrill, 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST NEW MEXICO BANKSHARE CORPORATION 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
First New Mexico Bankshare Corporation, Albuquerque, 
New Mexico ("Applicant"), which presently owns 99.7 per cent of 
Albuquerque National Bank, Albuquerque, New Mexico ("Albuquerque 
Bank"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of 
action to become a registered bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 30 per cent or more of the voting shares of First 
National Bank of Rio Arriba, Espanola ("Rio Arriba Bank"); The 
Merchants Bank, Gallup ("Merchants Bank"); First National Bank in 
Raton, Raton ("Raton Bank"); and Security National Bank of Roswell, 
Roswell, ("Security Bank"), all in New Mexico. 
Views and recoirmendations of supervisory authorities. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
°f receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and 
the New Mexico Commissioner of Banking. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of the application, and the Commissioner offered no objection 
to approval. 

f C^ 
-2" 
Statutory considerations, - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking 
in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a 
proposed acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the 
country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend 
to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint 
of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of 
the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest 
by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. In each case, the Board 
is required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. - The three 
largest of New Mexico's 57 banking organizations control 42 per cent 
of the deposits in the State.-^ Applicant presently owns Albuquerque 
Bank ($205 million deposits), the largest banking organization in the 
State, with 16 per cent of State-wide deposits. Two registered bank 
holding companies now operate in New Mexico; Western Bancorporation, 
y 
Banking data are as of December 31, 1969, and reflect all holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

-3-
a California-based bank holding company, is the second largest banking 
organization, and a Nex7 Mexico-based bank holding company ranks fifth. 
Through acquisition of the four proposed subsidiaries, Applicant's 
share of State deposits would increase to 21 per cent. 
Albuquerque Bank has nine offices and holds 41 per cent of 
the deposits in the Bernalillo County market. Its largest competitor 
controls 32 per cent of market deposits, and the next largest, which, 
is affiliated with Western Bancorporation, controls 17 per cent. 
Rio Arriba Bank ($12 million deposits), which serves Rio 
Arriba County and the northern portion of Santa Fe County, has four 
offices and is the third largest of five banks in its market, with 
12 per cent of market deposits. Its largest competitor holds 48 per 
cent of such deposits, and the second largest, which is affiliated with 
Western Bancorporation, controls 26 per cent. 
Merchants Bank ($17 million deposits) has two offices and 
is slightly the smaller of two banks operating in McKinley County, 
the relevant market. Its competitor is affiliated with Western Bancor-
poration. 
Raton Bank ($15 million deposits), with 47 per cent of market 
deposits, is the largest of three banks competing in Colfax County. 
Its two independent competitors control 34 per cent and 19 per cent 
of market deposits, respectively. 
Security Bank ($22 million deposits) has two offices and is 
the second largest of three banks competing in Chaves County, accounting 

-4-
for 28 
ceht bf airea deposits * The largest bank in the market 
controls 49 per cent of market deposits, while the smallest, which 
is affiliated with Western Bancorporation, controls 23 per cent. 
Because the subject banks are separated by substantial 
distances (07 - 363 miles), and because there are competing banks 
located in the intervening area, there is virtually no competition 
among the present and proposed subsidiaries. All are located in 
different markets. Furthermore, under New Mexico branching laws, 
none of the banks involved in this proposal would be permitted to 
establish branch offices in an area served by any of the others. 
Hence, consummation of this proposal would not eliminate present 
competition nor foreclose significant potential competition. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of this proposal would not result in a monopoly, or be 
in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any part of the United States, and would 
not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to 
create a monopoly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant's financial condition appears satisfactory, its management 
is competent, and its prospects are favorable, 
Albuquerque Bank, Merchants Bank, and Raton Bank are all 
in good financial condition, and have satisfactory management and 
favorable prospects. 

4 f j 
/ 
-5-
The managements of Rio Arribd Bank and Security Bank are 
satisfactory. Applicant has immediate plans for providing needed 
additional capital for each of these banks, which will improve their 
financial condition and enhance their prospects. 
These considerations, as they relate to Applicant and its 
present subsidiary, are consistent with approval of the application; 
as they relate to the proposed subsidiaries, particularly Rio Arriba 
Eank and Security Bank, they provide some weight in support of such 
action. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of the five communities involved are generally being 
adequately served„ However, the four proposed subsidiaries are located 
in underdeveloped areas. Through Albuquerque Bank, Applicant plans 
to make additional funds available to these communities in order to 
attract industry to the areas, and to provide financial counseling 
to small firms now located there. Applicant also plans to improve 
trust services offered in the Espanola, Gallup, and Raton communities, 
and to improve or institute data processing services in each area. 
Accordingly, considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs of the communities involved lend additional weight in 
support of approval of the application. 

O ^ I O n 
-6-
Suirmary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that the 
application should be approved. 
September 24 , 1970 

m
m
m
>
L
-
. 
^ 
t - W 
U 
k
M
, 
k 
i s 
s . t 
H ? 
j 
o
i
- 
s S m S ^ ^ i S ^ s S t e t i H 
Item No. 6 
9/24/70 
For immediate release. 
September 24, 1970. 
The Federal Reserve System will undertake an inquiry within the 
next several weeks to determine the possible impact this year of the 
Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint program '(VFCR) on export financing and 
U.S. exports. The program has been reviewed yearly since its establish-
ment in 1965. 
In making the announcement, Governor Andrew F. Brimmer, the Board 
member charged with administering the program, said commercial banks and 
U.S. exporters will be asked to cooperate in the inquiry which will be con-
ducted through the 12 Federal Reserve Banks. The inquiry will be completed 
before the end of the year. 
Last December, the Board of Governors issued revised VFCR guide-
lines that U.S. banks and other financial institutions were asked to follow 
to limit increases in loans and investments abroad. These guidelines gave 
greater and more explicit recognition to the established priority for ex-
Port financing by establishing a separate ceiling--call ed the Export Term-
Loan Ceiling-- for export credits of one year or longer. This ceiling was 
over and above the General Ceiling that is available for loans of any type 
a
nd of any maturity. 
On September 16, the Board amended an export loan definition in 
the guidelines, thus permitting banks to count export term loans of any 
size against their Export Term-Joan Ceilings. Previously, only such loans 
$250,000 or more could be counted under that ceiling. Loans of less 
t
han $250,000 had to be charged against a bank's General Ceiling. 
-0-
