MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 13, 1971 

916 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, April 13, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
c j 
at 10:00 a.m. 
« 
f! 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
, and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

813 
4/13/71 
-3-
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mr. Labovitz, Consultant 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously a letter 
to First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, 
New York, granting consent to continue to hold shares of Inversiones 
y Adelantos C.A., Caracas, Venezuela, after the latter acquires all 
of the shares of Arrendequipos C.A., Caracas, Venezuela. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
The application of Otto Bremer Foundation, St. Paul, Minnesota, 
to acquire shares of American Bancorporation, Inc., also of St. Paul, 
was approved unanimously, and issuance of an order reflecting this 
decision was authorized. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of First Union, 
Incorporated, St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of The National 
Bank in North Kansas City, North Kansas City, Missouri, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 3. 
First National Bancorporation. Staff documentation regarding 
the application of The First National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, 
Colorado, to acquire shares of The National State Bank of Boulder, 

8 1 3 
4/13/71 
-3-
Boulder, Colorado, included a memorandum of April 7, 1971, in which 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval. Other 
recommendations were also favorable, except that the Department of 
Justice believed the competitive effects would be significantly adverse. 
Discussion of the case having indicated that differences of 
opinion existed among the Board members present, action was deferred 
until additional members could participate. 
Union Commerce Bank. Unanimous approval was given to a letter 
to The Union Commerce Bank, Cleveland, Ohio, approving the establishment 
of three branches in different communities each about 15 miles from 
downtown Cleveland. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
Agricultural credit problems. The Board unanimously approved 
a recommendation by Mr. Holland in a memorandum dated April 2, 1971, 
that President Clay of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City be 
designated Chairman of the System Committee to Study Agricultural 
Credit Problems. 
Holding company hearings. Unanimous approval was given to 
plans described by the Legal Division in a memorandum dated April 12, 
1971, for hearings on April 14 and 16, 1971, on the Board's pending 
proposals to implement section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Bank tax study. The Division of Research and Statistics, in 
a memorandum dated April 9, 1971, referred to the Congressional direc-
tive that the Board study changes in the National Bank Act affecting 

S I S 
4/13/71 
-4-
State and local government taxation of national banks, and that it 
submit a report to the Congress which would include recommendations 
regarding additional Federal legislation, if any, that might be 
needed. The staff had planned the submission in three main parts: 
recommendations, a staff report, and a collection of supporting papers 
by staff and consultants. The staff report was attached to the memo-
randum, and the Division proposed that it be submitted to the Congress 
immediately, with the Board's recommendations to follow shortly and 
the background papers to be delivered in batches as the material was 
put in final form. 
Discussion having brought out that only a relatively short 
additional time would be necessary to formulate the proposed recom-
mendations, a general preference was expressed to withhold transmittal 
of the report until the recommendations could be included in it. Action 
was therefore deferred, and today's discussion was limited to expression 
of tentative views of Board members, for the guidance of the staff, on 
the major issues concerning which recommendations would have to be made. 
Board policy actions. With a memorandum dated April 8, 1971, 
the Office of the Secretary submitted entries proposed for inclusion 
in the record of Board policy actions to be published in the Annual 
Report for 1970. As in other recent years, the term "policy action" 
had been defined to include amendments to the Board's regulations, 
discount rate actions, and amendments to the voluntary foreign credit 
restraint guidelines. 

813 
4/13/71 
-3-
Discussion indicated that the staff had prepared and would 
circulate revisions in three of the policy record entries designed to 
meet questions raised by Governors Maisel and Brimmer. Subject to 
review of those changes by other members of the Board, the entries 
were approved unanimously for inclusion in the Annual Report. 
(Note: 
The three revised entries were subsequently reviewed by the Board 
members without objection.) 
Banking Reform Act. Chairman Burns was scheduled to testify 
later this month before the House Committee on Banking and Currency 
regarding H.R. 5700, cited as the Banking Reform Act of 1971, and on 
the Gonzalez bill (H.R. 3287) to prohibit loans by insured banks to 
purchase bank stock. 
The sections of H.R. 5700 included amendments to existing law 
with respect to various kinds of interlocking relationships, including 
those involved in trust department operations; restrictions and disclo-
sure with respect to loans; brokered deposits; gifts to attract deposits; 
and deposit insurance for public funds. In a memorandum dated April 9, 
1971, the Legal Division summarized the issues involved in the bill and 
suggested positions that might be taken. 
There was a lengthy discussion of the various provisions of 
the bill for the purpose of ascertaining the views of members of the 
Board, for the guidance of the staff in drafting the statement that 
would be presented by Chairman Burns before the Banking and Currency 
Committee. On several of the issues, Board members expressed agreement 

921 
4/13/71 
-6-
with the positions suggested in the April 9 memorandum, and it was 
understood that the statement would be prepared accordingly. On other 
issues there were differences of opinion, and in some instances it 
was suggested that the statement remain silent, leaving the Chairman 
the option of explaining the situation if questions should be raised 
by members of the Committee. A number of issues were admittedly complex, 
and Board members expressed themselves as desirous of obtaining expert 
advice, particularly in terms of the consequences that would ensue, if 
the provisions contained in the bill were enacted, from the standpoint 
of effect on relationships within the financial community, effect on 
the internal operations of banks and their trust departments, and 
proliferation of recordkeeping and related requirements. There was 
agreement with a suggestion that it would be helpful to have the views 
of members of the Federal Advisory Council regarding such aspects of the 
principal issues. 
(Secretary's Note: The available members of the Federal Advi-
sory Council met with the Board on April 20, 1971, to discuss the pro-
posed legislation. A memorandum of the views expressed at that meeting 
has been placed in the Board's files.) 
In connection with the provisions of H.R. 5700 that would extend 
Federal deposit insurance to 100 per cent of deposits by Federal, State, 
and local governments in insured commercial banks and savings and loan 
associations, but permit the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and 
the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation to limit the amount 

813 
4/13/71 
-3-
of such funds that could be accepted by such insured institutions, there 
was a general discussion of the arguments pro and con, as listed in 
the April 9 memorandum, along with the historical background of deposit 
insurance and studies that had been made of pledging requirements. The 
discussion indicated that three members of the Board (Chairman Burns 
and Governors Daane and Sherrill) would be inclined to oppose the pro-
visions of the bill. Governor Robertson agreed that some problems 
would be created, particularly in terms of effect on the market for 
municipal securities and flows of public deposits among banks of various 
sizes, but suggested that the matter deserved further study, while 
Governor Maisel suggested that the Board take no stand on the question, 
which he felt was more clearly a problem for the insuring Governmental 
agencies than the Board. The Chairman requested that the Secretary 
summarize today's discussion for the absent members of the Board and 
ascertain their views. 
GAF matter. Mr. O'Connell referred to a request that had been 
made under the Public Information Act by a firm of attorneys representing 
a group of stockholders of GAF Corporation for a statement (Form G-l) 
that had been filed with the Board by the corporation pursuant to one 
°f the Board's margin regulations (Regulation G). Although management 
°f the company opposed making the report available, Mr. O'Connell found 
no basis in the Public Information Act for refusing the request and 
therefore recommended that the report be made available for inspection. 

813 
4/13/71 
-3-
No objection was indicated to the recommended course of action. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Services of Mr. Chase. In response to a question raised by 
Governor Sherrill, it was agreed that it would be appropriate to 
appoint Samuel B. Chase as a Consultant during the period until he 
assumed his duties as a member of the Board's staff, with the under-
standing that as a Consultant Mr. Chase would be doing work within 
the scope of the Board's interests that would be made available to 
the President's Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation. 
Accordingly, Mr. Chase was appointed as a Consultant, with 
compensation at the rate of $115 per day for each day worked and with 
travel expenses payable in accordance with the Board's travel regula-
tions. The Board also approved any resulting budget overexpenditure. 
Bank of the Commonwealth. Governor Robertson related to the 
Board certain recent developments in regard to the matter of Bank of 
the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, relating principally to arrange-
ments that had been made for the bank to borrow Federal funds from 
another bank, with resultant reduction in the need to borrow from the 
Federal Reserve. 
Boston Reserve Bank. In the light of findings reported as a 
result of the examination of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston as of 
January 4, 1971, the Board discussed criticisms made by the examiners 

924 
4/13/71 
-9-
with respect to (1) supervision of the Currency Verification and 
Destruction Unit, (2) lack of a long-range program for the development 
of officials, and (3) procedural auditing and general supervision of 
the Auditing Department. The Board agreed that a report on actions 
taken with respect to these matters should be requested from the Bank 
anc* approved a letter to the Chairman of the Bank in the form attached 
i«as Item No. 5. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

OfGOvA".. 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
4/13/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
April 13, 1971 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 24, 1971, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") 
to continue to hold the shares of Inversiones y Adelantos C.A. 
("INADECA"), Caracas, Venezuela, after INADECA acquires all of the 
shares of Arrendequipos C.A. ("ACA"), Caracas, Venezuela, at a cost 
°f approximately $192,000, provided the shares are acquired within 
°ne year from the date of this letter. 
The BoardTs consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
°f shares of ACA by INADECA is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in ACA if ACA at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a)" of the Federal Reserve Act couT3~ with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if ACA establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Venezuela or elsewhere, in any manner, which at"the 
time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of ACA as it may require from time to 
time: 

S2G 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by ACA be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if ACA were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That ACA will confine its leasing activities essentially 
to the leasing of equipment under leases under which ACA 
will recover the full costs of acquisition and any other 
expenses expected to be incurred by ACA during the lease, 
and that ACA shall not acquire equipment for leasing 
before the prospective lessee has executed the lease 
agreement. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by ACA in Venezuela 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
°f Association, and By-Laws of ACA. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation, First National City Bank and its 
other subsidiaries, and that due consideration is being given to the 
Priorities contained therein. 
-
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyan 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

Item No. 1 
4/13/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
°TTO BREMER FOUNDATION, 
S t. Paul, Minnesota, 
approval of acquisition of 5.7 per 
cent of the voting shares of American 
^corporation, Inc., St. Paul, 
Minnesota. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK 
STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Otto Bremer Foundation, St. Paul, 
Min 
nfieaota ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for the 
h 
°ard's prior approval of the acquisition of 5.7 per cent of the voting 
sllates of American Bancorporation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota ("Holding 
Coit>pany"). 
This acquisition will be effectuated by the exchange of 
ApPlicarit's remaining stock interest of 7.3 per cent in American 
^ational Bank and Trust Company, St. Paul, Minnesota ("Bank"), which 
is a subsidiary of Holding Company, for stock of Holding Company. 

928 
- 2 -
i 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act* the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
ar*d to the Minnesota Commissioner of Banksand requested their views and 
Recommendations. The Comptroller recommended approval of the 
aPplication. The Commissioner responded that he had no objection to 
aPproval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the Federal 
Agister on February 27, 1971 (36 Federal Register 3854), providing an 
°PP0rtunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with re-
spect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing 
comments and views has expired and all those received have been considered 
by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
^ e proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
Resources and future prospects of Applicant and the banks concerned, and 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such 
c°nsideration. the Board finds that: 
Applicant is the third largest banking organization in Minnesota, 
c°ntrolling 16 banks with a total of $203 million in deposits, representing 
j _ 
y 
° Per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(All 
^ Applicant also controls nine banks in North Dakota with aggregate 
d
ePosits of $94 million and four banks in Wisconsin with aggregate 
eP°sits of $27 million. 

928 
-3-
banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through February 28, 
1971.) 
Holding Company controls two banks in St. Paul, with $179.9 million 
of aggregate deposits, representing about 2.2 per cent of total deposits in 
the State. Holding Company became a bank holding company in April 1970 
a£ter receiving prior approval of the Board to exchange Holding Company 
stock for stock of (a) Bank and (b) Commercial State Bank. Implementation 
o f Holding Company's plan resulted in Applicant's acquiring 4.3 per cent 
o f the voting shares of Holding Company. 
In effect, Applicant's proposal seeks an adjustment from direct 
°^nership of shares of Bank still held by Applicant to indirect ownership 
thereof through Holding Company. After the exchange of Applicant's re-
fining shares in Bank for the shares of Holding Company, Applicant will 
c°ntrol 10 per cent of the stock of Holding Company. The Jacob Schmidt 
Company, a registered bank holding company, controls over 54 per cent of 
ttle stock of Holding Company. On the facts of record, it appears that 
c°^summation of the proposal herein would have no significant effect on 
listing or potential competition and would not adversely affect compe-
^ticm in any relevant area. 
The financial condition, management, and prospects of the 
institutions involved are regarded as consistent with approval. Consid-
erations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
Served a r e a l g o c o n g i s t e n t wi th approval of the application. It is the 

S 3 C 
-4-
Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public 
interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, pro-
vided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time be 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 13, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Maisel, and Sherrillo 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 1 
4/13/71 
UIHTED STATES OF AFRICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C.' 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
FIRST UNION, INCORPORATED, 
' 
St.-Louis, Missouri,- 
1 
for approval of the acquisition of 
1 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
1 
of The National Bank in North Kansas City, 
1 
Horth Kansas City, Missouri. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
!842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Union, Incorporated, 
S t. Louis, Missouri ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding 
c°nipany, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 
SO p e r cent or more of the voting shares of The National Bank in 
Kansas City, North Kansas City, Missouri ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Vritten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 

932 
-2-
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The Comp-
troller recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 25, 1971 (36 Federal Register 3497), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board, 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds 
that: 
Applicant has five subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits 
$753 million, representing 7.4 per cent of the total commercial 
bank deposits in the State, and is the third largest banking 
°rganization and third largest bank holding company in Missouri. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect 
holding company acquisitions and formations approved by the Board 
t o date). Consummation of the proposal herein would increase 

9 3 3 
-3-
Applicarit's share of commercial bank deposits in the State to 
7.6 per cent; Applicant's position in relation to the other banking 
organizations would remain the same. 
Bank, with deposits of $25 million, ranks 20th of the 104 
banks in the Kansas City banking market, and holds .8 per cent of the 
commercial bank deposits in that market. It appears that acquisition 
of Bank by Applicant would not eliminate any existing competition 
between Bank and any of Applicant's present subsidiaries. Applicant's 
subsidiary closest to Bank is located 180 miles from it and, in light 
of the facts of record, notably the distances separating Bank from 
Applicant's present subsidiaries, Missouri's restrictive branching 
laws, and the number of banks in the Kansas City area, it is not 
considered likely that such competition would develop in the future. 
Consummation of the proposed transaction would represent the initial 
entry into the Kansas City market by a St. Louis-based bank holding 
company, and the affiliation of Bank with Applicant may serve to 
improve Bank's competitive capabilities in relation to its larger 
competitors in the Kansas City market. Consequently, it appears 
fchat consummation of the proposed acquisition would not eliminate 
a ny meaningful competition nor foreclose significant potential com-
petition, and would not have any undue adverse effects on other banks 
the area involved. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes • 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely 

934 
-3-
affect competition in any relevant area. The finkhcial and 
managerial resources and future prospects of Applicant* its sub-
sidiaries, and Bank are regarded as consistent with approval of the 
application. The major banking needs of the North Kansas City 
area appear to be adequately served by the present banking institutions. 
Applicant proposes, however, to improve and to expand a number 
of the services offered by Bank which should enable Bank to be a 
more effective competitor in the Kansas City market. Considerations 
relating to the convenience and needs of the area lend some weight 
toward approval. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of 
the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest, and that 
the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period shall be extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 13, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Daane, liaise 1, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 
(Cigned) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
[r,V/ 
Deputy Secretary 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
4/13/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
April 13, 1971 
Board of Directors 
The Union Commerce Bank 
Cleveland, Ohio 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment of three branches by The Uijion Commerce 
Bank, Cleveland, Ohio, at (1) the northeast corner of Dover Center 
and Wolf Roads, Bay Village, Ohio; (2) the northeast corner of 
Miles Avenue and Cranwood Parkway, Warrensville Heights, Ohio; 
and (3) the intersection of Pearl and Bagley Roads, Middleburg 
Heights, Ohio, provided the branches are established within one 
year from the date of this letter. 
The Board urges that careful consideration be given to ... 
all means of strengthening your bank's capital position. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

of cow -. 
j ^Vi-'ti 2 . 
'
l
i
l
t 
^LREf^:-" 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N • R 5 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
93G 
Item No. 5 
4/13/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
April 16, 1971 
Mr. James S. Duesenberry, Chairman 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 02106 
Dear Mr. Duesenberry: 
The Board has reviewed the report of examination of your 
Bank as of January 4, 1971, with some concern. The following items 
were discussed with you, and the first two items were discussed with 
President Morris,by Mr. Lloyd M. Schaeffer. 
1. Currency Verification & Destruction Unit 
supervision. 
2. Long range program of development of of-
ficials. 
3. Procedural auditing and general supervision 
of the Auditing Department. 
We would appreciate it if you could let us know what actions 
the Bank is taking with regard to those items listed above. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary 
