Minutes for 
March 17, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary-
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutess it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Ma isel 
Governor Brimmer 
"C-> 
I /y\ 

10 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, March 17, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Gramley, 
Eckert, Bernard, Ettin, Fry, Keir, and Kelty 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Irvine, Katz, Reynolds, 
Bryant, Emery, Gemmill, and Ruckdeschel of 
the Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Bernard reported on the Government 
securities and capital markets, Mr. Fry commented on the perspective 
on bank reserve utilization, and Mr. Ruckdeschel concluded with a 
report on foreign exchange market developments and related matters. 
Copies of the various tables distributed in connection with the fore-
going presentations have been placed in the Board's files. 
1/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

1042 
3/17/67 
-2-
After the review, Chairman Martin withdrew from the meeting. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, Bakke, Brill, 
Molony, Sammons, Irvine, and Emery, and Miss Eaton also withdrew at this 
point and Messrs. Hackley, General Counsel, and Egertson, Assistant 
Director of the Division of Examinations, entered the room. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on March 13, by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco on March 14, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
New York, Philadelphia, and Atlanta on March 16, 1967, of the rates on 
discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved unani-
mously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent 
to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following items, copies of which are 
attached to these minutes under the respective numbers indicated, were 
•£PProved unanimously after consideration of background material that 
had been made available to the Board: 
Item No. 
Letter to Marine Midland Trust Company of 
1 
Northern New York, Watertown, New York, 
approving the establishment of a branch 
the Town of Canton, St. Lawrence County. 
^etter to Bankers Trust Company, New York, 
2 
New York, granting an extension of time to 
®stablish a branch at 23rd Street and Third 
^venue. 

1043 
3/17/67 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
3 
Minneapolis authorizing it to waive the 
assessment of penalties incurred by 
Northwestern National Bank, St. Paul, 
Minnesota, because of deficiencies in 
its required reserves. 
Letter to Stock Grower's Bank of Wheatland, 
4 
Wheatland, Wyoming, granting an extension of 
time to effect withdrawal from membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
acquisition of certain assets and assumption of certain liabilities of 
The National Bank of Malvern, Malvern, Pennsylvania, by Industrial Valley 
^ank and Trust Company, Jenkintown, Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously 
transmittal to the Corporation, the conclusion being stated as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition of 58.733 
per cent of assets and assumption of 58.733 per cent of 
liabilities, and the conversion of the Paoli branch of 
The Na tional Bank of Malvern into a branch of Industrial 
Valley Bank and Trust Company, Jenkintown, would not have 
significantly adverse competitive effects. 
Gold loan to the Philippines. Mr. Irvine reported that the Board 
Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York had authorized, sub-
let to the approval of the Board of Governors, a 90-day gold collateral 
° a n °f $25 million to the Central Bank of the Philippines. It was 
^derstood that the Philippines contemplated drawing $10 million against 
t*K 
e loan before the end of this month and the remainder in April. He 

1044 
3/17/67 
-4-
noted that the request reflected a contraseasona1 loss of reserves that 
country had experienced during the past two months. An added factor 
that argued in favor of approval was the fact that in December 1966, when 
the Philippines sought informally to negotiate a similar accommodation, 
the Treasury Department had expressed reservations, on the basis of which 
the New York Reserve Bank dissuaded the Philippines from filing an appli-
cation. Thus, denial of the pending request might create rather delicate 
Problems. Mr. Irvine also mentioned that under the terms of a recent 
standby agreement with the International Monetary Fund, the Government 
°f the Philippines was obliged to consult with the Fund whenever its 
^serves fell below a certain figure. That had occurred in February, 
and the possibility of some capital flight from the Philippines was 
indicated. 
Following advice of the request to the National Advisory Council 
° n internationa1 Monetary and Financial Policies, the Treasury Department 
had registered objection on the grounds that the loan would be outstand-
ing over the end of a quarter and therefore would adversely affect the 
garterly balance of payments statistics. The Treasury Department had 
ndicated, however, that no objection would be interposed to a loan 
P °Posal contemplating a term of less than 90 days with initial drawing 
the end of the first quarter and repayment before the end of the 
*t quarter. The Philippines reportedly would be willing to defer all 
awings until April if requested. 

1045 
3/17/67 
-5-
Governor Brimmer stated that he recognized the traditions 
associated with the System's approach to gold loan requests and also 
the diplomatic considerations involved. On the other hand, he felt 
the Treasury Department's reservations in terms of over-all balance 
°f payments implications should be given weight. On balance, he was 
inclined to the view that an 80-day loan commencing in April would be 
an appropriate compromise. 
Governor Maisel observed that the Treasury Department's reserva-
tions concerning the loan proposal apparently were based upon statistical 
considerations, which he felt to be an inadequate basis for putting 
Pressure on a foreign central bank and altering usual gold loan practices. 
The transaction would not have any real impact upon the balance of pay-
ments; the whole object of deferring the loan until the second quarter 
w°uld be to window-dress balance of payments figures because of the 
attention given to those data. 
Governor Brimmer replied that the basic issue was not one of 
statistical manipulation. Rather, it was a matter of recognizing the 
unction assigned to the National Advisory Council of determining that 
*ndividuai transactions would not run counter to over-all policies for 
cIq 
ealing with international financial problems. The program of the 
Qg L • 
l n et Committee on the Balance of Payments contemplated that consider-
ation 
^ would be given to within-the-year as well as annual factors. 

1046 
3/17/67 
-6-
Governor Maisel said he continued to feel that the Treasury-
Department's reservations reflected an improper approach to statistical 
reporting. 
Governor Shepardson indicated that he was inclined to share 
Governor Maisel's point of view. 
The loan in question would have no 
substantive impact on the balance of payments, and in any event the loan 
and its repayment would balance out from quarter to quarter. 
Governor Brimmer noted that the matter of statistical procedures 
ar*d reporting was within the purview of the Bureau of the Budget, and 
that any general reservations with respect to the compilation of such 
data should appropriately be made known to that Bureau. Meanwhile, the 
Treasury's interest in the presentation of balance of payments data 
should be recognized. 
In his opinion, if the National Advisory Council 
reviewed the Philippine gold loan request at a meeting, the Treasury 
Apartment's position should prevail. He would personally have to 
exPress a view in favor of the 80-day proposition as an appropriate 
s°lution. 
In further discussion Governor Brimmer brought out that the 
°ard as such was not represented on the National Advisory Council. 
The 
^airman of the Board was a member, and he (Governor Brimmer) was serv-
iu 
^ a s the Chairman's alternate. 
Governor Robertson commented that nevertheless the gold loan 
^ ^ CI 
had been brought before the Board to obtain the benefit of the 

104' 
3/17/67 
-7-
Board's views in deciding what approach to follow in dealing with the 
matter. It seemed to him that on the basis of today's discussion the 
appropriate next step would be to discuss the matter further with the 
Treasury in order to convey the Board's reservations about the Treasury 
Position on the loan and make known that the Treasury must accept 
responsibility if it wished to pursue that position. 
Mr. Irvine mentioned that discussions with Treasury staff had 
n o t reached the level of the Assistant Secretary for International 
Affairs, and Governor Robertson expressed the view that it would be 
aPpropriate to take the matter up with that official in order that he 
mi-ght have a full understanding. 
Governor Brimmer said that he would be glad to undertake such 
a discussion in his capacity as a Board member, although he would not 
Want to have his role in such negotiations (that is, in presenting the 
views of the Board) confused with his role as alternate to Chairman 
^artin on the National Advisory Council. 
Accordingly, it was understood that further discussion of the 
l°an request with the Treasury would be undertaken. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: 
Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
th 
better to the Fiscal Assistant Secretary of the Treasury advising 
Messrs. Farrell and Kiley, Director and Assistant Director of the 
g
 Vlsi-°n of Bank Operations, respectively, would represent the Board at 
B g C u n f e r e n c e of fiscal agency representatives of the Federal Reserve 
aric^ 
Treasury to be held in Kansas City, Missouri, May 24-26, 

1048 
3/17/67 
8 
Memorandum from the Division of Administrative Services dated 
March 13, 1967, recommending the retention of Ruth A. Brown as a 
Teletype Operator on a contractual basis with compensation at the 
rate of $2.63 per hour worked. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Henri A. Richardson as Applications Analyst, Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $15,106, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Glenda Ann Beatty as Statistical Clerk, Division of Bank Operations, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,557, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Helen C. Droitsch, Clerk-Typist, Office of the Secretary, effec-
tive the close of business March 17, 1967. 

1049 
B O A R D 
O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
3/17/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 17, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Marine Midland Trust Company of 
Northern New York, 
Watertown, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment. by Marine Midland Trust 
Company of Northern New York, Watertown, New York, of a 
branch in the University Mall Shopping Center in the 
vicinity of the intersection of U. S. Highway 11 and 
State Route 68, Town of Canton (unincorporated area), 
St. Lawrence County, New York, provided the branch is 
established within 18 months from the date of this letter. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant. Secretary. 

1050 
'f' 
/ - • 
<o , 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
3/17/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 17, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Bankers Trust Company, 
New York, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to December 26, 1967, the time within 
which Bankers Trust Company, New York, New York, may 
establish a branch at the intersection of 23rd Street 
and Third Avenue, New York, New York. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1051 
OVGOW.'. 
f^LRES^.* 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/17/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C . 2035T 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 17, 1967 
Mr. M. H. Strothman, Jr. , 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
Dear Mr. Strothman: 
This refers to your letter of March 8 regarding 
penalties totaling $928.64 incurred by the Northwestern National 
Bank, St. Paul, Minnesota, on deficiencies in its required 
reserves for six of the weekly reserve computation periods from 
November 3, 1966, through January 4, 1967. 
It is noted that these deficiencies were discovered in 
your Bank's comparison of the December 31, 1966, Report of 
Condition of the member bank and the Report of Net Deposits,that 
the deficiencie.s resulted from the Inclusion from time to time 
°f the member bank's holdings of short-maturity certificates of 
deposit with the amount of its demand balances due from banks, 
that your Bank is satisfied the mistakes were inadvertent, and 
that the member bank has had a good record of maintaining its 
required reserves. 
In the circumstances, the Board authorizes your Bank to 
waive assessment of penalties totaling $928.64 for the six reserve 
computation periods as itemized in the attachment to your letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

. • V, of CO 17-
Hill 
' • RES^ 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
1052 
Item No. 4 
3/17/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 17, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Stock Grower's Bank of 
Whea tland, 
Wheatland, Wyoming. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to May 18, 1967, the time within which 
Stock Grower's Bank of Wheatland, Wheatland, Wyoming, 
may withdraw from membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
