MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 22, 1969 

0 0 / ) A 
A v J u U 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, September 22, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Miss Eaton and Mr. Grajcar of the Office of 
the Secretary 
.u 
4 i 
Messrs. Axilrod, Gramley, Williams, Wernick, 
Eckert, Keir, Ettin, Fry, Kelty, Kichline, 
Struble, and Wendel of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Ghiardi, Hersey, Norwood, Bradshaw, Gekker, 
and Stem of the Division of International 
Finance 
Money market review. The staff presented the usual weekly 
review, consisting today of reports by Messrs. Wendel, Fry, and Stem 
0r* the Government securities market, bank credit, and the foreign exchange 
Markets, respectively. Copies of the relevant documentation have been 
Placed in the Board's files. 
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions other than Messrs. Axilrod and Norwood withdrew, as 
Mr. Morgan and Miss Eaton, and the following entered: 

I 
32931 
9/22/69 
-2-
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel Administration 
Mr. Via, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on 
September 18, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Foreign banking items. After consideration of pertinent infor-
mation that had been distributed to the Board, unanimous approval was 
given to the following letters, copies of which are attached to these 
minutes under the item numbers indicated: 
Item No. 
Letter to Wells Fargo Bank International 
1 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
its request for permission to be considered 
a s not "engaged in banking" for purposes 
of Regulation K. 
Letter to Continental International Finance 
2 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, granting 
consent to the acquisition of shares of 
Bankgeschaft Eduard Bellak & Cie., Vienna, 
Austria, and subsequently its successor 
corporation. 
Report on competitive factors. After discussion, unanimous 
aj}J3rnVirl 1 was given to the transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency 
a report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
°t The Oceanside National Bank, Oceanside, New York, into Security 
National Bank, Huntington, New York, in a form in which the conclusion 
read as follows: 

2932 
i 
9/22/69 
-3-
* i f 
The proposed merger of The Oceanside National Bank 
into Security National Bank, Huntington, would have no 
adverse competitive effects. 
Section 4(c)(8) hearings. Unanimous approval was given to 
arrangements for hearings on requests filed for determinations under 
section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act by (1) The Citizens 
and Southern Holding Company and The Citizens and Southern National 
. 1 
Bank, both of Atlanta, Georgia, and (2) United Virginia Bankshares, 
Richmond, Virginia. Copies of the notices published pursuant to these 
actions are attached as Items 3 and 4. 
Salary structure. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago approving a revised employee salary 
structure for the Detroit Branch. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
V 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 1 
9/22/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 22, 1969 
Wells Fargo Bank 
International Corporation, 
40 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your request of May 1, 1969, 
addressed to Mr. Stackhouse of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York, the Board hereby specifies pursuant to 
Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K that the 10 per cent 
limit in that paragraph shall not become applicable to 
Wells Fargo Bank International Corporation by reason of 
its occasional receipt from Western American Bank (Europe) 
Ltd. ("WAB"), London, England, of temporary deposits (for 
not more than one week) in connection with its acting as 
paying agent for WAB, as outlined in your letter of May 1, 
1969. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

•f^r^.*' 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
2934 
Item No. 2 
9/22/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P D N O E N C I 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 22, 1969 
Continental International 
Finance Corporation, 
231 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Gentlemen: 
of 
A S r e ^ u e s t e d i n y°ur letter of August 15, 1969, the Board 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("CIFC") to acquire 
exclusive ownership and become the sole, general (unlimited) partner 
f»Rp S Un S e q U e n t l y t 0 P u r c h a s e a 1 1 t h e s t o c ^ of a banking corporation 
V fit-BC ) to be ::ormed as successor of the limited partnership 
aankgeschaft Eduard Bellak & Cie., Vienna, Austria, at a total cost 
approximately $1,350,000, provided such stock is acquired within 
ne year from the date of this letter. The above consent is granted 
n the condition that the partnership will not engage in active 
anking operations until its incorporation. 
SffHir > 
„ 
- - • 
j. 
T h e foregoing consent is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That CIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of BEBC if BEBC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if BEBC establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Austria or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to CIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of BEBC as it may require from time to time; 

p q «•> 
Continental International 
Finance Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BEBC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if BEBC were a corporation 
organized unuer Section 25(a) of tht; Federal Reserve 
Act; and 
(4) That CIFC shall not carry on its books the shares of 
BEBC at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of BEBC, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subjecc to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by BEBC in Austria 
the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
°f Association, and By-Laws of BEBC. 
£ < 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint: effort now in effect 
a s they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
y°ur Corporation, Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company 
Chicago, and Continental Bank International, and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 
9/22/69 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NOTICE OF REQUEST AND ORDER FOR HEARING 
t 
Notice is hereby given that request has been made to the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to 
section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
(c)(8)), and section 222.4(a) of the Board's Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.4(a)), by The Citizens and Southern Holding Co. and The 
Citizens and Southern National Bank, both of Atlanta, Georgia, both 
kank holding companies, for a determination that the planned activities 
Citizens & Southern Credit Service Corporation are of the kind 
escribed in the aforementioned sections of the Act and the regulation 
So a s to make it unnecessary for the prohibitions of section 4 of the 
Act with respect to the acquisition or retention of shares in nonbanking 
°r8anizations 
to apply in order to carry out the purposes of the Act. 
Inasmuch as section 4(c)(8) of the Act requires that any 
^etermination pursuant thereto be made by the Board after due notice 
atld hearing and on the basis of the record made at such hearing: 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, That pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of 
the 
e Bank Holding Company Act and in accordance with sections 222.4(a) 
a n d 222.5(a) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a), 222.5(a)), 
Promulgated under the Bank Holding Company Act, a hearing with respect 

(C.Jo I 
- 2 -
tc> this matter be held commencing on November 20, 1969, at 10:00 a.m. 
at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 104 Marietta Street, N. W., 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30303, before Leonard J. Ralston (whose address is 
Small Business Administration, 1441 L Street, N. W., Washington, D. C. 
20416), a hearing examiner selected by the Civil Service Commission, 
Pursuant to section 3344 of Title 5 of the United States Code. The 
faring will be conducted according to the Board's Rules of Practice 
Formal Hearings (12 CFR Part 263). The right is reserved to the 
B°ard or the hearing examiner to designate any other date or place for 
such hearing or any part thereof which may be determined to be necessary 
°r appropriate for the convenience of the parties. The Board's Rules 
of Practice for Formal Hearings provide, in part, "Unless otherwise 
sPecifically p r o v i ( i e d b y statute or by rule of the Board, a hearing 
shall ordinarily be private and shall be attended only by the parties, 
their 
r representatives or counsel, representatives of the Board, 
Wit-
nesses while testifying, and other persons having an official inter-
est in the proceedings: Provided, however, That, on written request 
by a „ 
a party or a representative of the Board, or on the Board's own 
0ti°n, the Board, in its discretion and to the extent permitted by law, 
may _ 
Permit other persons to attend or may order the hearing to be 
Public # i. 
Any person desiring to give testimony at the hearing should 
i l c with the Secretary of the Board, directly or through the Federal 
*-vc Bank of Atlanta, on or before November 7, 1969, a written 
w 

request containing a statement of the nature of the petitioner's 
interest in the proceeding, and a summary of the matters concerning 
which said petitioner wishes to give testimony. Such requests will be 
Presented to the hearing examiner, and the persons submitting the re-
vests will be notified, prior to the hearing, of his determination 
thereon. The application may be inspected at the Federal Reserve Bank 
o f Atlanta or at the Federal Reserve Building, 20th Street and 
Constitution Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 22nd day of September, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
• 
. 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
item No. 4 
9/22/69 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NOTICE OF REQUEST AND ORDER FOR HEARING 
Notice is hereby given that request has been made to the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to 
Action 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
(c)(8)), and section 222.4(a) of the Board's Regulation Y 
CFR 222.4(a)), by United Virginia Bankshares, Richmond, Virginia, 
a bank holding company, for a determination that the planned insurance 
activities of its proposed nonbanking subsidiary, United Virginia 
insurance Agency, are of the kind described in the aforementioned 
Actions of the Act and the regulation so as to make it unnecessary for 
•.L 
e prohibitions of section 4 of the Act with respect to the acquisition 
retention of shares in nonbanking organizations to apply in order to 
carry 0ut the purposes of the Act. 
Inasmuch as section 4(c)(8) of the Act requires that any 
j 
ermination pursuant thereto be made by the Board after due notice 
atlc* hearing and on the basis of the record made at such hearing: 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, That pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of 
the 
e Bank Holding Company Act and in accordance with sections 222.4(a) 
atld 222.5(a) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 222*4(a), 222.5(a)), 

2940 
-2-
Promulgated under the Bank Holding Company Act, a hearing with respect 
to this matter be held commencing on November 6, 1969, at 10:00 a.m. at 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 9th and Franklin Streets, 
v.} ' 
Richmond, Virginia, 23213, before Leonard J. Ralston (whose address is 
Small Business Administration, 1441 L Street, N. W., Washington, D. C, 
20416), a hearing examiner selected by the Civil Service Commission, 
Pursuant to section 3344 of Title 5 of the United States Code, The 
hearing will be conducted according to the Board's Rules of Practice 
f°r Formal Hearings (12 CFR Part 263). The right is reserved to the 
Board or the hearing examiner to designate any other date or place for 
such hearing or any part thereof which may be determined to be necessary 
°r appropriate for the convenience of the parties. The Board's Rules 
Practice for Formal Hearings provide, in part, "Unless otherwise 
sPecifically provided by statute or by rule of the Board, a hearing 
shall ordinarily be private and shall be attended only by the parties, 
their representatives or counsel, representatives of the Board, 
Witnesses while testifying, and other persons having an official inter-
e s t in the proceeding: Provided, however, That, on written request by 
a Party or a representative of the Board, or on the Board's own motion, 
th 
0 Board, in its discretion and to the extent permitted by law, may 
Permit other persons to attend or may order the hearing to be public." 
Any person desiring to give testimony at the hearing should 
with the Secretary of the Board, directly or through the Federal 
file 
Hp Serve Bank of Richmond, on or before October 24, 1969, a written 

request containing 
the proceeding, 
Petitioner wishes to give testimony. Such requests will be presented 
t o the hearing examiner, and the persons submitting the requests will 
b e notified, prior to the hearing, of his determination thereon. The 
aPplication may be inspected at the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
° r at the Federal Reserve Building, 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, 
W., Washington, D. C. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 22nd day of September, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary, 
(SEAL) 
a statement of the nature of the petitioner's interest 
and a summary of the matters concerning which said 
) •> 

M-' 
Ay 
i 
m 
w 
•jfii 
BOARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
9/22/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R O 
September 22, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (PR) 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Scanlon: 
As requested in your letter of August 28, the Board of 
Governors approves the following minimum and maximum salaries for 
the respective grades of the employees' salary structure at the 
Detroit Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago: 
Grade 
Minimum Salary 
Maximum Salary 
1 
$ 3,615 
$ 4,895 
2 
3,930 
5,320 
3 
4,255 
5,755 
4 
4,725 
6,395 
5 
5,260 
7,120 
6 
5,790 
7,830 
7 
6,320 
8,550 
8 
7,005 
9,475 
9 
7,715 
10,435 
10 
8,335 
11,275 
11 
9,085 
12,295 
12 
9,820 
13,290 
13 
10,735 
14,525 
14 
11,690 
15,815 
15 
12,905 
17,455 
16 
14,240 
19,265 
Salaries should be paid to employees within the limits 
specified for the grades in which their respective positions are 
classified. All employees whose salaries are below the minima of 
their respective grades as a result of the structure increase 
should be brought within appropriate ranges within 90 days after 
the effective date of the new structure. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
