MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 22, 1972 

1339 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, May 22, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
' . .. 
c. 
' 
i , 
i' ; • •, 
Finance 1/ 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
The staff presented a review of international developments and 
domestic business and financial conditions of the kind customarily given 
in advance of meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of 
the relevant documentation have been placed in the Board's files. 
Mr. Rippey then commented on pending legislation and Congressional 
hearings of interest to the Board. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

is m 
5/22/72 
-9-
A number of staff members who had attended only for purposes 
of the economic review then withdrew. 
State taxation of banks. Governor Mitchell referred to the 
Board's report and recommendations submitted in May 1971 to the Senate 
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs regarding State and 
local taxation of banks. The American Bankers Association had now 
drafted a bill, which it believed reflected the Board's recommendations. 
Both the ABA and the staff of the House Banking and Currency Committee 
had informally requested the views of the Board on the draft bill. 
bur 
^ ^Ic-;''^ .'.uM'..i. o^JXii 
> oA 
' 
T-f t: 'l; I . 
Mr. I. M. Labovitz, who had directed the Board's bank tax study, had 
made a detailed comparison of the ABA draft bill and the Board's pro-
V/ 
Movv'vvc, H'-rv 
?r c •:•/; 
. . • • •, 1 ' 
:: a 
posals, which had been distributed with a memorandum from the Office 
of the Secretary dated May 19, 1972. Mr. Labovitz, in another memo-
randum of May 19, also pointed out several policy implications of 
the draft bill. In his view, modification of the ABA draft bill to 
achieve conformance with the Board's recommendations would require 
extensive discussion of many controversial provisions, and prepara-
tion of a new bill as a substitute would be more feasible. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that the Board give further 
consideration to one of the recommendations in its report, namely, 
that the right to tax be divided among States in which it could be 
contended that a bank was "doing business." In his view, a better 

5/22/72 
-3-
alternative would be to continue, at least for the time being, the 
present statutory rule of placing the situs for taxation of a bank's 
entire income at its principal place of business. 
The ensuing discussion brought out that there was some possi-
bility, according to informal conversations, that the ABA draft bill 
would be introduced in Congress and hearings scheduled fairly promptly. 
The tenor of comments indicated a general preference by members of the 
Board to await a request from a Congressional committee for views on 
whatever bill might be introduced rather than to negotiate on anything 
but a completely informal basis with the ABA regarding its draft bill. 
Some sentiment developed for proceeding to draft a bill to be sponsored 
by the Board. However, there was agreement with a suggestion that a 
first order of business should be the resolution of the policy question 
Governor Mitchell had raised. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
matter would be considered further after Governor Mitchell had supple-
mented his suggestion with a memorandum of comments. 
The following then entered the room: 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart and Mr. Lyon, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Other appropriate supporting staff 

is m 
5/22/72 
-9-
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on May 15, by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Minneapolis on May 16, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, 
Philadelphia, Kansas City, and San Francisco on May 18, 1972, of the 
rates on advances and discounts in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
sent to those Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Pennsyl-
vania Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a bank holding company, 
to acquire all of the assets of Commonwealth Loan Corporation, Santurce, 
San Juan, Puerto Rico, in exchange for shares of the holding company's 
stock. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco expressing concurrence with the Bank's plan to 
install closed circuit television surveillance systems in its five 
offices. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation and the Division of Research and Statistics in a memo-
randum of May 18, 1972, the Board unanimously approved publication for 
comment of revised proposals for amendments to regulations relating 
to credit for securities transactions; the proposals dealt with 

is m 
5/22/72 
-9-
exemptions for credit to block positioners and third market makers 
under Regulation U, and with exempt credit to specialists under 
Regulations T and U. A copy of the press release issued is attached 
as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Central 
Trust Company Rochester N. Y., Rochester, New York, to merge with 
The First National Bank of Painted Post, Painted Post, New York, and 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
First Union. In a memorandum of April 27, 1972, the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the application 
of First Union, Incorporated, St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares 
of The First National Bank of Liberty, Liberty, Missouri. The recom-
mendations of the Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank 
of St. Louis were also favorable. However, the Department of Justice 
had concluded that the acquisition would have an adverse effect on 
competition. 
At the meeting on May 18, 1972, Governor Robertson requested 
that the application be removed from the consent calendar and docketed 
for full discussion. At today's meeting Mr. Leavitt said that Governor 
Robertson had requested that the Board be informed that, if he had been 
able to be present, he would have voted to deny the application. In 

is m 
5/22/72 
-9-
his view, the large premium being paid reflected the ability of large 
holding companies to pay higher prices than other competitors. Moreover, 
he felt that there was some merit in the argument of the Department 
of Justice that the proposed acquisition would have an adverse effect 
on competition. First Union already had one bank in the market area 
of First National Bank of Liberty. He could see no benefits that would 
result from the proposal to offset these adverse considerations. 
After discussion, Governor Robertson's views having been noted, 
the application was approved unanimously and issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision was authorized. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 5. 
Southwest Bancshares. Today's agenda called for consideration 
of a draft order reflecting the Board's approval, on May 16, 1972, of 
the application of Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to 
acquire shares of the successor by merger to Continental National Bank 
of Fort Worth, Fort Worth, Texas. A statement reflecting the dissent 
of Governor Robertson had also been prepared. 
Governor Brimmer reminded the Board that when the application 
was discussed he had indicated that he was inclined toward approval, 
but would want to see the basis on which such a decision would be 
supported before he would confirm that position. After reviewing the 
draft order, he was disposed either to vote for denial or to write a 

is m 
5/22/72 
-9-
concurring statement setting forth his individual reasons for an 
affirmative vote. 
Further discussion having indicated that other members 
of the Board saw need for changes in the language of the draft order, 
it was agreed that Governors Mitchell and Brimmer would revise the 
draft to resolve the questions that had been raised, with Governor 
Brimmer choosing his position according to his appraisal of the 
support cited for the majority position. The issuance of the order 
as thus revised was authorized. 
(Note: Governor Brimmer subsequently chose to vote for 
denial. Attached under Item No. 6 are copies of the order in the form 
in which it was issued, along with statements reflecting the dissents 
of Governors Robertson and Brimmer.) 
Trade Development Bank. In a memorandum of December 21, 1971, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of Trade Development Bank Holdings S. A., City of Luxembourg, 
Luxembourg, to become a bank holding company through acquisition of 
Trade Development Bank, Geneva, Switzerland, which owns a controlling 
interest in Republic National Bank of New York, New York, New York. 
After discussion at the meeting on December 30, 1971, action 
on the application was deferred pending receipt and analysis of infor-
mation that Trade Development Bank Holdings had been requested to 

is m 
5/22/72 
-9-
provide regarding its commodity business activities. In a memorandum 
of April 27, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation discussed 
the information that had been submitted and stated that, since the 
applicant's commodity business appeared to be consistent with the 
Board's regulations and there were valid tax considerations for forma-
tion of a Luxembourg holding company, the Division continued to recom-
mend approval. 
During discussion at today's meeting a question was raised 
whether the Bank Holding Company Act required that the Board conclude 
that the transaction was in the public interest, as opposed to not 
being against the public interest. Without resolving that question, it 
was concluded that approval of the application would be in the public 
interest since the applicant would have to divest certain nonpermissible 
activities within two years of consummation of the acquisition instead 
of retaining them through 1980 as otherwise would be permitted. 
The application was then approved unanimously and the issuance 
of an order reflecting this decision was authorized. A copy of the 
order is attached as Item No. 7. 
First City Bancorporation. In a memorandum of May 12, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the application of First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, 
Texas, to acquire shares of the successor to La Porte State Bank, 

is m 
5/22/72 
-9-
La Porte, Texas. The Banking Markets Section also recommended approval. 
Other documentation included a memorandum of May 18 in which Mr. Leavitt 
described the interest owned and control exercised by First City Bancor-
poration with respect to a number of banks in the Houston area and 
the pending or expected applications by the holding company to acquire 
additional shares of some of those banks in which it now held only a 
minority interest. 
fedmca of 
-' j. :.., L»2rr».ar a n a 
, 
•>. to 
I* h • 
• 
The Board unanimously approved the application and the issuance 
bijlty 
ftrllag 
dM.avaUab"- orriec 
U\ 
of an order reflecting this decision was authorized. A copy of the 
order is attached as Item No. 8. 
Western Bancshares. In memoranda of May 8 and 10, 1972, the 
Banking Markets Section and the Division of Supervision and Regulation, 
respectively, recommended denial of the applications of Western Banc-
shares, Inc., Stockton, Kansas, (1) (under section 3(a)(1) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act) to retain shares of Rooks County State Bank, 
Woodston, Kansas; and (2) (under section 4(c)(8) of the Act) to retain 
Woodston Agency (formerly known as Jno. McCormick Insurance Agency), . 
also in Woodston. 
The applications were denied by unanimous vote, with the 
understanding that an order reflecting this decision would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration. 

1348 
5/22/72 
-10-
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Melnicoff, and Smith, and the following entered the room: 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Anderson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Administrative Services 
Mr. Larry Lerner, President, and Mr. Richard Korchien 
of Sapier, Lerner, Schindler - Environetics 
Martin Building. Governor Sheehan presented, with the assis-
tance of Messrs. Lerner and Korchien, a proposal to explore the possi-
bility of expanding the available office space in the Martin Building. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

.^VoVa-
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1349 
Item No. 1 
5/22/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
First Pennsylvania Corporation 
Fifteenth and Chestnut Streets 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19102 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of March 28, 1972, the Board 
of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tion 4(c.) (13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, 
and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your Corporation ("FPC") 
to purchase and hold all of the assets of Commonwealth Loan Cor-
poration ("Commonwealth"), Santurce, San Juan, Puerto Rico, in 
exchange for 222,000 shares of the common stock of FPC, provided 
such assets are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. In this connection the Board grants approval for FPC to 
hold all of the shares of CommcLoCo, Inc., a Puerto Rican holding 
company, and, indirectly through CommoLoCo, Inc., all of the shares 
of 19 small-loan companies, a dormant leasing company, a credit 
and collection company, and a bookkeeping company, all of which are 
located in Puerto Rico and are presently subsidiaries of Commonwealth. 
The foregoing consent is granted subject to any necessary approval 
by the Secretary of Treasury of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. 
As subsidiaries of a bank holding company under Sec-
tion 4(c)(13), the above mentioned companies shall confine their 
activities to international or foreign banking and other inter-
national or foreign financial operations. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R ^ A k . R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1350 
Item No. 1 
5/22/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 22, 1972 
Mr. A. B. Merritt 
First Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
San Francisco, California .94120. 
Dear Mr. Merritt: 
The Board of Governors concurs with the plan of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco to install closed circuit 
television surveillance systems in all five offices at the total 
cost of approximately $150,000. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

?*4L Rtf. •' 
Item No. 3 
5/22/72 
For immediate release 
May 30, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
rc-issued for comment a modified proposal to exempt from margin 
requirements certain credit extended to so-called "block positioners" 
find third-market makers. 
The Board's proposal, which also applies new reporting 
requirements to exchange specialists and Over-tlie-Counter market 
makers, is being published simultaneously vrith registratiQQ and 
reporting proposals issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission 
in this fielde 
Comment on the Board's proposal should be received by 
June 30. 
Block positioners are securities firms that stand ready 
to hold amounts of stock for their own account sufficient: to facili-
tate the sale or purchase by their customers—-primarily institu-
tions--of quantities too large to be absorbed by normal exchange 
transactions. 
The minimum block of stock that could qualify for the 
exemption from margin requirements would have a market value of 
$200,000, A block would also have to be sold by the block posi-
tioner within 20 days (instead of 15 days as originally proposed), 
although limited extensions of 5 days at a time could be allowed by 
the stock exchanges and the National Association of Securities Dealers. 

1352 
-i-
\ 
The modified proposal also would: 
--Require a specialist to report through a stock exchange 
to the Board on the blocks of stock that he holds and the credit 
extended to carry those blocks. 
(This provision replaces an origi-
nal proposal that would have required a specialist to dispose of a 
block within 15 dayo.) 
—Require third-market makers and Over-the-Counter market 
makers to register and file reports with the Securities and Exchange 
Coromisaion about their market-making activities. 
(The original pro-
posal would also have required third-market makers and OTC market 
makers to dispose of a block within 15 daye.) 
. .. 
—Change the net capital requirements for third-market 
makers and block positioners to reflect the range deemed necessary 
for carrying out these functions. 
Third-market makers arc firms that make a market off the 
exchanges in stocks that are listed for exchange trading. 
A copy of the Board1s modified proposal is attached. 
-0-

1353 
Item No. 1 
5/22/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CENTRAL TRUST COMPANY ROCHESTER N.Y. 
Order Approving Application for Merger of Banks 
Central Trust Company Rochester N.Y., Rochester, New York 
("Central Bank"), a member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, 
has applied for the Board's approval pursuant to the Bank Merger Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1328(c)) of the merger of that bank with The First National 
Bank of Painted Post, Painted Post, New York ("Painted Post Bank"), 
under the charter and title of Central Bank. As an incident to the 
merger, the two offices of Painted Post Bank would become branches 
of the resulting bank. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in 
form approved by the Board, has been published, and the Board has 
requested reports on competitive factors from the Attorney General, 
the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 
The Board has considered the application and all comments 
and reports received in the light of the factors set forth in the 
Act, and finds that: 
1/ 
Central Bank ($227 million deposits), 
a subsidiary of 
Charter New York Corporation, New York City, operates 14 offices 
in New York State's Eighth Banking District, of which 13 are 
1/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, except branch 
deposit data are as of June 30, 1970. 

1354 
-2-
located in Monroe County and one in the northern portion of Steuben 
County. It holds 9.6 per cent of the District's commercial bank 
deposits as the fourth largest of the District's 31 banks and ranks 
fourth among the eight banks headquartered in Monroe County, con-
trolling approximately 11 per cent of county deposits. 
Painted Post Bank ($9 million deposits) operates two offices 
in the southeastern portion of Steuben County. It is the eighteenth 
largest bank in the Eighth Banking District and the seventh largest 
of nine banks domiciled in Steuben County, holding 0.4 and 7.4 per 
cent of the deposits in these respective areas. Painted Post Bank 
competes primarily with three larger banks that control deposits 
ranging from $863 million to $11 million. Consummation of the pro-
posed merger would not adversely affect other area banks nor signifi^ 
cantly increase the concentration of banking deposits in any relevant 
area. 
The subject banks operate in separate markets, their 
service areas do not overlap, and their nearest banking offices are 
located approximately 35 miles apart. No significant existing 
competition would be eliminated by the proposed merger between 
either the merging banks or between any of the banking offices 
of Charter's subsidiaries and Painted Post Bank. It also appears 
that no substantial potential competition would be foreclosed 
by consummation of the merger in view of the limitations placed 
on branching by New York State laws, the distances separating 

1355 
-2-
the banks, and the limited economic prospects for the area served 
by Painted Post Bank. Based on the foregoing and the record before 
it, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed merger 
would not adversely affect competition in any relevant market 
but would likely increase competition in Steuben County by providing 
a more effective competitor to the larger banks operating in the 
area. 
The financial and managerial resources of Central and 
Painted Post Banks are generally satisfactory, and the prospects 
for the resulting bank appear favorable. Considerations relating 
to banking factors are consistent with approval of the application. 
As a result of the merger the customers of Painted Post Bank would 
( 
be provided with expanded loan and deposit services, trust depart-
ment facilities, and automated banking services. 
Considerations 
relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
served are consistent with approval of the application and lend 
some weight thereto. 
It is the Board's Judgment that consummation 
of the proposal would be in the public interest, and that the ap-
plication should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following 
the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than throe months after 

-2-
13 SI 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 22, 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
2/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Britr.mer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and 
Maisel. 

1357 
Item No. 
1 
5/22/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST UNION, INCORPORATED 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Union, Incorporated, St. Louis, Missouri, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
°f the First National Bank of Liberty, Liberty, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
a U comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the third largest bank holding company and the 
third largest banking organization in Missouri, controls nine banks 
with aggregate deposits of $887.3 million, representing approximately 
7-8 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the State. (All banking . 
data are as of June 30, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding company forma-
tions and acquisitions approved by the Board through April 30, 1972.) As 
a result of consummation of the proposal herein, Applicant's position 
relation to the State's other bank holding companies and banking 
organizations would remain unchanged. 

1353 
-2-
Bank ($12.8 million), located 15 miles northeast of downtown 
Kansas City in Clay County, is the largest bank in Liberty and second 
largest of seven banks competing in its primary service area (approxi-
mated by the communities of Liberty, Kearney, Excelsior Springs, Claycomo, 
and a portion of Gladstone). Bank holds 17.5 per cent of the total 
commercial bank deposits in that area. One of Applicant's present 
subsidiary banks, The National Bank of North Kansas City, is located 
13 miles from Bank, but does not appear to be a significant competitor 
to Bank due to the presence of a number of banks in the intervening area. 
None of Applicant's other subsidiary banks competes with Bank to any 
significant extent, and the development of such competition is considered 
unlikely in light of Missouri's restrictive branching law and the distances 
separating Bank from Applicant's subsidiaries. 
Bank has not been an aggressive competitor within its service 
area, as evidenced by a low loan-to-deposit ratio. Affiliation with 
Applicant should strengthen Bank's competitive capabilities in relation 
fco the other area banks, including those Kansas City banks which derive 
business from residents of Bank's service area who commute to Kansas 
City, it does not appear that significant existing competition would 
be eliminated nor significant potential competition foreclosed by 
consummation of Applicant's proposal, or that there would be undue adverse 
effects on any bank in the area involved. 

13 SI 
-2-
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
°f Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are all regarded as satisfactory 
and consistent with approval of the application. It appears that con-
summation of Applicant's proposal would not have any immediate effects 
°n the convenience and needs of the communities involved, but the area 
Presently being served by Bank is experiencing rapid development. There-
fore, affiliation with Applicant should enhance Bank's ability to meet 
the growing needs of the area, as well as strengthen its competitive 
Posture with respect to the larger Kansas City banks serving the area. 
These considerations relating to the convenience and needs are consistent 
vith, and lend some weight for approval of the application. It is the 
Board's judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest 
and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
° r by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ effective May 22, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
l7~Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
trimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and 
Maisel. 
[SEAL] 

1360 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SOUTHWEST BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a bank holding 
i 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less direc-
tors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to Continental 
National Bank of Fort Worth, Fort Worth, Texas ("Bank"). 
The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares 
°f Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of the successor 
organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares 
°f Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments and 
views has expired. The Board has considered the application and all 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
^ e Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the third largest bank holding company and the 
fifth largest banking organization in Texas has four subsidiary banks 
wlth aggregate deposits of approximately $688 million representing 
Item No. 1 
5/22/72 

13 SI 
-2-
2.6 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the State.~^ (All 
banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved through January 31, 1972.) Con-
summation of the proposal herein would increase Applicant's share of 
commercial bank deposits in the State by .7 percentage points and 
Applicant's rank in the State would be unchanged. The proposed 
acquisition represents Applicant's initial entry into the Fort Worth 
banking market. 
Bank ($182.2 million of deposits) has one office located in 
downtown Fort Worth, is the third largest of 44 banks serving the 
Fort Worth banking market, and controls 10.2 per cent of total 
deposits in that market. However, its share of IPC deposits is less 
than 8 per cent of total market deposits because its share of deposits 
of banks and State and local governments are disproportionately large. 
These deposits amount to nearly 40 per cent of Bank's total deposits. 
The two largest banks in the Fort Worth market, each of which is a 
subsidiary bank of a bank holding company, in the aggregate control 
over 50 per cent of total bank deposits in that area. 
1/ Applicant controls substantially all the stock of three Texas banks: 
Bank of the Southwest, Houston; Village National Bank, Houston; and 
First National Bank of Longview, Longview, Texas. With respect to 
other banks located in the Houston banking market, Applicant holds 
approximately 34 per cent of the voting shares of South Park National 
Bank, and has minority interests of between 14 and 20 per cent in four 
banks whose aggregate deposits as of June 30, 1971, were approximately 
$102 million. Applicant's minority interest of 24.7 per cent in 
Kilgore National Bank, Kilgore, Texas, is expected to be liquidated. 

13 SI 
-2-
Applicant's subsidiary closest to Bank is located in 
Longview, Texas, approximately 160 miles southeast of Bank. It appears 
that no competition between Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiaries 
would be eliminated by the proposed acquisition. The competitive 
effect of the proposed acquisition on the smaller, predominantly retail 
suburban banks in the Fort Worth area is not likely to be significant, 
particularly in view of the size disparity and banking service 
distinctions existing between these smaller banks and the three 
largest banks in the market. Moreover, the record shows a presently 
existing extensive common ownership between shareholders of Bank and 
three smaller banks in the Fort Worth market. Approval of the Appli-
cant's proposal will so dilute the degree of common ownership ties 
between Bank and these other banks as to insure complete disaffiliation 
since shareholders presently controlling approximately 50 per cent of 
Bank's outstanding shares and shares in these other banks will 
relinquish control of Bank in exchange for 5.6 per cent shareholding 
in Applicant. This aspect of Applicant's proposal should have a 
pro-competitive effect. 
Consummation of Applicant's proposal should strengthen 
Bank's competitive position as a more effective alternative to the two 
large banks for customers requiring wholesale banking services in the 
Fort Worth-Dallas area. The Board has considered the possibility 
that Applicant could enter the Fort Worth market either through acqui-
sition of a smaller bank or de novo, and the fact that consummation of 

1363 
Applicant's proposal would eliminate Bank as a potential lead bank of 
a new bank holding company. Although these considerations, which 
have been noted by the Department of Justice, are negative possibilities 
of the proposal, they are conjectural relative to the positive ad-
vantage noted above. Management of the Bank apparently has explored 
the possibility of forming a holding company on its own but abandoned 
the plan as not being feasible and it appears unlikely that Applicant 
would enter the market c[e novo or through one of the smaller banks in 
the area. 
Convenience and needs considerations are consistent with and 
lend some weight toward approval. To the extent that Bank will be able, 
as a result of Applicant's assistance, to provide services to the 
community presently provided only by the two largest banks in the area, 
consummation of the proposal promises improved service for the com-
munity's needs and convenience. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth day following the effective date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— effective May 24, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
27 Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
and Sheehan. Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Governor Maisel, 

1364 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
With each approval by this Board of an application by a 
giant holding company to acquire an independent bank, financial power 
in this country becomes more centralized - for better or worse. The 
presidents of the banks that are acquired often continue to function 
as such, but as subordinates. Their continuance in office depends not 
on how well they serve the public, but rather on how well they please 
the man in charge of the holding company. Not only is the financial 
power within a given area concentrated in fewer hands, which may not 
be in the public interest, but the ranks of community leaders seeking 
to serve their communities in a spirit of independence are diminished. 
Hence, it is essential that this Board consider with very great care 
the public benefits, if any, that are likely to flow from an acquisition 
before giving its approval. Obviously, its approval should be withheld 
unless the benefits are great enough - and often they are - to outweigh 
any adverse factors. 
In this case, approval of this application permits Applicant, 
the third largest banking organization in Houston and the fifth largest 
in the State, to enter the Fort Worth banking market through the acquisi-
tion of the third largest bank in that market. Acquisition of Continental 
Bank by Applicant will move the emerging structure of banking in the 
State another step toward domination by a few giant banking organizations 
and will have an adverse effect on competition in the Fort Worth area. 
The banking structure in Texas is experiencing rapid change 
brought about by bank holding companies aggressively competing to 
acquire the most attractive independent banks located in separate bank-
ing markets throughout the State, The Boards action in this matter, 

1353 
-2-
permitting one of the State's dominant banking organizations to acquire 
the largest independent bank in the Fort Worth market, can only serve 
to foster concentration of banking resources in the State in a limited 
number of bank holding companies and discourage the development of 
competing holding companies. In addition, the dominant competitive 
position of Continental Bank in relation to the majority of the banks 
In the Fort Worth area will be entrenched through affiliation with 
Applicant. 
The financial condition and resource strength of Continental 
Bank are adequate to enable that bank to continue to serve its community 
as an independent bank or, in the alternative, to serve as a potential 
lead bank or substantial member of a competing Statewide or regional 
bank holding company. I concur with the conclusions reached by the 
Department of Justice that elimination of Applicant as a potential 
entrant into the Fort Worth market, either de novo or through acquisition 
°f a smaller bank, and the elimination of Continental Bank as a par-
ticipant in a separate bank holding company x^ould have an adverse effect -
on competition in that area. 
I find nothing in Applicant's proposal which would out-
weigh the adverse competitive consequences of consummation of the 
transaction and, therefore, pursuant to what I deem to be the mandate 
of the Bank Holding Company Act, I would deny this application. 
Hay 24, 1972 

29 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
Approval of this proposal will further reduce the already 
limited number of banks in Texas capable of Statewide expansion through 
the bank holding company vehicle, further concentrate banking resources 
in the State, and foreclose potential competition in the Fort Worth 
banking market. 
Applicant controls three banks which, in the aggregate, held 
total deposits of approximately $726 million as of August, 1971. In 
addition, it holds substantial minority interests in five other Houston 
banks with aggregate deposits in excess of $100 million. The Board's 
action today permits Applicant's entry into the Fort Worth banking 
market through acquisition of the third largest bank in that market -
an institution holding more than three times the total deposits of the 
next largest bank - and one which (through common shareholder ownership) 
is also associated with a chain of smaller banks in the Fort Worth area. 
In view of these circumstances, I must bring up again the 
issues that I raised in my Concurring Statement to the Board's Order 
of April 11, 1972, relating to the application by Texas Commerce 
Bancshares, Houston, Texas, to acquire two banks in Beaumont, Texas. 
(Published in the Federal Register of April 18, 1972, 37 F.R. 7653). In 
that Statement, I noted - with particular concern - the danger that 
exists in permitting the unrestricted Statewide expansion by the few 
very large bank holding companies in Texas through the systematic 
acquisition of the dominant banks in other banking markets in the State. 
The danger on which I focused in that Statement is clearly present in 
this case. 

1353 
-2-
Continental Bank, with deposits approaching $200 million, 
possesses the financial condition and management capability to enable 
it to serve as the lead bank for a new Statewide or regional bank 
holding company. It is also affiliated, through common shareholder 
ownership, with three smaller banks in the Fort Worth banking market 
holding aggregate total deposits of approximately $80 million.-^ 
Most of these common shareholder relationships have existed since the 
early 1950's when a family, which presently holds, through various 
trust instruments, the largest block of shares of Continental Bank 
was instrumental in the formation of all three of these smaller banks. 
Therefore, in my view, the majority's action authorizes Applicant's 
entry into the Fort Worth market through the acquisition of an established 
chain banking network. This network controls aggregate bank deposits of 
almost $270 million, representing approximately 15 per cent of the total 
commercial bank deposits in the Fort Worth area. Although the exchange 
of shares of Continental Bank for shares of Applicant will quantitatively 
reduce common share ownership, this exchange will not insulate these 
smaller banks from Applicant's influence and control. Consummation 
of this proposal continues the trend toward concentration of the State's 
banking resources as another major portion of these resources comes 
under the control of one of the State's largest bank holding companies. 
1/ Shareholders owning a significant proportion of the voting shares of 
Continental Bank control approximately 57 per cent of the voting shares 
of Ridglea State Bank ($33.2 million deposits); 47 per cent of State Bank 
of East Fort Worth ($22.6 million deposits); and 26 per cent of Haltom 
City State Bank ($23.9 million deposits) all located in the Fort Worth 
banking market. 

1388 
The effect of this acquisition in the Fort Worth area will be 
to strengthen further the competitive position of a few large bank 
holding companies in that market. For example, while two such companies 
already control 65 per cent of the total deposits in the market, the 
Board's action will concentrate almost 80 per cent of the total in the 
hands of three companies. Moreover, elimination of Applicant as a 
likely entrant into the Fort Worth market either de novo or through 
acquisition of a smaller bank in that market will have an adverse effect 
on potential competition in that area. 
I concur with the Department of Justice which concluded that, 
due to the concentration of banking resources in Texas, the State's 
largest banking organizations - such as Applicant - should be prohibited 
from acquiring any banking organization which is of sufficient size to 
represent a potential leader or significant member of a smaller 
Statewide holding company absent a showing of "unusual public benefit". 
I find the record almost devoid of any public benefits flowing 
from the proposal. Consequently, I would deny the application. 
May 24, 1972 

13«3 
Item No. 7 
5/22/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
' 
TRADE DEVELOPMENT BANK HOLDINGS S. A. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Trade Development Bank Holdings S. A., City of Luxembourg, 
Luxembourg ("Applicant"), has applied for the Board's approval, under 
§ 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), to 
become a batik holding company through acquisition of up to 100 per 
cent of the voting shares of Trade Development Bank, Geneva, Switzer-
land, which owns approximately 51 per cent of the outstanding voting 
shares of Republic National Bank of New York, N.Y. ("Bank"). Consumma-
tion of the proposal would give Applicant indirect control of Bank, 
which has deposits of approximately $189 million. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Trade Development Bank, Geneva, Switzerland, is a subsidiary 
of Safra Bank S. A., Panama City, Republic of Panama, because of the 
latter's ownership of 75 per cent of the voting shares of the former. 
Consummation of the proposal would involve the insertion of an inter-
mediate holding company between Safra Bank and Trade Development Bank 
and would have no effect on banking competition in the United States, 
nor would it adversely affect any competing bank. 

-2-
13' 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
conditions and prospects of Bank are satisfactory and consistent with 
approval. Applicant states that its creation is designed to provide 
corporate flexibility for such activities as acquisition of banks 
in the European Economic Community and, further, to provide a more 
effective vehicle than Trade Development Bank for raising capital 
funds when they are needed. Considerations relating to the financial 
and managerial condition of Applicant and its prospects are satis-
factory and consistent with approval. 
It appears that consummation 
of the proposal would have no effect on the convenience and needs 
of customers of Republic Bank in New York. 
Trade Development Bank is engaged, directly or indirectly, 
in nonbanking activities in the United States that are not permissible 
under the Board's regulations adopted pursuant to § 4(c)(9) of the 
Act governing the activities of foreign bank holding companies. It 
appears that, in the absence of the transaction herein, such activities 
may be continued until at least December 31, 1980, by virtue of the 
provisions of § 4(a)(2) of the Act. However, upon consummation of the 
proposal herein, Applicant will be required to divest itself of these 
activities within two years from the date Applicant becomes a bank 
holding company, and therefore, the Board finds that the proposed trans-
action is in the public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date 

13 SI 
-2-
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date 
of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the * 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 22, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: 
Daane, Brimmer and Sheehan. 
Robertson and Maisel. 
Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Absent and not voting: 
Governors 

1372 
Item No. 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/22/72 
FIRST CITY BANCORPORATION OF TEXAS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the voting shares of La Porte State Bank, La 
Porte, Texas ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and none has been timely received. The 
Board has considered the application in the light of the factors 
set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds 
that: 
Applicant controls eight banks with aggregate deposits 
of $1.3 billion, which amounts to 4.9 per cent of the total com-
mercial bank deposits in Texas. 
(Banking data are as of June 30, 
1971, and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions 
approved through April 30, 1972.) Applicant presently owns 36.3 
per cent of the voting shares of Bank ($9.2 million in deposits) 
and controls it. Consummation of this proposed transaction would 
merely strengthen an affiliation that has existed since 1956. 

13 
-2-
On the basis of the record, it appears that consummation of the pro-
posal is not likely to have an adverse effect on existing or potential 
competition in any relevant area nor would any competing bank be ad-
versely affected. 
Considerations related to the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served are consistent with approval. The financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of Applicant and its 
subsidiaries and of Rank are generally satisfactory and consistent 
with approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed trans-
action would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 22, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, Brimmer and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson 
and Maisel. 
