Minutes for March 22, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will, indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

11 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, March 22, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane —/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Irvine, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Robinson, Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Emery, Economist, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Lyon, Supervisory Review Examiner, Division 
of Examinations 
Messrs. Burton and Poundstone, Review Examiners, 
Division of Examinations 
Approved items. The following items, copies of which are 
attached to these minutes under the respective numbers indicated, were 
Entered at point indicated in minutes. 

1109 
3/22/67 
-10-
approved unanimously after consideration of background material that 
had been made available to the Board and clarification of points of 
information about which members of the Board inquired: 
Item No. 
Letter to Elliott State Bank, Jacksonville, 
1 
Illinois, approving the establishment of an 
m-town branch and commenting on the bank's 
capital and liquidity positions. 
Letter to Bank of Las Vegas, Las Vegas, Nevada, 
2 
approving the establishment of a branch in 
Mesquite, Clark County. 
Letter to The Bank of New York, New York, New 
York, approving the establishment of a branch 
in London, England. 
Letter to Bankers International Corporation, 
New York, New York, approving the acquisition 
by 
Bankers International (Luxembourg) S.A. of 
shares of Rodo Investment Trust Ltd., London, 
England. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
approving that Bank's acting as fiscal agent 
with respect to a proposed bond issue of the 
Inter-American Development Bank. 
Letter to the Bureau of the Budget regarding 
216, a b ill relating to the income tax 
treatment of certain distributions made pur-
suant to the 1966 amendments to the Bank 
folding Company Act of 1956. 
In connection with Item No. 3, Governor Brimmer referred to 
the state of the Board's information on foreign branches of U.S. banks 
and noted that data now came from mixed sources. He hoped the staff 
could come forward with suggestions for systematic reports in order 
4 
5 

1110 
3/22/67 
-3-
that the Board might be able to keep better informed on the foreign 
branches and developments in connection therewith. 
Messrs. Egertson, Robinson, and Poundstone then withdrew from 
the meeting. 
Gold loan to the Philippines (Item No. 7). At its meeting on 
March 17, 1967, the Board considered a request by the Central Bank of 
the Philippines for a 90-day $25 million loan, to be secured by gold 
held in the vaults of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. The 
Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York had autho-
rized the loan, subject to approval by the Board of Governors. 
The Secretariat of the National Advisory Council on Interna-
tional Monetary and Financial Policies had been notified of the request 
March 10. No definite reaction was received from any agency until 
March 16, when the Treasury Department objected to the loan being made, 
citing the fact that it would have an adverse statistical impact on 
the U.S. quarterly balance of payments figures. It was the consensus 
°f the Board at the March 17 meeting that an attempt should be made to 
Persuade the Treasury to modify its position. If that could not be 
done, an alternative possibility considered was authorization of a loan 
a period shorter than 90 days, to be drawn upon and repaid during 
the second quarter. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum from the Division 
International Finance dated March 21 summarizing the reasons for 

1111 
3/22/67 
-10-
the loan requested by the Philippine Central Bank, recapitulating the 
foregoing background information, and reporting that subsequent discus-
sions with Treasury officials had brought out that their objections 
were based primarily on the feeling that the Philippines should be 
encouraged to draw on its $55 million standby arrangement with the 
International Monetary Fund and, as required thereunder, to consult 
with the Fund on appropriate remedial fiscal policy measures. In this 
connection, it was stated that the Fund's staff felt the Philippines 
had tended to rely on short-term borrowing to meet longer-term needs, 
and that the loan request under consideration was indicative of that 
Policy. The memorandum concluded with the following alternative 
suggestions: 
1. Concur in the action of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York in approving the loan. 
2. Disapprove the loan on the grounds that the Philip-
pines should draw on the IMF. 
3. Approve the loan with the proviso that the Philippines 
be informed that it is being made available only to allow them 
to find time to arrange for needed longer-term accommodation 
and with the understanding that no renewal will be approved. 
4. Approve the loan with the proviso that takedowns be 
delayed until after March 31 and that all outstandings be 
repaid on or before June 30. 
Mr. Solomon reported that, of these alternatives, the staff 
favored the third, which was consistent with the objective the Treasury 
had indicated to be of primary interest. 

1112 
3/22/67 
-10-
Chairman Martin stated that he had discussed the Philippine 
request with Treasury Secretary Fowler, who had indicated that the 
third alternative would be acceptable to the Treasury. 
Governor Brimmer reported that the International Monetary Fund 
had recently taken the initiative in requesting the Philippines to 
consult with the Fund's staff on formulation of a long-range plan for 
fiscal stability. 
The Board then approved unanimously the making of the loan to 
the Central Bank of the Philippines in accordance with the recommenda-
tion of the staff (the third alternative). A copy of the telegram of 
advice sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is attached to these 
Minutes as Item No. 7. 
Messrs. Solomon (Adviser), Irvine, and Emery then withdrew 
from the meeting. 
Associated Bancorporation. Mr. O'Connell referred to the 
aPplication of Associated Bancorporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to 
become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of two 
banks, including Milwaukee Western Bank of Milwaukee. He recalled 
that on May 11, 1966, the filing of the Hearing Examiner's report and 
recommended decision had been stayed in view of information that had 
come to light reflecting deterioration of the condition of Milwaukee 
Western Bank. At the Board meeting on August 31, 1966, he had reported 
that a conference between representatives of the various interested 

111.3 
3/22/67 
-6-
supervisory agencies and of the proposed holding company and Milwaukee 
Western Bank had been scheduled for September 6, and that the options 
in mind were to reopen the hearing record to introduce information 
concerning the condition of Milwaukee Western Bank or, in the alterna-
tive, to give applicant an opportunity to withdraw the application. 
At the Board meeting on September 26, 1966, he reported that following 
the conference, applicant had petitioned that the Board's May 11 order 
staying the proceeding be extended until February 15, 1967, or until 
further order of the Board entered prior to that date. While it was 
the staff's belief that no substantial improvement in the condition of 
Milwaukee Western Bank had taken place, an examination was planned for 
around the first of December and the bank's current position would then 
be a matter of record. The Board had agreed to the requested extension 
of the May 11 stay order. 
Mr. O'Connell stated that the management and condition of 
Milwaukee Western Bank were still unsatisfactory, as shown by the 
December report of examination. He reported that counsel for applicant 
had called him to request a meeting on March 24, ostensibly for the pur-
Pose of indicating a desire to withdraw the application, and he requested 
authority to express, on behalf of the Board, willingness to accept such 
a petition. Further, if a request for an additional extension of the 
stay order should be requested by counsel for applicant, he would like 
authority to reject such a request and indicate that the matter would 
then proceed to a reopening of the hearing record. 

1114 
3/22/67 
-10-
The Board thereupon authorized Mr. O'Gonnell to advise counsel 
for applicant of its willingness to accept a petition for withdrawal 
of the application and also to advise, if an extension of the stay order 
should be requested, that such a request would not be viewed favorably. 
Bank credit card plans. Governor Mitchell reported on discus-
sions that had been held at the recent Monetary Conference of the 
American Bankers Association at Pebble Beach, California, concerning 
the use and expansion of bank credit card plans. 
Governor Daane entered the room at this point. 
Application of Valley Bancorporation (Items 8-10). There had 
been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's 
approval on February 14, 1967, of the application of Valley Bancorpora-
tion, Appleton, Wisconsin, to acquire a controlling interest in American 
State Bank, Grand Chute Township, Wisconsin. A dissenting statement by 
Governors Robertson and Maisel also had been distributed. 
Issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies of 
the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 8 and 9; a copy of the 
dissenting statement is attached as Item No. 10. 
Application of First National Corporation (Items 11-14). There 
been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's denial on February 14, 1967, of the application of First National 
Corporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, to acquire a controlling interest in 
C1rst Nat ional Bank West, Grand Chute Township, Wisconsin, a proposed new 

1115 
3/22/67 
-10-
bank. A dissenting statement by Governor Mitchell also had been 
distributed. 
Governor Daane commented that, while he had not yet prepared a 
dissenting statement, his dissent from the action of the majority was 
based on the ground that he considered spurious the distinction drawn 
between this proposal and the application of Valley Bancorporation, 
wherein the former was characterized as presenting anticompetitive 
aspects such as to justify denial whereas the latter was alleged not 
to do so. He believed that both cases should have been treated alike, 
whether by approval or denial. The statement dealing with the First 
National case made clear to him that the reason the proposed First 
National Bank West was alleged not to be needed was simply that American 
State Bank had already opened for business. This did not seem equitable. 
seemed simply to reward the organization whose bank had won the race 
to open for business. 
Mr. O'Connell noted that the Valley Bancorporation application 
Presented some anticompetitive considerations due to concentration of 
banking resources in the area concerned. That factor was believed to 
be offset by the benefits to accrue from the established American State 
bank's enhanced ability to service the needs of the area for farm loans. 
With respect to First National Corporation's proposal, the bank proposed 
to be acquired was not yet open for business, no need for its establish-
ment had been demonstrated, and approval of the application would further 

1116 
3/22/67 
-10-
increase the concentration of banking resources in the hands of the 
dominant banking organization in the area. 
Governor Daane commented that Governor Mitchell's dissenting 
statement was based largely on a demonstration that the concentration 
ratios in the community were not abnormal. He (Governor Daane) also 
believed that both applications should have been approved, but his dis-
sent from denial of the First National application was not based on the 
same grounds. 
Governor Maisel observed that implicit in Governor Mitchell's 
dissent was the philosophy that holding company systems were similar 
to branch networks. Therefore, the Board should be disposed to allow 
a holding company to expand de novo, other things being equal, accord-
ing to much the same criteria as those applicable to expansion by a 
bank branchwise. 
Governor Mitchell agreed. He added that so far as he was aware, 
°verbanking had seldom been cited by the Board as a reason to deny 
branch applications. In such circumstances, the Board had seldom chosen 
to substitute its judgment for that of investors who were close to the 
situation and willing to venture. 
Governor Daane stated that he continued to doubt whether the 
Board was warranted in permitting one holding company to enter a com-
munity and foreclosing another, if simply on the basis that the former's 
Proposed subsidiary was open for business while the proposed subsidiary 

1117 
3/22/67 
-10-
of the latter was not yet operating. He indicated that he would give 
further consideration to the question of filing a brief separate dis-
senting statement. (Note: Governor Daane subsequently decided to do 
so.) 
After further discussion, during which Mr. O'Connell referred 
to a question raised by Governor Maisel on the statement regarding the 
First National application and explained the change proposed to be made 
a s a result, issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 11 and 12. Copies 
of the dissenting statements of Governor Mitchell and Daane are attached 
a s Items 13 and 14, respectively. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
•^ERointment 
Charles Victor Brown, Jr., as Economist, Division of International 
inance, for a period of approximately 90 days beginning in mid-June 
^> with basic annual salary at the rate of $12,064. 
•^lary increases, effective March 26, 1967 
vr 
Basic annual salary 
^Sg__and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Research and Statistics 
^ u U a G. Back, Library Assistant 
$ 5,507 
atric H. Hendershott, Economist 
11,685 
International Finance 
^elen B. Junz, Economist 
16,152 
$ 5,683 
12,064 
16,675 

1118 
3/22/67 
-10-
Salary increases, effective March 26, 1967 (continued) 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
Examinations 
Basic annual salary 
To 
Cyril J. Bowman, Assistant Federal Reserve 
$ 9,262 
$ 9,523 
Examiner 
M. Patricia McShane, Assistant Review Examiner 
9,536 
9,851 
James K. Sanford, Review Examiner 
14,217 
14,665 
Robert G. Sundberg, Review Examiner 
15,113 
15,5 61 
Administrative Services 
Marie Bittner, Cafeteria Helper 
3,853 
3,975 
Helen M. Capozio, Publications Assistant 
8,155 
8,368 
Roger M. Painter, Chauffeur 
5,762 
6,053 
Office of the Controller 
Gerald F. Millea, Assistant to the Controller 
15,629 
16,152 
Data Processing 
Dorothy L. Folsom, Graphic Illustrator 
5,507 
5,683 
Theodore A. Veenstra, Jr., Chief, Financial 
16,152 
16,675 
Statistics Section 
Transf er 
Orville K. Thompson, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
t o the position of Chief, Consumer Credit and Finances Section, with an 
increase in basic annual salary from $17,198 to $18,764, effective 
Harch 26, 1967. 

1119 
BOARD OF GDVERNDRS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 12 
3/22/67 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N D C M C I 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 22, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Elliott State Bank, 
Jacksonville, Illinois. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Elliott State Bank, 
Jacksonville, Illinois, of a branch at the northeast 
corner of the intersection of N. Main Street and E. 
Douglas Avenue, Jacksonville, Illinois, provided the 
branch is established within six months from the date of 
this letter. 
The last examination of your bank revealed 
somewhat low capital and liquidity positions. The Board 
urges that this matter receive your continuing attention 
and appropriate action be taken in order that the growth 
of your bank will be on a sound basis. 
Very truly yours. 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

1120 
BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 12 
3/22/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 22, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of Las Vegas, 
Las Vegas, Nevada. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Bank of Las Vegas, 
Las Vegas, Nevada, of a branch in the vicinity of down-
town Mesquite, Clark County, Nevada, provided the branch 
is established within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
cc: Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
°f the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
°f November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

1121 
BOARD OF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
- WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 12 
3/22/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 22, 1967. 
The Bank of New York, 
48 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to The Bank of New York, New York, New York, pursuant 
to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to 
establish and operate a branch in London, England, to be located at 
147-48 Leadenhall Street, London, E.C.3; 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before April 1, 1968, all rights granted hereby shall 
°e deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 
: 
I 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for ' 
Purposes of the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort. 
Please inform the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business. 
|he Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
-Location of the branch in London. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

11.22 
OVGOu 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
3/22/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 22, 1967. 
Bankers International Corporation, 
Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 3, 1967, the Board 
of Governors grants consent to Bankers International (Luxembourg) 
A. ("BILSA"), to purchase and hold 900,000 shares of Rodo Invest-
ment Trust Ltd. ("RODO"), London, England, at a cost of approximately 
US$840,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year from 
^ e date of this letter. The Board also grants consent for BILSA to 
Purchase options to an additional 195,000 shares of RODO, and to 
exercise such options, at a cost of approximately US$218,400. In 
his connection, the Board also approves the purchase and holding of 
shares of RODO within the terms of the above consent in excess of 
Per cent of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
It is noted that the above investment will be financed with 
Part of the proceeds of BILSA's $20,000,000 European bond issue. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1123 
b o a r d o f 
g o v e r n o r s 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 12 
3/22/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 22, 1967 
Mr. M. A. Harris, 
Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Harris: 
This refers to your letter of March 16, 1967, and enclosures, 
concerning the proposed issue by the Inter-American Development Bank 
ot its Short-Term Dollar Bonds, Second Issue, consisting of One-Year 
sonds, due April 15, 1968, and Two-Year Bonds, due April 15, 1969 
in an aggregate principal amount between $30 million and $40 million 
in this regard, you state that it is proposed to amend Schedule A of* 
cne Fiscal Agency Agreement, dated as of December 7, 1962, between 
cne Inter-American Development Bank and your Bank to include the bonds 
in question. 
The Board of Governors approves of your Bank acting as 
^scal agent with respect to the proposed bond issue, and approves 
he execution and delivery by your Bank of an agreement with the 
J-nter-American Development Bank substantially in the form of the 
Proposed Supplement No. 5 to the Fiscal Agency Agreement enclosed 
with your letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1124 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 12 
3/22/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 22, 1967 
M r^. W i l f r e d H. Rommel, Assistant 
Bu^ r e c t o r for Legislative Reference, 
Washin 
t h e B u d§ e t' 
nington, D. C. 
20503 
D e a r Mr. Rommel: 
the Board'?1! 1 8 i n o e p i y / ° y o u r l e t t e r o f 
6> 
requesting 
°ertain 
w , ° n S' ,216, W h i C h r e l a t e S t 0 i n c o m e t a x treatment of 
l956> as amended in° 1966^6 P U r S U a n t ^ ^ 
H ° l d i n g C O m p a n y A c t ° f 
holdine 
B a" k k o l d i n 8 Company Act of 1956 prohibits any bank 
*0re than r P a n y 
° m e n« a8 i nS i n a ny nonbanking business or acquiring 
te^ires b I T I 
° f t h e V ° t i n g 8 h a r e s o f a ny s u c h business, and 
'e^ired 
a 
h o l d l n ? co®Panies to divest any such interests previously 
unfavo" I T 
l n 1 9 5 6' t h e A C t i n c l u d e d Provisions designed to 
he Bank 
n 
c o n s e cl u e n c e s to ? company's shareholders where 
and this 
Company Act forces the company to dispose of property, 
is done through a distribution to the shareholders. 
diVestiturIhe ^
^ 
^ e l i e v e s that this same principle should apply to 
"res required as a result of the 1966 amendments. Accordingly, 
th Boarn 
ie4ui.rea as a result of the 1 
Q favors the provisions of S. 216. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1125 
T E L E G R A M 
Item No* 7 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
3/22/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
March 22, 1967 
WAAGE - NEW YORK 
Board approves granting of loan on gold up to a total of $25 
million by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to the Central 
Bank of the Philippines on terms described in your wire of 
March 16, 1967, with the proviso that the Central Bank of the 
Philippines be informed that the loan has been approved even 
though it did not appear to be a seasonal credit of the type 
contemplated by the System's gold loan policy and that the loan 
was approved to afford the Philippines time to make other arrange-
ments for longer-term financing which would better meet its needs. 
In addition, Board requests that you inform the Central Bank of 
the Philippines that no renewal at the expiration of the 90-day 
V 
term will be considered. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
SHERMAN 

1126 
Item No. 8 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
3/22/67 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Iri the Matter of the Application of 
VALLEY BANCORPORATION, 
APPleton, Wisconsin, 
f£r approval of the acquisition of voting 
snares of American State Bank, Grand Chute, 
Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
8ection 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)), 
and section 222.4(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)), 
atl application by Valley Bancorporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, a 
te8istered bank holding company, for the Board's approval of the 
aCquisition of 9,875 of the 10,000 outstanding voting shares of 
Anierlcan State Bank, Grand Chute, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Commissioner of Banks for the State of Wisconsin of receipt of 
the aPplication and requested his views and recommendation thereon. 
Commissioner recotrmended approval of the application. 

-2 
1127 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Pederal Register on September 3, 1966 (31 Federal Register 11695), 
Which provided an opportunity for submission of comments and views 
Warding the application. A copy of the application was forwarded 
to ^e Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing 
Such comments and views has expired and all comments and views filed 
it:h the Board have been considered by it. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
St 
atement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Pt°vided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
Gfore the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
<b) later than three months after the date of the Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C,, this 23rd day of March, 1967# 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and Governors 
Shepardson, Mitchell, Daane, and Brimmer, 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and 
Maisel. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1128 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 9 
3/22/67 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY VALLEY BANCORPORATION FOR APPROVAL 
OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
AMERICAN STATE BANK, GRAND CHUTE, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
Valley Bancorporation, Appleton, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), a 
Sistered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
P rsuant to section 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 ("the Act") 
r Prior approval of the acquisition of 9,875 of the 10,000 outstanding 
°tir*g shares of American State Bank ("Bank"), Grand Chute, Wisconsin. 
Appjj 
cant presently controls five banks with nine offices and total 
^Posit 3 of $51.5 million. 
Bank was opened for business in December 
1966-
» estimates of its total deposits after three years of operation are 
$3'4 Dillon. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
Secti0n 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Commissioner of Banks 
tu 
e State of Wisconsin of receipt of the application and requested 
hls vie 
ws and recommendation thereon. The Commissioner recommended approval. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
% o p o l 
y> or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
^ a T T -
s date** 3 0' 1 9 6 6* 
Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of 
V 

1129 
-10-
^onopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed 
acquisitioriy t h e e f f e c t o f which, in any section of the country, may be 
SliK 
stantially to lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or 
which in a n y o th e r m a n n e r would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
°ard finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to 
e served, in each case the Board is required to take into consideration 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holdjn 
"g company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
the community to be served. 
Competitive effects of proposed transaction. - Bank is located 
°ximately .8 mile west of the city limits of Appleton in the adjoin-
ing J 
own of Grand Chute. Appleton is located on the Fox River in east-
ntral Wisconsin, approximately 30 miles southwest of Green Bay and 
miles northwest of Milwaukee. Appleton is the county seat of Outagamie 
Co 
n t y a n d the central city of a contiguous urban area extending along 
the F o 
* River valley, consisting of seven cities and villages known as 
"Fo Cities area". Within the Fox Cities area there are 13 commercial 
n§ offices, with deposits aggregating $225.6 million. Applicant's 
subsidiary banks control 19 per cent of the area banks' total deposits; 
the t w 
0 Appleton bank subsidiaries of First National Corporation, with 
G8ate deposits of $66.7 million, control 30 per cent of the area's 

1130 
-10-
dePosits. A national bank subsidiary of a third registered bank holding 
CCniPany (The Marine Corporation, Milwaukee) holds total deposits of 
•5 million, or 11 per cent of the total deposits of the area banks. 
Thu 
s> five banking subsidiaries of bank holding companies now control 
ab°ut 60 per cent of the total deposits of banks in the Fox Cities area, 
summation of Applicant's proposal would increase its aforestated con-
of deposits to 21 per cent, and that of all bank holding company 
Subsidiaries by less than 1 per cent. 
In view of the location of Applicant's present subsidiaries 
\ both 
are located in Appleton), their sizes ($38.8 million and $4.8 million, 
Actively), and considering Bank's location in Grand Chute, less than 
mile west of Appleton, the Board consider's the market area most rele-
n t to 
0 a determination of this application to be the Appleton area. The 
y o f Appleton has five banking offices, holding aggregate deposits of 
$125 5 
• million. Of these, Applicant's subsidiaries control about 35 per 
cent » and the subsidiaries of First National Corporation about 53 per cent. 
^Oggt.. 
e r t h eY control four of the five banking offices in Appleton. The 
°n-holding company bank, The Outagamie County Bank, has total deposits 
$15 , 
,L million, or 12 per cent of the deposits held by Appleton banks. 
While the foregoing data provide evidence of the substantial 
co which banking resources of the Appleton area are now concentrated 
^ the t 
two large organizations, these data also reflect that Appli-
c*nt ls 
not a dominant institution in either of the areas considered. 
n3 Bank's growth approximates that projected by Applicant ($3.4 million 
end of three years of operation), the resulting increase in 

11.31 
-4«-
%>Hcant's existing control of banking resources would have no undue 
Averse competitive effect. 
The Board concludes that, on the basis of the foregoing 
C0l*siderations and the facts of record, Applicant's acquisition and opera-
n of Bank would not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any 
Crribination o r conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the 
Usiness of banking in any relevant area of the State. 
Turning to a consideration of the probable effects of consummation 
A p p l i c a n t ' s proposal on existing and potential competition, the Board 
finds p 
» ror the reasons hereafter discussed, that these considerations do 
Hot K 
approval of the application. 
Applicant's two Appleton subsidiaries presently compete to some 
n t with Bank, particularly Appleton State Bank, whose service area 
aPs that of Bank. Applicant estimates that Bank, in its first three 
° r operation, will derive from the service areas of Applicant's 
APpleton banks deposits totaling slightly less than 1 per cent of the 
e a deposits of those banks. Applicant calculates that a significant 
P°tti0 
n of these deposits will be comprised of relocated accounts of 
Ptesenh 
depositors of the two Appleton banks. While the rate and nature 
Bank»o c 
s tuture growth is conjectural, Applicant's estimate of its growth 
obable service area appears to offer a reasonable basis for conclud-
es th 
a t consummation of the subject proposal will not cause elimination 
"^ninEful 
existing competition or foreclose significant potential 
lcion between Bank and Applicant's Appleton banks. 
Consideration must next be given to the impact that Applicant's 
UM> and operation of Bank is likely to have on The Outagamie County 

1132 
-10-
Bank, the only bank in Appleton not a subsidiary of a holding company, 
the time the application for Bank's charter was before the Wisconsin 
State Banking Department, The Outagamie County Bank opposed the granting 
of that charter on the grounds that establishment of Bank, or any other 
bank at that location, would significantly reduce the share of banking 
business which The Outagamie County Bank would otherwise obtain from its 
s&rvice area. While a significant portion of Bank's service area is also 
se*ved by The Outagamie County Bank, that fact alone does not establish 
ttlat Applicant's ownership of Bank would adversely affect The Outagamie 
Co 
Unty Bank's established competitive ability. In the 5-year period 
6tl(Hng December 31, 1965, The Outagamie County Bank's total deposits in-
cased at a greater rate than First National Bank of Appleton and at a 
s°mewhat lesser rate than that of Appleton State Bank, which banks are, 
Actively, approximately four and three times the size of The Outagamie 
Co 
Unty Bank. Over the same period of time, and despite the establishment 
1963 of a new bank in Appleton, The Outagamie County Bank retained a 
ar identical percentage of the total deposits held by all banks in 
Considering the successful history of growth and competitive 
on the part of The Outagamie County Bank, the Board perceives no 
DstantiaUy adverse effect upon it from consummation of Applicant's 
Pt°Posal. 
On the basis of the foregoing considerations, the Board concludes 
that „ 
c°nsummation of Applicant's proposal will neither result in any sub-
antial lessening of competition nor in any other manner be in restraint 
°f ^ade 

- 6 -
1133 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
financial condition of Applicant and of its subsidiary banks is con-
sidered to be generally satisfactory. This conclusion is premised in 
on the recent substantial improvement in the capital structure of 
tw° of Applicant's subsidiary banks. The management of all of Applicant's 
tuucs, as well as that of Applicant, is considered satisfactory. Based 
Primarily upon the generally favorable prospects of each of its subsidiary 
banks> Applicant's prospects are considered similarly favorable. Bank 
°Per\ed for business at year-end 1966 and, as earlier stated, is estimated 
to have deposits totaling $3.4 million at the end of three years of oper-
ation. Accordingly, Bank has no significant operating history. As to its 
Aspects, assuming the banking structure of the area as now established 
te^ains relatively the same, it is the Board's judgment that Bank's prospects 
successful future operation are favorable whether operated as a sub-
Sidiary of Applicant or independent of that affiliation. However, it is 
Ikely that, as hereinafter discussed, Bank's ability to serve the con-
enience and respond to the needs of the area involved would be enhanced 
as 
member of Applicant's system, and that, accordingly, its prospects 
ate 
somewhat more favorable as a subsidiary of Applicant than would other-
wise h the case. The conclusion as to Bank's prospects takes into con-
Si( 
std Nation the Board's action of this date denying an application by 
rst National Corporation, Appleton, for approval of its acquis!~ 
U 
of a proposed new national bank to be located in the immediate 
ci*lity of Bank. The record heroin satisfied the Board that 

28 
-10-
while the residential, farm, and business banking requirements of the 
relevant area are sufficient to assure favorable prospects for Bank, 
similar assurance would be presented were Bank and an additional new 
banl< to operate in the same location. The Board's Statement accompanying 
ts denial Order in the First National Corporation case takes note of the 
^act that the proposed new bank there involved will not open for business 
iu the absence of approval of First National's proposal. 
At the present time Bank is apparently closely affiliated with 
^PPlicant through common stock ownership and Bank's present management 
as been selected by Applicant and is considered to be satisfactory. Pre-
lum" Ki 
«_ 
CDiy, should this application be approved, the same management would 
n u e in Bank - a result consistent with approval of the application. 
^niai of the application would result, according to Applicant, in a 
^sult 
p u bUc sale of Bank's stock which, in turn, in Applicant's opinion, could 
in dissolution of the existing ownership affiliation and in the 
Ssible displacement of present management. In the Board's view, the 
r possibility augurs less favorably for Bank than does the certainty 
experienced management offered by Applicant's proposal. Accordingly, 
that n*. 
Proposal, as it relates to the management factor, is consistent with 
Weighs somewhat in favor of approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the area involved. - As mentioned, Bank 
is lo 
cated in the unincorporated Town of Grand Chute, a residential 
Unity immediately west of Appleton. Bank's primary service area 
1Qs in all directions from its site and covers an area of approximately 

11.35 
-8-
eight square miles, of which about 1-1/2 square miles are within the 
City of Appleton, Bank's service area, with an estimated population of 
aPproximately 15,000, is presently experiencing residential, commercial, 
and industrial growth, especially in its western portion. Expansion of 
a current development trend in the western portion of Bank's service area 
be aided by the recent extension of Appleton's principal east-west 
business street past Bank's site to U. S. Highway 41, and the proposed 
fu*ther extension thereof to a point three miles west of Bank's site. 
^thin the western portion of Bank's service area are located two large 
niotels> t\tfo shopping centers, a large insurance company office building, 
Several sizable industrial plants, and numerous smaller commercial estab-
^shments. The City of Appleton has purchased a 115-acre tract of land 
9b °ut .6 mile from Bank's site for development as an industrial park. 
Veral industrial concerns have purchased plant sites in this area. While 
siSnificant volume of business may be anticipated from the aforementioned 
Ust*ial and commercial development, a more likely source of demand for 
Ba^u» 
s services, with particular emphasis on loans, may be anticipated 
m the dairy industry to the west of Bank's site. The proposed exten-
si 
n °f Appleton's principal business street to a point three miles west 
^ ^nk's site will substantially improve access to Bank from the numerous 
y farms located west of Appleton. Four of Applicant's five subsidiary 
specialize in farm credit. Applicant states its intention to make 
ail*ble to Bank the collective experience and expertise of its system's 
PetS°nnel in the field of agricultural credit and, pursuant to this plan, 

.9. 
1 1 3 6 
has selected as Bank's executive officer, should this acquisition be 
c°nsummated, an official of an existing subsidiary bank who has some 
years of experience in farm credit work. Applicant states that there 
^ll also be employed an agricultural representative who will assist 
°£ficers of Applicant's banks in servicing the needs of their farm 
Custcmers. Closely allied to the "direct farm" assistance proposed by 
applicant are the general agri-business services which Bank, under Appli-
Cant's ownership, will be able to extend to various farm-related businesses 
atld industries in its service area. Included among these are three sizable 
Jaw. 
' supply and equipment dealers, a large manufacturer of farm tractors 
e<luipment, a cooperative dairy products concern, and a large canning 
PUnt. 
While it is recognized that the major banking needs of the 
dementioned farmers and related farm business concerns, as well as those 
of t, 
ne residents and commercial business concerns in Bank's service area, 
Presently being served by the five Appleton banks and other banks in 
] 
that 
the pn 
n Cities area, the record before the Board warrants the conclusion 
applicant's ownership and operation of Bank will provide a source of 
Uti 
to 
nS services more convenient and, in certain respects, more responsive 
listing needs than is now provided. These considerations, in the 
3 judgment, weigh affirmatively toward approval of the application. 

-10-
1137 
Conclusion, - On the basis of all the relevant facts contained 
the record, and in light of the facts set forth in section 3(c) of 
ttle Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would 
in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
Ma**h 23, 1967. 

11.38 
Item No. 10 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND MAISEL 
3/22/67 
In our judgment, the language and clear intent of the Bank 
Holding Company Act preclude approval of Valley Bancorporation's 
Proposal. The Act provides that the Board shall not approve an 
acquisit.ion of a bank by a bank holding company where the effect of 
SUch acquisition may be to substantially lessen competition, unless 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposal are 
Nearly outweighed by the probable effect of the proposal in meeting 
ttle convenience and needs of the community to be served. Applicant 
bas not sustained its burden of establishing that the anticompetitive 
e^fects inherent in its proposal are overweighed to any measurable 
extent by probable benefits to the public. 
The banking resources of the Appleton area are largely 
concentrated in Applicant (35 per cent of the area's bank deposits) 
and First National Corporation, Appleton (53 per cent of the area!s 
deposits). Each system now operates two banks in Appleton in 
^Petition with but one independent bank. The foregoing degree of 
c°ncentration Is sufficiently high that even a slight increase should 
tlot be sanctioned absent a compelling public need. The record in this 
Case clearly establishes not only that there is no compelling public 
need for consummation of Applicant's proposal, but, on the contrary, 
^at the major banking requirements of the affected area are at 
esent served adequately and with reasonable convenience. To the 
extent that the convenience and scope of banking service might be 
^Proved in the foreseeable future by the establishment of an addi-
°nal bank in Grand Chute, this is now an accomplished fact. The 

1133 
-2-
American State Bank is in operation and will continue irrespective of 
its acquisition by Applicant * 
The majority of the Board emphasizes that Bank's prospects 
a^d its potential for public service are bettered under control of 
Applicant than would otherwise be the case. While in certain respects 
this conclusion appears valid, there is no evidence that American State 
Sank would not experience reasonable growth operating independently of 
Applicant's system. The fact that it might grow less rapidly, or 
that its service potential might less quickly evolve, is not a basis 
approving this application. 
Our appraisal of the Grand Chute-Appleton banking structure 
leads to the conclusion that American State Bank's operation as an 
independent banking unit would be far more consistent with the public 
interest than would its addition to an already sizable bank holding 
c°otpany system. For these reasons, we would deny this application. 
M a r ch 23, 1967. 

1.1 
Item No. 11 
3/22/67 
UNITED STATES Of AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C, 
ln the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST NATIONAL CORPORATION, 
W e t o n , Wisconsin, 
f 
the a p p r o v a l o f acquisition of 14,500 of 
p e 15,000 voting shares to be issued by 
*st National Bank West, Grand Chute, 
Sconsin, a proposed new bank. 
ORDER DENYING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
SeCM 
iQn 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C, 1842(a)), 
Section 222.4(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222„4(a>), 
Application by First National Corporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, for the 
s prior approval of the acquisition of 14,500 of the 15,000 voting 
8 W e s t-
co be issued by First National Bank West, Grand Chute, Wisconsin, 
* pr°Posed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
C°mpt>-r.1, 
°iler of the Currency of the application and requested his views and 
'endation. The Comptroller recommended approval. 

-2-
1141 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Pederal Register on July 19, 1966 (31 Federal Register 9763), providing 
atl Opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
Aspect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
ePartment of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing comments and 
iGWs has expired and all those received have been considered by the Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
St 
dement of this date, that said application of First National Corporation 
to acquire stock of First National Bank West be and hereby is denied. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 23rd day of March, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and Governors Robertson, 
Shepardson, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Voting against this action: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1142 
Item No. 12 
3/22/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY FIRST NATIONAL CORPORATION FOR APPROVAL 
OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
FIRST NATIONAL BANK WEST, GRAND CHUTE, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
First National Corporation, Appleton, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 ("the 
ActMi c 
, 
)> tor prior approval of the acquisition of 14,500 of the 15,000 
v°ting shares proposed to be issued by First National Bank West ("Bank"), 
a Proposed new bank to be located in Grand Chute, Wisconsin. 
Applicant became a bank holding company in February 1966. 
Its system consists of two banks with aggregate deposits of $66.7 
Applicant's principal subsidiary, First National Bank of 
APPleton, with two offices, holds deposits of $66.3 million; its 
0 th 
Gr subsidiary, Valley National Bank, Appleton, opened for business 
ln February 1966, and holds approximately $472,000 of deposits. 
Its 
June 30, 1966, Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are 

- 2 -
1143 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
°f the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
and recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly, or would be in furtherance of any combination or con-
sPiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of 
banking in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve 
any other proposed acquisition, the effect of which, in any section 
o f the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or tend 
to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint 
o f trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of 
tH 
n G proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest 
by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience 
a 
-
j 
needs of the community to be served. In each case the Board is 
required to take into consideration the financial and managerial re-
sources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks 
concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effects of proposed transaction. - The Town of 
Grand Chute, Bank's proposed location, adjoins the City of Appleton 
° n the west. Appleton, situated on the Fox River in east-central 
Vjj e 
sconsin, some 30 miles southwest of Green Bay and 100 miles northwest 
Milwaukee, is the County Seat of Outagamie County and the central 

1144 
-10-
city of a contiguous urban area, consisting of seven cities and villages 
^tending along the Fox River valley, and known as the "Fox Cities area". 
this area 11 banking organizations with 13 banking offices hold aggre-
§ste deposits of $225.6 million. Applicant's system ranked first among 
^e 11 banking organizations in terms of total deposits controlled, 
Elding 30 per cent of the deposits of all Fox Cities area banks. An 
additional 19 per cent of such deposits is held by the two Appleton 
bank subsidiaries (aggregate deposits of $43.6 million) of Valley 
^corporation, a registered bank holding company. A subsidiary of 
TVi 
e Marine Corporation, Milwaukee, a registered bank holding company, 
h°lds deposits of $24.5 million, or 11 per cent of the total deposits 
0f the area. 
Within the City of Appleton, the area most relevant to the 
°ard's determination of the competitive impact of Applicant's pro-
posal, there are located five banking offices, holding aggregate 
Posits of $125.5 million. Applicant's two subsidiaries control 
53 n 
Per cent of these funds. The subsidiaries of the two holding com-
Pany systems located in Appleton combined hold approximately 88 per cent 
O f 
fci 
area's total deposits. Applicant's First National Bank of 
An Pleton, with deposits of nearly $67 million, is the dominant bank-
n§ organization in the Appleton area. Its total deposits are 70 per 
cent raore than those of the second largest bank, and over three times 
th 
° S e held by The Outagamie County Bank, the only bank in Appleton not affilia-
ted v*th a bank holding ,company. While the bulk of the deposits of 

.4- 
1
1
4
5 
^Ppleton banks is controlled by two banking organizations (88 per cent), 
as between these two, Applicant is significantly the larger, Appli-
Catlt's dominant position in the Appleton area, viewed presently and 
Prospectively9 is a consideration that militates against favorable action 
°n Appiicantis proposal absent evidence of a compelling resultant 
immunity benefit. 
Applicant's ownership of Bank would not result in elimination 
of 
listing competition, nor foreclose any real competition between Bank 
U(i Applicant's Appleton subsidiaries, Inasmuch as Bank would be newly 
^Eanized, no present competition exists; since Bank would open only as 
subsidiary of Applicant, it cannot be realistically assumed that any 
teai 
competition between Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries would arise. 
The probable impact of Applicant's proposal on The Outagamie 
U n t y Bank, the single independent bank in Appleton, viewed alone, 
n°t anticipated to be severe. The Outagamie County Bank, a 
^ million institution, has shown a sound rate of growth in the face 
competition with Applicant's $67 million institution and the 
$39 
mlllion subsidiary of Valley Bancorporation. Thus, were Bank the 
additional competitive force that would be faced by The Outagamie 
nty Bank in Appleton, such circumstances would not warrant concern. 
Ho, 
, when there is added to this potential competitive force the 
^ditj 
lonal competition now offered, and to be offered, by American 
St a t 6 
2/ 
°ank, recently opened in virtually the same location as Bank, 
^ti ° r d e r 0 f t h i s 
tlie Board has approved the acquisition of 
°£ it
Catl State Bank by Valley Bancorporation, and has issued a Statement 
s reasons supporting that action. 

-5-
11.46 
there is far greater reason to believe that the combined competitive 
force would constitute an undue impediment to The Outagamie County 
Bank's continued growth. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
applicant's financial condition is directly related to the condition of 
its subsidiary banks. Their financial conditions and prospects are cen-
tered generally satisfactory, as are those of Applicant. The manage-
r s of Applicant and its banks, and the proposed management of Bank, 
also considered satisfactory. Four of Bank's five proposed directors 
Presently directors of First National Bank of Appleton or Valley 
ati°nal Bank, and its proposed president and cashier, respectively, 
are n Presently employees of First National Bank of Appleton. Viewed 
°lely from the standpoint of Applicant's satisfactory financial con-
din 
n and future prospects, it is believed Bank's prospects would be 
v ° r a b l e . These prospects are rendered less favorable, however, by 
the o Peration of the recently opened Appleton State Bank two blocks 
ttOlQ ft l | 
ank s proposed site. In the Board's opinion, Bank's growth and 
ngs prospects under these circumstances are only fair. 
Convenience and needs of the area involved. - The Town of 
chute, wherein Bank would be located, is a residential com-
^itv ^ 
y immediately adjoining the City of Appleton to the west. 

- 6 -
1147 
Bank's projected primary service area would extend 1-1/2 miles east 
^to Appleton and approximately three miles north, west, and south 
froro Bank's site. The area has an estimated population of 18,000. 
Within the eastern extension of Bank's proposed service area, the 
City °f Appleton has purchased a 115-acre tract of land as a site 
c 
r an industrial park. Several industrial concerns have purchased 
Plant sites in this area. Within Bank's service area the western 
P°rtion thereof appears to offer the greatest potential for develop-
and expansion. The City of Appleton's principal east-west 
^usiness street has been extended west beyond Bank's proposed site, 
A t . j a further extension of this highway is proposed to a point some 
three miles west of that site. This portion of Bank's proposed 
e*vice area contains two large motels, two shopping centers, a large 
office building, several industrial plants, and numerous smaller 
c°nimercial establishments. The westernmost sector of Bank's projected 
8ervi r> 
Ace area and a considerable area beyond are devoted to farming. 
A] t-v. 
h°ugh the record reflects, and Applicant concedes, that its 
ubsidiary banks are not agriculturally oriented, Applicant asserts 
belief that many of the farmers in this area would use Bank for 
0 U S banking services including loans. 
The evidence of record does not suggest that the area's 
banking needs, including those of farmers and commercial and 

- 7 . 
1
1
4
8 
industrial concerns, are not now reasonably well served. At the 
same time the numerous dairy farms located west of Appleton would 
undoubtedly be more conveniently served by a bank located at or 
about Bank's proposed site. However, this convenience factor has 
Apparently been served by the recent establishment of American State 
Bank in the Town of Grand Chute. To the extent that the banking needs, 
Particularly the credit requirements, of the farmers and farm-related 
businesses west of Appleton were not being conveniently met, the Board 
believes they can and will now be met through the Appleton area banks, 
including American State Bank. Considering the area banking structure 
as it now exists, the Board is unable to conclude that the establish-
ment and operation of Bank by Applicant would provide any significant 
Public benefits. On the contrary, Bank's establishment pursuant to 
applicant's proposal could have the effect of precluding later entry 
into the Grand Chute-Appleton area of an additional independent banking 
Unit should future area developments warrant such establishment. On 
basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that considerations 
Elating to the factor of convenience and needs offer little, if any, 
height toward approval of the application. 
Conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts contained 
in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) 
the Act, it is the Board's judgment that consummation of the pro-
Posed acquisition would enhance the already dominant position of 
Applicant in the Appleton area and, more particularly, would adversely 

1149 
affect the competitive ability of The Outagamie County Bank, without 
any real countervailing benefit to the public. The likelihood of 
such an occurrence requires that the application be denied. 
Harch 23, 1967. 

1150 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR MITCHELL 
Item No. 13 
3/22/67 
The majority's action in approving the Valley Bancorporation's 
aPPlication today and denying a similar application of the First National 
Cof Potation is, in my judgment, unduly prejudicial to the interests of 
the 
e latter. In real effect, it accords the right to grow de novo to 
ey but denies this opportunity to National. It is alleged that First 
°nal Corporation's position in the City of Appleton is too dominant to 
Cc°rd it equal treatment because it has 53 per cent of total deposits in 
the a 
rea (Valley has 35 per cent). However, the service area of the new 
t>ar\k i 
is not Appleton but a much smaller area to the west, partially in and 
tially out of the city. An exactly comparable percentage, i.e., using 
totai , 
deposits as a basis, is not available to show how dominant First 
tlonal is in this smaller area. But a survey conducted by the Federal 
v e Bank of Chicago suggests that between 40 and 45 per cent of the 
Usehold and business accounts in the area are presently at the First 
Atonal. 
Concentration ratios of 40-60 per cent for the largest bank in 
«ti ar 
a are not uncommon in cities the size of Appleton. As of November 
» Lne latest date for which such data are now available, using the 
39 
standard metropolitan areas with populations of less than 125,000 (to 
be r o 
ughly comparable with the Appleton area), the average concentration 
was 45 per cent. In over a fourth of these areas the ratios were 
of 50 per cent. 

- 2 -
11.51 
It would seem to me proper to deny applications to merge in 
an area where the applicant has as much as 40 to 50 per cent of local 
^posits, but banks of this relative size should not be cut off from 
e^orts to expand their deposits and add to the convenience of their 
Custcmers by other competitive means, including de novo branching. 
To the best of my knowledge, there are very few instances in 
any of the regulatory authorities have adopted so harsh an 
atlticompetitive stance. 
23, 1967. 

1152 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR DAANE 
I t e m No- 14 
3/22/67 
I concur in Governor Mitchell's view that the Board's denial 
f First National Corporation's application, in the face of the Board's 
Pproval of Valley Bancorporation's application, is unduly prejudicial 
0 First National's rights and interests. The Board's action in First 
^sti 
i 
°nal's case reflects, in my judgment, reliance on an unwarranted 
stinction as to probable competitive consequences in the two cases. 
reality> Valley Bancorporation won the day merely by opening American 
Bantc ahead, of First National's proposed bank. To the winner goes 
the laurel 
23, 1 9 6 7 
