Minutes for March 17, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary-
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of minutes commenc-
ing on the page and dealing with the subject referred to below: 
Page 10 Amendments to Regulation H, Membership 
of State Banking Institutions in the 
Federal Reserve System. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advisg the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below to indirrsrfce approval of the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
i . • ; 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

. 896 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, March 17, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
.. 
... 
at 10:00 a.m. 
j 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
s 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, As sistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Lynch, Noble, and Via, and Mrs. 
Duerson of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Hanweck, Schweitzer, and Wiles, and 
Miss Murray of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Achor, Burton, Kline, Maguire, and 
McAninch of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Messrs. Pflueger and Veenstra of the Division 
of Data Processing 

907 
3/17/69 
-2-
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Anchor Savings Bank, New 
York, New York, into Bushwick Savings Bank, also of New York City, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is some competition existing between Bushwick 
Savings Bank and Anchor Savings Bank, both headquartered 
in the Borough of Brooklyn, New York City. In addition, 
through the establishment of de novo branches there is 
potential for greater competition. However, in view of 
the substantial number and variety of financial institu-
tions offering convenient facilities for savings banks' 
customers, the competition that would be eliminated by 
the proposal would not appear to be such as to cause the 
overall effect on competition to be more than slightly 
adverse. 
Application of Citizens Trust and Savings Bank. There had 
been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's denial on February 20, 1969, of the application of Citizens 
Trust and Savings Bank, South Haven, Michigan, to acquire the assets 
and assume the deposit liabilities of The West Michigan Savings Bank, 
Bangor, Michigan. A dissenting statement by Governor Daane also had 
been distributed. 
During discussion Governor Mitchell expressed the view that 
the majority statement as drafted did not deal effectively enough with 
°ne of the principal reasons for denying the application; namely, the 
theory that the Bangor community would be better served in the long 
run if improved services were made available through a banking 

. _ 
8 5 i 8 
3/17/69 
- 3 -
organization with a less dominant position in the area than Citizens 
Trust and Savings Bank. 
It was understood that the statement would be redrafted in 
the light of these comments and brought back to the Board for further 
consideration. 
Application of Union Bank (Items 1 and 2). There had been 
distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's 
approval on March 3, 1969, of the application of Union Bank, Los 
Angeles, California, to merge with Oakland Bank of Commerce, Oakland, 
California. 
After discussion, during which agreement was expressed with 
certain editorial-type changes that had been suggested by Governor 
Maisel, the issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 1 and 2. 
Application of Associated Bank Services. A memorandum from 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated March 5, 1969, and 
other pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an 
application of Associated Bank Services, Inc., Green Bay, Wisconsin, 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Kellogg-Citizens National Bank 
of Green Bay, Manitowoc Savings Bank, and The First National Bank of 
Neenah. The staff and Reserve Bank recommendations were favorable. 
Mr. Lyon summarized the application and thereafter responded 
to several questions by Governor Mitchell relating to the management 

907 
3/17/69 
-4-
of the holding company and services the company would render to the 
banks involved. 
The Board members then expressed their views on the applica-
tion, beginning with Governor Mitchell, who said that he would approve 
despite some reservations. There was a certain vagueness in the docu-
mentation as to the closeness with which the banks would be linked 
together in the holding company system and the extent to which the 
organization might attract other banks in the area. He was not sold 
on the idea of regional holding companies unless they offered an effec-
tive alternative to nonregional competition. It was not clear whether 
such would be the case in this instance, but it seemed probable. 
Governor Daane stated that he agreed with the analysis of the 
Banking Markets Section. The formation of the holding company would 
have only a slightly adverse effect on competition, and the convenience 
and needs factor provided only slight weight in favor of the applica-
tion. It appeared to him that the case was about a standoff. However, 
he would approve. 
Governor Maisel stated that he would approve the application. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the formation of 
small regional holding companies such as this one, offering a broader 
range of services, could result in more effective competition with the 
large Milwaukee-based banking organizations, which could otherwise be 
expected to reach into the area for additional expansion. For this 
reason he would approve the application. 

907 
3/17/69 
-5-
Governor Sherrill stated that he would approve the application 
on the same basis. 
Governor Robertson said he would approve the application with-
out question, as did Chairman Martin. 
The application was then approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration. 
Application of Marine Midland Banks. There had been distributed 
a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
March 4, 1969, and other pertinent papers in connection with an appli-
cation of Marine Midland Banks, Inc., Buffalo, New York, to acquire 
not less than 80 per cent of the outstanding voting shares of Tinker 
National Bank, East Setauket, New York. The Division recommended 
approval, as did the Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York. 
Following comments by Mr. Lyon based on the material that had 
been distributed, Governor Daane stated that he was puzzled by the 
position taken by the Banking Markets Section. It did not seem to him 
that the conclusion reached was substantiated by the analysis. 
Mr. Shull replied that in this particular case the competitive 
effect was not considered serious because concentration in the market 
was not very high. Also, there were many potential entrants. In such 
a case the slightly adverse effect would generally be outweighed by 

907 
3/17/69 
-6-
the philosophy involved in maintaining a relatively free market in 
banking, that is, a relatively free exchange of properties. On that 
general basis, the Section found no good reason for denying the appli-
cation even though the convenience and needs factor would lend only 
slight weight toward approval. 
Governor Brimmer said that he would like to continue the same 
line of questioning. The Banking Markets Section concluded not only 
that Marine Midland was likely to enter the area, but that it was one 
of the most likely entrants. He asked whether the weight previously 
attached by the Board to potential competition was being ignored in 
this instance. 
Mr. Shull replied that considerable weight was attached by the 
Section to potential competition. Given the structure of the partic-
ular market, the first question asked would be whether it was important 
to maintain the likelihood of entrance. Here the degree of concentra-
tion was much lower than in certain previous cases, such as Buffalo, 
and it was the conclusion of the Section that it was less important 
to preserve potential entrance into the market. There was also the 
question of the number of potential entrants. In this case there were 
a relatively large number. Consequently, the loss of one potential 
entrant, even though it was perhaps the most likely one, was not 
regarded as a serious factor. 
Governor Brimmer then stated that, while the low capital posi-
tion of Tinker National Bank gave some cause for concern, the Division of 

3/17/69 
-7-
Supervision and Regulation apparently was of the view that the pros-
pects for raising capital were favorable regardless of whether the 
application was approved. The management of Tinker National Bank was 
strong; the bank was a viable, vigorous institution in a growing mar-
ket area. He inquired as to the reason for concluding that the 
convenience and needs factor would outweigh those considerations. 
Mr. Kline replied that the Division did not find the competi-
tive effect to be seriously adverse because of the large number of 
Potential entrants. It was possible that Tinker National Bank, the 
second largest bank headquartered in Suffolk County, would in time 
acquire the means of becoming a major bank with all banking services. 
However, as a subsidiary of Marine Midland, it could become an imme-
diate alternative source of full banking services, which consideration 
provided some weight in terms of convenience and needs. 
The Board members then expressed their views, and Governor 
Mitchell stated that he would approve the application for the reason 
that, while Tinker National Bank was a good, rapidly growing country 
bank, it could use the resources of Marine Midland to provide an even 
more aggressive and competitive environment. There was admittedly a 
high degree of competition in the area, but the bank could become an 
even greater force with the capital and resources of the large organi-
zation behind it. It did not appear to him that in a growing metro-
politan area of this kind the result of the acquisition would be anti-
competitive . 

3/17/69 
-8-
Goverrior Daane noted that this case involved an aggressive 
independent bank that was servicing the needs of its community. He 
could not see much going for the application in terms of convenience 
and needs, and there was a likelihood of other applications for 
entrance into the area. Altogether, it was a close case, but in light 
°f staff views, including those of the Banking Markets Section, he 
would approve. 
Governor Maisel indicated that he too would approve the appli-
cation. When there were several banks operating in a community of 
this kind, it was logical for holding companies to step in and buy one. 
He anticipated that eventually all of the banks in Suffolk County, 
except for a few fringe banks, would be owned by holding companies. 
However, there were enough banks so that several holding companies 
could come in without serious consequences. 
Governor Brimmer felt that the application should be denied; 
it was his view that the staff had in fact made a case for denial. 
The bank in question was vigorous, with no real problems, and 
reportedly could raise capital on its own. Furthermore, he did not 
share the view that large bank holding companies should be allowed to 
come into rapidly growing market areas and pick up the best of the 
local institutions on the ground that that was a natural route for 
holding companies to follow. 
Governor Sherrill commented that he would approve the applica-
tion on the basis that competition in the area was broken into two 

907 
3/17/69 
-9-
parts: one dominant bank several times larger than its nearest com-
petitor, and a number of smaller banks. Approval of the application 
would result in a better competitive balance. While it was possible 
that Tinker National Bank was capable of increasing its capital, that 
did not appear to be the management's intent, so the bank would be 
better capitalized under the holding company. In the long run he felt 
that the competitive picture in the area would be much as described 
by Governor Maisel. 
Governor Robertson stated that he would deny the application. 
Approval would foreclose potential competition from the banking organi-
zation most likely otherwise to enter the market, which organization 
was one of the largest bank holding companies in the United States. 
So far as the bank being taken over was concerned, it was a good 
aggressive institution. No major banking needs were going unmet in 
the county, and there were adequate facilities for all. The holding 
company was making an offer the shareholders could not afford to turn 
down, and one that only a holding company would be in a position to 
make. The application was one that should be disapproved not only 
because of the size of the institution itself, but because potential 
competition should not be foreclosed when no offsetting benefit to the 
Public would result. 
Chairman Martin indicated that he would approve the application 
since he saw nothing adverse to the public interest in the proposal. 

907 
3/17/69 
-10-
Accordingly, the application was approved. Governors Robertson 
and Brimmer dissenting, with the understanding that an appropriate 
order and statement would be drafted for the Board's consideration, 
along with a dissenting statement or statements. 
Publication of reports of condition (Items 3 and 4). There 
had been distributed a memorandum from the Data Processing and Legal 
Divisions dated March 10, 1969, proposing certain technical amendments 
to Regulation H (Membership of State Banking Institutions in the 
Federal Reserve System) and to the Rules Regarding Delegation of 
Authority arising from the changes in call report procedures approved 
by the Board on January 30, 1969. The proposed amendments would 
Permit State member banks to publish information in a form somewhat 
different from the report submitted to the Reserve Bank, and the 
Reserve Banks would be granted broader authority to extend the time 
for publication under appropriate circumstances. 
The proposed amendments were approved unanimously, effective 
March 18, 1969. Copies of the amendments, in the form transmitted to 
the Federal Register, are attached as Items 3 and 4. 
Kennedy questionnaire. There had been distributed a memorandum 
dated March 14, 1969, from the Office of the Secretary submitting a 
Proposed reply to a questionnaire relating to the Board's administra-
tive practices and procedures that had been sent individually to the 
members of the Board by Senator Kennedy, Chairman of the Subcommittee 

907 
3/17/69 
-11-
on Administrative Practice and Procedure of the Committee on the 
Judiciary. 
Answers to the questions had been drafted by members of the 
staff pursuant to the understanding at the meeting on February 26, 
1969. The memorandum suggested that if the Board favored a single 
reply rather than submission of individual letters, the letter of 
transmittal from Chairman Martin might state that the other members 
of the Board were in agreement with the views expressed. A proposed 
letter was attached. 
Discussion revealed that members of the Board were favorably 
disposed toward the sending of a single reply. 
Comments were then di rected to the draft document, with 
members of the Board offering a number of suggestions relating, among 
°ther things, to the remarks on the use of consultants, which it was 
agreed should make clear that the consultants provided technical 
expertise only and did not formulate policy. Certain changes also 
were suggested in the discussion of procedures for ascertaining the 
views and needs of the poor, and there was agreement that some mention 
should be made of the composition of the Advisory Committee on Truth 
in Lending. 
It was understood that the staff would rework the document in 
the light of the comments at this morning's meeting and that the 
revised reply to the questionnaire would be brought back for further 
Board consideration. 

907 
3/17/69 
-12-
Travelers checks. Consideration of a memorandum dated 
March 12, 1969, from the Office of the Secretary relating to a 
request that banks' travelers check liabilities be exempted from 
reserve requirements was deferred. However, Governor Maisel raised 
the question how certain operations normally related to the banking 
business, particularly acceptance of deposits, could lawfully be 
engaged in by American Express Company. It was understood that the 
staff would review the record on this point. 
Regulations on advertising. Governor Mitchell, who had 
attended the March 14 meeting of the Coordinating Committee on Bank 
Regulation pursuant to the understanding at the Board meeting on 
March 12, 1969, reported on views that had been exchanged by members 
°f the Coordinating Committee concerning proposed regulations on bank 
advertising. He indicated that in the light of last Friday's discus-
sion staff work was proceeding on language that might permit the 
issuance of compatible regulations by the several agencies concerned. 
Another meeting of the Coordinating Committee was scheduled for 
Thursday, March 20, and he expressed the belief that matters might by 
then have progressed to the point that proposed regulations could be 
Published for comment shortly thereafter. 
Prime rate. Chairman Martin noted that the prime rate had 
been raised this morning by three or four of the key banks (from 7 to 

3/17/69 
-13-
7-l/2 per cent), and Mr. Partee commented briefly in terms of possible 
market reactions. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
- w :•} 

909 
Item No. 
2 
3/17/69 
UHITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 1 
UNION BANK 
1 
for approval of merger with 
1 
Oakland Bank of Commerce 
' 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1028(c)), an application by Union Bank, 
Los Angeles, California, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve 
System, for the Board!s prior approval of the merger of that bank with 
Oakland Bank of Commerce, Oakland, California, under the charter and 
title of Union Bank, Notice oj. Lho proposed merger, in form approved 
by the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light 
°f the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished 
by 
the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, and the Attorney General on the competitive factors 
Involved in the proposed merger, 

9 1 0 
-2-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 17 th day of March, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this actions Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
• 
... 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and 
Daane, 
(signed) 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

911 
Item No. 2 
3/17/69 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY UNION BANK 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
OAKLAND BANK OF COMMERCE 
STATEMENT 
Union Bank, Los Angeles, California ("Union Bank"), with 
total deposits of $1,280 million, has applied, pursuant to the Bank 
Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval of the 
merger of that bank with the Oakland Bank of Coranerce, Oakland, 
California ("Oakland Bank"), with deposits of $127 million.]/ The banks 
. 
would merge under the charter and the name of Union Bank, xjhich is a 
member of the Federal Reserve System. As an incident to the merger, 
the sole office of Oakland Bank x/ould become a branch of Union Bank, 
increasing the number of its offices to 17. 
Competition. - Union Bank, headquartered in Los Angeles, 
operates 16 banking offices in Southern California and is the seventh 
largest bank in California, holding 2.9 per cent of total commercial 
bank deposits in the State. Oakland Bank's only office is in 
Alameda County. The bank ranks twentieth in size in California, with 
0 1 
* P e r cent of total deposits. Consummation of the proposal would 
Figures are as of October 30, 1968. 

-2-
produce the eighth State-wide banking system, with the resulting bank 
controlling 3.2 per cent of total commercial bank deposits and 
operating 17 of the State's approximately 2,900 banking offices. 
While there is a heavy concentration of banking resources 
in the State, the fifth largest bank is more than double the size 
o f the sixth or seventh ranked banks, and the resulting bank would 
remain the seventh largest bank in California. 
Neither bank is dominant in its service area. Oakland 
Bank's service area includes all of the City of Oakland, most of 
Alameda County, and portions of adjacent Contra Costa County. This 
a r e a» "hich is part of the San Francisco Standard Metropolitan 
Statistical Area, has 16 banks operating 102 offices with estimated 
deposits of $2 billion. Oakland Bank ranks fourth in its service 
a r e a» wi-th approximately 6 per cent of that market. Union Bank holds 
a relatively .minor share of deposits in the markets in which it 
Presently operates. In Los Angeles County, the bank ranks fourth 
o f 56 banks, with 3 per cent of total deposits as of June 30, 1966; 
i n Orange County, it was the sixth largest of 22 banks, with 
3 L 
Per cent of total deposits; and in San Diego County, eighth 
largest of 13 banks, with 1.5 per cent of total deposits. 
Approximately 380 miles separate the nearest offices of 
e two banks, and the amount of loan and deposit business which 
each bank derives from the area served by the other is minute. 

913 
-3-
Presently, there is almost no competition between the participants. 
Potentially, however, either bank could enter the servcie area of the 
other by either merger or through the establishment of a de novo 
branch. It is unlikely that Oakland Bank would become a competitor 
in Southern California. The record indicates that it is also lailitCGly 
that Union Bank would establish a de novo branch in Oakland. 
The overall effect of the proposal on competition would 
be no more than slightly adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The banking factors with respect to Union Bank and Oakland Bank are 
reasonably satisfactory, and this would also be true of the resulting 
bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - Consummation 
°f the proposed merger would have no measurable effect upon the 
ability of Union Bank to serve its present areas of activity. The 
entry of Union Bank into the Oakland area through replacement of 
Oakland Bank by an office of the larger bank, however, would bring to 
that locality the full-service banking capabilities of Union Banlcfs 
regional system. This would be expected to result in particular 
benefit to the Oakland area, which is undergoing extensive redevelop-
ment, in view of Union Bank's considerable construction finance 
experience. 
Considerations under this factor lend some weight for 
aPproval of the proposal. 

. ^tfe'-i v. • 
'•ir/'-t-'-A 
I ''iV.?^'1 
9i4 
-4-
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
very slight adverse effect on competition that would result from 
entry of Union Bank into the Oakland area as proposed, would be offset 
by the availability to the Oakland area of the services of the 
resulting bank. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
be approved. 
March 17, 1%9. 
• i-1 , 
r 4 I 
0:i 
wm 
m 
.., ; 'v 
Vi-'^'iV 
IsV' 
"J v' : ' v,"* 
i/i* : 
i • 
iv... 
' 

Item No. 3 
3/17/69 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. H] 
PART 208--MEMBERSHIP OF STATE BANKING INSTITUTIONS 
IN THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Publication of Reports of Condition 
1. Effective immediately, subparagraphs (1) and (3) of 
§ 208.9(a) are amended to read as follows: 
( a) Reports of member banks -- (1) Each report of condition 
made by a member State bank to its Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to 
a call therefor by the Board shall be published by such member bank 
within twenty days from the date the call is issued, unless such time 
is extended by the Reserve Bank as provided in § 265.2(f) (16) of this 
chapter (Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority). 
* 
* 
* 
* 
^ 
(3) The copy of the report for the use of the printer for 
Publication should be prepared on the form supplied or authorized for 
the purpose by the Federal Reserve Bank. Except as permitted in the 
Instructions for preparation of reports of condition (Form F.R. 105a), 
the published information shall agree in every respect with that shown 
on the face of the report of condition submitted to the Federal 
Reserve Bank. All signatures shall be the same in the published 
statement as in the original report submitted to the Federal Reserve 
Bank, but the signatures may be typewritten or otherwise copied on the 
report for publication. 

916 
- 2 -
2a. The purposes of these amendments are (1) to authorize 
Reserve Banks, for good cause shown, to extend for ten days the time 
! » 
for publishing reports of condition and to grant such extensions for 
longer periods in very unusual circumstances beyond control of the 
reporting bank and (2) to permit or require published reports of 
condition to differ from the report submitted to the Reserve Bank in 
the various respects detailed in the Instructions for preparation of 
such reports (Form F.R. 105a). 
b. The provisions of section 553 of title 5, United States Code, 
relating to notice and public participation and to deferred effective 
dates, were not followed in connection with the adoption of these 
amendments, because the Board found that such actions would result in 
delays that would be contrary to the public interest. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 18th day of March, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
(SEAL) 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 4 
3/17/69 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265--RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
Specific Functions Delegated to Board Employees 
and Federal Reserve Banks 
1. Effective immediately, § 265.2(f) is amended by adding 
subparagraph (16). 
• 
f J l ' , : 
§ 265.2 Specific functions delegated to Board employees and Federal 
Reserve Banks. 
i< 
~k 
i< 
i< 
-k 
(f) Each Federal Reserve Bank is authorized, as to member banks 
other indicated organizations headquartered in its district: 
ic 
~k 
it 
-k 
(16) Under § 208.9(a) of this chapter (Regulation H), for 
good cause shown, to extend the time for publication of reports of 
condition, such extensions not ordinarily to be for more than 10 days 
except in very unusual circumstances beyond control of the reporting 
bank. 
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to delegate to Reserve Banks 
the authority to extend the time for publishing reports of condition 
in certain limited circumstances. 
b. The provisions of section 553 of title 5, United States Code, 
relating to notice and public participation and to deferred effective 
dates, were not followed in connection with the adoption of this 

y, 
- 2 -
amendment, because the rules contained therein are procedural in 
nature and accordingly do not constitute substantive rules subject 
to the requirements of such section. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 18th day of March, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
(SEAL) 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
