PR 609 
Minutes for 
June 11, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
M . 

1 < > 2 8 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, June 11, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finanee 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Messrs. Doyle and Mertz of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Lawrence and Cleaver of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Achor and Poundstone of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on June 2, by the Federal Reserve Banks of New 
York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, 
and San Francisco on June 5, and by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 

1929 
6/11/69 
-2-
on June 6, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in their exist-
ing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Permission to accept drafts or bills of exchange (Item No. 1). 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to First National Bank of 
Minneapolis, Minneapolis, Minnesota, (copy attached as Item No. 1), 
granting its application for permission to accept drafts or bills of ex-
change drawn for the purpose of furnishing dollar exchange. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Indiana Bank and Trust Company 
of Fort Wayne, Fort Wayne, Indiana, with Allen Bank and Trust Company, 
also of Fort Wayne, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The conclusion was that consummation 
of the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The First National Bank of Hughesville, Hughesville, Penn-
sylvania, into Commonwealth Bank and Trust Company, Muncy, Pennsylvania, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
The proposed merger of The First National Bank of 
Hughesville into Commonwealth Bank and Trust Company, 
Muncy, Pennsylvania, would eliminate existing competition 
between the two banks. However, local alternatives 
would remain as well as larger banks in nearby Williams-
port. Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition 
would be slightly adverse. 

1930 
6/11/69 
-3-
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of Suburban Bank of 
Livingston, National Association, Livingston, New Jersey, by First 
National State Bank of New Jersey, Newark, New Jersey, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The 
conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Suburban 
Bank, National Association, Livingston, New Jersey, into 
First National State Bank of New Jersey, Newark, would 
eliminate existing and potential for greater competition 
between the two banks. In addition, it would further 
concentrate banking resources in the Greater Newark Market 
in the large banks headquartered in Newark. Overall, the 
effect of the proposal on competition would be adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Bank of Franklin, Franklin, North Carolina, and The 
Peoples Bank, Roxboro, North Carolina, with First Union National 
Bank of North Carolina, Charlotte, North Carolina, was approved for 
transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read 
as follows: 
While there is a small amount of competition exist-
ing between First Union National Bank of North Carolina, 
Charlotte, and The Bank of Franklin, and potential for 
any increased competition appears limited, consummation 
of the transaction would reduce the banking alternatives 
in Macon County from three to two and increase signifi-
cantly First Union's share of deposits in the county. 
The merger would increase slightly the concentration of 
banking resources in the State in a few large banks. The 
overall competitive effect of the transaction would be 
adverse. 
There is a small amount of competition existing 
between First Union National Bank of North Carolina, 

1931 
6/11/69 
-4-
Charlotte, and The Peoples Bank, Roxboro, and potential 
for increased competition through de novo branching. 
Consummation of this transaction would increase slightly 
the concentration of banking resources in the State in 
a few large banks. The overall competitive effect of the 
proposal would be adverse. 
During discussion of the foregoing report it was noted that 
there were varying opinions, ranging from no adverse effects to adverse 
effects on competition, on the part of the examinations and research 
staffs of the Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Opinions 
of members of the Board likewise varied. As to Bank of Franklin, 
Chairman Martin and Governor Sherrill were inclined to feel that the 
effect on competition would be no more than slightly adverse. On 
Peoples Bank of Roxboro, Governor Brimmer felt that the effect on 
competition would be only slightly adverse. 
Atlantic International Bank Limited (Item No. 2). The National 
Shawmut Bank of Boston, Boston, Massachusetts, First Pennsylvania 
Overseas Finance Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Manufacturers 
National Bank of Detroit, Detroit, Michigan, and United California Bank, 
Los Angeles, California, had each applied for permission to acquire 
directly or indirectly 12-1/2 per cent of the capital stock of Atlantic 
International Bank Limited, London, England, which was being organized 
in company with four European banks. 
The applications had been submitted to Governor Brimmer for 
approval pursuant to delegated authority. However, by memorandum of 
June 9, 1969, he stated that, although he would accept the staff recom-
mendation, he considered it appropriate for the Board as a whole to 

1 9 3 2 
6/11/69 
-5-
pass on the applications since the U.S. institutions would hold 50 
per cent of the stock of Atlantic and since there was the question 
of possible adverse competitive effects resulting from participation 
by the four institutions. Also, the 50 per cent ownership of Atlantic 
raised the question whether the usual "control" conditions should be 
applied. The staff did not believe that the U.S. participants would 
together control Atlantic. However, the proposed letters of consent 
did state that permission was granted on the understanding that the 
combined investment in Atlantic by the participating U.S. institutions 
would not cause them to have effective control of Atlantic. 
After discussion, it was agreed that the letters should state 
that permission was granted on the condition (rather than the under-
standing) that the combined investment would not cause the four U.S. 
participants to have effective control of Atlantic. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to a letter to The 
National Shawmut Bank of Boston in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
Similar letters were sent to the three other applicants. 
List of consultants. By letter of June 3, 1969, Chairman 
Patman of the House Banking and Currency Committee requested lists of 
economists who had served as consultants to the Board and the Federal 
Reserve Banks during the period since January 1, 1959, with total fees 
paid to the respective consultants. He recognized that it might take 
some time to compile the list for the Reserve Banks, but asked that 
the information on Board consultants be provided immediately. 

1933 
6/11/69 
-6-
Mr. Johnson advised the Board of the steps that had been put in 
motion to produce the requested information, following which it was 
suggested that some effort might be made to specify the functions of the 
consultants, reference being made particularly to economists serving 
on the Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending. It was understood that 
when the necessary information on Board consultants had been compiled 
the proposed report would be reviewed by the Board. 
Regulation Z interpretations (Item No. 3). Governor Robertson, 
as the only member of the Board present on Monday, June 9, had authorized 
the issuance of four additional interpretations of Regulation Z, Truth 
in Lending. 
The issuance of the interpretations (attached under Item No. 3) 
was ratified by unanimous vote. 
Foreign travel. Mr. Partee was authorized to accompany Vice 
Chairman Robertson on a trip to Europe in September for the prupose of 
attending a meeting of the Bank for International Settlements and visiting 
a number of the European central banks, such travel to be on an actual 
expense basis if desired. 
Advertising regulations. Governor Robertson reported on 
further interagency discussions concerning the regulations to be issued 
by the Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board with respect to the advertising of interest paid 
on deposits. The Treasury had favored a suggestion that interest rates 

1 9 3 4 
6/11/69 
-7-
should be stated in terms of the nominal annual rate of interest 
rather than the annual rate of simple interest. The Home Loan Bank 
Board was willing to go along, but the Chairman of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation and the Comptroller of the Currency did not agree. 
They felt that the suggested terminology would not be readily under-
stood by banks. He (Governor Robertson) was willing to go either 
way if that would produce uniformity, because he did not regard the 
question as too important, although the suggested language would be 
in conformity with Regulation Z. 
Of more concern, Governor Robertson said, was the opposition 
of Chairman Randall to prohibiting the advertising of a total per-
centage yield based on a period in excess of a year. The Board of 
Directors of the FDIC had not yet reached a decision on that point. 
However, if the majority supported Mr. Randall, the Federal Reserve 
would be confronted with the question whether to issue regulations 
different from those applicable to nonmember insured banks. 
If uniformity could be achieved, Governor Robertson said, 
perhaps by conceding on the first point he had mentioned, the regu-
lations of the three agencies could be issued next week and become 
effective the first of August. If uniformity could not be achieved 
on that basis, he would propose to hold the matter for further con-
sideration when additional members of the Board were present. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that he would not concede readily 
on both points, even at the risk of lack of uniformity. Accordingly, 

1935 
6/11/69 
-8-
he felt that, if necessary, the issuance of the Board regulations 
should be deferred pending further consideration. 
Governor Sherrill supported Governor Robertson's line of 
approach and stressed his hope that uniform regulations could be 
achieved. 
If they could not, he agreed that the Board should consider 
the matter further. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
Governor Robertson would continue negotiations along the lines he had 
indicated. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rates. Mr. Holland reported that the directors of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis had again established a dis-
count rate of 7 per cent, subject to review and determination by the 
Board of Governors. 
There was agreement with a suggestion by Chairman Martin that 
no action on the proposed rate be taken until after the discussion at 
the next meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, scheduled for 
June 24. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

^LRtsf:-
1 ^ 3 6 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
6/11/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CQRRESPONOENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
June 11, 1969. 
First National Bank of Minneapolis, 
120 South Sixth Street, 
P. 0. Box 512, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
authorizes your bank to accept drafts or bills of exchange drawn 
for the purpose of furnishing dollar exchange as required by the 
usages of trade in such countries, dependencies, or insular posses-
sions of the United States as may have been designated by the Board 
of Governors, subject to the provisions of Section 13 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and the Board's Regulation C. 
Enclosed is a list of the countries with respect to which 
the Board of Governors has found that the usages of trade require 
the furnishing of dollar exchange. 
The foregoing authorization has been given with the 
understanding that the foreign loans and investments of your bank 
will be made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your bank and that due con-
sideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Your attention is also directed to the fact that dollar exchange 
acceptance financing does not represent export credit. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

Countries Approved by the Board 
with Res pect to Dollar Exchange Acceptances 1/ 
"The Board has designated the following as countries 
whose usages of trade require the furnishing of dollar exchange, 
so that memb er banks may accept drafts drawn upon them by banks 
or bankers in such countries: 
Australia, New Zealand, and other^/ Australasian 
dependencies; Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, British 
Guiana!/, British Honduras, Chile, Colombia, Costa 
Rica, Dutch East IndiesA^ Dutch Guiana 5/ Ecuador, 
French Guiana, French West Indies, Guatemala, 
Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Puerto 
Rico, Salvador 6/, Santo DomingoZ/, Trinidad®/, 
Uruguay and Venezuela." 
_1/ Source: Interpretations of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System (as of January 1, 1961), p. 80. 
2/ Now delete "other." 
3/ 
Now Guyana. 
4/ Now the Republic of Indonesia. 
5/ 
Now Surinam. 
6/ Now El Salvador. 
]_/ Now the Dominican Republic. 
8/ Now Trinidad and Tobago. 

of COW •. 
jjNWPKf''' 
i r ? 3 8 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m N o # 
• F THE 
6/11/69' 
F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20S31 
ADDNCII OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
June 11, 1969. 
The National Shawmut Bank of Boston, 
40 Water Street, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 02109 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of March 25, 1969, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act and Regulation M, for The National Shawmut Bank 
of Boston, Boston, Massachusetts, to purchase and hold approximately 
250,000 shares (12-1/2 per cent) of the capital stock of Atlantic 
International Bank Limited ("Atlantic"), London, England, at a cost 
of approximately $600,000, provided shares in the amount of $300,000 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. It is 
understood that your bank will also subscribe subordinated deben-
tures in the amount of $600,000 for an aggregate investment of 
$1,200,000. 
The above permission is granted on the condition that 
the combined investment in Atlantic by the participating United 
States banks will not cause them to have effective control of 
Atlantic. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your bank and Shawmut International Corporation, and 
that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P, Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

I •• 
1939 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
6/11/69* 3 
CHArTER It - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Z] 
/ART 226 - TRUTH IN LENDING 
Miscellaneous Interpretations 
5 226.503 Minor Irregularities-Maximum irregular period limits 
(a) Section 226.5(d) specifies certain minimums in determining 
what minor irregularities in first payment periods may be disregarded in 
determining the annual percentage rate. The question arises as to what 
maximum limits for such periods would still permit the irregular periods to 
be considered regular in computing the annual percentage rate. 
(b) If the period from the date on which the finance charge 
begins to accrue and the date the final payment is due is not less than 
three months in the case of weekly payments, six months in the case of 
biweekly or semimonthly payments, or one year in the case of monthly pay-
ments, the maximum interval of time from the date the finance charge begins 
to accrue to the date the first payment is due is as follows: 
(1) in the case of weekly payments, 12 days; 
(2) in the case of biweekly or semimonthly payments, 
25 days; 
(3) in the case of monthly payments, 50 days. 
(c) If the period from the date on which the finance charge begins 
to accrue and the date the final payment is due is less than three months 
In the case of weekly payments, six months in the case of biweekly or semi-
monthly payments, or one year in the case of monthly payments, the maximum 
interval of time from the date the finance charge begins to accrue to the 
date the first payment is due is as follows: 

1940 
-2-
(1) in the case of weekly payments, 10 days; 
(2) in the case of biweekly or semimonthly payments, 
21 days; 
(3) in the case of monthly payments, 42 days 
(Interpets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1606) 

1.941 
-3-
§ 226.807 Assumption of an obligation-disclosures 
(a) The question arises as to which disclosures are required 
to be made under § 226.8(k). 
(b) For the purposes of § 226.8(k), an "assumption'' occurs only 
when, by written agreement entered into between a subsequent customer and 
the creditor, that subsequent customer is or will be accepted by that 
creditor as an obligor on an existing evidence of debt. In such circumstances, 
disclosures shall be made as follows: 
(1) If the finance charge originally imposed on the existing 
evidence of debt was an add-on or discount type finance charge, the creditor 
need only disclose: 
(i) The unpaid balance of the obligation assumed; 
(ii) The total amount of the charges imposed by the creditor, 
individually itemized, in connection with the assumption; 
(iii) The number, amount, and due dates of remaining payments to 
be made after assumption, the total of such payments, and any other applicable 
information required under § 226.8(b)(3); 
(iv) Identification of the type of security interest, if any, 
retained or to be acquired in any property of the assuming customer and a 
brief identification of that property; 
(v) The information required to be disclosed under 5 226.8(b)(4), 
(6) and (7); 
(vi) If applicable in connection with the assumption, the 
disclosures required under § 226.4(a)(5) and (6); and 
(vii) If that obligation was entered into on or after July 1, 
1969, the annual percentage rate originally disclosed on the existing 
obligation. 

1 9 
-4-
(2) If the existing evidence of debt is subject to a finance 
charge computed from time to time by application of a percentage rate to an 
unpaid balance, the creditor shall make the disclosures required under 
§ 226.8(b) and (d) and, if applicable in connection with the assumption, 
the disclosures required under § 226.4(a)(5) and (6), except that in 
determining the amount of the finance charge and the annual percentage 
rate to be disclosed to the customer who assumes the obligation, the creditor 
may disregard any prepaid finance charges paid by the original customer, but 
shall include in the finance charge as a "prepaid finance charge" the total 
amount of the charges imposed by the creditor, individually itemized, in 
connection with the assumption. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1638 and 15 U.S.C. 1639) 

IS [3 
-5-
§ 226.808 Disclosure of amount of scheduled payments 
(a) Section 226.8(b)(3) requires the creditor to disclose the 
"amount. . .of payments scheduled to repay the Indebtedness." In certain 
transactions each payment consists of an equal amount to apply on 
principal and a finance charge which Is determined by application of a 
rate to the decreasing unpaid balance. In such cases no tvo payments 
are equal in amount. The question arises as to whether it is necessary 
to list the respective dollar amount of each such payment to comply with 
this requirement of § 226.8(b)(3), or whether an optional disclosure is 
permitted. 
(b) In any transaction in which the amount of each regularly 
scheduled payment (pther than a first or last payment) includes an equal amount 
be applied on principal and a finance charge computed by application of a 
rate to the decreasing unpaid balance, at the creditor's option the require-
ment of § 226.8(b)(3) with respect to the amount of each payment may be met 
w _ 
. 
- -: 
I 
by disclosing the following information: 
(1) The amount of each payment to be applied on principal, 
and an identification of that amount as payment on principal; 
(2) The respective amount of finance charge included in 
the first and last scheduled payments so described; 
(c) If this option is utilized, the exceptions provided under 
paragraphs (b)(3), and (c)(8) and (d)(3) of § 226.8 shall not apply. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1638 and 15 U.S.C. 1639) 

I 
-6-
1 9 4 4 
8 2 2 6 - 8 0 9 
Disclosures for certain student loans 
Footnotes 10 and 11 to Regulation Z provide an exception 
from specified disclosure requirements for interim student loans under 
certain Federally insured student loan programs. These exceptions are 
applicable to other student loans of the same type, including those made 
to students under Federally supported loan programs or programs of loan 
guarantee, administered by or under agreement with the U.S. Department of 
Health, Education and Welfare. In all of such cases, however, all dis-
closures must be made prior to the time the final note is executed or 
repayment schedule is agreed upon. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1639) 
i 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 10th day of June 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
(SEAL) 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
