Minutes for January 18, 1968 
. iVVi g- 1 . 1 ' 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 7 Amendment to Regulation Q, Payment 
of Interest on Deposits. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. 
If you were present at the meet-
ing, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you 
were not present, your initials will indicate only that you have 
seen the minutes. 
Governor Sherrill 

164 
•».» i 
i.. , 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, January 18, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Doyle, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant to the Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Messrs. Goodfellow and Sanford, Review Examiners, 
Division of Examinations 
Establishment of branch (Item No. 1). There had been distrib-
^•Jv-h 
s 
... : 
uted a memorandum dated January 15, 1968, from the Division of Examina-
tions concerning the proposed establishment of a branch in an unincor-
Pirated portion of the Town of Owego, Tioga County, New York, by Tioga 

181 
1/18/68 
-2-
State Bank, Spencer, New York. This application had come before the 
Board because, under the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Author-
ity, the Reserve Banks were not authorized to approve the establishment 
of branches unless Counsel for the Reserve Bank considered that estab-
lishment of the branch would be in conformity with the provisions of 
section 5155 of the Revised Statutes. 
In this case, Counsel for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
had taken the position that the unincorporated portion of the Town of 
Owego in which Tioga State Bank proposed to establish the branch did 
not possess the attributes of a separate and distinct community such 
as to constitute an "unincorporated village" under the test laid down 
in two cases decided by Federal courts. Reserve Bank Counsel had 
concluded, therefore, that the establishment of the proposed branch 
would not be in conformity with the provisions of section 5155 of the 
Revised Statutes. 
It was pointed out in the memorandum, however, that in approv-
ing branches of State member banks the Board had usually accepted the 
decision of the State banking authorities interpreting the State law 
and had not challenged the legality of the State approval. 
In view 
the fact that in this case all other factors were considered satis-
factory, the Examinations and Legal Divisions recommended that the 
branch application be approved. 
• The memorandum further recommended that, since other applica-
tions for branches in the State of New York might be expected in which 

1-66 
1/18/68 
-3-
this same legal question would be raised, the letter to the Reserve 
Bank authorize it to approve branch applications under delegated 
authority when a branch had been approved by the State Banking Board 
under its interpretation of applicable State law, notwithstanding 
Counsel's opinion that establishment of the branch would not be in 
conformity with section 5155 of the Revised Statutes. 
After a review of the legal question involved, Governor Brimmer 
suggested that, if the staff recommendation were adopted by the Board, 
the other Reserve Banks likewise be informed. 
Mr. Hexter noted that the approach being recommended would seem 
to require an amendment to the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of 
Authority. Further, there would be relatively few applications in 
which this legal question was involved. He suggested that in the cir-
cumstances such applications continue to be brought to the Board for 
disposition. This recommendation was accepted. 
The Board then approved unanimously the establishment of the 
branch by Tioga State Bank. Attached as Item No. 1 is a copy of the 
letter sent to the bank. 
Establishment of foreign branch (Item No. 2). There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated January 12, 1968, from the Division of 
Examinations concerning the application of The Chase Manhattan Bank 
(National Association), New York, New York, to establish a branch in 
Athens, Greece. 
- Ivj 
: 

181 
1/18/68 
-4-
After a discussion of the status of the applicant bank under 
the Federal Reserve foreign credit restraint program, the Board 
approved unanimously the establishment of the branch. Attached as 
Item No. 2 is a copy of the letter sent to Chase Manhattan Bank. 
Amendment of articles of association and investment in foreign 
.subsidiary. There had been distributed a memorandum dated January 12, 
1968, from the Division of Examinations concerning the application of 
First Pennsylvania Overseas Finance Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania, for permission to amend its articles of association to increase 
its capital stock by $1 million, and to invest an additional $1 million 
in the capital stock of First Pennsylvania Overseas Development Com-
pany, Ltd., Nassau, Bahamas, a wholly-owned subsidiary. 
Governor Robertson suggested that the letter be revised, in a 
manner he described, to conform with the new provisions of the Board's 
foreign credit restraint guidelines. 
Governor Brimmer expressed agreement with Governor Robertson's 
S u8gestion. 
He further observed that under the Commerce Department's 
new balance of payments program investments in the Bahamas would be 
considered investments in a developed country, subject to the pertinent 
Provisions of the Commerce Department's regulations. He felt that the 
Board's position in such cases should parallel the Commerce program, 
and he inquired as to the status of work on a Board statement of policy 
concerning investments by Edge and agreement corporations, particularly 
in developed countries. 

1 C 
1/18/68 
-5-
Governor Robertson responded that the details were still being 
worked out by the staff, but that he hoped to bring recommendations 
to the Board for consideration in the near future. He noted that the 
Commerce Department program was even now being revised and that it 
would appear desirable to ascertain what form that revision would take. 
In any event, however, he felt that restraint efforts in terms of 
direct investments should be focused primarily on investments in the 
developed countries of continental Western Europe. 
Governor Brimmer then suggested that action on the current 
application be deferred until such time as the Board had considered 
the recommendations that Governor Robertson indicated were forthcoming. 
He added that he had a strong feeling regarding the way that the Board 
should look at direct investments, his concern being that an escape 
from the over-all restraint program should not be permitted. 
The 
question of how direct investments by banks should be treated, as 
opposed to such investments by nonfinancial companies, was one to 
which he felt that the Board should give serious consideration. 
There followed a general d iscussion of the activities of 
Bahamian subsidiaries in terms of the kinds of customers likely to be 
served and business likely to be handled, after which Governor Robertson 
inquired whether it was the desire of the Board to approve the proposed 
letter concerning the current application, revised along the lines he 
had suggested, or to hold the matter over for further exploration. 

181 
1/18/68 
-6-
Governor Maisel noted that the applicant had indicated that 
the injection of $1 million of additional capital into the Bahamian 
subsidiary would be accomplished by a transfer of outstanding foreign 
loans from First Pennsylvania Overseas Finance Corporation or its par-
ent, The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company. Such transfer, 
according to the applicant, would contribute to the elimination of the 
amount by which the applicant and its parent presently exceeded the 
1968 ceiling under the foreign credit restraint program. 
Governor Robertson commented that this was a loophole that 
should be closed by an interpretation of the guidelines, and Governor 
Brimmer recommended that such an interpretation be placed in the hands 
of the Federal Reserve Banks before letters reflecting such an inter-
pretation were sent to the present applicant or others. Mr. Sammons 
indicated that it should be possible to have a draft of interpretation 
prepared within the next few days. 
Accordingly, it was decided that the sending of the letter to 
the applicant would be deferred until such time as the interpretation 
had been distributed to the Reserve Banks. Governor Robertson sug-
gested that in the meantime the staff could be in touch with the 
applicant in an effort to reach an understanding with regard to adher-
ence by the applicant and its parent to the current guideline ceiling. 

1/18/68 
- 7 -
Policy record entry for meeting of Federal Open Market 
Committee. The Board approved unanimously the release on January 22, 
1968, of the policy record entry for the meeting of the Federal Open 
Market Committee that had been held on October 24, 1967, in the form 
submitted with a memorandum from Mr. Broida dated January 16, 1968. 
Amendment to Regulation Q (Item No. 3). There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated January 17, 1968, from the Office of the 
Secretary with respect to extension of the statutory exemption of 
foreign official time deposits from the interest rate ceilings of 
Regulation Q, Payment of Interest on Deposits. 
Under legislation originally enacted in 1962, and due to expire 
on October 15, 1968, if not extended by Congress, the time deposits of 
certain foreign official depositors were exempted from Regulation Q 
interest rate ceilings. The efforts of commercial banks to renew these 
foreign time deposits had been increasingly impeded because the banks 
could not guarantee payment of interest in excess of the regulatory 
ceiling beyond the October expiration date of the statute. While a 
further renewal of the legislation was expected to be requested by the 
Administration, the speed of passage was problematical. 
In order to 
remedy the problem in the meantime, the Legal Division had developed 
a proposed amendment to Regulation Q that would, at least temporarily, 
free such foreign official time deposits from the interest rate ceil-
ings of the regulation. 

181 
1/18/68 
-8-
The legal position for the proposed amendment to Regulation Q, 
which was set out in a Legal Division memorandum of January 17, 1968, 
was that under the authority contained in the Act of September 21, 
1966, (Public Law 89-597), whereby the regulation of interest rates 
was placed on a discretionary rather than mandatory basis, the Board 
was authorized to set different limits according to the nature or 
location of the depositor, or according to such other reasonable bases 
as the Board might deem desirable in the public interest. This author-
ity in effect obviated the need for the existing statutory exemption 
for foreign official time deposits contained in the 1962 statute. 
The 
Legal Division concluded that the Board could by regulation exercise 
its authority under Public Law 89-597 and permit member banks to con-
tinue to pay higher rates on foreign official time deposits received 
prior to the expiration of such authority, even after termination of 
the statutory exemption established in the 1962 legislation. 
If 
neither Public Law 89-597 nor the 1962 legislation should be extended, 
the proposed amendment would permit member banks to contract to pay 
higher rates, even after October 15, 1968, on foreign official time 
deposits received before September 21, 1968. 
Mr. Doyle reviewed the material in the Legal Division's memo-
randum and suggested that it would be appropriate to specify a maturity 
for those foreign official time deposits that would be exempted under 
the proposed amendment to Regulation Q. 

1/18/68 
-9-
In response to a question by Governor Robertson as to whether 
the same result could not be obtained under the existing exemptive 
statute, Mr. Doyle replied that the staffs of the Board and the Trea-
sury Department had reached the conclusion that this result could not 
be obtained under that statute; the point was referred to specifically 
in the legislative history of the extension of the legislation in 1965. 
Governor Robertson noted that it could be argued that it was not 
appropriate to use the 1966 legislation to deal with a subject covered 
by another statute, although he agreed with the Legal Division that 
the amendment to the regulation would accomplish a desirable result. 
Mr. Hexter replied that there was a difference between the two statutes 
in that the 1962 legislation was mandatory on the Board, whereas the 
other statute granted the Board discretionary power. The question was 
whether the Congress would wish to continue the statutory mandate by 
extending the 1962 legislation further, or whether it would want to 
leave the treatment of foreign official time deposits to the discretion 
of the Board. 
In reply to a question from Governor Robertson, Mr. 
Hexter expressed the opinion that the Board would not be flying in the 
face of a Congressional directive by taking the action suggested by 
the Legal Division. 
Governor Mitchell then raised a question with respect to out-
standing contracts, that is, whether the taking of the recommended 
action would constitute a precedent that would impede the Board if, 

181 
1/18/68 
-10-
in some circumstances, it wanted to make changes in Regulation Q 
ceilings effective on a more timely basis. 
Governor Maisel expressed the opinion that a precedent would 
not be created if the Board, in taking the recommended action, speci-
fied a period of time on which a higher rate of interest could be 
paid on foreign official time deposits. He went on, however, to make 
known his concern about bank advertisements guaranteeing a rate of 
interest on time deposits for a long period of years and indicated 
that he would like to have some discussion of that question. 
Governor Brimmer said it was his recollection that the 1962 
legislation reflected a basic policy determination that the rates 
paid on foreign official time deposits should be separated from the 
considerations taken into account in fixing ceilings on domestic 
deposits. He thought such a separation should continue to exist. 
In 
his view the Congress had not been trying to take the rates paid on 
foreign official time deposits out of the hands of the Board but 
rather to exempt them from the terms of the statute that then bound 
the Board. 
Mr. Hexter recalled that the special legislation was extended 
x n 1965 at a time when the Board's statutory powers over interest 
rates were still very limited. Subsequently the Board obtained 
broadened authority. He saw no reason not to interpret the 1966 leg-
islation in light of the full scope of its language. The fact that 

181 
1/18/68 
-11-
the Congress had previously carved out a particular area should not 
tie the Board's hands. 
Governor Robertson said it seemed to him the point was well 
made that the Board should not take action to permit banks to continue 
to pay higher rates on foreign official time deposits with long matu-
rities. 
It was his feeling that the period specified should not be 
longer than two years; that would give the banks a reasonable amount 
of freedom. 
Governor Sherrill returned to the question of the propriety 
of the proposed action and asked whether there was anything in the 
legislative history of the 1966 legislation indicating an intent to 
set aside the 1962 law. 
Governor Robertson recalled that in 1962 the Board was not in 
a position to make any distinction between foreign and domestic depos-
its. Therefore, it was decided to move for legislation making a flat 
exemption for foreign official time deposits on the ground that that 
was essential. 
It was simply a blanket exemption for a limited period. 
When the 1966 legislation was under consideration the foreign issue 
was not raised, but the discussion at that time indicated that the 
broadened authority was to extend across the board. Therefore, he 
accepted the view of the Legal Division that the taking of the recom-
mended action would not be an affront to the Congress. 
Governor Sherrill commented that he had no complaint in prin-
ciple concerning the proposed action. 
It was simply the method that 

J 
1/18/68 
-12-
concerned him somewhat. He asked whether there were any statements 
made in the hearings in 1966 concerning whether the new authority 
would supersede the other, and Governor Robertson replied in the nega-
tive. 
Mr. Hackley said he did not think that the Board's current 
temporary authority should be regarded as superseding the previous 
legislation, and instead that it should be regarded as a separate piece 
of legislation. 
If the Board took the action now recommended, such 
action would not really become effective until the expiration, on 
October 15, of the legislation relating specifically to foreign offi-
cial time deposits. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that the 1966 legislation 
did supersede the other in the sense that it permitted the Board to 
allow the issuance, at higher rates, of CD's to foreign officials with 
maturities extending beyond October 15. Therefore, the action could 
be said to become effective immediately. 
Mr. Hexter observed that he thought there would be no present 
conflict because the other legislation would not expire until October 
15, and by its terms rates on foreign official time deposits were 
exempt from the interest rate ceilings until that date. 
Mr. Hackley noted that if the 1966 authority were to expire 
in September but the special exemption for foreign official time depos-
its was extended beyond October 15, the action proposed to be taken by 

JM W . 
1/18/68 
-13-
the Board under the 1966 legislation would have no practical effect. 
On the other hand, if both laws expired the action taken by the Board 
would continue to be applicable to contracts entered into before 
September 20 with a maturity of not more than two years. He added 
that he had discussed the proposal with lawyers in the Treasury and 
that they thought the action, if taken, would be valid. They also 
felt that the specification of a maturity not to exceed two years would 
probably meet the problem confronting the banks satisfactorily. 
Governor Sherrill inquired whether there had been any indica-
tion of the views of the Chairmen of the Senate or House Banking and 
Currency Committees, and Mr. Cardon indicated that he had no reason 
to believe that the proposed action, if taken, would be a matter of 
concern. Governor Sherrill then commented that he thought a case 
could be made that this involved an action by an agency that would 
amount to seizing the power of the Congress. However, if there was 
general agreement that the purpose of the action was desirable and if 
it appeared that the action could be taken without engendering contro-
versy, he would be willing to go ahead. 
Thereupon, the Board approved unanimously an amendment to 
Regulation Q in the form attached to these minutes as Item No. 3, 
effective immediately. 
The discussion then reverted to the question raised earlier 
by Governor Maisel, and Mr. Hackley recalled that it had been the 

181 
1/18/68 
-14-
Board's position that if the Board reduced the maximum rates on time 
deposits the reduced maximum rates would not apply to outstanding time 
deposits bearing a higher rate if they involved legal obligations to 
which the member bank was committed. There had been proposals to 
amend Regulation Q to provide that a reduced maximum rate would be 
applicable to all outstanding contracts of more than one-year maturity, 
in the absence of an express exemption by the Board. Such an amend-
ment was suggested in connection with a comprehensive staff review of 
Regulation Q several years ago, and it had been mentioned several times 
since, but no action had been taken. 
Governor Maisel inquired whether the situation would be changed 
if the deposit was payable on 90-day notice, and Mr. Hackley replied 
that that would depend on the contract between the bank and the cus-
tomer. 
If a bank agreed to pay a certain rate for 10 years, even 
though the deposit was subject to withdrawal at any time on 90-day 
notice, the bank was bound, but in some cases the bank retained the 
right to terminate the contract. 
Governor Robertson noted that he had found persuasive the 
argument that if a bank was willing to enter into a long-term contract 
at a certain rate, there was probably no need to try to protect the 
bank against its own indiscretion. Governor Maisel said it was of 
some concern to him whether a contract that provided for repayment of 
a deposit on demand fitted into the general rule. Mr. Hexter commented 

J
» ~ - » 
, 
. < Cy 
1/18/68 
-15-
that contracts providing the right of withdrawal on 90-day notice 
frequently contain a provision that the bank itself may terminate the 
contract, whereupon Governor Maisel remarked that, if so, it would 
appear that some of the current advertising was misleading. 
Governor 
Sherrill observed that in the case of a savings bond the bank seldom 
retained the right to terminate the contract. 
In further discussion, Mr. Hackley pointed out that there was 
a provision in Regulation Q stating that a member bank must take action 
to conform to the regulation whenever it can do so consistent with its 
contractual obligations. In terms of policy, he recalled that it had 
been argued that there was no good reason why the Board should affect 
outstanding contracts since presumably the purpose of any reduction 
of maximum rates would be to affect the inflow of new deposits. 
Governor Mitchell expressed agreement with the view that there 
was no good reason in terms of policy to disturb outstanding contracts, 
following which Governor Brimmer reported having received correspon-
dence from representatives of the savings and loan industry in Califor-
nia stating that commercial banks were guaranteeing the maximum Regu-
lation Q rate on consumer-type CD's on the basis of a 360-day computa-
tion. His correspondents raised the question whether this was consis-
tent with Regulation Q and with the guidelines for advertising issued 
by the supervisory agencies. He stated that he would pass along the 
correspondence to the Legal Division for study. 

181 
1/18/68 
-16-
Governor Sherrill said he agreed generally with the view that 
the Board should not adopt regulations that would affect legal con-
tracts. However, he felt that study might be given to whether some 
time limit should be placed on the guarantee that a bank could offer. 
As to savings and loan associations, he felt that it was a mistake not 
to allow them to offer guaranteed rates, for they were in a better 
position to do so than banks, and he had discussed the point with the 
Chairman of the Home Loan Bank Board. 
After further discussion, question was raised whether the 
Board should recommend that both the 1966 legislation and the 1962 
legislation exempting foreign official time deposits from the interest 
rate ceilings be extended. A view was expressed that if the Act of 
September 1966 was extended the other legislation would appear not to 
be needed. 
It was suggested that the Treasury no doubt would take 
this point into consideration in formulating its legislative proposals 
and that there would be an opportunity for the Board to comment at an 
appropriate time. 
Secretary's Note: 
Subsequent to this meeting 
Mr. Hackley attempted, at Governor Robertson's 
request, to advise appropriate officials of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the 
Home Loan Bank Board of the action being taken 
by the Board of Governors in respect to Regula-
tion Q. He learned that the Corporation had no 
objection to the Board's action and probably 
would take similar action within the next few 
days. The Chairman of the Home Loan Bank Board 
saw no objection to the Federal Reserve action. 

1/18/68 
-17-
Th e meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
Governor Robertson 
today noted on behalf of the Board a 
memorandum advising that M . B. Daniels, 
Assistant Director of the Division of 
Bank Operations, had filed application 
for retirement, effective February 1, 
1968. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board a request from 
Samuel I. Katz, Adviser in the Divi-
sion of International Finance, for 
permission to teach a course in money 
and banking at the Foreign Service 
Institute, it being understood that 
Mr. Katz would take 1-1/2 hours of 
leave without pay two days each week 
during the period March 4-April 19, 
1968. 
On January 18, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated : 
By the Direc tor of the Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
approving the appointment of Charlie L. Epperson, 
Jr., as Federal Reserve Agent's Representative at 
the Memphis Branch. 
By the Fede ral Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to The Detroit Bank and Trust Company, 
Detroit, Michigan, approving the establishment 
°f a branch in Roseville. 
Letter to Bank of Sturgeon Bay, Sturgeon Bay, 
Wisconsin, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish an in-town branch (drive-in 
facility). 

1 8 1 
1/18/68 
-18-
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Item No. 
Letter to Central Bank, Grand Rapids, Michigan, 
7 
granting an extension of time within which to 
establish an in-town branch. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to Citizens State Bank, Puyallup, 
8 
Washington, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch in an 
unincorporated area of Pierce County. 
Secretary 

BDARD OF G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
1 
Item No. 1 
1/18/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 18, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Tioga State Bank, 
Spencer, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment by Tioga State Bank, Spencer, New York, 
of a branch in the P & C Shopping Center on the north side of 
5th Avenue, unincorporated portion of the Town of Owego, Tioga 
County, New York, provided the branch is established within one 
year from the date of this letter. 
i 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that your bank's management and capital position are satisfactory, 
that the proposed branch would serve the convenience and needs of 
the community, and that establishment of the branch would not tend 
to create an undesirable competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
D F THE 
Item NO. 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/18/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E 9 P Q 
T D T H I 
B O A R D 
January 18, 1968. 
The Chase Manhattan Bank 
(National Association) , 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentl emen: 
, 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
cs permission to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), 
ew York, New York, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the 
^deral Reserve Act, to establish a branch in the city of Athens, 
teece, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the pro-
Visions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
usiness on or before February 1, 1969, all rights granted hereby shall 
deemed to have been abandoned and the authority granted hereby will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please inform the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
^eserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, 
^
urnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
°ard should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
°
n of the branch in Athens. 
f 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of 
°
reign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form 
allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as 
°
reign assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1 8 4 
Item No. 3 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
1/18/68 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS' OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Q] 
PART 217 - PAYMENT OF INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Foreign Time Deposits 
1. Effective January 18, 1968, paragraph (a) of § 217.3 is . 
amended to read as follows: 
§ 217.3 Maximum rate of interest on time and savings deposits. 
(a) Maximum rate prescribed from time to time. Except in 
accordance with the provisions of this part, no member bank shall pay 
interest on any time deposit or savings deposit in any manner, directly 
or indirectly, or by any method, practice, or device whatsoever. No 
member bank shall pay interest on any time deposit or savings deposit 
at a rate in excess of such applicable maximum rate as the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall prescribe from time to 
time; and any rate or rates which may be so prescribed by the Board 
vlll be set forth in supplements to this part, which will be issued 
in advance of the date upon which such rate or rates become 
effective. 
Under explicit provisions of the Federal Reserve Act, until October 15, 
1968, the provisions of this paragraph do not apply to the rate of 
interest that may be paid by member banks on time deposits of foreign 
-
governments, monetary and financial authorities of foreign governments 
when acting as such, or international financial institutions of which the 

United States is a member. The provisions of this paragraph shall 
likewise not apply to the rate of interest that may be paid by a member 
bank after October 15, 1968,on such a deposit which is received, renewed, 
o r extended, in the ordinary course of business and for a specified period 
n°t exceeding two years, prior to the expiration of the authority conferred 
uPon the Board by the amendments to section 19(j) of the Federal Reserve 
Act enacted September 21, 1966. 
* 
* * 
* 
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to implement the general 
authority conferred on the Board of Governors in amendments to section 19(j) 
°f the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371b) made by Act of Congress approved 
September 21, 1966 (Public Law 89-597), as extended by Act of Congress 
aPproved September 21, 1967 (Public Law 90-87), so as to permit member banks 
t o agree to pay interest at rates higher than those specified in Part 217.6 
certain foreign governmental time deposits maturing in two years or less 
a n d received, extended or renewed before expiration of the aforesaid 
authority of the Board of Governors, even though such interest may accrue 
after termination of the statutory exemption for such deposits in the amend-
m a n t to said section 19 made by Act of Congress approved October 15, 1962 
Public Law 87-827), as extended by Act of Congress approved July 21, 1965 
Public Law 89-79). 
b. The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States 
c°de, relating to notice and public procedure and to deferred effective 

V' 
l 8 o 
- 3 -
date with respect to changes in substantive rules were not followed in 
connection with this amendment because the Board found that such actions 
would result in delays that would have consequences contrary to the national 
Interest. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 18th day of January, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
. 
v 
/ Y 
" m 
-
• ! 
. 
• 
-
• 
. • 
. 
• 
i i t 
;" -.'•'••r.'l 
• 
\ 
-11 
.* ? . v <:•.. . -
 ;. • < 
•b I Ml .0 -
 ; < 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
• - ... • < 

1R7 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
THE 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/18/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 18, 1968 
Mr. Frederic M . Peirce, 
Chairman of the Board 
and Federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 63166 
Dear Mr. Peirce: 
Acting under delegated authority, the Director of the 
Division of Personnel Administration has approved the request con-
tained in your letter of January 11, 1968, for the appointment of 
Mr. Charlie L . Epperson, Jr., as a Federal Reserve Agent's Repre-
sentative at the Memphis Branch to succeed Mr. James S. Ruby, Jr. 
This approval is given with the understanding that 
Mr. Epperson will be solely responsible to the Federal Reserve Agent 
and the Board of Governors for the proper performance of his duties, 
except that, during the absence or disability of the Federal Reserve 
Agent or a vacancy in that office, his responsibility will be to the 
Assistant Federal Reserve Agent and the Board of Governors. 
When not engaged in the performance of his duties as 
Federal Reserve Agent's Representative, Mr. Epperson may, with the 
approval of the Federal Reserve Agent and the Vice President in 
charge of the Memphis Branch, perform such work for the Branch as 
will not be inconsistent with his duties as Federal Reserve Agent's 
Representative. 
It will be appreciated if Mr. Epperson is fully informed of 
the importance of his responsibilities as a member of the staff of 
the Federal Reserve Agent and the need for maintenance of independence 
from the operations of the Bank in the discharge of these responsibi-
lities . 
Please have Mr. Epperson execute the usual Oath of Office 
which should be forwarded to the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

IPS 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
2 ) 0 S O U T H L A S A L L E S T R E E T 
Item No 5 
C H I C A G O , I L L I N O I S 60690 
. 
, , 
* 
(J 12) H A 7-2)JO 
L / L O / O O 
January 18, 1968 
Mr. Harold P. Carr 
Vice President and Cashier 
The Detroit Bank and Trust Company 
Detroit, Michigan W23I 
Dear Mr. Carr: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank has approved the establishment 
by your bank of a branch to be located approximately 400 feet 
south of Twelve Mile Road on the vest side of Groesbeck Highway, 
Roseville, Michigan, provided the branch is established within 
six months from the date of this letter. 
The Reserve Bank finds that capitalization of The 
Detroit Bank and Trust Company is reasonably adequate and 
management is considered to be competent, that the proposed 
branch will serve the needs and convenience of the community, 
and that the branch will not create an undesirable competitive 
situation. 
Very truly yours, 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 
JRM:lp 
cc - Mr. .Robert C. Holland 
Mich. Fin. Inst. Bureau 
Detroit Branch 
Examiner's File C O P Y 

IV ' 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
±R9 
230 S O U T H LA S A L L E 
S T R E E T 
C H I C A G O , I L L I N O I S 60690 
(312) H A 7-2320 
Item N o . 6 
1/18/68 
January 18, 1968 
Mr. Lester £• Koehn 
Vice President and Cashier 
& m k of Sturgeon Qov 
Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin 
Dear Mr. Koehni 
Cb behalf cf the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
authority, this Bonk approves on extension of one nonth to February 29, 
1968, of the time in which your bank may establish a drive-In facility 
at the southwest corner of Fourth Avenue and Jefferson 8treet, 
Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin, 
As previously indicated ve would appreciate being advised 
of the date on which this facility is opened for business. 
Very truly yours, 
/ a-*' 
Inland Boss 
Vice President 
LR:rk 
cc - Board of Governors 
State Banking Department 
Examiner's file 
; . ' v, s 
COP 

m 
few 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
190 
230 S O U T H L A S A L L E 
S T R E E T 
C H I C A G O . I L L I N O I S 60690 
(312) H A 7-2320 
Item No. 7 
1/18/68 
January 18, 1968 
t' - ; 
> : -A 
•3 «:<•'• 
1) 
tiv.-
- •. 
•i. 
Mr. Robert H. Becker 
Vice President 
Central Bank 
Grand ffepids, Michigan 49502 
Dear Mr. Becker: 
'•.J *. 
' • 
'. 
» 
'J 
. 
J 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
authority, this Bank grunts an extension of tine of six months froci 
February 22, 1^68, within which your bank may establish a branch at 
3100 Plain field Avenue, N.E., Grand jRapids, Michigan. 
Very truly yours, 
(Itiu/ 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 
EQF:rk 
: : m>s 
cc - Board of Governors 
Michigan Financial Institutions Bureau 
Detroit Branch 
Examiner's file 
I in 
VI .1 s 
'' 
„' • . 
C O P Y 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N F R A N C I S C O , 
C A L I F O R N I A 
0 4 1 2 0 
Item No 
1/18/68 
January 18, 1968 
Mr. Paul W . Miller, President, 
Citizens State Bank, 
P.O. Box 10, 
Puyallup, Washington 98371. 
Dear Mr. Miller: 
On behalf of the Board of^Governors\ of the 
Reserve System, acting under delegated authority, this Bank 
has approved an extension to J u n \ 2 9 , 1968, of the time 
within which Citizens State Bank atey e s t ^ U s h a branch 
office in the vicinity^^phe interception of South 
Meridian Street apd 112th Sbreet Eas\, in an unincorporated 
area of Pierce Cminty, Washington. 
1 
:ension Is granted in connection with the 
itained in your letter dated January 16, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
