FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
July 7, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

v'Oll 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, July 7, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 

£ 0 1 2 
7/7/70 
-2-
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and 
San Francisco on July 2, 1970, of the rates on discounts and advances 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Foreign banking matters. The following letters were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background material that had been 
made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Society National Bank of Cleveland, 
1 
Cleveland, Ohio, granting permission to organize 
a corporation under section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act to be known as "Society International 
Corporation," with its home office in Cleveland, 
and enclosing a preliminary permit. 
Letter to Bank of America, New York, New York, 
2 
suspending the lending limits contained in 
section 211.9(b) of Regulation K in so far as 
they apply to its subsidiary, Banca d'America 
e d'Italia, Milan, Italy. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given to 
a report, for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The South 

201 
1/1/10 
-3-
East National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, into Civic Center 
Bank and Trust Co., also of Chicago, in a form in which the conclusion 
read as follows: 
While consummation of the proposed merger of The 
South East National Bank of Chicago and Civic Center 
Bank and Trust Co., Chicago, would be unfortunate in 
that it would eliminate a convenient source of banking 
services from the neighborhood served by The South East 
National Bank of Chicago, little competition would be 
eliminated. The overall competitive effect would be 
slightly adverse. 
Development banks. At the meeting on June 16, 1970, the Board 
considered several questions relating to exemption from interest rate 
ceilings of time deposits of certain foreign or international entities. 
The staff was requested to consider whether a policy should be formu-
lated for extension of the exemption to development banks in general, 
including those with private equity participation. Pending such 
exploration, the Board deferred action on an inquiry by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, on behalf of a member bank, regarding the 
availability of the exemption for deposits of the East African Develop-
ment Bank. 
The Division of International Finance, in a memorandum dated 
June 30, 1970, recommended that the Beard not now extend, either 
generally to development banks with mixed ownership or to the East 
African Development Bank, exemption from the interest rate ceilings. 

2014 
7/7/70 
-4-
After discussion, the Division's recommendation was approved 
unanimously. A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York is attached as Item No. 3. 
Mercantile Bankshares Corporation. The Board authorized 
issuance of orders and a statement reflecting approval of the appli-
cation of Mercantile Bankshares Corporation, Baltimore, Maryland, to 
become a bank holding company and a related application of an inciden-
tal nature. Attached under Item No. 4 are copies of the documents as 
issued and the dissenting statements of Governors Mitchell and Brimmer; 
attached as Item No. 5 is a copy of the letter sent to Mercantile Bank-
shares . 
At the time of the Board's action on the holding company appli-
cation it also approved an application for membership in the Federal 
Reserve System by Severn Bank and Trust Company, Annapolis, Maryland, 
into which The Annapolis Banking and Trust Company was to be merged. 
A copy of the letter sent to Severn is attached as Item No. 6. 
Insurance for broker-dealer customers. A memorandum dated 
July 2, 1970, from the Capital Markets Section, Division of Research 
and Statistics, summarized the provisions of two bills that would amend 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to provide for the creation of a 
Securities Investor Protection Corporation, the purpose of which would 
be to insure liabilities of brokerage firms to their customers in the 
event of liquidation. One bill (H.R. 18081) had been drafted by the 

2015 
7/7/70 
-5-
Securities arid Exhange Commission, with participation by members of 
the Board's staff and representatives of other interested agencies. 
The other bill (H.R. 18109) had been drafted by a brokerage industry 
task force. Work was nearly completed on a compromise bill, in the 
drafting of which industry and Government representatives had collab-
orated . 
The Board had been requested by the House Committee on Inter-
state and Foreign Commerce to comment on the two bills already intro-
duced, and for that purpose there was attached to the memorandum a 
draft of letter that would express concurrence in the need for customer 
protection and general support of the corporation that both bills would 
establish. The draft letter would also focus on four points of differ-
ence between the two bills that involved significant issues. 
Discussion was directed principally toward the manner in which 
the proposed insurance benefits would be made available, and the under-
lying rationale. Question was raised particularly with regard to a 
statement in the draft letter to the effect that the insurance benefits 
would be "overly generous" in comparison with the coverage afforded 
depositors in banks and savings and loan associations. There was agree-
ment that the passage should be revised along lines indicated. 
Other comments related to the adequacy of the loss reserve fund, 
proposed to be accumulated over the course of five years, and the appro-
priateness of the level of industry contributions to the fund. 

7/7/70 
< 
-6-
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board unanimously 
approved the sending of a revised letter in the form attached as 
Item No. 7. 
GAP request. In a memorandum dated July 6, 1970, the Division 
of Research and Statistics discussed a request by the Comptroller Gen-
eral of the United States for assistance in responding to a request 
from Chairman Patman of the Joint Economic Committee for a review of 
the accounting standards and practices used by Government security 
dealers in their reports to the Federal Reserve System. It appeared 
that the primary focus of the investigation would be on dealer finan-
cial reports and profits, rather than on other dealer statistics. The 
General Accounting Office planned to secure basic data directly from 
the dealers and to rely on the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for 
advice and possibly for validation of such data. Thus, the confiden-
tial nature of the System's dealer reporting program would seem to be 
protected. 
While it was recognized that there were some potential areas 
of sensitivity in this request, neither the Manager of the System Open 
Market Account nor the Board's staff believed that those considerations 
constituted a basis for refusal to cooperate. Treasury staff agreed. 
Comments dealt mainly with procedural questions, especially 
whether approval should be sought from the Federal Open Market Committee. 

2017 
7/7/70 
-7-
It was understood that a check would be made with the President-members 
of the Committee and that, if no objections were interposed, an affir-
mative response would be made to the Comptroller General. 
Secretary's Note: A telegram was sent 
to the Reserve Bank Presidents and, no 
objections having been indicated, a 
letter was sent to the Comptroller 
General in the form attached as 
Item No. 8. 
Presidential Commission. Mr. Holland requested guidance regard-
ing the stance that should be taken by the staff in responding to a 
request from Professor Almarin Phillips, Director of Financial Studies 
of the Presidential Commission on Financial Institutions and Regulation, 
for participation in meetings this week to determine the interest of 
various agencies in contributing to the Commission's work. In partic-
ular, Board participation apparently would be sought for studies dealing 
with (1) the functional specialization of financial institutions; (2) 
the regulation of interest rates on deposits; (3) deposit insurance; 
and (4) problems of the mortgage market and residential construction. 
A request was expected that a set of preliminary papers be submitted 
prior to a meeting of the Commission late in October. 
It was brought out that the Board's research resources were 
already stretched thin and that no significiant additional assignments 
could be undertaken without expansion of staff. It was noted, however,that 
certain studies now under way within the System might be meshed with 

2018 
7/7/70 
-8-
studies to be undertaken by the Commission if schedules could be 
coordinated. In other words, if the Commission's approach promised 
to enhance the usefulness of Board studies in process, the latter 
might be modified; however, the objectives of the Board's projects 
should not be subverted. 
It being understood that the meetings this week were to be 
largely exploratory, the staff was requested to have representatives 
attend the sessions, make no commitments, and then report more specifi-
cally to the Board. 
Parson group banks. Mr. Solomon described the tenor of discus-
sion at meetings in Washington involving the Michigan State bank super-
visor and representatives of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Comptroller of the Currency with 
respect to banks of the "Parsons group." Among other things, he reported 
his understanding that Bank of the Commonwealth Bank, Detroit, had indi-
cated that it could meet the payments required for the first four weeks 
of an eight-week program devised by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
to clear the bank's indebtedness at the discount window, but was not 
sure it could continue beyond that point. 
There ensued discussion of the progress being made in developing 
an over-all program for improvement of the condition of Parsons group 
banks, particularly Commonwealth Bank, in light of which the advisability 

2019 
7/7/70 
-9-
of the Chicago Reserve Bank's requirements with respect to use of the 
discount window could be reappraised. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the staff was requested to 
place high priority on preparing the proposed supervisory program for 
presentation to the Board at the earliest possible time. 
Delegations of authority. The Board unanimously approved a 
recommendation by Governor Sherrill set forth in a memorandum dated 
July 6, 1970, for delegation of additional authority to the Committee 
on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans for actions in the 
Reserve Bank personnel area. A copy of the notice sent to the Federal 
Register effectuating these delegations is attached as Item No. 9. 
Retention of employee beyond retirement age. In a memorandum 
dated June 22, 1970, the Division of Personnel Administration recom-
mended approval of a request by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
for retention in active service of Ellen M. Nicholson, M.D., until 
attainment of age 70. 
The Board unanimously approved the retention of Dr. Nicholson 
beyond retirement age, with the understanding, however, that the matter 
would be subject to review annually and that the approval was granted 
in view of the reported difficulty in obtaining the services of indus-
trial physicians. A copy of the letter sent to the Reserve Bank is 
attached as Item No. 10. 

2020 
7/7/70 
-10-
One-bank holding companies. Governor Robertson stated that 
he had received a further letter from Senator Proxmire, with a request 
for reply before 10:00 this morning, asking certain questions about the 
effect of the revision the Board had proposed in section 4(c)(8) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act. Also, Mr. Cardon had received a telephone 
request from the Assistant Counsel of the Senate Committee on Banking 
and Currency for a summary of the reasons why the Board had recommended 
a revision of section 4(c)(8). Governor Robertson read the replies that 
had been made and stated that copies would be furnished to the other 
members of the Board. Copies of the letters are attached as Items 
11 and 12. 
During the ensuing discussion Mr. Cardon advised that a sugges-
tion by the Committee staff had been relayed to Chairman Burns that the 
latter send a cable to Chairman Sparkman reiterating his position in 
favor of revision of section 4(c)(8) along lines the Board had proposed. 
While, in the circumstances as explained, there was an appre-
ciation of the apparent necessity for the foregoing correspondence, 
some apprehension was expressed that further exchanges of communications 
outside the usual channels might lead to misunderstandings, particularly 
as between Board and personal positions, and the hope was expressed that 
it might be possible to avoid such exchanges in the future. 
Financial developments. There was a brief discussion of devel-
opments in the commercial paper market during which Mr. Axilrod 

20Z1 
7/7/70 
-11-
summarized data obtained from the New York Reserve Bank regarding changes 
in commercial paper outstanding and Mr. Holland reported information 
received about programs of financial support being developed for 
certain companies. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
—t 
Secretary 

O i l O ? 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
Bfilfe 
Item No. I 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/7/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20=51 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
CCIR R E S P C l N D r . N C i 
' V - ' 
'..'fVi-VA, , 
T U T H E 
B O A R D 
July 7, 1970 
Society National Bank of Cleveland, 
127 Public Square, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44114 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated June 8., 1970, 
of Society International Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, and there 
is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing that Corporation to 
exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its organ-
ize tion. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the 
Board authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the 
Board will issue its final permit to commence business, the pres-
ident, treasurer, or secretary, together with at least three of 
the directorsj must certify (1) that each director is a citizen 
of the United States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital 
stock is held and owned by citizens of the United States, by cor-
porations the controlling interest in which is owned by citizens 
of the United Slates, chartered under the laws of the United States 
or of a State of the United States, or by firms or companies the 
controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United 
States; and (3) that of the authorized capital stock specified in 
the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent has been paid in 
in cash and that each shareholder has individually paid in in cash 
at least 2.5 per cent of his stock subscription. Thereafter, the 
treasurer or secretary shall certify to the payment of the remaining 
instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 

Society National Bank of Cleveland -2-
Your attention is directed to the fact that Society Inter-
national Corporation will have no separate base under the foreign 
credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or investments will 
need to be made under the ceiling of Society National. Bank of Cleveland. 
Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with the understanding 
that any foreign loans and investments of the Corporation will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign lending and 
investment activities of your bank and that due consideration will 
be given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

20z4 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
Q F T H £ 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
2 D 5 5 I 
July 7, 1970 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the "federal Reserve System pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated June 8, 1970, of SOCIETY INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION duly filed 
with said Board of Governors, and that SOCIETY INTERNATIONAL 
CORPORATION is authorized to exercise such of the powers conferred 
upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental, and preliminary to 
its organization pending the issuance by the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System of a final permit generally to commence 
business in accordance with the provisions of said Section 25(a) 
and the rules and regulations of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(SEAL) 
By (Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

>25 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N D R 5 
• f T H E 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/7/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
j * 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 7, 1970. 
Bank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 10004 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of June 2, 
1970, and the Board's letters of September 12, 1957, and 
December 13, 1960, which granted consent, subject to certain 
conditions, for your Corporation to purchase and hold a 
majority of the shares of Banca d1America e d'Italia, ("BAI"), 
Milan, Italy. 
As requested in your letter of June 2, 1970, the 
Board of Governors, subject to continuing observation and 
review, has suspended, until further notice, the provisions 
of subparagraph (2) of the second paragraph of the Board's 
letter of September 12, 1957, so far as they relate to re-
strictions set forth in Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
In granting this request, the Board noted that the Bank of 
Italy imposes lending limits on BAI, currently 20 per cent 
of BAI's capital and surplus, which may be exceeded only 
with the permission of the Bank of Italy. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

opcoVA-. 
m
m
-
M
H
-
j
^
W
i
'
. 
iji! iV» vy -o 
B O A R D 
G F GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
7/7/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R D E b P Q N O f 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
July 8, 1970. 
Mr. J. H. Booth, Manager, 
Bank Examinations Department, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Booth: 
The Board has determined not to accord an exemption fro 
interest rate limitations under the provisions of Regulation 0 
section 217.3(g)(3), to the East African Development"Bank, 
A"' 
request for a determination had been communicated to the Board 
in your letter of May 6, 1970, on behalf of Manufacturers 
Hanover Trust Company. 
In its examination of the request, the Board noted that 
private institutions account for a substantial portion of the own-
ship of the East. African Development Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

20^7 
Item No. 4 
111 
H
O 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVfcRtiClW OP1 THE FEDERAL !*E$kRVE SYSTEM 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
MERCANTILE BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
Baltimore, Maryland, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of 
a new bank into which will be merged 
Mercantile-Safe Deposit and Trust Company, 
Baltimore, Maryland; and a new bank into 
^hlch will be merged Annapolis Banking 
and Trust Company, Annapolis, Maryland, 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Mercantile Bankshares 
Corporation, Baltimore, Maryland, for the Board's prior approval of 
action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
8harea) of a new bank into which will be merged Mercantile-Safe Deposit 

- 2 -
and Trust Company, Baltimore, Maryland; and a new bank into which will 
be merged Annapolis Banking and Trust Company, Annapolis, Maryland. 
As required by section 3(b> of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the 
Currency and the Maryland Commissioner of Banking, and requested their 
views and recommendation. Neither objected to approval of the proposed 
transaction. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 9, 1969 (34 Federal Register 15675), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
The time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board,or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 7, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
SEVERN BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
for approval of merger with 
Annapolis Banking and Trust Company 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
^ e Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Severn Bank 
Qr*d Trust Company, Annapolis, Maryland, which is to be a State member 
bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of 
the merger of that bank and The Annapolis Banking and Trust Company, 
^napolis, Maryland, under the charter of the former and the name of 
the latter. As an incident to the merger, the four offices of The Annapolis 
inking and Trust Company would become branches of the resulting bank. 
N°tice of the proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, has been 
PubHshed pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
fch 
e factors set forth in said Act, including reports received pursuant 
to the Act on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger, 
I 

2030 
-2-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date concerning the application of Mercantile 
Bankshares Corporation to become a bank holding company (of which pro-
posal the present application is an incident), that the said application 
be and hereby is approved provided that the merger shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 7, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns, Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Maisel and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2031 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
MERCANTILE BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Mercantile Bankshares Corporation, Baltimore, Maryland 
("Applicant"), which presently owns over 95 per cent of the voting 
shares of Belair National Bank, Bowie, Maryland ("Belair Bank"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action 
to become a registered bank holding company through the acquisition 
of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors1 qualifying 
shares) of a new bank into which will be merged Mercantile-Safe 
Deposit and Trust Company, Baltimore, Maryland ("Merc-Safe"); and 
a new bank into which will be merged Annapolis Banking and Trust 
Company, Annapolis, Maryland ("Annapolis Bank"). The latter merger 
is the subject of a Board Order issued pursuant to the Bank Merger 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 

2032 
- 2 -
of rcceipt of the application to the Maryland Commissioner of Banking 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Maryland Commissioner 
submitted no objection to the proposal. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking 
in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a 
proposed acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the 
country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend 
to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in 
restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive 
effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the 
public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in 
Meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
In each case, the Board is required to take into consideration the 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the 
bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. - The 
10 largest banking organizations in the State of Maryland control 
74 per cent of the commercial deposits in the State. 
Applicant, 
1/ Bank data are as of June 30, 1969. 

2033 
- 2 -
as a result of its ownership of Belair Bank ($13 million deposits), 
and the proposed acquisitions of Merc-Safe ($199 million deposits), 
and Annapolis Bank ($25 million deposits), would control 4.9 per cent 
of the commercial, deposits in the State. It would become the 
first bank holding company headquartered in Maryland, and would 
replace Merc-Safe as the sixth largest banking organization in the 
State. 
Merc-Safe, an uninsured bank, has seven banking offices in the 
Baltimore area, and holds 9 per cent of the deposits in Baltimore 
County. It is the fifth largest bank in this market, and is pri-
marily a wholesale bank providing commercial and trust services to 
corporate customers. Although some of these customers are located 
in other sections of Maryland and in other States, most of Merc-
Safe's business is derived from the Baltimore metropolitan area. 
Annapolis Bank, which primarily serves the City of Annapolis 
and environs, is the second largest of four banks headquartered in 
Anne Arundel County, and the third largest of eleven banks operating 
in the County. Its four banking offices hold 16 per cent of the 
deposits in the County. Six of the eight largest banks in Maryland 
operate in the County. 
Belair Bank, which primarily serves the residential community 
°f Bowie and environs is the tenth largest of 16 banks operating 
in Prince Georges County, holding less than 2 per cent of the 

deposits in the County. It is the only bank headquartered in 
Bowie, but it faces competition from several nearby offices of 
much larger banks. 
Because the banks are separated by substantial distances 
and because there are banks located in the areas between them, there 
is virtually no existing competition between any two of the banks. 
The closest offices of Merc-Safe and Annapolis Bank are 18 miles 
apart; other offices of the two banks are 19 to 34 miles apart. 
Belair Bank's offices are from 25 to 30 miles from the nearest 
offices of Merc-Safe. The closest offices of Belair Bank and 
Annapolis Bank are 15 miles apart, and their other offices are from 
16 to 25 miles apart. 
The Board also considers it unlikely that competition 
would develop among the subject banks, or between any two of them, 
in the future. Merc-Safe, a wholesale bank, is unlikely to branch 
into areas served by Annapolis Bank or Belair Bank, or otherwise 
to compete for business of the retail customers which they serve. 
Belair Bank and Annapolis Bank, because of their small size and 
established geographical and trade patterns, appear unlikely to 
branch into areas served by the other. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of this proposal would not result in a monopoly, or be 
in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 

2035 
- 5 -
the business of banking in any part of the United States, and would 
not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to 
create a monopoly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The present and projected financial condition of Applicant appears 
satisfactory, as is its management; and its prospects - which would 
be dependent on the prospects of its subsidiary banks - appear 
favorable. 
Merc-Safe, Annapolis Bank and Belair Bank are in good 
financial condition, with capable management and attractive prospects. 
Belair Bank, because of its rapid growth, may need additional capital 
in the future and Applicant has indicated its willingness to provide 
additional funds, as needed. 
The Board has given extensive consideration to the 
uninsured status of Merc-Safe, as it may affect the soundness of the 
bank and of the holding company to which it would provide leadership. 
One matter of concern is the inapplicability to an uninsured bank of 
Federal laws designed to regulate financial relations between a bank 
and its affiliates. However, the Board of Directors of Merc-Safe has 
adopted a resolution providing that, in the event that the present 
proposal is consummated, the bank will conduct its operations, as they 
pertain to affiliated organizations, subject to the same restrictions 
as are now, or may hereafter be, imposed by Federal law on insured banks. 

2036 
- 6 -
Coupled with the Board's supervisory arid examination authority with 
respect to banks which are subsidiaries of bank holding companies, 
this provides assurance with regard to that aspect of the issue. 
The Board is of the belief that the value of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance to the public is such that all banks, and particu-
larly a bank of Merc-Safe's size, should offer this protection to 
their customers. Moreover, when affiliation with other banks under 
the Bank Holding Company Act is sought, it seems reasonable to impose 
a requirement of insurance as a prerequisite to enjoyment of that 
status, just as such a requirement has been imposed as a prerequisite 
to a Federal charter or to membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Whether such a requirement should be imposed on holding company sub-
sidiaries, iKwever, is a question more appropriate for Congressional 
determination than administrative decision. The Board has therefore 
proposed to Congress an amendment to the Bank Holding Company Act which 
would require that all banks which are subsidiaries of bank holding 
companies become and remain insured. Upon being informed that such 
a legislative proposal had been made by the Board, Applicant indicated 
that it nevertheless wished its proposal to be considered, and that 
appropriate steps would be taken to conform to any enactment. 
In view of the foregoing, the Board concludes that the 
banking factors, as related to Applicant and each of its proposed 
subsidiaries, are consistent with approval of the application. 

2037 
- 2 -
Convenience and needs of the communities concerned, - The 
banking needs of the communities to be served are being met adequately 
by existing institutions. Approval of the application would provide 
a means whereby the banking and trust services of a large, thoroughly-
capitalized and well-known banking institution may be utilized by 
small locally operated, independent banks to establish or expand and 
improve their own services (for example, data processing or trust 
services). To that extent, the convenience and needs of bank customers 
in the Annapolis and Bowie areas would be enhanced. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs factors 
are believed consistent with approval, and lend support to such action. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
July 7, 1970. 

2038 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR MITCHELL 
The corporate interest of Merc-Safe would be uniquely 
served xjere it permitted the advantages of a registered holding 
company status and none of the operating constraints and limitations 
Congress has attached to the privilege of Federal deposit insurance 
These corporate advantages relate to the ability to raise loanable 
funds and the freedom to invest them. I believe the majority's 
judgment that these advantages are substantially removed by Merc-
Safe's voluntary surrender of certain of these advantages overlooks 
the considerable potential value of those remaining. Under those 
circumstances, I do not believe the public interest is served in 
conferring unique advantages on a single holding company. 
July 7, 1970. 

2039 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
In determining the public interest with respect to an 
application under the Bank Holding Company Act, the Board is 
required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and prospects of the company and the banks concerned, and 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. In making 
that determination, it is necessary that the Board consider the 
soundness of the banking practices followed in the past by the banks 
involved. This is particularly true of the lead bank from which 
holding company management would be derived. In this case, the lead 
bank in the proposed holding company has not made available to its 
depositors one of the most basic protections. Despite the financial 
soundness of the institution, and in the light of experience and 
generally accepted banking practice, I conclude that an uninsured 
bank is pursuing unsound operational policies. For that reason, I 
have serious doubts with respect to the soundness of the leadership 
which such a bank is likely to provide to a holding company. 
In addition, some assurance of the soundness of a bank 
holding company is provided by Federal laws, other than the Bank 
Holding Company Act, which restrict the activities of the holding 
company's banking subsidiaries. These laws are not applicable to 
Merc-Safe, which, as an uninsured bank, is subject only to the 
restrictions of Maryland law. Without implying any judgment with 

2010 
- 2 -
respect to the adequacy of the laws of any State, there are clear 
advantages to the efficiency of the Board's performance of its 
supervisory role if banks in holding company systems are uniformly 
subject to the basic requirements of Federal law. The adoption by 
the directors of Merc-Safe of a resolution providing for voluntary 
compliance with these legal requirements, in my judgment, is a much 
less certain and satisfactory method of assuring compliance with 
the provisions which Congress has enacted to govern the operations 
of banks. 
I concur in the Board's suggestion that Congress should 
enact a clarifying amendment to the Act, which would require that all 
banks in a holding company system be and remain insured. Pending the 
enactment of such legislation, however, the Board cannot absolve 
itself of the responsibility of assuring the prospective soundness 
of bank holding companies whose formation it approves. In the 
exercise of that responsibility, I would deny the present application. 
July 7, 1970. 

BOARD OF GOVERN• RS 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
2041 
Item No. 5 
7/7/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S R O N D E N t 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 7, 1970. 
REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REGITF.^TFn 
Urn",m"16 B a n k s h a r e s Corporation, 
1400 Mercantile Trust Building 
Baltimore, Maryland. 21202 
Gentlemen: 
approved a p J u L ^ n s ^ n ^ r o f ' S e ^ ' T V 
^
^ 
a a a 
Annapolis, Maryland, for admission I T 
^ 
T f U S t 
Reserve System and'to merge ^ith The f 
l n t h e F e d e r a l 
-Company, Annapolis, Maryland- and ^ 6
n
A n " a p o U s B a n k " 8 and Trust 
Bankshares Corporation/which nr!senMvP 
b y M e r c a n " l e 
of the voting Shares of Be air^a i o n aI B°Ink T
^
" 
5 5 
^ 
become a registered bank holdi™ 
' B o w i e> Maryland, to 
of 100 per cent of t h e v o t i n g s h \ r e 7 n l t h e 
^
^
n
s 
shares) of Severn Bank and 
„ Z 
t 
f ™' ^ i f y i n g 
of a new bank into which will be meree^M A n n a p ° l l s ' Maryland, and 
and Trust Company, Baltimore, Maryland 
M a r C a n t l l c ' ^ Deposit 
release „ i t h ^ c ^ t o " t h e ^ e r g ' e ' H n T h o ? r 
^ 
p r a s s 
are also enclosed, together S 
h t 
C O mP a ny formation 
Governors Mitchell and®B ^ r e l a t i L 
of 
nection with the provisions of 
O ^ r V ^ L ^ i n g I" the"" 

2042 
Mercantile Bankshares Corporation 
-2-
periods of time within which the transactions approved shall be 
consummated, advice of the fact of consummation of each such 
transaction should be given in writing to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosures 

2013 
B O A R D 
O F GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/7/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 8, 1970 
Board of Directors, 
Severn Bank and Trust Company 
Annapolis, Maryland. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Severn Bank and Trust Company, 
Annapolis, Maryland, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set 
forth. 
(1) Such bank at all times shall conduct its 
business and exercise its powers with due re-
gard to the safety of its depositors, and, 
except with the permission of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to 
be made in the general character of its business 
or in the scope of the corporate powers exercised 
by it at the time of admission to membership. 
(2) The net capital and surplus funds of such 
bank shall be adequate in relation to the character 
and condition of its assets and to its deposit 
liabilities and other corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application on the under 
standing that Severn Bank and Trust Company will not conduct 
a banking business with the public until it has merged with 
The Annapolis Banking and Trust Company, Annapolis, Maryland. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of member-
ship, particular attention is called to the provisions of the 
Board's Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking in-
stitutions in the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference 
to Section 208.7 thereof. A copy of regulation is enclosed. 

2044 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System, 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to Commence 
Business has been issued. A certified copy of such resolution should 
be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
is limited to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank 
applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the 
Board is advised that all of the requirements have been complied 
with and that the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock 
has been issued to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a 
formal certificate of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary, 
Enclosure. 

2045 
.' * Of COW. •. 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
>T 
Item No. 7 
\ 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
7/7/70 
, 
l •#,):•••* i?-, ' - ' ] E • 
W A S H I N G T O N 
•Mffifif^/ 
. A.S'oJ .! ! M '.<••/.• • . 
O F F I C E 
O F 
T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
July 9, 1970 
The Honorable Harley 0. Staggars, 
Chairman, Committee on Interstate 
ancl Fo r e i gn C ominer c e, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
Dear Mr, Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your request for the views of 
the Board of Governors on two bills, H.R. 1S081 and H.R. 18109, which 
would create a corporation to provide insurance for the protection of 
customers of registered broker-dealers and of members of National 
Securities Exchanges. The Board recognizes the need for expeditious 
action to provide such protection in the event of brokerage firm 
failures and therefore strongly supports the creation of the Secu-
rities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), as proposed in the two 
draft bills. The Board has reviewed with its staff the wording and 
provisions of H.R. 18081 and H.R. 18109, and the areas of difference 
between the two bills which in the Board's view constitute significant 
issues are discussed below. 
1. On the occasion of its review of an earlier draft of 
H.R. 18081, the Board took the view that the insuring corporation 
should be a public corporation with a board of directors composed 
of Presidentially-appointed public members. The Board respects the 
consensus of the other government agcHicies involved in the develop-
ment of this bill, which was that the majority of the directors should 
be from the brokerage industry but that the chairman and four other 
members of the fifteen member board should represent the public and be 
appointed by the President. On the other hand, the industry-proposed 
alternative--H.R. 18109--would give only token representation to the 
public and the government, despite the substantial involvement in the 
insurance plan of public interest and moneys. In light of this involve-
ment, the Board considers such token representation inappropriate and 
endorses in. preference the provisions of H.R. 18081 regarding the 
composition of the board of directors of SIPC* 

2046 
The Honorable Harley 0. Staggers 
-2-
2. The Board strongly believes that the exposure of public 
funds in providing protection to investors, in the form of a $1 billion 
line of credit with the Treasury, makes imperative the vesting of addi-
tional surveillance, oversight, and rule-making power in the Securities 
and Exchange Commission. The generalized powers presently contained in 
Section 19(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are too constrained 
by administrative and procedural difficulties to be adequate as a means 
of preventing practices which could abuse the availability of public 
funds. The need for such specific powers is made even greater by the 
effective industry domination of the board of directors of the SIPC 
contemplated in both bills. The Board therefore strongly endorses the 
provisions of subsection (j)(13) of H.R. 18081 as a means of imposing 
rules and standards for the specific purpose of protecting the insur-
ance fund by reducing the risk of loss to customers. Such inspection 
and rule-making provisions are almost entirely absent from H.R. 18109. 
3. There is also a difference between the two bills with 
regard to the authority for establishing, and the permissible amount, 
of assessments of registered broker-dealers and members of National 
Securities Exchanges. The industry proposal--H.II. 18109--would estab-
lish absolute maxima on the amount each firm could be assessed--l/2 of 
one per cent of gross revenues when any borrowing from the Treasury or 
otherwise was outstanding and 1/4 of one per cent of such revenues when 
no borrowing was outstanding. The Board believes that the latter 
maximum in particular is too low to permit an adequately rapid accumu-
lation of funds within the SIPC to meet potential liquidation claims. 
Even with uniform maximum assessments, and assuming no operating 
expenses of the SIPC and no losses paid from the fund, in 1969 broker-
dealers would have paid only $11 million into the SIPC fund. At this 
rate of inflow, it would take more than six years to accumulate the 
$75 million cash fund proposed in H.R. 18109. 
Even more important, the low level of the 1/4 per cent 
maximum on normal assessments would virtually force the corporation to 
apply uniform maximum assessment rates to all covered broker-dealers--
both initially and during any subsequent period when the SIPC fund 
might, be drawn down--in order to raise even marginally sufficient funds. 
Such uniform assessment rates would not recognize the fact that the 
risk of exposure to SIPC funds varies among broker-dealers according to 
both the relative degree to which they hold customer securities or 
credit balances and the general manner in which they conduct their 
business. This variation in risk suggests that, as standards of judg-
ment are developed over time, assessment rates should also vary among 
broker-dealers. The Board recognizes that assessment rates for deposit 

2017 
The Honorable.Harley 0. Staggers 
-3-
insurance do not vary as such among banks. However, banks are more 
restricted than are broker-dealers in their use of funds; for example, 
banks cannot invest their capital funds in common stocks. 
On the other hand, it is understandable that the brokerage 
industry might oppose a provision which set no upper limit on assess-
ments of the kind contained in H.R, 18081. It would appear more 
appropriate to eliminate excessively risky practices which would 
require extremely high assessment rates through the additional SEC 
rule-making authority that is provided in II.R. 18081. „ The Board 
therefore endorses the concept of statutory limits on assessment rates 
that may be applied to broker-dealers covered by SIPC, but believes 
that such limits must be higher than those proposed in H.R. 18109, The 
Board also believes that SEC approval of assessment rates established 
by the SIPC--proposed in H.R. 18081 but not in H.R. 18109--is highly 
desirable as a means of protecting the public interest and preventing 
the possibility of an unjustifiable reliance on Treasury back-up credit 
which could result from inadequate assessment by SIPC of the broker-
dealers it insures. 
4. The Board notes that the manner in which insurance by 
SIPC is applied in both bills is more generous than coverage afforded 
depositors by the FDIC and FSLIC. The Board recognizes, however, that 
coverage of customers of broker-dealers cannot be entirely parallel to 
.that afforded depositors in banks, because the broker performs a custo-
dial function--as an integral part of customer account services--in 
holding customers' fully paid securities in safekeeping. The accounts 
of customers of broker-dealers thus reflect partly depositary claims 
(credit balances) comparable to claims insured by FDIC and partly 
custodial claims comparable not to deposits but to bank trust accounts. 
The coverage proposed in H.R. 18109 would, in the Board's 
view, appropriately meet both depositary and custodial claims of cus-
tomers of broker-dealers in a manner consistent with FDIC coverage of 
bank depositors. Customers' fully paid securities would, to the extent 
that they are identifiable and available, be distributed to customers 
without insurance limit, subject to pro-rata distribution in the event 
of a deficiency of securities. All remaining customer claims (credit 
balances and the value of unidentified securities not previously 
distributed) would be met in full up to the statutory insurance limit. 
For amounts exceeding the limit, customers would be entitled to compete 
with the SIPC for cash and securities in the "single and separate fund" 
established under provisions of the Bankruptcy Act for the purpose of 

2048 
The Honorable liar ley 0. Staggers 
-4-
distributing customer account balances. Remaining claims of customers 
could be made, in competition with those of general creditors, against 
the general estate of the broker-dealer. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

..•^OPCO^/. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , H. C 
2 D S 5 I 
2049 
Item No. 8 
7/7/70 
July 15, 1970 
The Honorable Elmer B. Staats, 
Comptroller General of the United States, 
Washington, D. C. 20548 
Dear Mr. Staats: 
I am replying to your letter of June 30, 1970, in which 
you asked for assistance in responding to a request from Chairman 
Patman of the Joint Economic Committee who asked for a review of 
the accounting standards and practices used by U.S. Government 
securities dealers in their reports to the Federal Reserve System. 
It is our understanding that the General Accounting Office would 
secure the necessary information for complying with Chairman Fatman's 
request by direct interviews arid observation of the dealers' 
activities and that, the necessary basic data would be obtained 
directly from the dealers. The Federal Reserve, notably officials 
at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, would undertake to provide 
the GA0 staff with technical advice and might in addition be asked 
to validate from the records of the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York data which the dealers will provide. 
Members of the Federal Open Market Committee, which has 
jurisdiction in this area, have indicated their willingness to have 
the Federal Reserve cooperate in this study in the manner you have 
outlined.. It is their understanding that the confidential nature 
of the dealers' reports to the System would be protected and on this 
basis they interpose no objection to proceeding promptly with the 
study. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, Secretary, 
Federal Open Market Committee. 

2050 
Item No. 9 
7/7/70 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265—RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
Salaries, Separation Allowances, and Health Insurance 
Benefits of Federal Reserve Bank Officers and Employees 
1. Effective immediately § 265.1a is amended by changing 
paragraph (b) to read as follows: 
§ 265,1a Specific functions delegated to Board members, 
i< 
* 
i< 
( b) The Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building 
Planst consisting of three members of the Board designated by the Chair-
man, is authorized, pursuant to the twenty-second paragraph of section 4 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 307) and subject to such general 
guidelines as may be prescribed by the Board: 
(1) To approve (i) changes in the salary structure for officers, 
other than the President and First Vice President, of each Federal Reserve 
Bank and branch thereof, and (ii) the salary of any officer of a Federal 
Reserve Bank holding a position below that of Senior Vice President, 
subject, however, to approval of such salaries by the Board in connection 
with year-end salary reviews and subject to guidelines approved bv the 
Board under which each Reserve Bank makes salary recommendations• 
(2) To approve (i) changes in maximum and minimum salaries 
for the respective grades of the salary structure for nonofficial 

2051 
-2-
employees of cach Federal Reserve Bank and branch thereof, (ii) an 
increase in the special maximum salary for Grade 16 of such salary 
structure for each Reserve Bank or branch, and (iii.) the payment of 
salary to any such employee in excess of the maximum or below the 
minimum for the grade in which the employee's position is classified. 
(3) To approve (i) amendments to the authorization from the 
Board of Governors to the Federal Reserve Banks for the payment of 
separatio n allowances upon the involuntary termination of employment 
of any officer or employee of a Federal Reserve Bank or branch, and 
(ii) payment of such a separation allowance to any officer of a Reserve 
Bank or branch. 
(4) To approve the payment of salary to any officer (other 
than the President or First Vice President) or employee of a Federal 
Reserve Bank whose services are retained for more than 90 days after 
attainment of normal retirement ace. 
o * 
(5) To approve amendments to the Guidelines and Objectives 
for Health Insurance prescribed by the Board of Governors for officers 
snd employees of Federal Reserve Banks and their branches. 
In the exercise of any authority delegated under this paragraph (b), 
the Committee shall be guided by the objectives of promoting the ef-
ficiency of Reserve Bank operations and of maintaining the morale of 
Reserve Bank personnel and shall give appropriate attention to salary 
levels and employment practices in the relevant community but with due 
regard to the public character of the Federal Reserve System. 

2052 
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to delegate to a 
committee of Board members certain functions of the Board relating 
to salaries, separation allowances, and health insurance benefits 
of officers and employees of Federal Reserve Banks. 
h. The provisions of section 553 of title 5, United 
States Code, relating to notice and public participation and to 
deferred effective dates, were not followed in connection with the 
adoption of this amendment, because the rules contained herein are 
procedural in nature and accordingly do not constitute substantive 
rules subject to the requirements of such section. 
By order of the Board of Governors, j u l y 7 
l g 7 Q 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2(153 
BOARD • F" GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL-RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
2C5M 
Item No. 10 
7/7/70 
f ^ A L K ^ : ' - ' 
A D C R c t B 
( J F F i C I A L C D R R E S P O N O £ N C C 
T[J T H E 
I I C A P O 
July 9, 1970. 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 100451 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
The Board of Governors has considered your Bank's 
request for approval of the payment of salary to Ellen M. 
Nicholson, M.D., (within the special salary range applicable 
to phys icians employed by your Bank) after she reached a^e 
65. Rather than approve salary payments until Dr. Nicholson 
attained age 70, in accordance with your request, the Board 
has approved such payments for the period of one year after 
she attained age 65, with the understanding that further re-
quests will be made from year-to-year for a period not in 
excess of five years. This places the payment of her salary 
on the same basis as provided by the rules and regulations 
of the Federal Reserve Retirement System, covering che re-
tention of her services past age 65 (Section 4.2)" 
Approval for Dr. Nicholson's retention and services 
for this period of time is based upon the general shortage of 
industrial physicians and the extreme difficulty that your 
Bank would experience in employing an industrial physician 
who is both qualified and desirable. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

{/ • Y\?n 
t 
r r r /f-
2051 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
n V T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 11 
7/7/70 
L Rt>.. • 
OFFICE". O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
July 6, 1970. 
The Honorable William Proxmire 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Senator Proxmire: 
I have just received your letter asking certain questions 
about the revisions the Board has proposed in section 4(c)(8) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act. Time pressures make it impossible 
to put your letter or this response before the Board for its 
consideration before your meeting tomorrow morning. 
You have asked some searching questions. Many of them 
could be answered by the Board only after giving interested 
persons an opportunity to present their views and after careful 
study of the views presented. 
Some of your questions, however, can be answered quite 
readily. For example, you ask whether, if bank holding companies 
are permitted to have finance company subsidiaries, a finance 
company could purchase a bank. The answer is "yes", subject, 
of course, to Board approval of the transaction under section 3 
of the Act. 
You ask if a leasing company subsidiary could obtain 
financing from sources other than a subsidiary bank; the answer 
is "yes", under present law as well as under the proposed 
revision. 
You ask if a mortgage company subsidiary under section 
4(c)(5) would be free of the geographic limitations imposed by 
section 4(c)(1)(C). There are no geographic limitations under 
section 4(c)(1)(C), but a subsidiary established under that 
section may originate mortgage loans only for a subsidiary bank. 
If your question, however, is whether under the proposed amendment 
of section 4(c)(8) the Board could authorize establishment of a 
mortgage company subsidiary to make loans on its own account 
without geographic limitations, the answer is "yes." This would 
also be true in the case of subsidiary finance companies, 
factoring companies and the like. 

1 2 0 5 5 
The Honorable William Proxmire 
-2-
With regard to insurance activities, the principal 
thrust of the proposed amendment is to authorize insurance 
subsidiaries to write or sell insurance in connection with 
businesses engaged in by subsidiaries other than bank 
subsidiaries, but the language of the amendment is not so 
limited. 
As far as I'm aware, no precise line can be drawn 
between "bookkeeping" and "accounting", as used in the testimony. 
The Board could, under the proposed amendment, impose any restrictions 
it saw fit to impose on the provision of accounting services to 
the general public. However, the language of the proposed 
amendment: does not specify any restrictions, and I have no way 
of knowing what the Board would decide at some future date as 
to what restrictions are appropriate. The same answer would 
apply to data processing services. It might be argued that the 
same construction could be placed on the present language of 
section 4(c)(8), but that language has not been so construed, 
perhaps because no one has raised a question as to whether 
accounting services or data processing services are "so closely 
related to the business of banking" as to fall within the 
authorization in that section. 
I hope this response will be of some assistance to 
you. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
2056 
Item No. 12 
7/7/70 
July 6, 1970. 
Mr. Hugh Smith, Jr. 
Assistant Counsel 
Committee on Banking and Currency 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Hugh: 
As you requested, this letter summarizes the reasons 
why the Board has recommended a revision of section 4(c)(8) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act. 
First, the revision will facilitate administration of 
section 4 by eliminating the mandatory hearing requirement. 
Second, the revision more clearly reflects the kinds 
of considerations that should go into deciding which fields of 
business bank holding companies should enter. It recognizes 
the importance of channeling such entry into fields that will 
benefit the public through gains in efficiency or convenience, 
with competition being increased rather than diminished. 
Third, the Board believes these benefits are not 
necessarily dependent upon a showing of such a close relation-
ship between the business of a proposed nonbank subsidiary and 
the business of a subsidiary bank as the present law has been 
interpreted to require. For example, the mortgage company 
subsidiaries established under the present law are authorized 
to make mortgage loans only on the premises of a subsidiary bank; 
off bank premises, they are authorized only to solicit, process, 
and service such loans for a subsidiary bank. Under the revised 
4(c)(8), mortgage companies could be authorized to make loans on 
their own, without such a close connection to a subsidiary bank. 
As another example, insurance company subsidiaries have been 
authorized where all the insurance is written in connection 
with transactions of a subsidiary bank; under the revision, such 
a company might be authorized to write insurance in connection 
with transactions of other subsidiaries, such as the subsidiary 
mortgage company. 

Mr. Hugh Smith, Jr. 
- 2 -
2057 
Fourth, the proposed procedures for screening appli-
cations to establish subsidiaries to engage in permissible 
activities would guard against creation of a holding-company 
structure with sufficient market power to induce voluntary 
tying, as Assistant Attorney General McLaren has pointed out. 
Admittedly, the proposed revision does not define with 
precision the kinds of business that would be permitted. The 
list would be drawn up only after public hearings and further 
study, and would undoubtedly be changed from time to time. But 
Chairman Burns provided the Committee with illustrations of 
activities the Board now considers are likely candidates for 
such a list: subsidiaries "engaged in lending funds on their own 
account or for the account of others; acting as investment adviser; 
operating a 'no-load' mutual fund; leasing equipment where the 
lease is really a form of security for financing; performing 
insurance functions in connection with services offered by other 
subsidiaries; providing bookkeeping or data processing services; 
originating, servicing, and selling mortgage loans; acting as 
travel agent or issuing travelers checks; and making equity 
investments in community rehabilitation and development 
corporations engaged in providing better housing and employment 
opportunities for people of low or moderate incomes." 
While it is true that the proposed revision leaves a 
number of important questions unanswered, so does the present 
law. The Board has proposed a procedure under which it believes 
that better answers to these questions can be worked out than 
under the present law. The present substantive conditions for 
approval of an acquisition under section 4(c)(8), plus the mandatory 
hearing requirement, have led registered bank holding companies to 
try to bring their nonbanking acquisitions within other exemptions 
in section 4 (principally sections 4(c)(1)(C) and 4(c)(5)), where 
the Board's approval is not required, and the Board may not even 
learn of such an acquisition until it receives the holding company's 
annual report. Section 4(c)(8) has been virtually limited in its 
application to insurance subsidiaries. The proposed revision 
would convert it into a vehicle under which the great bulk of 
proposed nonbanking acquisitions could be more effectively 
considered and screened. 
I hope this summary meets your needs. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Robert L. Cardon 
Robert L. Cardon 
Assistatn to the Board 
