PR 609 
Minutes for 
February 9, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minuces. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

4 « > 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, February 9, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Wernick, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Williams, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Weiner, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ghiardi, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 

2/9/70 
- 2 -
Mr. Irvine, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Katz, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Ormsby, Special Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
A number of other staff members from the research divisions 
also were present. 
Reports on competitive factors. 
The Board approved the trans-
mittal of reports (the first to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
and the others to the Comptroller of the Currency) on the competitive 
factors involved in the following proposed mergers, the conclusions in 
the respective reports reading as indicated: 
Brevoort Savings Bank, Brooklyn, New York, into Metropolitan Savings 
Bank, also of Brooklyn 
There is some existing competition and limited potential for 
increased competition between Metropolitan Savings Bank, Brooklyn, and 
Brevoort Savings Bank, Brooklyn. 
The proposed merger would not sig-
nificantly increase concentration among mutual savings banks in New York 
City or in the Borough of Brooklyn, and a substantial number and variety 
of financial institutions offering convenient facilities for savings 
banks' customers exist in the area. 
The overall effect of the proposal 
on competition would be slightly adverse. 
Pitman National Bank and Trust Company, Pitman, New Jersey, and The First 
National Bank and Trust Company of Paulsboro, Paulsboro, New Jersey, 
into First County National Bank and Trust Company, Woodbury, Woodbury, 
New Jersey 
While there is some competition existing among Pitman National 
Bank and Trust Company, The First National Bank and Trust Company of 
Paulsboro, and First County National Bank and Trust Company, Woodbury, 
the potential for development of increased competition among them in 

2/9/70 
- 3 -
the fo reseeable future through de novo branching appears remote. A number 
of commercial banking alternatives would remain in the relevant area, 
including offices of several large Camden County banks, and banking offices 
in Philadelphia are also convenient for many area residents. 
The over-
all effect of the proposal on competition would be slightly adverse. 
First National Bank of Buchanan County, St. Joseph, Missouri, with The 
First National Bank of St. Joseph, St. Joseph, Missouri 
Consummation of the proposed merger of First National Bank of 
Buchanan County, St. Joseph, Missouri, and The First National Bank of 
St. Joseph, St. Joseph, Missouri, would have no adverse competitive 
effects. 
(Note: This proposed merger was merely a transaction to facilitate the 
acquisition of The First National Bank of St. Joseph by First Midwest 
Bancorp., Inc.) 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on January 30, 1970, and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco on February 5, 1970, of the rates 
on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved unan-
imously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent 
to those Banks. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, on February 3, and the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, on February 5, had established a 
rate of 7-1/2 per cent, rather than 7 per cent, on advances to individuals, 
partnerships, and corporations other than member banks under the last 
paragraph of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act. Other rates of these 
Banks were established without change. 

46f> 
2/9/70 
- 4 -
The rates established by the Philadelphia and Atlanta Banks 
were approved unanimously, effective February 10, 1970, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to all Federal Reserve 
Banks. 
Money market and economic review. Staff presented a money market 
review and also an economic review of the kind presented prior to meetings 
of the Federal Open Market Committee, but in abbreviated form in view 
of the chart show to be presented at tomorrow's Committee meeting. 
It 
was understood that copies of the staff papers would be distributed to 
the Board members for further study; copies also have been placed in the 
Board's files, along with copies of the statistical charts and tables 
prepared for the purpose of today's review. 
Credit policy. The meeting continued from this point with 
limited staff attendance and, at Chairman Burns' invitation, several 
members of the Board expressed tentative views of the principal considera-
tions bearing upon the formulation of credit policy at this stage. 
During 
the discussion consideration also was given to procedural questions, 
including possibilities for changes in the format of Open Market Commit-
tee meetings and for providing Board members opportunity to explore key 
issues with staff prior to such meetings. 
The development of a forum 
for such exploration was generally favored, with the understanding that 
this would in no sense be a pre-meeting "caucus" and that any personal 

470 
2/9/70 
-5-
expressions would clearly be tentative and subject to modification. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
