Minutes for 
January 29, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
n 
A 

311 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, January 29, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Miss Hart and Messrs. Plotkin and Sanders, 
Senior Attorneys, Legal Division 
Messrs. Cloth and Shuter, Attorneys, Legal 
Division 
Mr. Maguire, Supervisory Review Examiner, 
Division of Examinations 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 

3 i ; 
1/29/68 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to United California Bank International, 
1 
New York, New York, approving an amendment to 
its Articles of Association. 
Letter to the Secretary of the Federal Advisory 
2 
Council submitting suggested topics for discus-
sion at the forthcoming meeting of the Council. 
Memorandum from Mr. Brill dated January 26, 
3 
1968, regarding the proposed establishment of a 
new standing subcommittee of the System Research 
Advisory Committee, which subcommittee would be 
concerned with the functions and operations of 
System research libraries. 
Report on H.R. 13884 (Item No. 4). There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated January 25, 1968, from the Legal Division relating 
to a request from Chairman Patman of the House Banking and Currency 
Committee for the Board's views on H.R. 13884, a bill "To prohibit 
federally insured banks from voting their own stock and to provide for 
cumulative voting in federally insured banks." 
In reviewing the legal background, the memorandum noted that 
under section 5144 of the U.S. Revised Statutes shareholders in national 
banks have cumulative voting rights. A national bank may not own its 
own stock in its own right, but it may own such stock in a fiduciary 
capacity. If it owns the stock as sole trustee, it may vote such 
stock where directed to do so by the beneficial owners; if it owns 
such stock as a co-trustee, the other co-trustee may vote the stock 
as if he were the sole trustee. 
H.R. 13884 would repeal the provisions of section 5144 relating 
to the voting by a national bank of its own stock held in a fiduciary 

348 
1/29/68 
-3-
capacity. The bill would also amend the Federal Deposit Insurance Act 
so as to extend to all insured banks (1) a provision against directly 
or indirectly voting their own stock and (2) a provision for cumula-
tive voting. At present, the voting rights of shareholders in State-
chartered banks are governed solely by State law. Some States pro-
hibit cumulative voting. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of report that would 
take a position favorable to the objectives of the bill. However, it 
would suggest, for reasons noted, that the bill be modified so as not 
to prohibit insured banks from voting their own stock held by them in 
a fiduciary capacity. 
With respect to cumulative voting, the memorandum pointed out 
that the Board historically had favored such a practice. If H.R. 13884 
were enacted, however, each shareholder of an insured bank would have 
cumulative voting rights immediately, and that might present a problem 
for banks in States with statutory provisions against cumulative voting. 
Accordingly, the report would suggest deferring the effective date of 
the cumulative voting provision, thus enabling States and banks to make 
necessary changes in laws or charter provisions. 
After comments by Mr. Sanders, Governor Mitchell expressed 
general agreement with the approach reflected in the report. However, 
if the Board held the view that there was a potential conflict between 
the interests of a bank's management and the best interests of its 

348 
1/29/68 
-4-
shareholders, it would appear that the voting by a bank of its own 
shares should be prohibited without qualification. Accordingly, he 
would be inclined to omit the paragraphs relating to exceptions for 
fiduciary situations. 
There followed a discussion of the paragraphs in the letter to 
which Governor Mitchell referred, and at the conclusion thereof several 
members of the Board indicated that they would be inclined to retain 
the paragraphs subject to a change in language suggested by Governor 
Maisel. Governor Mitchell said that, despite the inclination he had 
expressed, the matter was not of particular importance to him. 
Governor Maisel then commented that it might be preferable if 
the provisions of section 5144 of the Revised Statutes were not repealed, 
and if such provisions were applied also to State-chartered insured 
banks. 
Governor Robertson agreed, adding that in his opinion any fur-
ther step would be likely to provoke serious controversy. 
In further discussion, Mr. Sanders pointed out that the pro-
posed letter would take a stronger position in favor of cumulative 
voting than the Board had taken previously. However, members of the 
Board indicated that they were agreeable to taking a position that 
cumulative voting was a desirable attribute of stock ownership. 
Mr. Hexter brought out that Federal legislation along the lines 
suggested would represent regulation of State banks for a purpose that 

348 
1/29/68 
-5-
did not relate to the soundness of those banks. Some members of the 
Board suggested that the point need not be dealt with in the report on 
H.R. 13884, on the ground that it would be recognized in Congressional 
debate. However, there eventually was agreement with a suggestion by 
Governor Maisel that the problem be mentioned in the letter without 
indication of Board position. 
Further comments were made on ways in which the draft letter 
might be reformulated in light of the several questions that had been 
raised, and at the conclusion of the discussion unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to Chairman Patman in the form attached as Item No. 4 
Proposed "purpose" statements. In the course of consideration 
at the Board meeting on January 24, 1968, of a proposed revision of 
Regulation U (which would be entitled Credit by Banks for the Purpose 
of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Stocks), the staff was instructed 
to obtain the reactions of the Federal Reserve Banks to "purpose" 
statements for use by customers and by banks in connection with exten-
sion of stock-secured credit. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated January 29, 
1968, from the Examinations, Legal, and Research Divisions summarizing 
the Reserve Bank views. According to the memorandum, a majority of 
the Reserve Banks either generally endorsed adoption of both forms or 
did not specifically oppose their adoption. Attached to the memorandum 
were revised draft forms U-10 (formerly U-l), to be executed by the 

348 
1/29/68 
-6-
customer, and U-20 (formerly U-2), to be executed by the bank. The 
revised forms reflected comments received from Reserve Banks. Major 
revisions were (1) elimination of the need for listing collateral on 
U-10, and (2) inclusion of an affirmative statement to the effect that 
the lending officer was familiar with Regulation U instead of a ques-
tion asking whether such was the case. 
It was the recommendation of the staff that the forms be dis-
cussed with the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation and adopted 
effective the same date as the revised margin regulations. 
Governor Mitchell expressed a preference for placing more of 
the responsibility on the applicant for credit than on the bank. He 
suggested certain changes toward that end, including the possibility 
of combining the two forms. 
Governor Maisel then raised the question whether completion of 
the forms should be required if the amount of the credit being extended 
was below a certain amount. 
Members of the staff who commented in response to Governor 
Maisel's question expressed the view that the requirement would not be 
very complex when a small loan was involved. They felt that something 
might be said on grounds of equity of treatment if the requirement was 
applicable in all cases. 
Governor Maisel then distributed copies of a paper in which he 
suggested certain language changes in that part of the form relating 
to acceptance of the customer's statement in "good faith." 

348 
1/29/68 
-7-
Governor Robertson stated that he was impressed by the sugges-
tions Governor Mitchell had made as to form design. He proposed that 
the staff work with Governor Mitchell to produce a redesigned form or 
forms that he (Governor Robertson) could discuss tomorrow with the 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 
Mr. Partee observed that one possibility would be to publish 
a proposed form or forms for comment, since that had not been done at 
the time the then proposed margin regulations were published for com-
ment . 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that if more of the burden 
was placed on applicants for credit there would not be so much criticism 
from the banks. 
Governor Maisel stated that he would be opposed to publishing 
for comment a provision in Regulation U that would require the use of 
a purpose statement. The regulation should contain such a requirement. 
However, he would have no objection if the proposed form or forms were 
published separately for comment. 
Mr. Partee then commented that if the Board definitely wanted 
to require the use of a purpose statement form the best procedure might 
be to issue the form or forms at the same time as the amended Regula-
tion U, with the understanding that the Board would be prepared to make 
minor changes for good cause. 
Governor Robertson noted that in any event there would be a 
period of about 30 days before the use of the purpose statement was 

348 
1/29/68 
-8-
required, and in the interim members of the public would have an 
opportunity to express their views. 
It was then understood that the forms would be redesigned by the 
staff in consultation with Governor Mitchell and would be discussed by 
Governor Robertson with the Coordinating Committee. 
"Federal Reserve receipts". At the request of Governor 
Robertson, Mr. Farrell reported on a recent conversation with Mr. 
Stickney, Deputy Fiscal Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, the sub-
stance of which Mr. Farrell had summarized in a memorandum to Governor 
Robertson dated January 24, 1968. Mr. Stickney was under the impression 
that "Federal Reserve receipts" should in the future be included in the 
Treasury budget, and he wished to set up a procedure whereby monthly 
reports would be sent to the Treasury's Bureau of Accounts showing (1) 
gross income, (2) gross expenses, and (3) net income. Mr. Farrell told 
Mr. Stickney that he was not aware of any such arrangement, and Mr. 
Stickney indicated that he would obtain additional information before 
pursuing the matter further. 
Mr. Kakalec commented that such reporting would appear to be 
inconsistent with the recommendation in the October 1967 report of the 
President's Commission on Budget Concepts that "The payment of excess 
Federal Reserve profits to the Treasury should continue to be treated 
as a Federal budget receipt. But other receipts and expenditures of 
the Federal Reserve Banks should continue to be excluded from the 

1/29/68 
-9-
budget." However, Mr. Kakalec continued, the Annexed Budgets section 
of the Federal Budget Appendix had for several years contained a table 
showing the financial programs of the Board of Governors along with 
material on several other agencies whose programs were outside the 
normal budget process. Mr. Kakalec expressed the view that this might 
have been the source of the existing confusion. 
There was agreement with a suggestion by Governor Robertson 
that the matter be referred to Mr. Holland for investigation by the 
staff, with the understanding that it would then be brought back to 
the Board for further consideration. 
Report by Mr. Solomon. Mr. Solomon reported on the reactions 
to the new U.S. balance of payments program expressed by representa-
tives of other countries at the recent meeting in Paris of Working 
Party 3 of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. 
It was understood that Governor Daane would report later on the Paris 
meeting of the Deputies of the Group of Ten. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: As recommended in a 
memorandum from the Division of Research 
and Statistics dated January 25, 1968, 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board the appointment of Professor 
Robert W. Johnson of Purdue University as 
a consultant on a temporary contractual 
basis until December 31, 1968, with com-
pensation at the rate of $95 per day for 
each day worked for the Board and, when 
in travel status, transportation expenses 
and per diem to be paid in accordance with 
the Board's travel regulations. (Professor 
Johnson would act as a consultant in con-
nection with the truth-in-lending program.) 

1/29/68 
-10-
On January 29, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated : 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to First Holding Company, Inc., Waukesha, 
Wisconsin, granting an extension of time within 
which to become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of shares of First National Bank 
of Waukesha, Waukesha, Wisconsin, and The First 
National Bank in Wauwatosa, Wauwatosa, Wisconsin, 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Letter to United States Bank of Grand Junction, 
Grand Junction, Colorado, approving an invest-
ment in bank premises. 
Item No 
Secretary 

B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
item No. 1 
• F T H E 
1/29/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 2055t 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 29, 1968. 
United California Bank International, 
140 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of January 3, 
1968, enclosing a certified copy of a resolution of 
shareholders amending Article THIRD of the Articles of 
Association of your Corporation changing the home office 
of the Corporation to 140 Broadway, New York, New York. 
The Board of Governors approves the amendment 
to Article THIRD. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
1/29/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 29, 1968 
Mr. Herbert V. Prochnow, Secretary, 
Federal Advisory Council, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Herb: 
The Board of Governors suggests the topics 
shown on the attached list for discussion at the meeting 
of the Federal Advisory Council on February 19, 1968, 
and the joint meeting of the Board and the Council on 
February 20. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Attachment 

u ».;o 
Suggested Topics for Discussion at Meeting of 
Federal Advisory Council on February 19-20, 1968 
Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the general economic outlook 
for the first half, and for the second half, of 1968? The 
outlook for wage and price developments? 
B. What impressions do Council members have from their customer 
contacts with respect to prospective trends in business 
inventories? 
C. What is the outlook for the availability of mortgage funds 
and for residential construction in the Council members' 
respective regions? 
Banking developments. 
A. What is the Council's assessment of the probable strength of 
business loan demands in the late winter and spring? 
B. Do Council members observe or expect any significant accelera-
tion in demands for consumer credit? Has any change in consumer 
credit terms been developing? 
C. How would the Council appraise recent and prospective changes 
in market demands for large-denomination CD's of various 
maturities? For consumer-type CD's and savings deposits? 
D. The Board would welcome any comments by Council members on the 
proposed amendments to Regulation D, concerning technical 
changes in the computation of reserve requirements by member 
banks, that were published on January 29, 1968. 
Balance of payments. 
A. How would the Council assess the probable effectiveness of key 
elements of the new balance of payments program, including 
those relating to direct investment, lending by financial 
institutions, and travel abroad? 
B. In the judgment of the Council, will the new guidelines for 
restraint of foreign credits significantly affect the avail-
ability of financing for U.S. exports? 
C. To what extent, if any, would the Council expect U.S. banks 
to increase lending activity at their foreign branches to 
offset their reduced ability to make loans subject to the 
guideline ceilings? What effects would such a development, 
and other factors, be likely to have on the volume of 
Euro-dollars "loaned" by the branches to their home offices 
over the next few months? 

•' .'v 
is 
'' 
'M l i 
.; < I . 
- 
2 
-
4. What are the Council's views on monetary and credit policy 
under current circumstances, (a)'assuming reasonably prompt 
passage of an income tax surcharge? (b) assuming no income 
tax surcharge will be passed? 
354 

' ) trr-
o « x > 
Item No. 3 
1/29/68 
January 26, 1968. 
TO: 
Board of Governors 
SUBJECT: Establishment of new 
FROM: Daniel H. Brill 
SRAC subcommittee. 
This memo requests permission of the Board to establish 
a new standing subcommittee of the System Research Advisory Com-
mitte to be concerned with the functions and operations of System 
research libraries. The request originated among the librarians 
in the System who wish to establish a more formal and permanent 
mechanism for exchanging information on library functions at the 
Reserve Banks and at the Board, with a view to developing more 
uniform procedures and services and to assist in developing 
solutions to common problems. The committee mechanism would 
also facilitate communication of System research needs to the 
librarians at the respective Reserve Banks. 
The proposal has the unanimous endorsement of the 
System Research Advisory Committee and of the President's 
Conference. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
1/29/68 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
February 1, 1968 
> rr» 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your request of November 17 1967 
for the Board s views on H.R. 13884, a bill "To prohibit federally' 
insured banks from voting their own stock and to provide for cumu-
lative voting in federally insured banks." 
The Board favors the objectives of this bill. Inherent 
in a bank voting its own stock is a potential conflict between the 
self-interest of the bank's management and the best interests of its 
shareholders. To avoid the harmful consequences of such a conflict, 
voting by a bank of its own shares should be either entirely pro-
hibited or permitted only in certain situations. 
Under section 5144 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 61), 
a national bank is permitted to vote stock held by it as sole trustee 
if "under the terms of the trust the manner in which such shares shall 
be voted may be determined by a donor or beneficiary of the trust 
and . . . such donor or beneficiary actually directs how such shares 
shall be voted". That section also provides that, if the bank owns 
such stock as co-trustee, the other trustee(s) may vote the stock as 
if he were the sole trustee. From the standpoint of the beneficial 
owners of the stock, these provisions assure that such owners will 
not be deprived of having a basic ownership right exercised in their 
behalf. 
The Board is unaware that any harmful consequences have 
arisen from these provisions. Accordingly, the Board suggests that 
the apparently unqualified prohibition in H.R. 13884 against an 
insured bank exercising voting rights of its capital stock be modi-
fied to make clear that the stock of any insured bank held by it in 
a fiduciary capacity may be voted in the ways presently authorized 
by R.S. 5144. 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
- 2 -
In the Board's view, cumulative voting is a desirable 
attribute of stock ownership, despite the slight danger, inherent 
in such method of voting, that an unwary majority may find that a 
vigilant minority has deprived the majority of control (by taking 
advantage of the majority spreading their votes among too many 
candidates). The Board believes that such a danger is more than 
counterbalanced by the benefits of enabling minority shareholders 
to participate in management. 
There is, however, an administrative problem in providing 
that, upon enactment of H.R. 13884, "each shareholder of any insured 
bank" shall have cumulative voting rights. Banks in States with a 
statutory provision against cumulative voting (see for example 
Michigan Statutes Annotated, Vol. 17, g 23.787) would be placed in a 
dilemma. If a bank in such a State conducts an election of directors 
on the basis of a shareholder casting only one vote for each share 
held by him for each candidate, the bank would violate Federal law 
and run the risk of having its deposit insurance terminated. On the 
other hand, if it conducts the election on the basis of cumulative 
voting, the bank might lose its charter. 
To avoid such problems, the Board recommends that H.R. 13884 
be amended to include an appropriate deferred effective date for the 
cumulative voting provision. 
It should be noted that in the past regulation of State 
banks under Federal banking laws has generally been directed toward 
assuring the soundness of such banks, rather than toward protecting 
the interests of shareholders of banks, as H.R. 13884 would do. At 
the same time, however, State-chartered banks have, as you know, 
been made subject, along with other corporations, to a number of 
the provisions of the Federal securities laws, including provisions 
directed against insiders taking unfair advantage of their position--
one of the principal purposes of H.R. 13884. 
Sincerely yours, 
df^HOst 
Wm. McC. Martin, 

358 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
ITEM NO. 5 
Mr. V. A. Kumtrov, President 
First Holding Company, Inc. 
c/o First National Bonk of Waukesha 
Waukesha, Wisconsin 53186 
Dear Mr. Kuonrcar: 
Oil behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
authority, this Bank grants an extension of tine of thirty days from 
February 3, 1968, within which First Holding Ccrpc.ny, Inc., cay 
becons a bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent 
or more of the voting 3hares of First National Bank of Waukesha, 
Waukesha, Wisconsin, and The First National Bank in Wauwatosa, 
tfcuvatosa, Wisconsin. 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60690 
(312) HA 7-2320 
1/29/68 
January 29, 1968 
Very truly yours, 
Leiand Boss 
Vice President 
cc - Mr. Robert C. Holland 
E0F:rk 
COPY 

353 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K 
OF 
KANSAS CITY 
Item No. 6 
1/29/68 
January 29, 1968 
BOARO or DIRECTORS 
UNITCO STATES BARK or GRARO JURCTIOR 
GRARO Junction, COLORADO 
GENTLEMEN1 
OR SENALF or TNE BOARD or GOVERRORS ACTTNO UNDER OELEOATEO 
AUTRORI TV, THIS BANK HAD APPRO VCD, URDER TNE PROVISIONS OT SECTIOR 
2HA or TNE rEDERAW RESERVE ACT, AR ADDITIONAL INVESTMENT or $119,000 
IN DARK PREMISES, INCLU0IN0 $20,000 ALREADY 
R A I D . 
TRIS APPROVAL 
AUTNORIIES A TOTAL IRVESTMERT OP OARR PREMISES IN AN AMOUNT NOT 
TO EXCEED |M*9,000. 
YOURS VERY TRULY i 
' : r. • ; - . : 
our j. • 
M . J. SWORDS 
VICE PRESIDENT 
