MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 4, 1972 

840 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, April 4, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Layton, Director of Equal Employment 
Opportunity 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Miss Stockwell, Assistant Adviser, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 

841 
4/4/72 
-11-
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved a letter 
to First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New 
York, granting consent to purchase shares of a money market company 
to be formed in Seoul, Korea. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 1. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Draft bill regarding common carriers. In a memorandum of 
March 30, 1972, the Division of Research and Statistics summarized 
the provisions of H.R. 12209, "Surface and Air Transportation Act of 
1971," regarding which the Board's comments had been requested by the 
House Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce. Title I of the 
bill would establish a new program to provide Government loans, made 
either directly or in participation with private lenders, to all types 
of common carriers. The stated purpose of the program was to assist 
surface and air transportation carriers "in acquiring, financing, 
constructing, maintaining, and operating facilities and equipment for 
such purposes, and in such a manner, as to encourage maximum employ-
ment and production and to foster the preservation and development of 
a national transportation system adequate to meet the needs of the 
commerce of the United States and of the national defense." 

842 
4/4/72 
-11-
Attached to the memorandum was a draft response that would 
indicate that (1) in the absence of a clear demonstration of a mea-
surable and urgent need for such a program, the Board did not favor 
adoption of Title I and that, if some form of Government financial 
assistance was determined to be desirable, the Board would consider 
the insurance approach more appropriate than a system of direct or 
participation loans, and (2) the Board favored the objectives of the 
regulatory and tax sections of the bill but lacked the expertise to 
evaluate the merits of the specific provisions of those sections. 
Discussion emphasized the question whether a program such as 
proposed was the proper answer to the problems of the transportation 
industry, especially railroads, or whether a standby authority to 
provide rescue operations would be more in point. It was noted that 
the insurance approach, for which the Board had expressed a preference 
in the past, was the avenue the Administration currently advocated. 
Objections were expressed regarding the access to public funds proposed 
to be provided for private business. Adverse comments were made 
regarding a provision of the bill that would make the Chairman of the 
Board a member of a Loan Policy Board. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, after agreement with 
revisions of the draft letter suggested by Governor Robertson, the 
letter was approved unanimously, subject to the Chairman's views 

843 
4/4/72 
-11-
regarding the language to be used with respect to his service on the 
Loan Policy Board. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
Equal Employment Opportunity. Mr. Layton, Director of Equal 
Employment Opportunity, had submitted a report for the period from 
June through November 1971 regarding the Board's Equal Employment 
Opportunity Program. In memoranda of March 22 and 23, 1972, Governor 
Sheehan recommended that the Board accept the report and the program 
outlined in it, and expressed his enthusiasm for the program and its 
leadership. He regarded the program as superior to those being 
pursued by many corporations, even those that were very progressive 
with respect to minority advancement. He also stressed the need to 
develop the Federal Reserve as a model organization from the standpoint 
of representation of women employees in the top rank, so that the 
System might avail itself of the truly high quality professional women 
whose competence was already established or could be developed. 
At today's meeting Governors Mitchell and Daane expressed the 
view that there were at present many women employees in the System 
who were qualified for higher positions than they now held; it was 
n°t a matter of development. 
Mr. Layton observed that a meeting of all Equal Employment 
Opportunity officers of the Federal Reserve Banks would be held in 
Philadelphia tomorrow, for which two of the prime agenda items would 

844 
4/4/72 
-11-
be related to the need to improve the quality level of employment of 
women and minorities throughout the System. 
Governor Brimmer stated that in his opinion, although the 
program now specified targets in terms of dates, percentages, and 
grade level improvements, actual improvement was modest for this late 
in the game. The concentration of minorities and women in the lower 
employment grades stood out in the statistics, and there had been very 
little change from the picture presented in the previous report. 
Moreover, there was a considerable amount of turnover, and therefore 
opportunities for minority hiring were available. It seemed to him 
that although guidelines had been adopted, they were not being pursued 
with sufficient determination. He also took issue with the use of a 
grade 7 benchmark for total minority employment and grade 11 for employ-
ment of women. He was not unappreciative of the progress that had 
been made, but he hoped that six months from now a substantially different 
profile would be seen. 
After further discussion the report was accepted. A copy has 
been placed in the Board's files. 
Interpretation of Regulation T. In a memorandum dated March 31, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended that the 
Board express its concurrence with a brief being filed as amicus curiae 
in the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals by the Securities and Exchange 

845 
4/4/72 
-11-
Commission iri an appeal from a District Court decision that contained 
an interpretation of the Board's Regulation T, Credit by Brokers and 
Dealers. The lower court had held that when a customer failed to 
produce stock that a broker/dealer had sold for him, the broker/dealer 
was required to "buy in" after seven days had elapsed. Although 
Regulation T at one time had a specific rule requiring a buy-in after 
seven days when securities were sold for a customer in a special cash 
account, the Board had changed that rule in 1939 to provide that the 
broker/dealer need only buy in promptly. The proper standard, therefore, 
would appear to be the more flexible one of due diligence, which 
was the prevailing standard in the industry. The brief being filed by 
the Commission would specify that the broker/dealer need buy in only 
when, after good faith inquiry, he was on notice that the customer 
probably did not own the stock. A draft letter to the Court was attached 
to the memorandum. 
Discussion brought out that the rule at present being applied 
was probably too flexible, and that the SEC stipulation that the 
broker/dealer must make good faith inquiry in effect would tighten the 
rule somewhat. There was agreement with a suggestion that the Board's 
concurrence with the brief indicate that the Board supported the effort 
to encourage the securities industry to observe more stringent time 
schedules. 

8 
4/4/72 
-11-
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Court in the 
form attached as Item No. 3. 
Bank of America. In a memorandum of March 6, 1972, the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the applications 
of Bank of America, New York, New York, and Bank of America National 
Trust and Savings Association, San Francisco, California, to acquire 
shares of Euramex Banking Limited, to be formed in the Bahamas but 
with its executive officers and technical staff located in Mexico. 
Governor Brimmer stated that, although he could have handled 
the matter under delegated authority, he had had the applications 
placed on the agenda in order that the Board might be aware of certain 
implications. First, the proposed arrangement constituted operation 
°f a shell branch, which differed from other such branches only in 
that it would be managed from Mexico City rather than from a head 
office in the United States. Second, he saw in the arrangement 
further spreading of offshore facilities and the growth of Euro-dollar 
operations in Mexico, about which he had reservations. 
The applications were approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
dissenting. A copy of the letter informing the national bank of 
this action is attached as Item No. 4. 
Southern Bankshares. In a memorandum dated March 21, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 

847 
4/4/72 
-11-
applications of Southern Bankshares, Inc., Richmond, Virginia, to 
acquire shares of the successors by merger to Bank of Powhatan, Powhatan, 
Virginia, and Bank of Goochland, Goochland, Virginia. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications and also the 
related proposal to merge Bank of Powhatan with Powhatan Community 
Bank, a non-operating bank. The issuance of orders reflecting these 
decisions was authorized. The application of Powhatan Community Bank 
for membership in the Federal Reserve System was also approved unani-
mously. Copies of the orders issued with respect to the acquisition 
and merger applications are attached as Items 5 and 6, and a copy of 
the letter sent to Powhatan Community Bank is attached as Item No. 7. 
First City Bancorporation. In a memorandum of March 24, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, 
to acquire shares of the successor by reorganization to Gulfgate State 
Bank of Houston. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 8. 
BankAmerica Corporation. At the meeting on March 28, 1972, 
the Board discussed, but deferred action pending further study, the 
application of BankAmerica Corporation, San Francisco, California, 

848 
4/4/72 
-11-
to engage de novo under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act in the activity of real estate syndication through a subsidiary, 
BankAmerica Realty Services, Inc., San Francisco, California. The 
subsidiary would organize, structure, place, manage, and supervise 
real estate syndications in which it would act as the sole general 
partner, and it would sell limited partnership interests in the 
syndications. The applicant contended that these activities were 
essentially similar to those performed by an advisory company to a 
real estate investment trust, which was a permissible activity under 
Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies. The applicant further contended 
that the sale of limited partnership interests in the syndications 
would not contravene the Glass-Steagall Act. 
In a memorandum of March 21, 1972, the Legal Division explored 
the issues involved and stated that the staffs of the Board and the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco were unanimous in recommending 
that bank holding companies not be permitted to engage in real estate 
syndication activities. Attached was a draft of letter that would deny 
the application of BankAmerica Corporation and take a negative position 
with respect to its contentions. 
In a supplementary memorandum of March 30 the Legal Division 
set forth additional reasons for its views (1) that the Board should 
conclude that there is no reasonable basis for holding that real estate 

848 
4/4/72 
-10-
syndication is a permissible activity and (2) that it would be unwise 
and unnecessary to raise the question of permissibility by soliciting 
public comment at this time. 
At today's meeting Governor Mitchell stated that in his view 
the element of the application that was hostile to the Board's previous 
positions was the proposed function of BankAmerica Realty Services as 
sole general partner in the syndications. If that element were removed, 
he believed that most of the other objections that had been cited would 
fall. He was especially concerned about the parallel with real estate 
investment trusts. Those trusts were known to be projects of their 
parent banks, with which they were identified by name. The Board had 
approved investment adviser services by bank holding companies for 
mutual funds in a context contemplating availability but not promotion 
°f the fund, and Governor Mitchell believed that that approach also 
would be appropriate for real estate investment trusts and syndications. 
Governor Daane said he instinctively disliked permitting bank 
holding companies to engage in promoting real estate syndication, which 
might involve high risks. He believed that the proposal involved too 
much opportunity for conflicts of interest and ran counter to the 
sPirit of the Glass-Steagall Act. 
At Governor Brimmer's request the staff described the differences 
in organization and operation between real estate investment trusts, 

850 
4/4/72 
-11-
real estate syndicates, and closed-end mutual funds. In the ensuing 
discussion members of the Board sought clarification of various aspects 
of the types of activity. 
Governor Brimmer expressed agreement with the reasons advanced 
by the staff against permitting bank holding companies to engage in 
real estate syndication. 
Governor Sheehan, after posing a number of questions regarding 
the applicability of the Glass-Steagall Act, to which the staff 
responded, said he would rely on the staff's recommendation. However, 
he could not envision any of the bankers he knew acting as promoters. 
He thought the BankAmerica Corporation application probably represented 
an effort to respond to a market need to serve customers who did not 
trust their own knowledge of investment opportunities and turned to 
their bank, which they did trust, for advice. 
Governor Mitchell said he would vote to approve the application 
if the general partnership feature were removed. If the proposal were 
so modified, he thought that denial would be inconsistent with what the 
Board had done with respect to closed-end mutual funds and real estate 
investment trusts, which he did not believe were significantly different. 
He could not see that there was any real problem in managing the 
selling of syndicate shares without the exposure that the staff feared. 
In his view, denial also would be unfair to a sector of the banking 

851 
4/4/72 
-11-
public, which, as Governor Sheehan had indicated, might more readily 
turn to banks than elsewhere for investment advice. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the application was denied, 
Governor Mitchell dissenting. A copy of the letter informing Bank 
of America National Trust and Savings Association of this decision is 
attached as Item No. 9. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Director appointment. It was agreed to ascertain through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis whether Mr. Willis J. Price, President, 
Standard Oil Company of Kentucky, Louisville, Kentucky, would accept 
appointment if tendered as a director of the Louisville Branch of the 
St. Louis Reserve Bank for the unexpired portion of the term ending 
December 31, 1974, with the understanding that if it were found that 
he would accept, the appointment would be made. 
(Note: It developed 
that Mr. Price would not be able to accept the appointment.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

852 
b o a r d d f g o v e r n o r s 
• ••••••• 
O F T H E 
xtem No. 
1 
i ^ l f o - . 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
4/4/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 5, 1972 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 26, 1972, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to purchase^and 
hold up to 50 per cent of the shares of a money market company ( MMC ) 
to be formed in Seoul, Korea, at a cost of approximately Won 250,000,000 
(about $676,000), provided the shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of MMC by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in MMC if MMC at any time fails to re-
strict its activities to those permissible to a cor-
poration in which a corporation organized under Section 
25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with the consent 
of the Board of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or 
if MMC establishes any branch or agency or takes any 
action or undertakes any operation in Korea or elsewhere, 
in any manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC will 
furnish the Board with such reports regarding the activities 
of MMC as it may require from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by MMC be re-
ported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the same 
manner as if MMC were a corporation organized under Section 
25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

-853 
First National City O^rceas 
Investment Corporation 
, 
and review, the Board suspends, 
Subject to continuing observation and revi,s , 
i m m e d i a t e l y 
loans granted by MMC in Korea in the currency of that country. 
' P 
Uoon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested that 
UpjW.tompieciuLi 
r r 
, 
Fe(ieraL Reserve Bank of 
the Board of C-ovemors be furnished, through the Feaerai k 
-'•Kew York, -with,copies of the final Articles of Incorporation of MMC. 
The foregoing consent is given on condition that the investment 
will be m a d e within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply 
to First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

854 
CHAIRMAN OF" THE B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
Item No . 2 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
4/4/72 
April 18, 1972 
The Honorable Harley 0. Staggers, Chairman 
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce 
United States House of Representatives 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your request for the Board's views on 
H.R. 12209, a bill to provide financial assistance to surface and air 
transportation companies, and to improve Governmental regulatory and 
local taxing procedures as they affect such companies. The Board 
lacks the expertise to evaluate the merits of the specific provisions 
of the bill. 
In general, however, the Board would not consider as appropriate a 
program designed to channel public funds to the financing of capital 
spending by private business unless there were clear evidence of a 
measurable and urgent need that could not be met in any other way. 
Such evidence would include: 
(1) a demonstration that the present 
stock of private transportation facilities falls short by some signi-
ficant amount of what is required to meet the nation's needs adequately; 
(2) an official goal--with respect to both time and dollar investment--
for bringing such facilities up to optimum levels of efficiency; (3) an 
estimate of the extent to which available private sources of financing 
would need to be supplemented to meet these goals; and (4) a showing 
that the urgent need for Government loans is unique to the transportation 
industry. 
Moreover, I and my colleagues on the Board have serious reservations about 
the appropriateness of including the Chairman of the Board on the proposed 
Loan Policy Board, since this would be a continuing body dealing with 
national policies for the transportation industry. 
If a need for Government assistance is determined to exist, the Board 
feels that the more appropriate method of assistance would be to 
encourage private financing through Government insurance of private 
loans as provided in Title I of 1I.R. 11824 which is also before your 
committee. 
Sincerely 
Arthur F. Burns 

855 
•fo> 
• 
'•f^lRt^V 
BOARD OF GDVERNDRS 
°
F 
T
H
E 
T 4- 
XT 
O 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/4/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
D r F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H £ 
H O A R D 
April 7, 1972 
United States Court of Appeals 
for the Eighth Circuit, 
Office of the Clerk, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 
63101 
To The Honorable Court: 
RE: No. 71-1634 
No. 71-1672 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
requests leave of the Court to express its concurrence with the 
brief, amicus curiae, filed by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, March 29, 1972, in the case styled In the Matter of 
Naftalin & Co.. Inc., Appellee, v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner 
A-.Sni^tji^ Tnc. ; Paine. Webber, Jackson & Curtis; Pipe~~J~affray^&T" 
Hopwood, Incorporated; H. S. Kipnis & Co.; Donaldson, Lufkin 
ignrette, Inc.; and F. I. DuPont, Glore Forgan & Co., Appellants, 
on Appeal from the United States District Court for the District 
of Minnesota. 
The action taken by the Board of Governors in amending 
its Regulation T in 1939 to eliminate a specific delivery date 
requirement for securities sold in a special cash account, was in 
recognition of the fact that there are at times bona fide reasons 
why securities owned by the seller cannot be delivered to the 
broker in proper form by a date certain. The Regulation is not 
designed to permit brokers to grant extra time for delivery after 
settlement date except in specific situations where such action 
is clearly justified. The Board believes it is important that 
every effort, be made to decrease the volume of transactions which 
require additional time after settlement date for the physical de-
livery of securities, whether purchased or sold. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan, 
Assistant Secretary of the Board. 

858 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 4 
4/4/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S orriciAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
D O A R D 
April 5, 1972 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association 
Bank of America Plaza 
san Francisco, California 94120 
Gentlemen; 
This is in response to the letter of February 4, 1972, from 
your bank ("B of A ) and'that of January 19 , 1972, from Ban o Am erica, 
New York, New York ("Bamerint") relating to the 
P ^ P
0 " ^ " ^ " 
quisitio; by B of A of 49 per cent of the stock of Euramex Banking 
Limited C"Euramex") to be formed in N a s s a u , Bahamas, but with its ex 
ecutive Officers and technical staff located in Mexico 
On the basis 
of the iii.ro m a t ion set forth in the above cited letters, the Board of 
Governors grants the following consents: 
(1) for Bamerint to purchase and hold up to 25 per cent: of 
the shares of Euramex at a cost of approximately $500,000, 
and 
(21 
for B of A to continue to hold the stock of Bank of America 
Limited ("BAL"), London, England, after BAL acquires up to 
24 per cent of the shares of Euramex at a cost of approxi-
mately $480,000; 
Provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
The foregoing consents are granted subject to the following 

Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association 
**2~ 
(3) that B of A and Bamerint will maintain at their head offices^ 
such information as is necessary for a proper evaluation 
» 
tivities of Euramex, including the policy and day-to-day control of 
Euramex, and such information shall be made available to the Board 
examiners. 
The foregoing consent is given on condition that the invest-
ment by Bamerint will be made within the Foreign C-dit Restraint Gu de-
lines as they apply to B of A and its a£fiiates 
and that by M L w 
be made with its own resources and will not involve a y 
funds, either directly or indirectly, from the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
cc: Bank of America, New York, (Bamerint) 

Item No. 20 
4/4/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SOUTHERN BANKSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Southern Bankshares, Inc., Richmond, Virginia, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of the successors by merger 
t o (1) Bank of Powhatan, Powhatan, Virginia ("Powhatan Bank"), and 
Bank of Goochland, Goochland, Virginia ("Goochland Bank"). 
The banks into which Powhatan Bank and Goochland Bank 
a r e to be merged have no significance except as a means of acquiring 
voting shares of each Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisi-
tions of the successor organizations are treated herein as the 
Proposed acquisitions of the shares of each Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given 
i n accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
a n d views has expired. The Board has considered the applications 
atld all comments received in the light of the factors set forth 
l n § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls two banks with total deposits of 
million, representing 1.4 per cent of the total deposits 
lri commercial banks in Virginia, and is the State's eleventh largest 

-2-
859 
banking organization. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1971, 
and unless otherwise noted, reflect holding company formations and 
acquisitions approved through February 29, 1972.) Acquisition 
of Powhatan Bank (deposits of $30 million) and Goochland Bank (deposits 
o f $14.3 million) would increase Applicant's share of deposits in 
the State by approximately .6 percentage point and advance its rank 
to tenth in the State. Consummation of the proposed transactions 
would not significantly increase the concentration of banking resources 
in the State. 
Powhatan Bank is the only banking organization located 
in Powhatan and Cumberland Counties, which approximates both its 
Primary service area and the relevant banking market. Goochland Bank 
i s the only bank located in its service area approximated by Goochland 
County. Both Banks serve largely rural counties lying to the west, 
and adjacent to, the Richmond SMSA. Applicant's lead bank, Southern 
Bank and Trust Company ("SBT"), is located in Richmond and serves 
the Richmond SMSA, which represents a separate banking market from 
the banking markets in which Powhatan Bank and Goochland Bank compete. 
SBT'3 closest office to Powhatan Bank and Goochland Bank is 11 miles 
a n d 4.2 miles, respectively, from those institutions. There is minimal 
competition existing between Powhatan Bank and Goochland Bank, and some 
competition between the proposed subsidiaries and banks in the Richmond 
SMSA. However, the competition which exists is not regarded as significant. 
Moreover, there appears to be no significant incentive for Applicant 

8SG 
-3-
to establish a d_e novo bank in either of the markets served by 
Powhatan Bank or Goochland Bank. The Board, therefore, concludes 
that the effects on existing as well as potential competition resulting 
from consummation of the proposed acquisitions would be only slightly 
adverse. Applicant would remain the fifth largest among 12 banking 
organizations represented in the Richmond SMSA, where it controls 
7.3 per cent of market deposits. The proposed transactions should 
have no adverse effect on competing banks. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
the competitive effects of the proposal are not inconsistent with 
aPproval of the applications, and for the reasons discussed herein-
after, any elimination of existing or potential competition that may 
result may be regarded as outweighed by the benefits that would 
result from the proposal. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant are 
Senerally satisfactory and prospects for the group appear favorable. 
^°th Powhatan Bank and Goochland Bank lack successor management, and 
Applicant should be able to provide such management to avert any 
serlous problem from arising. Banking factors, therefore, lend 
welght 
toward approval of the application. Although there is no 
evidence that significant banking needs of the communities involved 
t e going unserved, consummation of the proposed acquisitions will 
enable both Powhatan Bank and Goochland Bank to initiate new services 
^Rich will include trust, computer and credit services as well as 

-3-
give each a larger lending capacity. Convenience and needs consider-
ations lend some weight toward approval. It is the Board's judgment 
that the proposed transactions would be in the public interest and 
that the applications should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved 
f°r the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
0 r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ April 4, 1972. 
A 3 V . A i .. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
y Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns and Governor Maisel. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
POWHATAN COMMUNITY BANK 
Order Approving Application for Merger of Banks 
Item No. 24 
4/4/72 
Powhatan Community Bank, Powhatan, Virginia, a member 
State bank of the Federal Reserve System, has applied for the 
Board's approval pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 
l828(c)) of the merger of that bank with Bank of Powhatan, 
powhatan, Virginia, under the name of Bank of Powhatan. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, 
i n form approved by the Board, has been published, and the Board 
recluested reports on competitive factors from the Attorney 
Ger*eral, the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit 
*nsurance Corporation. The Board has considered the application 
a n d all comments and reports received in light of the factors 
a e t forth in the Act. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
f°r the reasons summarized in the Board's Order of this date 
Elating to the application of Southern Bankshares, Inc. to 
acclviire the Bank of Powhatan, provided that said merger shall 
n o t be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the 

-2-
863 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause 
by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ April 4, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
y Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
^airman Burns and Governor Maisel. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No . 7 
F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/4/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D R. N C E 
T D 
T H E 
H O A R D 
April 4, 1972 
Board Of Directors 
Powhatan Community Bank 
Powhatan, Virginia 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application of Powhatan Community Bank, Powhatan, Virginia, for 
stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, subject to the numbered 
conditions hereinafter set forth. 
(1) Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the safety 
of its depositors, and. except with the permission of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
such bank shall not cause or permit any change to be 
made in the general character of its business or in the 
scope of the corporate powers exercised by it at the 
time of admission to membership. 
(2) The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and 
condition of its assets and to its deposit liabilities 
and other corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
lat Powhatan Community Bank, Powhatan, Virginia, will not conduct a 
anking business with the public until it has merged with Bank of 
Powhatan, Powhatan, Virginia. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
emulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
J- e Federal Preserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
ereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

Board of Directors 
- 
2 
-
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to 
commence business. A certified copy of such resolution should be 
transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
'cderal Reserve System in the manner described herein may be 
accomplished is limited to 60 days from the date of this letter, 
u^less the bank applies to the Board and obtains an extension of 
time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Endosure. 
Tynan Smith, 
Secretary of the Board. 

866 
Item No. 8 
4/4/72 
First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t> has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the voting shares of a non-operating bank formed 
f o r the purpose of acquiring the assets and assuming Che liabilities of 
Gulfgate State Bank of Houston, Houston, Texas, ("Bank"). The proposed 
acquisition of the shares of the successor organization is treated herein 
a s the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
a n d views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
°f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls 7 banks with aggregate deposits of $1.3 
b i lHon, which amounts to 4.7 per cent of the total commercial bank 
dePosits in Texas. (Banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect 
company formations and acquisitions approved through February 29, 
1 9 7 2•) Applicant presently owns 38.8 per cent of the voting shares of 
fiank ($31 million in deposits) and controls it. Consummation of this 
Proposed transaction would merely strengthen an affiliation that has 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST CITY BANCORPORATION OF TEXAS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 

-2-
existed since Bank was organized in 1950. On the basis of the record, 
appears that consummation of the proposal is not likely to have an 
adverse effect on existing or potential competition in any relevant 
a r ea nor would any competing bank be adversely affected. 
Acquisition of the remaining stock of Bank would continue 
Bank' «3 
access to qualified personnel and participations in more exten-
S i V G Pr°jects beyond Bank's lending capabilities. Considerations 
lated to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
8 h slightly in favor of approval. The financial and managerial 
a°urcea and future prospects of Applicant and its subsidiaries and 
Bank are generally satisfactory and consistent with approval. It 
ig the 
e Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the 
Public 
Queerest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or 
, 
' later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
ch period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Bank of Dallas, pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
April^, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
[SEAL] 
Secretary of the Board 
A/ VotM 
MitCh 
& f o r this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
6 
> Daane, Brimmer and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
r^an Burns and Governor Maisel. 

b d a r d d f 
g o v e r n o r s 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 9 
4/4/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H C 
B D A R D 
April 4, 1972 
to. Neal Lo Petersen, Counsel 
Bank of America NT & SA 
Bank of America Center 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
-v .R s 
' 
Dear Mr. Petersen: 
The Board of Governors has consideredtheapplicationof 
BankAmerica Corporation, San Francisco, California ( Banktaeri" ), 
for prior Boar/approval to e
n
g
a
g
e
^ 
" r t ^ f s ^ f 
the Bank Holding Company Act ( Act ) in the act v y 
syndication through a subsidiary,(BankAmerica Realty Services, 
San Francisco, California ("BARSl"). 
It is the Board's understanding that 
B
A
R
S
I proposes to 
organize, structure, place, manage, and s
u
p
"
e
r 
b S s ^ 
cations [n which BARSI will act as the sole gen era 1 partner. 
proposes to sell limited partnership interests in 
^yndicati^ 
to individuals of substantial means ana 11 
for whom the tax advantages are valuable. 
The Board has considered BankAmerica's contention that such 
America s contention that its placement of limitedPartnershiP 
interests in the several real estate syndications it p r o p o s e t o 
£orm does not contravene the policies o sec: ionJ 
« °f t:h 
Banking Act of 1933 (the "Glass-Steagall Act ), as describe 
recent opinion of the United States Supreme Court in I n v e s t ^ 
Company Institute v. Cam£, 401 U.S. 617 (.13 n ) . 
The Board has concluded that BARSl's proposed activities 
are not c l o s e l y related to hanking, particularly in that it would 
organize, promote, sell partnership interes s a n a c t 
a t h s o l e 
general partner of real estate syndicates; 
s
u " ^ ^
e
e
s ®
a
t
e 
the functions performed by an advisory company to a real e s t a " 
investment trust. Moreover, the Board considers that it is req 

Mr. Neal L. Petersen 
-2-
t0 incorporate the policies of the Glass-Steagall Act intosection 
4(c)(8) of the Act; BARSl's activities are not consonant with such 
Policies since BARSI will be actively engaged, on a continuing 
basis, i n selling interests in numerous real estate syndications. 
Finally there are no demonstrable benefits to the public from 
Permitting BankAmerica, or any other bank holding companytocngage 
in this activity that would outweigh conflicts o f - c r e s t s consider 
ations arising from the sale of limited 
p
a
r
t
n
e
r
s
h
i
p interests. For 
these several reasons, among others, the Board has determined that 
BankAmerica's application be denied. 
The Board's action herein should not be deemedi to affect 
the authority of BARSI, previously authorized by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco, to serve as the i n v e s t m e n t adviser to 
BankAmerica Realty Investors, a real estate investment trust, or Co 
advise BankAmerica Corporation and its affiliates With respect to 
real estate investments. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
\ 
