MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 22, 1969 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, December 22, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance \j 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Grajcar of the Office of the Secretary 
Money market review. 
The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
All members of the research divisions who had been present 
except Mr. Partee, Mr. Solomon, and Messrs. Ghiardi and Irvine of the 
Division of the Interantional Finance then withdrew from the meeting 
km. 
• 
» I C U> i.'. , C:! • l •.'.{ 
: , 
1 
, 
and the following entered: 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

3856 
12/22/69 
-2-
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Watt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Messrs. Marinaccio, Noble, and Via of the Legal 
Division 
Mr. Cleaver of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Guinter, Marker, and E. White of the 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Burton of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City on December 10, by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Cleveland on December 11, by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on 
December 15, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York and Philadel-
phia on December 18, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Foreign banking matter. A letter to Continental International 
Finance Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, granting its request for 
permission to extend certain subordinated convertible loans to Banque 
Europeenne d'Outre-Mer S.A., Brussels, Belgium, in place of so-called 
complementary endowments, and to continue to hold shares of the Belgian 

3857 
12/22/69 
-3-
organization after issuance by the latter of obligations with maturities 
in excess of one year was approved unanimously. A copy of the letter 
is attached as Item No. 1. 
Citizens Bancorporation. The Board authorized the issuance of 
an order and statement reflecting approval on November 26, 1969, of the 
application of Citizens Bancorporation, Sheboygan, Wisconsin, to 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of the 
following Sheboygan banks: Citizens Bank of Sheboygan, North Side 
State Bank, and Community South Side Bank. 
Copies of the documents are attached under Item No. 2, along 
with the dissenting statement of Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
S. 2864. The Board approved unanimously a letter to the Bureau 
of the Budget in response to the Bureau's request for views on S. 2864, 
an enrolled bill known as the Housing and Urban Development Act of 
1969. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
Peoples-Liberty Bank and Trust Company. After discussion, an 
application by The Peoples-Liberty Bank and Trust Company, Covington, 
Kentucky, to merge Bank of Independence, Independence, Kentucky, was 
approved unanimously. 
At the request of certain members of the Board, however, it was 
understood that the staff would bring the application back to the 
Board unless inquiry of the Commissioner of Banks of Kentucky revealed 
that it was his intention to approve an application of a competing bank 

ICJ 
12/22/69 
-4-
(Covington Trust and Banking Company) to establish a branch in a 
shopping center located approximately two miles from the main office 
of Bank of Independence. 
If the inquiry revealed that the Commissioner was prepared to 
* 
approve the proposed branch, it was understood that the staff would 
prepare an order and statement reflecting approval of the merger 
application for the Board's consideration. 
Conference of General Auditors. Subject to the understanding 
that an opportunity would be afforded for the Chairman of the Con-
ference of Chairmen of the Federal Reserve Banks to express his views 
before final plans were made, the Board approved unanimously the 
scheduling of a meeting of the Conference of General Auditors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks in Washington, D. C., on April 28-29, 1970. In 
this connection, the Board authorized payment of the cost of a dinner 
for Reserve Bank representatives attending the meeting, it being under-
stood that the invitation list would include members of the Board and 
appropriate members of the Board's staff. 
C.B. Investment Corp. A letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Dallas relating to the acquisition of certain bank shares by C.B. 
Investment Corporation, Houston, Texas, without prior Board approval, 
and therefore in violation of section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, and the subsequent divestment of such stock was approved 
unanimously. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 

3859 
12/22/69 
-5-
United Security Accounts. Some members of the Board had recently 
expressed concern about the so-called United Security Accounts offered 
by Citizens Bank & Trust Company, Park Ridge, Illinois, after examining 
certain advertisements that were called to the Board's attention by 
Governor Robertson. 
With a memorandum of December 10, 1969, the Legal Division 
submitted a draft of letter that might be sent to the bank if the 
Board wished to pursue the advertising question. However, the Division 
noted that it had no evidence that the bank was operating the United 
Security Accounts inconsistently with the provisions of Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits. If the Board wanted to reassure itself further, 
the Division suggested that the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago might 
be asked to make a special examination of the operation of the accounts 
and to report in detail on the various kinds of transactions in such 
accounts. 
After discussion, it was the conclusion of the Board that 
the appropriate procedure would be to request the Reserve Bank to make 
a special examination of the kind that had been suggested. A copy of 
the letter subsequently sent to the Reserve Bank is attached as Item No. 5. 
Absorption of cafeteria expense. Since 1946 the Federal Reserve 
Banks had been authorized to absorb up to 50 per cent of cafeteria 
expenses. Particularly in view of the increase in labor and overhead 

3SH0 
12/22/69 
- 6 -
costs, the Banks had now requested, through the Conference of 
Presidents, permission to absorb up to 66-2/3 per cent of such 
costs. In a memorandum of December 15, 1969, the Division of 
Personnel Administration recommended that the Reserve Banks be so 
authorized. 
In a discussion of the matter, question was raised whether 
there was justification for absorption of a lesser percentage of 
cafeteria expense by the Board than by the Reserve Banks, and the 
staff was requested to study that question and report back to the 
Board. 
Question also was raised whether the decision on the percentage 
of cafeteria expense that should be absorbed by a Reserve Bank was not 
one as to which authority should be delegated to the directors or 
officers of the respective Reserve Banks. It was understood that this 
would be considered by the staff and that a recommendation would be 
made to the Board. 
Subject to the foregoing understandings, the current request 
of the Reserve Banks for permission to absorb up to two-thirds of 
cafeteria expenses was approved unanimously. A copy of the letter 
sent to the Reserve Banks pursuant to this action is attached as 
Item No. 6. 
Gold loan. The Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York had authorized, subject to approval by the Board of Governors, 

3 8 * 8 1 
12/22/69 
- 7 -
a $100 million standby gold collateral loan (or loans) to the Bank 
of Spain through the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute. The standby 
would be in effect from January 2 to March 31, 1970. Drawings would 
be secured by gold held in the vaults of the New York Reserve Bank, 
would be repayable in three months, and would be renewable at maturity 
for a further period of three months. Participations would be offered 
to the other Reserve Banks. 
For reasons set forth in a memorandum of December 19, 1969, 
from the Director of the Division of International Finance, approval 
was recommended. 
In a discussion of the gold loan application it was stated 
that no member of the National Advisory Council on International 
Monetary and Financial Problems had interposed objection. In reply 
to a question, it was also stated that the Board's staff had checked 
on the matter directly with the Department of State. It was further 
stated that there appeared to be no evidence that Spain had been 
buying gold in the private market recently. 
The action taken by the New York Bank's directors on the 
application was then approved unanimously. A copy of the telegram 
sent to the New York Bank pursuant to this approval is attached as 
Item No. 7. 
Reserve Bank budgets. As explained in a summary memorandum from 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated December 17, 1969, 

12/22/69 
- 8 -
and supporting papers, the budgets of the Federal Reserve Banks and 
branches for controllable expenses for the first half of 1970 totaled 
$138.1 million, as compared with estimated expenses of $130.1 million 
for the second half of 1969. Noncontrollable expenses were projected 
to rise from $24.7 million to $25.0 million. 
It appeared to the Division that for the most part the Banks 
had complied with the intent of the Board's letter of October 9, 1969, 
in which the Banks were requested to scrutinize budget provisions 
closely and eliminate nonessential items; many of the projects and 
programs accounting for the budgeted increases had been approved by 
the Board, involved Systemwide projects, or reflected volume increases 
over which the Banks had little or no control. 
However, it was suggested that the Board might want to request 
the Banks concerned to reevaluate the need for certain specified 
provisions that had been made for expenditures in the categories of 
departmental furnishings, automobiles, and repairs and alterations, 
although in some cases the items had been carried over from previous 
periods. (Note: It developed that there was no disposition on the 
part of the Board to question these items.) 
The Division also felt that the Atlanta Bank should be asked 
to postpone plans for a money museum (an educational exhibit within 
the head office building). The Bank's budget for the first half of 

3S«3 
12/22/69 
- 9 -
1970 included allowances totaling $70,650 for the project, and there 
would be an implicit authorization to complete the project in the 
second half of the year at an added cost of $82,000. (Note: This 
item was held over for discussion at a later meeting of the Board.) 
Further, the Division pointed out that the New York Bank 
had included in its budget a provision of $60,000 for a study by a 
computer software firm preliminary to a proposed major expansion and 
upgrading of computer equipment for its research function. The first 
phase of the study, not included in the original budget, had already 
been completed at a cost of $18,000. According to the Bank, the 
selection of computer equipment had not yet been made, but the type of 
system thought to be needed was estimated to cost from $4 million to 
$5 million and the project would require a period of about two years 
for completion. In the circumstances, it was the Division's recommen-
dation that the Reserve Bank be asked to present the computer equipment 
program to the Board for consideration before committing itself to the 
$60,000 study. 
With the exceptions noted, the Division recommended that the 
proposed Reserve Bank budgets be accepted. 
The comments by the Division with reference to the New York 
project, along with statements in the documentation submitted by the 
Division concerning a major project being undertaken at the Kansas City 
Bank, generated a discussion of steps that should be taken by the Board 

3 6 6 4 
12/22/69 
-10-
to keep abreast of and maintain suitable control over new data 
processing system projects of the Reserve Banks generally. It was 
recalled that in 1961 the Board had asked the Banks to submit infor-
mation on computer proposals, that a number of such proposals had 
been brought before the Board in the ensuing period, but that in 1963 
the Board had removed the requirement and had taken the position that 
the primary responsibility rested with the management of each Reserve 
Bank. 
This led to a suggestion by a Board member, in which other 
members concurred, that a census be taken to determine what equipment 
was presently in use and what new projects were contemplated by the 
Reserve Banks, with a request that commitments not be entered into 
until the projects had been reviewed. 
A related discussion had to do with whether there should not 
be developed within the Board's staff an improved capability for 
appraising Reserve Bank projects in this area, it being noted that very 
substantial expenditures were frequently involved. One suggestion was 
that such a capability should be built up within the Division of Data 
Processing, but the overall responsibilities of the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations for reviewing the budgets and expenditures of 
the Reserve Banks also were mentioned and there was some sentiment to 
the effect that a capability for dealing with data processing equipment 
problems should be lodged in both divisions. 

12/22/69 
-11-
Several suggestions for the handling of the Reserve Bank 
budgets for the first half of 1970 then were made in light of the 
data processing questions that had arisen, and it was eventually 
agreed that the Board would consider the budgets further at another 
meeting, hopefully at a time when Governor Sherrill could be present. 
It was understood that in the meantime the staff would endeavor to 
provide Governor Mitchell additional information on questions in which 
he had expressed an interest with regard to the New York and Kansas 
City computer projects. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Ceiling rates. With reference to the action that had now 
been taken by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board authorizing the issuance 
of 6 per cent certificates by savings and loan associations, Governor 
Robertson commented that he had not as yet seen the complete regulations 
issued by the Bank Board in that respect. However, he read a copy of 
the Bank Board's press release and noted, among other things, that the 
Bank Board had decided on a minimum denomination of $10,000 instead 
of $12,500. 
Governor Robertson then summarized a conversation that he had 
had late Friday afternoon with Chairman Randall of the Federal Deposit 

12/22/69 
-12-
Insurance Corporation. It developed that the Corporation had decided 
to take no action immediately to adjust the maximum rates permitted 
to be paid by insured mutual savings banks because, according to 
Mr. Randall, the Corporation desired that it be clear that it was the 
Bank Board that had gotten out of step. However, the directors of the 
Corporation were to meet this morning. The question that was to be 
considered was whether action should be taken on the ceiling rates 
applicable to insured nonmember commercial banks, and there was reported 
to be sentiment in favor of such a move. 
Governor Robertson said he had responded to the effect that 
he thought the Federal Reserve Board was firm in wanting to leave the 
regulations applicable to member banks unchanged, for the time being 
at least, and that the responsibility for any action the Corporation 
might take would have to rest with the directors of the Corporation. 
The Federal Reserve Board would, of course, be alert to flows of time 
and savings funds and might act at any time in its discretion in the 
light of developments. 
Governor Robertson concluded by observing that if the Corporation 
should take action at its meeting this morning, the Board of Governors 
could meet this afternoon and consider the situation further. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

3 8 ® 
BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
12/22/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
P D A R D 
December 23, 1969 
Continental International Finance Corporation. 
231 South LaSalie Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of November 7, 1969, addressed 
to Mr. James R. Morrison, Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
("CT.FC") to extend two subordinated convertible loans in the aggre-
gate amount of .$2,000,000 to Banque Europeenne d'Outre-Mer S.A, 
("BEOM"), Brussels, Belgium, in place of the Complementary Endowments 
approved by the Board in its letters of April 10, 1968, and April 1, 
1969. 
In this connection, pursuant to the provisions of Section 
211.4 of Regulation K. the Board also grants consent for CIFC. to con-
tinue to hold shares of BEOM after BEOM issues obligations in the 
amount of $2,000,000, with maturities in excess of one year. 
The above consent to CIFC is granted on the same conditions 
as set forth in the Board's letter of April 10, 1968. 
The foregoing consent to CIFC is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being apprcved -..ill be made within the guide-
lines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect as they flpply to the foreign lending and investment activities 
of Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago 
and its subsidiaries, and that due consideration is being given to 
the priorities contained therein. 
Very tiuly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 2 
12/22/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CITIZENS BANCORPORATION, 
Sheboygan, Wisconsin, 
approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Citizens Bank of Sheboygan, 
North Side State Bank, and Community 
South Side Bank, all of Sheboygan, 
Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A B A M HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t" r\ 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(1 9 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Citizens 
Ba 
Corporation, Sheboygan, Wisconsin, for the Board's prior approval 
o f action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
o f Citizens Bank of Sheboygan, North Side State Bank, and Community 
S° U t h S i d e Bank, all of Sheboygan, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
otice to the Commissioner of Banking of the State of Wisconsin of receipt 

°f the application and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Commissioner offered no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 25, 1969 (34 Federal Register 14786), 
which provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
aPplication was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for 
its consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 22nd day of December 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Maisel. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

3870 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
CITIZENS BANCORPORATION, SHEBOYGAN, WISCONSIN, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Citizens Bancorporation, Sheboygan, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
folding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent 
more of the voting shares of Citizens Bank of Sheboygan ("Citizens 
Bank"), North Side State Bank ("North Side Bank"), and Community South 
Side Bank ("Community Bank"), all of Sheboygan, Wisconsin. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authorities. As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking of the State of 
consin and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
°ffered no objection to approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
t^at the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
m°nopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
m°nopoli2e or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part 
the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, 

u 3 8 7 1 
- 2 -
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any 
°ther manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. In 
each case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
ar*d the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. - The 10 
latgest banking organizations in the State of Wisconsin, which include 
9 of the 12 Wisconsin-based bcnk holding companies,1/ control total deposits 
o f $3.2 billion, representing 38.3 per cent of the deposits held by all 
b*mks in the S t a t e . T h e acquisition of Citizens Bank (the State's ninth 
largest banking organization with $92 million deposits), North Side Bank 
( $ 1° mil]-ion deposits), and Community Bank ($2 million deposits) would 
r e S U l t i n Applicant's becoming Wisconsin's seventh largest bank holding 
c°Npany and banking organization, with control of 1.3 per cent of the 
t o t al State deposits. 
sub^ addition, three holding companies headquartered in Minnesota have 
sidiary banks in Wisconsin. 
2 / ijn •] 
^efer 
otherwise noted, banking data are as of June 30, 1969, 
hoidi
 t 0 i n s u r ed commercial banks, and have been adjusted to reflect 
date n § C O m p a n y formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to 

rjcj 
-3-
All of the proposed subsidiary banks are located in the City 
of Sheboygan, which has a population of 49,000. Citizens Bank is the 
largest bank in the City and County of Sheboygan, and North Side Bank 
and Community Bank are, respectively, the fourth largest and the smallest 
of 5 
banks in the city and of 14 banks in Sheboygan County. The main 
office of Citizens Bank is located in the principal downtown business 
district of Sheboygan, and branches of the bank are located in the 
communities of Plymouth, 15 miles west, Sheboygan Falls, 6 miles southwest, 
and Cedar Grove, 16 miles south. The service area of Citizens Bank's 
wain office includes all of the City of Sheboygan and extends slightly 
beyond the city limits on three sides. Both of Applicant's other proposed 
subsidiaries, Community Bank and North Side Bank, are located within this 
area, three miles south and one mile northwest of Citizens Bank, respectively. 
Each of the five banks within the City of Sheboygan is a member 
of one of two banking groups, with the members of each group so closely 
related as to constitute a single competitive force. Security Financial 
Services, Inc. recently received Board approval—^ to become a registered 
bank holding company through the acquisition of voting shares of two 
long-affiliated banks which are the second and third largest in the city 
and which constitute* the other group. Applicant's group is slightly the 
larger of 
the two, with the difference resulting almost entirely from 
deposits held by Citizens Bank's suburban offices. In terms of deposits 
3/ 1969 Federal Reserve Bulletin 841. 

3873 
- 4 -
held by city offices, the two groups are about equal in size. It does 
not appear that any undue adverse effect on the competing banking group 
in the city, or on competing banks in Sheboygan County, would result 
from consummation of the present proposal. 
North Side Bank was organized in 1928 by several shareholders 
of the predecessor of Citizens Bank, and a majority of its shares are 
held by a wholly-owned subsidiary of the latter. The relationship 
between Citizens Bank and Community Bank began in 1966, when the directors 
of Cit izens Bank acquired control of Community Bank (then Sheboygan Trust 
Company), with the encouragement of supervisory authorities, in order to 
solve financial problems of the bank. About 95 per cent of the outstanding 
shares of Community Bank are presently held by directors of Citizens Bank. 
The relationship between Citizens Bank and each of the other 
proposed subsidiaries is such as to preclude the existence of meaningful 
competition among the three banks. It does not appear likely that these 
relationships would be severed regardless of the Board's action with respect 
to the present application. Continuation of the affiliation between 
Citizens Bank and North Side Bank is completely within Citizens Bank's 
control as a result of its ownership of a corporation which owns a majority 
of the shares of North Side Bank. While the relationship of Citizens 
Bank with Community Bank originated more recently than that with North 
Side Bank, and its continuation is not so immediately within the control 
of Citizens Bank, that relationship also appears strong and likely to 
endure indefinitely. In addition, the size of Community Bank, and its 

3874 
- 5 -
history of financial difficulties prior to the establishment of its 
association with Citizens Bank, strongly suggest that it would not be 
a meaningful competitor of the two larger banking groups in Sheboygan 
even if the present relationships were in some way dissipated. These 
considerations support the conclusion that consummation of Applicant's 
proposal would neither eliminate present competition nor foreclose 
significant potential competition. 
Giving similar effect to the present relationships among the 
three banks involved in Applicant's proposal, and to the likely continuation 
of those relationships, it is evident that their formalization, as proposed, 
would have no meaningful effect on concentration in any area. Although 
it might well be concluded that there are fewer than the optimum number 
of competitors in the Sheboygan area, it does not appear that approval 
of the present application would aggravate that situation, or that denial 
of the application would preserve a possible avenue of deconcentration. 
Under these circumstances, it is the Board's view that consummation of 
Applicant's proposal would have no significant effect on competition. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of this proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any part of the United States, and would not restrain 
trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly in 
any part of the country. 

3975 
- 6 -
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant was recently organized and has not engaged in any business 
activities. Its projected financial condition is satisfactory, its 
management competent, and its prospects, which would be dependent on 
those of its proposed subsidiaries, appear favorable. 
The financial condition and management of Citizens Bank, 
Applicant's proposed lead bank, are also satisfactory. Prospects of 
the bank appear favorable. 
The financial condition and management of North Side Bank are 
satisfactory. It appears likely that the bank will find it necessary 
to raise additional capital within the near future, and this would be 
facilitated by the present proposal, in view of the likely greater 
marketability of Applicant's stock. Prospects of the bank, which appear 
favorable in any event, would be improved by the proposed action. 
Community Bank is located in the most rapidly growing area of 
Sheboygan. Its financial condition and management are generally satisfactory. 
Although hampered by its limited resources and earnings, its prospects are 
regarded as reasonably favorable in the light of its location and the 
Present relationship with Citizens Bank, and would be improved by affiliation 
with Applicant. 
Considerations regarding the banking factors lend weight toward 
approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The banking 
Heeds of the area are being adequately served by present banking facilities 

3876 
-7-
and would be little affected by consummation of the present proposal. However, 
Community Bank is limited by its resources in providing banking services to 
the southern part of the city. Although Citizens Bank has provided some 
assistance in this regard since 1966, consummation of the present proposal 
would facilitate its doing so. In addition, customers of North Side Bank 
would be offered trust and data processing services for the first time. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
areas involved lend some weight in favor of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
Section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application should 
approved. 
December 22, 1969. 

3 8 7 7 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
Approximately two months ago, we,joined by Governor Maisel, 
dissented from the Board's action in approving the bank holding company 
formation of Security Financial Services, Inc., Sheboygan, Wisconsin. 
That formation involved the acquisition of two of Sheboygan's five banks 
and control of 43 per cent of the total deposits of those five institutions 
combined. Our opposition was premised, in part, upon our conclusion that 
such approval would effect perpetuation of the highly oligopolistic 
Sheboygan market - which has the highest degree of concentration of banking 
resources of any city in Wisconsin with similar population density. Our 
dissent in that case noted the deterrent to deconcentration of the Sheboygan 
market likely to result should the subject application be given similar 
Board approval. The Board's action approving Citizens Bancorporation's 
acquisition of Sheboygan's three remaining banks (one of which - Citizens 
Bank - is the largest in the City and County of Sheboygan) places in two 
banking organizations control of 100 per cent of the banking offices and 
bank deposits in the City of Sheboygan and nearly 85 per cent of the total 
bank deposits in Sheboygan County. 
In support of its approval action in this case, the Board states 
that "It does not appear that . . . denial of the application would 
preserve a possible avenue of deconcentration." We disagree with this 
conclusion for two reasons. First, as we stated in dissent from the 
Board's Security Financial Services approval, the likelihood of disaffiliation 
through stock sales is greater under the existing form of common stock 

3878 
- 2 -
ownership than will be the case when such ownership is consolidated 
in the corporate form proposed. 
Secondly, the oligopolistic structure that will now confront 
potential entrants to the Sheboygan market is sufficiently formidable, 
even to competitors of equal or greater size than the two market occupants, 
as reasonably to suggest that prospects for meaningful deconcentration 
of the Sheboygan market are nil. 
Considering the existing affiliation between and among the 
banks that will compose Applicant's system, it is reasonably concluded 
that the services assertedly to result from the approved formation could, 
and in our judgment would, be available in equal measure and with near 
equal facility under the existing ownership arrangement. 
We are unable to conclude that the substantial anticompetitive 
effects inherent in the proposed formation are outweighed to any mean-
ingful degree by the asserted additional services. We do not believe 
the transaction to be in the public interest. Accordingly, we would deny 
the application. 
December 22,1969. 

Item No. 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O h 
T H E 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 2 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
12/22/69 
December 22, 1969 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request of December 17, 
1969, for the Board's views on Enrolled Bill S, 2864, "To 
amend and extend laws relating to housing and urban develop-
ment, and for other purposes." 
Presidential approval of S. 2864 would not directly 
affect the performance by the Board of its responsibilities. 
The Board is unaware of any feature of the bill that would 
call for Presidential disapproval. 
Sincerely 

Wmrnj 
BDARD • F GOVERNORS 
or T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C 
2055! 
Item No. 4 
12/22/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C I J R R E S P J N O E I 
T O 
T H E 
E O A R O 
December 30, 1969 
Mr. Thomas R. Sullivan, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Station K, 
Dallas, Texas. 75222 
Dear Mr. Sullivan: 
The Board has considered the -facts supplied by your Bank 
together with the recommendation of your legal staff, in connection 
with the disposition of voting shares in Sout!.i Main State Bank, Houston, 
Texas, ana Firs.: State Bank of Clear Lake City, Houston, Texas, by 
C.B. Investment Corp. ("C.B."), Houston, Texas, a registered bank hold-
ing company. The shares divested by C.B. had been acquired by it 
without prior Board approval, in violation of § 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of IS56. 
Briefly, our understanding of the facts relating to the 
acquisitions of stock by C.B. is as follows: During the period coverEd 
y C!B''s 1 9 6 8 Annual Report to the Board, C.B. increased its holdings 
in First State Lank of Clear Lake City ty a net 30.shares (from 1,741 
to 1,771) by virtue of a 100-share acquisition and a 70-share disposi-
tion, whic'i increased its ownership of voting shares in such bank from 
+.97 per cint to 5.06 per cent. During the same period, C.B. increased 
its ownership of voting shares in South Main State Bank by 2,537 shares 
™ 12,635 -hares, 1015 of such shares having been received as a stock 
ividend, and 1,522 shares having been purchased in the exercise of 
^ 8 h t s i n c°nnection with the sale of 15,000 shares of new stock in 
the bank. Both before and after the acquisitions of stock in South 
Main State Bank, C.B. held 10.148 per cent of its outstanding shares. 
In our letter to you of June 20, 1969, it was concluded that 
^ith respect to each of the transactions the shares mentioned were un-
lawfully acquired and unlawfully held. Inasmuch as C.B. had already 
indicated that arrangements had been made to dispose of the acquired 
shares in First State Bank of Clear Lake City, your Bank was asked to 
° tain information that would enable a determination as to the validity 
the divestment under the Act:. Similar information was to be obtained 
-rcn-n c.B. relating to the disposition of the acquired shares in South 
ain State Bank. Our understanding of the facts relating to the dis-
position of such shares is as follows: C.B. has sold 50 of its voting 

Mr. Thomas R. Sullivan 
- 2 -
sharcs in First State Bank of Clear Lake City to Mr. Ed Arnold, 
President of the bank, and has also sold 1,522 of its voting shares 
in South Main State Bank to a Dr. James W. Nesbitt. Neither 
Dr. Nesbitt nor Mr. Arnold have any stock ownership directly or in-
directly in C.B.; neither purchase was to be financed by C.E. cr any 
of its subsidiaries; none of the shares so divested will be held or 
controlled, directly or indirectly, by trustees for the benefit of 
C.B. or of any of: its subsidiaries, or for the shareholders or 
employees cf C.B. or any of its subsidiaries; and neither Dr. Nesbitt 
nor Mr. Arnold was indebted to C.B. or any of its subsidiaries. 
Based upon the facts above summarized, the Board concurs 
in the position recommended by your Bank and the Board's legal staff, 
that the shares acquired by C.B. in violation of the Act have been 
disposed of in such manner as to rebut any presumption under § 2(g) 
of the Act that such shares continue to be owned or controlled, directly 
or indirectly, by C.B. and that such shares have been lawfully divested. 
The Board telieve.s further that the facts relating to the transactions, 
including the prompt- divestiture of such shares by C.B., when the viola-
tions were brought to its attention, serve to indicate that the violations 
were not "villful" within the meaning of § 8 cf the Act. Accordingly, 
in the Board's judgment, no useful public purpose would be served by 
referring this matter to the Justice Department for criminal prosecution. 
It will be appreciated if you will convey the substance of 
the Board's determination to C.B. Investment Corp. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

3 8 8 2 
Of covA •. 
mrnj 
BDARD DF GDVERNDRS 
OF" T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
12/22/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 24, 1969 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
P. 0. Box 834, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Bear llr. Scanlon: 
This confirms a telephone conversation of this date 
between Mr. Frederic Solomon, Director of the Board's Division 
of Supervision and Regulation, and Vic,- President James Rc Morrison 
of your Eank, relating to recently observed advertisements appearing 
in the Wall Street Journal and the Reader's Digest concerning the 
United Security Accounts" maintained by Citizens Bank & Trust 
Company, Park Ridge, Illinois. Copies of these advertisements are 
enclosed. 
Mr. Morrison was advised of the Board's opinion that the 
enclosed advertisements appear to reflect either a violation of 
applicable provisions of Regulation Q in that the Citizens Bank & 
Trust Company is paying interest on a checking account, or a viola-
tion of sectior 217.6(f) of Regulation Q prohibiting inaccurate or 
misleading advertisements or misrepresentations concerning a bank's 
deposit contracts,, On the basis of the August 1969 Report of 
Examination of the Citizens Bank & Trust Company, it would seem to 
be the ease that the bank's operation of its United Security Accounts 
program is consistent with the provisions of Regulation Q and that, 
accordingly, any violation of that Regulation relates to the bank's 
advertising of these accounts. 
Accordingly, as Mr. Morrison was advised, the Board has 
directed a review of these advertisements in the light of the 
advertising rules adopted earlier this year by the Board on the 
basis of authority granted by Act of Congress dated September 21, 
1968 (p. l . 90-505). In particular, it was directed that the 

Mr„ Charles J. Scanlon 
- 2 -
3883 
aforementioned review be conducted in the light of section 217.6(f) 
of Regulation Q which provides that "No member bank shall make any 
advertisement, announcement, or solicitation ielating to the interest: 
paid on deposits that is inaccurate or misleading or that misrepresents 
its deposit contracts." 
The Board's conclusion as to the misleading nature of the 
enclosed advertisements is premised upon the impression that is conveyed 
to the reader that he may obtain from, the Citizens Bank & Trust Company 
interest cn a checking account « a demand deposit - on which the payment 
of interest is prohibited by Federal statute. Moreover, the advertisement 
fails to include any indication of the critical fact that has in the past 
led the Board to conclude that the United Security Accounts are being 
operated within the letter of Regulation Q, namely, that checks drawn 
against the account must be repaid with funds coming directly from the 
customer, and net by transfer of funds on deposit- in the account (except 
by closing out the account). As the Board's letter of April 7, 1969, 
advised the Citizens Bank & Trust Company, a statement that is literally 
true may nevertheless be objectionable if its effect is to give readers 
an incorrect impression. To mention a prominent example of the recogni-
tion of this principle, the Federal securities laws are. directed against 
not only "any untrue statement of a material fact" but also 
"any omission to state a material fact necessary in order to 
make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances 
under which they were made, not misleading." 
It is requested that you have this matter discussed with 
representatives of Citizens Bank & Trust Company to the end that there 
be ascertained whether the bank's operation of the United Security Accounts 
does conform with the requirements of Regulation Q and that, assuming 
that such conformity is established, the Board's views herein regardi g 
the misleading r;ature of the advertisements be brought forcibly to the 
attention of the bank's management. In this regard, attention of the 
bank's officers should be directed to the analysis herein of the subject 
advertisements and a request made of these officials for any comments 
they may wish to make with respect to the apparent inaccurate and 
Misleading aspects of the advertisements. 
Your assistance in this matter will be appreciated. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosureso 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BDARD • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 6 
12/22/69 
S-2113 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . C • R R E S P • N D E N C II 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 2o, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
'Che Board of Governors has approved the recommendation 
of the Conference of Presidents that the Reserve Banks be author 
ized to absorb uo to 66-2/3 per cent of total cafeteria costs, 
effective January 1, 1970. 
This letter supersedes the Board's ietter of May 14 
1946 (S-91/, F.RL.3. 265.01). 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary. 
T 0 T H K PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

3S85 
Item No. 7 
T E L E G R A M 
12/22/69 
L E A S E D W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S OF T H E F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
December 22, 1969 
Waage~Kew York 
Board approves granting of a standby loan or loans on gold up 
to a total of $100 million by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
to Foreign Exchange Institute of Bank of Spain on the terms described 
in your wire of December 18 and subject to the conditions outlined, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Forrestal 
