MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 23, 1971 

3583 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, December 23, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:15 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved a letter to 
United States Trust Company International Corporation, New York, New York, 

3584 
12/23/71 
-2-
granting consent to continue to hold shares of U.S. Trust London Limited, 
London, England, after the latter acquires shares of TRUSTCO London 
Limited, also of London. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Brenton Banks, 
Inc., Des Moines, Iowa, to acquire shares of Brenton Bank and Trust 
Company of Cedar Rapids, Cedar Rapids, Iowa, a proposed new bank, and 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of 
the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Reduced reserves. The Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas had 
recommended that the Board revoke permission to Houston-Citizens Bank 
and Trust Company, Houston, Texas, to carry reduced reserves. In a 
memorandum of December 10, 1971, the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations recommended that, in view of pending proposals to change the 
structure of reserve requirements and deferment of other questions relat-
ing to reduced reserves, consideration of the Dallas Reserve Bank's 
recommendation be deferred for six months. 
Governor Brimmer observed that Houston-Citizens Bank and Trust 
Company had applied for a foreign branch and apparently intended to go 
heavily into international finance, which was not typical for a small 
bank. He suggested that such a consideration be included in the standards 
used for judging eligibility for reduced reserves. 

3585 
12/23/71 
-3-
It was understood that the staff would explore the question 
and report its findings for the Board's consideration. 
First National Bank of Chicago. Today's agenda called for 
consideration of the application of The First National Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois, for permission for its Jamaican subsidiary to 
acquire shares of Point Hotels Limited, Kingston, Jamaica, British 
West Indies. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that although he could have handled 
the case under delegated authority, he had brought it to the attention 
of the Board because he had asked the staff to study the question 
whether as a result of the proposed arrangement First National Bank 
of Chicago would be in the hotel business. 
Action was deferred pending the availability of further 
documentation. 
Investment in data processing firms. First National City 
Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, had applied for 
permission to purchase shares of (1) Electronic Data Processing Limited, 
Sheffield, England, and (2) Computer Projects Limited, London, England. 
Approval was recommended by the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
in memoranda dated December 14 and 21, 1971, respectively. 
Draft 
letters were attached. 
In a memorandum dated December 22 the Legal Division expressed 
the opinion that approval would be consistent with the stock investment 

3586 
12/23/71 
-4-
powers of Edge corporations, if there were sound policy reasons to 
permit Edge corporations to undertake such activities abroad. The 
issue presented was whether Edge corporations should be permitted to 
engage abroad through foreign subsidiaries in data processing activities 
of a kind determined under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act and Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, to be closely related to 
banking. 
It was suggested that, if the Board did not consider the Edge 
corporation a proper channel for engaging in data processing activities, 
it might wish to require First National City Bank to conduct the 
activities instead through its parent holding company. 
Discussion indicated agreement by the Board that the proposed 
activities were proper for Edge corporation subsidiaries, but that the 
letters of consent should be revised in accordance with staff suggestions 
to limit the activities to those permissible for bank holding company 
subsidiaries. 
As thus revised, letters in the form attached as Items 3 and 4 
were approved unanimously. 
The Legal Division's December 22 memorandum also raised a ques-
tion with respect to the applicability of the limitations in section 23A 
of the Federal Reserve Act. Those limitations applied to loans by a 
member bank to subsidiaries of its parent holding company, but not to 
loans by an Edge corporation subsidiary to subsidiaries of its parent 
member bank's holding company. The Division believed that the limitations 

3587 
12/23/71 
-5-
should be applied to the latter type of loans through amendment to 
Regulation K, Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing 
under the Federal Reserve Act. 
After discussion, the Board requested the staff to study the 
question of an amendment to Regulation K of the nature suggested. 
First National City Overseas. The Division of Supervision and 
Regulation, in a memorandum of November 8, 1971, recommended approval of 
the application of First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, 
New York, New York, to purchase shares of eight separate small loan 
companies, collectively known as the Prestamos Presto, P.R., Inc. Group, 
located in Puerto Rico, and to continue to hold the shares after the 
principal company of the group issues certain debt obligations. 
Other 
staff memoranda explored competitive and legal aspects of the application. 
After discussion, the application was approved unanimously. A 
copy of the letter sent to the Edge corporation is attached as Item No. 5. 
Barnett Banks of Florida. The application of Barnett Banks of 
Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of Mercantile 
National Bank of Miami Beach, Miami Beach, Florida, was withdrawn from 
the consent calendar on December 15, 1971, for exploration of a question 
that was raised. The Division of Supervision and Regulation had recom-
mended approval in a memorandum of November 30. In a memorandum of 
December 22, Mr. Leavitt furnished more recent information regarding 
the bank's condition and other aspects of the proposed transaction. 

3588 
12/23/71 
-6-
After discussion the Board unanimously approved the application 
and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A 
copy of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
Banks of Iowa. 
In a memorandum of December 20, 1971, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of Banks of Iowa, Inc., Cedar Rapids, Iowa, to acquire 
shares of Council Bluffs Savings Bank, Council Bluffs, Iowa. 
The Board unanimously approved the application. 
It was under-
stood that an order reflecting this decision would be prepared for the 
Board's consideration. 
First at Orlando Corporation. 
By order dated November 9, 1971 
(pursuant to action on October 21), the Board denied the application 
of First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire shares of 
National Bank of Sarasota, Sarasota, Florida. 
(A companion application 
to acquire shares of another bank in Sarasota was approved.) The 
applicant requested reconsideration, which the Legal Division recommended 
be denied, for reasons set forth in a memorandum of December 7. After 
discussion of the request for reconsideration on December 16, the staff 
was instructed to suggest informally a restructuring of the application 
that would permit acquisition of both Sarasota banks if First at Orlando 
Corporation would agree to dispose of the one originally denied by the 
Board within a reasonably short time. In a memorandum of December 22, 
Mr. Leavitt indicated that the suggested restructuring was not acceptable 
to the present owner of the two banks. 

3589 
12/23/71 
-7-
By unanimous vote the Board denied the request for reconsidera-
tion and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting this decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 7. 
National Urban Development Bank. In a memorandum dated 
December 22, 1971, the Division of Research and Statistics stated that 
a member of the Council of Economic Advisers had informally requested 
the Board's view on a proposal to establish a National Urban Development 
Bank that would consolidate significant amounts of private capital and 
channel it into urban development programs. The memorandum commented 
on the merits of this proposal and reviewed other elements of the 
overall plan of which it was a part. 
Discussion indicated agreement that the Board was not prepared 
to take an official position. It was understood that this view would 
be communicated informally to the Council member who had made the inquiry, 
along with an offer of technical assistance if needed. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

3590 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. I 
12/23/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
T ^ T r ^ 
December 23, 1971 
United States Trust Company 
International Corporation 
45 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of November 9, 1971, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("USTCIC") to con-
tinue to hold the shares of U.S. Trust London Limited ("U.S, Trust 
London"), London, England, after U.S. Trust London acquires all of 
the shares of TRUSTC0 London Limited ("TRUSTCO"), at a cost of £25,000 
(approximately $60,000), provided that an investment of $12,000 in 
TRUSTCO is made within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of TRUSTCO by U.S. Trust London is granted subject to the 
following conditions: 
(1) That USTCIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of TRUSTCO if TRUSTCO at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act, could with the consent of the Board of Governors 
purchase and hold stock, or if TRUSTCO establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or under-
takes any operation in England or elsewhere, in any 
manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to USTCIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, USTCIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of TRUSTCO as it may require from time 
to time; and 

3591 
United States Trust Company 
International Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by TRUSTCO 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if TRUSTCO were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by TRUSTCO in England in the 
currency of that country. 
It is understood that the activities of TRUSTCO will include 
underwriting. The Board's consent to such activities is conditioned 
upon your obtaining the prior consent of the Board for the continued 
holding of shares of TRUSTCO should TRUSTCO acquire stock of individual 
issuers costing in excess of $500,000 or representing 25 per cent of 
the voting shares of any company, except in the case of underwriting 
operations covered by firm commitments from subunderwriters or other 
purchasers. With respect to trading in securities in which Corpora-
tions are prohibited from investing by the provisions of the eighth 
paragraph of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, the Board's 
consent is further conditioned on the fact that TRUSTCO will acquire 
such shares only as dealer or underwriter, maintain a size and turn-
over of inventory that is reasonable in relation to demand, and dis-
pose of such shares within a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they 
are to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of 
acquisition, on any Call Report of Condition or similar report re-
quested by the Board. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment will be made with funds available to U.S. Trust London 
and will not require an additional outflow of funds from the United 
States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
• Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3592 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/23/71 
BRENTON BANKS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Brenton Banks, Inc., Des Moines, Iowa, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 99 per cent of the voting shares of 
Brenton Bank and Trust Company of Cedar Rapids, Cedar Rapidsr, Iowa 
("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls 16 banks with aggregate deposits of 
$220 million, representing 3.2 per cent of the total commercial bank 
deposits in the State, and is the third largest banking organization 
in Iowa. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect 
holding company formations! and acquisitions approved through October 31, 
1971.) Since Bank is a proposed new bank, no existing competition 
would be eliminated nor would concentration be increased in any relevant 
area. 
Bank will be located in downtown Cedar Rapids (estimated 
population: 111,000), and will represent the initial entry by Applicant 

3593 
-2-
into the Cedar Rapids banking market* Applicant's closest subsidiary 
to Bank is located 27 road miles northwest of the proposed Bank, and 
there are numerous offices of banks in the intervening area. Applicant's 
acquisition of Bank would have a procompetitive effect as it would mark 
the first entry in 37 years into this market of a banking institution 
not associated with existing Cedar Rapids banks. That market is 
concentrated with the two largest organizations controlling 50.3 per 
cent and 14.4 per cent, respectively, of deposits and the entrance of 
Applicant should stimulate competition without having adverse effects on 
any competing bank. 
The financial condition, management, and prospects of Appli-
cant and its subsidiary banks are regarded as generally satisfactory. 
Bank has no operating financial history. It will open with satisfactory 
capital, and it will be able to draw on Applicant for its management. 
Its prospects are favorable and the banking factors are consistent 
with approval. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
of the community to be served lend weight toward approval as Bank will 
provide an additional source of full banking services. It is the Board's 
judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the 
Public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 

3594 
-3-
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order; and (c) 
Brenton Bank and Trust Company of Cedar Rapids, Cedar Rapids, Iowa, 
shall be opened for business not later than six months after the 
date of this Order. Each of the periods described in (b) and (c) may 
be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,1/ December 23, 1971. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
(SEAL) 
YJ Voting for this action; Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
Maisel and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governor Mitchell. 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
or THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3595 
Item No. 3 
12/23/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 23, 1971 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
1 * 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of November 12, 1971, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") 
to purchase and hold 100 per cent of the shares of Electronic Data 
Processing Limited ("EDP"), Sheffield, England, at a cost not to 
exceed £115,023 (approximately $276,000) provided that at least 
$60,000 is invested in shares of EDP within one year from the date 
of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of EDP by FNCOIC is granted subject to the condition that 
EDP-confine its activities to the provision of data processing serv-
ices in the United Kingdom of the type permitted by Section 225.4(a)(8) 
of Regulation Y. 
The Board's consent is also granted subject to the condi-
tion that EDP shall comply with the provisions of Sections 211.4 and 
211.8 of Regulation K and that, when required by the Board of Gov-
ernors, FNCOIC will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of EDP as it may require from time to time and main-
tain at its head office all such information as is necessary for a 
proper evaluation of the activities of EDP by the Board's examiners. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
J 
Tynan Smith 
^Secretary of the Board 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
35S6 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 4 
12/23/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 23, 1971 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 7, 1971, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") 
to purchase and hold 100 per cent of the shares of Computer Projects 
Limited ("CPL"), London, England, at a cost of approximately $1,600,000, 
provided such shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of CPL by FNCOIC is granted subject to the condition that 
CPL'confine its activities to the provision of data processing serv-
ices in the United Kingdom of the type permitted by Section 225.4(a)(8) 
of Regulation Y. In this regard, the Board understands that FNCOIC 
will phase out all of CPL's programming services under contract busi-
ness within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent is also granted subject to the condition 
that CPL (and its subsidiaries) shall comply with the provisions of 
Sections 211.4 and 211.8 of Regulation K and that, when required by 
the Board of Governors, FNCOIC will furnish the Board with such re-
ports regarding the activities of CPL as it may require from time to 
time and maintain at its head office all such information as is neces-
sary for a proper evaluation of the activities of CPL by the Board's 
examiners. 
The Board also grants consent for FNCOIC to continue to 
hold the stock of CPL after CPL acquires two subsidiaries, Datamark 
Limited ("DL") and Contract Computing Limited ("CCL"), provided DL 
and CCL confine their activities to the provision of services to CPL 
that are incidental to CPL's approved business. 

3597 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
The foregoing consents are given with the understanding 
that the investments will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates, 
f-A 
/ J 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

538 
BDARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
Item No. 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/23/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O r F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 23, 1971 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 30, 1971, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC")' 
(1) to purchase and hold all of the shares of eight separate com-
panies collectively known as the Prestamos Presto, P.R., Inc. Group 
("PPPR Group"), located in Puerto Rico, at a cost of approximately 
$1,500,000, and (2) to continue to hold the shares of PPPR Group 
after the principal company of the group, Prestamos Presto, P.R. , 
Inc., San Juan, Puerto Rico, issues debt obligations with maturi-
ties in excess of one year up to a total of $10,000,000, provided 
all of the shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of PPPR Group is granted subject to the following condi-
tions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of PPPR Group if PPPR Group at' 
any time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act, could with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if PPPR Group establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or under-
takes any operation in Puerto Rico or elsewhere, in 
any manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of PPPR Group as it may require from time 
to time; 

3599 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by PPPR 
Group be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regula-
tion K in the same manner as if PPPR Group were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act; and 
That FNCOIC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of PPPR Group at a net amount in excess of its pro-
portionate share of the book capital accounts of 
PPPR Group, after giving effect to the elimination 
of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by PPPR Group in Puerto Rico 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of PPPR Group. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(3) 
(4) 
en RTiPnd fi 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
„ 
, 
Item No. o 
12/23/71 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of Mercantile National Bank of Miami Beach, Miami 
Beach, Florida ("Bank"), 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in the light of the factors set forth 
in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant has 29 subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits 
of approximately $881 million, representing 6 per cent of the 
commercial bank deposits in Florida, and Bank has deposits of $62 mil-
lion. (Banking data are as of June 30, 1971.) Approval of the 
acquisition of Bank will increase Applicant's percentage share 
of deposits in Florida by only one-half of 1 per cent. 
Applicant presently has only one subsidiary bank in 
Dade County, and this subsidiary is the thirty-seventh largest of 
38 banking organizations in the County, with only .2 per cent of 

-2-
3601 
deposits. Bank, which primarily serves the Miami Beach area of Dade 
County, ranks eleventh, with 2.2 per cent of Dade County deposits. 
Due to the distance between Bank and the subsidiary, the large number 
of intervening banks and the natural barrier of Biscayne Bay which 
separates the two, there is only a minimal amount of competition exist-
ing between them. These considerations and other facts of record also 
render unlikely the possibility of increased future competition between 
Applicant and Bank. Alternatively, approval of this application should 
serve to strengthen Applicant's competitive capabilities with regard 
to its much larger competitors in the Dade County area. On this basis, 
the Board finds that competitive considerations are consistent with 
approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of Applicant, 
its subsidiary banks, and Bank are regarded as consistent with approval. 
Considerations related to the convenience and needs of the community lend 
weight for approval of the application. Applicant intends to more 
aggressively promote the trust, international and bond investment 
departments of Bank and to make Bank a full service banking competitor 
in its area. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition 
would be in the public interest and that the application should be 
approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 

36(}2 
-3-
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
December 23, 1971. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
Maisel, and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governor Mitchell. 

3603 
FEDERAL RESERVE SVSfEM 
Item No. 7 
12/23/71 
First at Orlando Corporation 
Order Denying Request for Reconsideration 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, has 
requested reconsideration of the Order of the Board of Governors dated 
November 9, 1971, whereby the Board denied the application of First at 
Orlando Corporation for prior approval for the acquisition of 90 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of National Bank of Sarasota, Sarasota, 
Florida, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 
1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)). 
Pursuant to § 262.3(f)(6) of the Board's Rules, Applicant 
requests reconsideration of its original proposal. The Board finds 
that the request for reconsideration does not present substantially new 
facts or issues which would appear appropriate in the public interest 
for the Board to consider. Accordingly, the Board concludes that the 
request for reconsideration is hereby denied. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
December 23, 1971. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L„ Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
Maisel, and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor 
Mitchell. 
