MINUTES 
i i 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 18, 1969 

9 11 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, March 18, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
;Hn>U'v s t 
• •• j v. r 
First National City. In a memorandum dated March 12, 1969, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 

3/18/69 
-2-
applications of (1) First National City Bank, New York, New York, to 
purchase shares of Iranians' Bank, Teheran, Iran, and (2) First National 
city Overseas Investment Corporation, also of New York City, to purchase 
shares of four corporations to be organized for the purpose of holding 
Portions of equity interests in various foreign investments of First 
National City Bank. Draft letters reflecting the staff's favorable 
recommendation were attached to the memorandum. 
After a discussion during which agreement was reached on 
changes in the draft letters, the applications were approved unani-
mously. Copies of the letters in the form in which they were trans-
mitted are attached as Items 1 and 2. 
Commerce Bancshares. The Board authorized the issuance of 
orders and a statement reflecting its approval, on March 3, 1969, of 
the applications of Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, 
t o acquire shares of The Citizens National Bank of Kirksville, Kirksville, 
Missouri, and The Mechanics Bank, St. Joseph, Missouri. Copies of the 
documents are attached under Item No. 3. 
Central Banking System. In a memorandum dated March 7, 1969, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
aPplications of Central Banking System, Inc., Oakland, California, to 
a cquire shares of Livermore National Bank, Livermore, California, and 
peninsul a National Bank of Burlingame, Burlingame, California. 

9 11 
3/18/69 
-3-
After discussion at today's meeting the applications were 
approved unanimously. 
It was understood that documents reflecting 
these decisions would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Regulation G form. 
In a memorandum dated March 13, 1969, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended that, in 
order to reduce the reporting burden for registrants under Regulation G, 
Securities Credit by Persons other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers, 
reporting form G-4 be revised in several respects reflected in attach-
ments to the memorandum. A draft letter to the Federal Reserve Banks 
regarding the revised form was also attached. 
After discussion the Board unanimously approved the revised 
form and the letter. A copy of the revised farm has been placed in 
the Board's files; a copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
Credit insurance underwriting. 
In a memorandum dated March 5, 
1969, Mr. Hexter presented the issues surrounding an inquiry by The 
Citizens and Southern National Bank, Atlanta, Georgia, a registered 
bank holding company, whether its wholly-owned subsidiary, C&S Credit 
Services Corporation, could engage in the insuring of loans made by 
banks that were not affiliated with the holding company system. 
A 
principal question was whether, under section 4(c)(5) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act and the Board's 1968 ruling on operations subsidiaries, a 
national bank might perform directly the kind of insurance activities 
Proposed for the subsidiary of Citizens and Southern. Mr. Hexter concluded 

9 11 
3/18/69 
-4-
that it could not, and that if the holding company wished to pursue 
the question whether the activity was directly related to banking 
under section 4(c)(8) of the Act, that question must be determined by 
the Board on the record of a hearing. A draft letter reflecting that 
position was attached. The memorandum also brought out that the Chief 
Counsel of the Comptroller of the Currency had stated in a letter to 
Mr. Hexter that "We . . . concluded that" the proposed insurance 
activities of C&S Credit Service Corporation were clearly related to the 
business of banking and could be carried on appropriately and legally 
by 
Citizens and Southern National Bank itself through a department. 
After discussion at today's meeting the letter to The Citizens 
and Southern National Bank was approved, Governor Maisel dissenting 
Principally because he felt that the view of the bank's primary supervisor 
should prevail. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
Travelers' checks. With a memorandum dated March 12, 1969, the 
Office of the Secretary submitted staff analyses and background papers 
relating to the requests of First National City Bank, New York, New York, 
and Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, San Francisco, 
California, that the Board exempt travelers' check liabilities from 
reserve requirements. 
Among the staff documents was a memorandum in which Mr. Hexter 
reviewed the relevant issues, including the claim of competitive 
disadvantage because American Express Company, which issued two-thirds 

_ 923 
3/18/69 
-5-
of all travelers' checks in the United States, was not subject to 
reserve requirements. The memorandum brought out that for at least 
forty years member banks' liabilities on their outstanding travelers' 
checks had been regarded as demand deposits for purposes of Regulation D, 
Reserves of Member Banks. Although the Board had considerable latitude 
under the Federal 
Reserve Act to define terms, Mr. Hexter cited reasons 
for his view that a definition that would exclude travelers' checks 
from the category of demand deposits would be contrary to legislative 
intent. He also alluded to the possibility that travelers' check 
liabilities 
might have features that, as a matter of policy, would 
justify a lower level of reserve requirements than that set for demand 
deposits (subject, of course, to the minimum reserve requirement set by 
statute). In his view, however, there might be question whether such 
a reduction should be granted on the ground that member banks competed 
with organizations that were not subject to the same or comparable 
requirements, and he suggested some of the problems that might be associated 
with such a decision. If the Board decided that the equal-with-competitors 
aPproach was not valid, presumably it would confirm the tentative position 
taken in 1967. After a review of the matter by the staff at that time, 
Chairman Martin had indicated to First National City Bank and to Bank 
°f America that "I can see no strong basis for any substantive changes 
in the reserve status of travelers' checks. If, nonetheless, you would 

3/18/69 
-6-
... . 
. 
U k e 
this matter brought up for formal Board action, that can be 
arranged. I cannot give you much grounds for optimism, however, as 
to the outcome." 
Discussion at today's meeting resulted in confirmation of the 
Position taken in 1967, under which travelers' check liabilities were 
regarded as demand deposits for purposes of reserve requirements. 
The 
two member banks were informed of the Board's decision in letters dated 
March 21, 1969. It was understood that questions presented by the 
operations of American Express Company would continue to be studied. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
T 

.•oOf COW'. 
,'oy 
nor 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
3/18/69 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 18, 1969. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
. '{<:i*k. ii 
£;>»;.'<. 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 9, 1968, the 
Board of Governors grants permission pursuant to Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M for First National City Bank 
( FNCB"), New York, New York, to purchase and hold approximately 
35 per cent of the capital stock of Iranians' Bank, Teheran, Iran, 
at a cost of approximately $1,520,000, provided such shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
r ::<.• u • 
in ?: : 
eh > 1 , .. 
It is understood that 30 per cent of the stock will be 
held in equal parts by three wholly-owned Delaware subsidiaries of 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New 
York, as nominees for FNCB. The consent is granted on the assump-
tion that this arrangement is acceptable to the banking authorities 
°f the Government of Iran. 
* 'ntJ Ja-;C:, ••ihr-.a 
I «:•-"J by » 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of FNCB, International Banking Corporation, First National 
City Overseas Investment Corporation, and First National City Bank 
(International), and that due consideration is being given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
3/18/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 18, 1969 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your letters of December 9, 1968, 
January 13, 1969, and February 5, 1969, the Board of Governors 
grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to purchase and 
hold all of the shares of four corporations to be incorporated 
in Delaware ("Delaware corporations"), at a total cost of approx-
imately $10,000, provided such shares are acquired within one 
year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of the Delaware corporations by FNCOIC is granted subject 
to the condition that the Delaware corporations will restrict their 
activities to the holding of shares of foreign banks pursuant to the 
provisions of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation 
K and that, when required by the Board, FNCOIC will cause the Delaware 
corporations (1) to permit examiners selected or auditors approved 
by the Board to examine the Delaware corporations, and (2) to furnish 
the Board with such reports as it may require from time to time in-
cluding reports of share acquisitions or dispositions as described 
in Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisitions, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of the corporations. 

9 11 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
The Board also grants consent for each of the Delaware 
corporations to purchase and hold 20 shares of Turkiye Osmanli 
Bankasi ("TOB"), Turkey, at a cost of $2,200, provided such shares 
are acquired within one year frcm the date of this letter. In this 
connection, the Board also approves the purchase and holding of such 
shares by the Delaware corporations in excess of the applicable limi-
tations set forth in the provisions of paragraph 5(c) of Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act and in Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The foregoing consent for purchase of shares of TOB is 
given with the understanding that the investment now being approved 
will be made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your Corporation, First National 
City Bank, International Banking Corporation, and First National City 
Bank (International), and that due consideration is being given to 
the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 
3/18/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
T 
S 
i n the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC., 
' 
Kansas City, Missouri,
 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per
 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of
 
1 
Jne Citizens National Bank of Kirksville,
 1 
Kirksville, Missouri.
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
8ection 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
R egulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Commerce Bancshares, 
I n c * » Kansas City, Missouri, a registered bank holding company, for 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
o f the voting shares of The Citizens National Bank of Kirksville, 
Kirksville, Missouri. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
^ e Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
v*ew8 and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
t h p application. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published ih the 
Federal Register on December 3, 1968 (33 Federal Register 17933), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
••V 
', 
_ 
. 
• 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
i 
for Its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board
18 Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
approved, provided that the application so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
o f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this ICth day of March, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 
(Signed) IvObert P. Forrestel 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C . 
!n the Matter of the Application of 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC., 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
The Mechanics Bank, St. Joseph, Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
S ection 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
<
1 2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
R egulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Commerce Bancshares, 
I n c * , Kansas City, Missouri, a registered bank holding company, for 
^ e Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
o f the voting shares of The Mechanics Bank, St. Joseph, Missouri. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
tlle Cccmi8sioner of Finance for the State of Missouri of the appli-
C ation and requested his views and recommendation. The Coamissioner 
responded that he had no objection to approval of the application. 

931 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 3, 1968 (33 Federal Register 17934), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
i 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
°rder unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
bV the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this IC'di day of March, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestcl 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

9 11 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC., KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK OF KIRKSVILLE, KIRKSVILLE, MISSOURI, 
AND THE MECHANICS BANK, ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI 
STATEMENT 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to 
the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior ap-
proval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Citizens National Bank of Kirksville, Kirksville, 
Missouri ("Citizens Kirksville"), and The Mechanics Bank, 
St. Joseph, Missouri ("Mechanics Bank"). While each of the appli-
cations has been separately considered and is subject to a separate 
Board Order, because of facts and circumstances common to both 
aPplications, this statement contains the Board's findings and 
conclusions with respect to both. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authorities. -
A s required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application relating 
l: O s £ 
e 11 cv." o £ y t-c v -i o (
i 

-4-
933 
to Citizens Kirksville and notified the Commissioner of Finance 
for the State of Missouri of receipt of the application relating 
to Mechanics Bank, and requested their views and recommendation 
thereon. The Commissioner indicated that he had no objection to 
approval of the Mechanics Bank proposal, and the Comptroller recom-
mended approval of the proposal involving Citizens Kirksville, 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act 
Provides that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that 
would result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combi-
nation or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any part of the United States. Nor may the 
Board approve a proposed acquisition the effect of which, in any 
8ection of the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, 
°r to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would 
^e in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anti-
competitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly out-
weighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the trans-
ection in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be 
8erved. In each case the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the 
bank holding company and the banks concerned, and convenience and 
needs of the community to be served. 

9 11 
Competitive effects of the proposed transactions. * 
Applicant, the third largest banking organization in Missouri, 
• * * 
controls deposits of $501 million, representing 5.8 per cent of 
the total deposits held by all banks in the State. 
Upon 
completion of the acquisitions proposed, Applicant would control 
6.1 per cent of total deposits in the State and would remain the 
State's third largest banking organization, behind two independent 
St. Louis Banks. Consummation of the proposals would not signif-
icantly affect the present degree of State-wide concentration. 
Citizens Kirksville, which has deposits of $8.5 million, 
is the smallest of three banks located in the City of Kirksville, 
Adair County, in the northeast corner of the State. Its competitors 
hold deposits of $14 million and $10 million, r«j3poctively. 
Mechanics Bank, with deposits of $22.4 million, is the 
third largest of nine banks located in St. Joseph and the third 
- 
• 
II 
largest of 10 banks located in Buchanan County, in the northwest 
section of the State. Three of the St. Joseph banks are subsidiaries 
°f a registered bank holding company and hold, in the aggregate, 
deposits of $69 million. The largest bank in the area, together 
^ith an affiliated bank, hold deposits of $83 million. 
Missouri law generally prohibits branching, although one 
limited-service facility is permitted within one thousand yards of 
1/ Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of June 29, 1968. 

-4-
935 
the bank's office. The two banks involved are approximately 
150 miles apart, and are located 55 and 85 miles, respectively, 
from the nearest of Applicant's four present subsidiary banks. 
It does not appear that any competition exists between the two pro-
posed subsidiary banks or between either of them and present subsid-
iaries of Applicant. Although Commerce Trust Company, Applicant's 
lead bank in Kansas City, derives a small number of trust accounts 
from the Kirksville and St. Joseph areas, such business does not 
appear indicative of significant competition between that bank and 
the proposed subsidiaries, particularly in light of the fact that 
Mechanics Bank has only a relatively small trust department and 
Citizens Kirksville does not exercise its authorized fiduciary 
powers. Further, in view of the distances involved and State 
branching restrictions, it does not appear likely that significant 
competition with Applicant's present subsidiaries would develop 
in the future. It is reasonably foreseen that the acquisitions 
Proposed will increase the competitive abilities of the subject 
banks, without undue adverse effects on the viability or competitive 
effectiveness of competing banks. 
In the light of these facts, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisitions would not result in a 
Monopoly nor be in any furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, 
°
r attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any area. 

19 
-4-
It does not appear that consummation of either or both of the pro-
posals would have the effect of substantially lessening competition 
or tending to create a monopoly in any section of the country, or 
vould in any manner be in restraint of trade. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition, management and prospects of Applicant and 
Mechanics Bank are considered satisfactory. Management of Citizens 
Kirksville is satisfactory, and its prospects appear favorable. It 
is in need of additional capital, however, and Applicant has specified 
firm plans to improve the condition of the bank in that respect, upon 
consummation of its proposal. 
Considerations under this factor are consistent with approval 
both applications. 
Convenience and needs of the communities Involved. -
Consummation of Applicant's proposals would not affect the convenience 
needs of the communities served by its present subsidiaries. 
There is no evidence of unserved needs, nor does Applicant 
suggest that the proposed affiliation will fulfill any unserved needs 
the Kirksville or St. Joseph communities. The proposed affiliations, 
however, would tend to assure the availability of a greater variety 
and quality of banking services than either of the proposed subsidiary 
hanks could be expected to offer as an independent bank. The Kirksville 
community would thus be provided with more convenient access to a broad 

-6-
•A'j-
range of banking services, and Mechanics Bank would become a more 
meaningful alternative to the two dominant banking organizations 
in the St. Joseph area. 
These considerations provide some weight in favor of 
approval of the applications. 
Surcmary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transactions would be in the public interest and that 
V •u'c 
the applications should be approved. 
m
m
-
, S, "•< 
J - V 1 1 
J • \ 
March 18, 1969. 
n. 
\ \ 
f 
. 
, . 
* 
. , , ' • . ( ( 
VJvS A. 

9 11 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
3/18/69 
A D D R E S S 
• FFI C IAL 
C D R R E 9 P O N D C N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 24, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board of Governors has approved a revision of Federal 
Reserve Form G-4 (Quarterly Report) (1) to provide relief to certain 
registrants under Regulation G, (2) to make a technical correction to 
Instruction A (formerly Instruction No. 1) on the report, and (3) to 
^odify the instructions on page 4 pertaining to Financial Statements. 
The revised form will<be applicable to reports that are due by April 30, 
1 9 6 9 , with respect to the quarter ending March 31, 1969. 
The revised,form includes Exemption Statements on page 4, 
which the registrants may complete, if applicable, in lieu of providing 
certain statistical data on page 2 of the report. The privilege of 
f i U n g such statements is available to registrants who have no purpose 
credit outstanding at the end of the quarter covered by the report and 
e 
n o t extended or arranged any purpose credit during the quarter, 
Provided other credits secured by registered equity securities do not 
exceed 25 per cent of the registrant's total assets. 
Pursuant to a Board letter of October 9, 1968, registrants 
0 s e credits secured by registered equity securities do not exceed 5 
Per cent of total receivables are exempt from reporting certain figures, 
instruction to implement this rule is included in the revised form. 
The technical correction makes the language regarding deregis-
tration provisions conform to that contained in section 207.1(b) of 
K egulatio n G. A modification under Financial Statements, on page 4, 
Requires that insurance company registrants submit schedules of collateral 
°ens conforming to those submitted to State insurance regulatory agencies. 

939 
-2 
A supply of the revised G-4 forms, which are being printed, 
will be furnished to your bank in approximately two weeks. 
Since 
reproduction of the revised forms will not be completed in time for 
your bank to distribute them before March 31, 1969, you may wish to 
advise registrants in your district of the Board's actions, and that 
revised forms to be used for the first quarter 1969 filings will be 
sent to them as soon as they become available. 
TO ALL PRESIDENTS OF FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS. (Copies to VICE PRESIDENTS 
IN CHARGE OF EXAMINATIONS AND OFFICERS IN CHARGE OF REGULATION G) 
Very truly yours 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

940 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
3/18/69 
'•fpTSse?-
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 19, 1969 
Mr. Mills B. Lane, Jr., President, 
The Citizens and Southern National Bank, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30302 
Dear Mr. Lane: 
Your letter of November 5, 1968, referred to a possible 
extension of the activities of the Citizens and Southern Credit Service 
Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Citizens and Southern 
National Bank ("C&S"), a bank holding company that is subject to the 
requirements and restrictions of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. 
At the present time, the Corporation in effect insures C6cS 
and its subsidiary banks against loss with respect to most of their 
loans to businesses in amounts between $2,500 and $100,000. The par-
ticipating banks pay the Corporation a fee on the amount of each 
insured loan. In the event a particular loan cannot be collected, it 
is purchased by the Corporation. The question presented in your letter 
is whether it would be permissible, in view of the provisions of the 
Bank Holding Company Act, for the Corporation to extend its services 
to other banks than C&S and its subsidiary banks. 
As you know, section 4(a) of the Holding Company Act contains 
a general prohibition against holding company ownership "of any voting 
shares of any company which is not a bank or a bank holding company". 
Section 4(c) provides a number of exceptions to this general prohibition, 
The exemption provided by section 4(c)(1)(C) permits a holding 
company to own shares of a corporation "engaged solely in . . . furnish-
ing services to or performing services for such bank holding company 
or its banking subsidiaries". In the Board's opinion, the function 
Presently performed by the Corporation - holding pooled loan loss re-
serves of the holding company and its subsidiary banks - comes within 
this description, and consequently the holding of the shares of the 
Corporation by C&S is not now subject to the prohibition of section 4(a), 
However, if the Corporation were to expand the scope of its 
activities to include insurance of loans made by banks other than those 
in the holding company system, it would no longer be engaged solely in 

Mr. Mills B. Lane 
- 2 -
9 11 
activities of the kind described in section 4(c)(1)(C). Therefore 
if 
e x L t
r P O r a t 1 ^
 
S 
a C t i v i t i e s 
so expanded 
the e io 
( C 
exemption would cease to be applicable.
 
W
U
M
l
j 
section 4 M 
^ I v ^ J t ^
^ 
^ 
^ 
°
t h e r e x e m P t i o n provided by 
b 
"
 4 ( ? >
 
( w i t h 
t h e Possible exception of section 4(c)(8) 
discussed 
e s p l L
W r ^
C O V e r 
0 W n e r s h i P
 
o f 
shares of the Corpora ion 
W th 
v ew ha 
s h a r e r o T 
" S T " * 
* ^
^
 
4 ( c ) ( 5 ) >
 
i t 
i s 
t h e 
banks are 1
1 
1 
^
 
l n S U f
n c e 
c o m P
a " y serving unaffiliated 
W 
, 
u
 
6 8 
W h l G h 
a r e 
o f 
t h e 
k i n d s ^ d amounts eligible for 
^vestment by national banking associations". 
eligible for 
^ ac quire
Y Oan
Ud
Wretair
a 1 1 ^ 
^
^
 
4 ( c ) '
( 8 ) 
P e ™
i t S 
a 
h o l d i n ^ 
"shares of any company all the activities of which are 
of 
a . . . insurance nature and which the Board after due notice 
and hearing, and on the basis of the record made at such hear-
ing, by order has determined to be so closely related to the 
business of banking or of managing or controlling banks as to 
be a proper incident thereto and as to make it unnecessary 
for the prohibitions of this section to apply in order to 
carry out the purposes of this Act". 
Prow!?
 P °
f
T
s h a r e s i s 
i n 
n o 
c a s e permitted automatically by this 
^cord 
thp * 
T ° T
 
a p p ,
l i c a b l e 
o n l y 
i f > on the basis of the hearing 
the r ! 
A
 
6 8 
3 d e t e r m i n a t i o n of the nature described. Until 
f o m a n "
 
e a r i n § h \
S 
b 6 e n 
h 6 l d j 
t h e 
B °
a r d i s 
n o t 
a Position to 
** an opinion as to the applicability of the section 4(c)(8) exemption. 
Pursu. ft, " ^
 
d e ,
C /
d w o x °
 6 X p a n d 
t h e 
C o rPoration
!s activities and to 
of Gov 
^ 
u°
n 4 ( C ) ( 8 ) P
o s s i b i l i t y 5 it should address to the Board 
that ^
r n °
r S '
 
t h e F e d e r a l 
R e s e r v e 
B a n k 
o f Atlanta, a request 
^ e B o a r d s "
8 ! " 
k
 
b e h e l d 
a "
d that the determination be made by 
c°urse 
? ! ^ , °
f
u
t
h
e 
r e C °
r d m a d e 
a t 
s u c h 
h e a r i n 8 - 
You are, of 
i t s I '
 a C q u a i n t e d 
W l t h 
t h i s Procedure, which C&S followed in submitting 
w T
S
t
S c 
T
 
p e n d i n 8 >
 
f o r section 4(c)(8) determinations with respect 
8out? 
T
 
S °
U t h e r n L i f e Insurance Co., Inc., and The Citizens and 
u uthern Agency, Inc. 
Und.,1 
. The Board regrets that its response to your inquiry has been 
Of f-H
 
e i a y e d >
 
l n P
a r t as a result of an oversight and i n part because 
time required for inter-agency consultation. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
