PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
July 13, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

2074 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, July 13, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance JJ 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mrs. Byrn and Mr. Morgan of the Office of the 
Secretary 
The usual weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical charts and tables prepared for today's review 
have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the indi-
vidual briefings. 
During discussion based on the review the staff also commented 
on developments in the commercial paper market, particularly the 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also attended. 

2 0 7 5 
7/13/70 
- 2 -
indicated experience of certain companies in rolling over maturing 
paper and the extent of their resort to bank credit lines. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Governor Daane reported on the monthly meeting of the Bank 
for International Settlements and the meeting of the Deputies of 
the Group of Ten held in Paris. 
Chairman Burns commented on economic matters of interest that 
had developed in connection with his trip to Korea, Japan, Hong Kong, 
Israel, and the United Kingdom. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
