MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 12, 1970 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, January 12, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Miss Ormsby of the Office of the Secretary 
Staff presented an economic review of the kind customarily 
given in advance of meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee. 
The briefings were based in part on materials prepared for the Commit-
tee meeting, which materials have been placed in the files of the Com-
mittee. 
Staff members who had attended particularly for the purpose of 
the review then left the room and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

81 
1/12/70 
-2-
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Spencer, Assistant to the Secretary 
Report on competitive factors. The Board approved unani-
mously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation a 
report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of 
United Bank of Arizona, Phoenix, Arizona, with Pacesetter Financial 
Corporation, also of Phoenix. The proposed merger was merely a trans-
action to facilitate the acquisition of the bank by UB Financial 
Corp., Phoenix, a newly-formed holding company, and the conclusion of 
the report stated that the merger would have no adverse competitive 
effects. 
Automated currency handling. The Board approved unanimously 
a telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland noting without 
objection an expenditure of up to $200,000 for a research and devel-
opment project on a currency counting and sorting machine that would 
be used on $1 notes and possibly $5 notes. The Cleveland Bank would 
engage in this project on behalf of all of the Reserve Banks. A copy 
of the telegram is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board also approved unanimously a letter to the Chairman 
of the Conference of First Vice Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks suggesting that a strong effort be made to develop a machine 
that could be used on all denominations of currency and would distin-
guish different denominations as well as provide a means for reading 

82 
1/12/70 
-3-
serial numbers on currency. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
Meetings with banker groups. The Board authorized the Office 
of the Secretary to proceed with arrangements, as outlined in a 
memorandum dated January 8, 1970, for representation of the Board at 
meetings with State bankers associations and other banker groups 
during the first part of the year 1970. 
Federal Advisory Council. The Board approved unanimously a 
letter to the Assistant Secretary of the Federal Advisory Council 
suggesting topics for consideration at the forthcoming meeting of the 
Council, to be held on February 5-6, 1970. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
It was understood that a dinner for the members of the Council 
would be held in the Board's building on the evening of February 5. 
FOMC. It was noted that the meeting of the Federal Open Mar-
ket Committee scheduled for tomorrow had been postponed until Thurs-
day, January 15, due to the fact that Chairman Martin, Governor Daane, 
and President Hayes had been detained in Basle, Switzerland, because 
of inclement weather. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

T E L E G R A M 
LEASED WiSE SERVICE 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
83 
Item No. 1 
1/12/70 
January 12, 1970 
HICKMAN •• CLEVELAND 
Board notes without objection approval by your Bank's 
Board of Directors of an expenditure of up to $200,000 
for a research and development project on a currency 
counter-cortex, to be conducted by Pitney-Boves, as set 
forth in your letter of March 13, 1969, and subsequent 
action by the Conference of First Vice Presidents that 
your Bank engage in this project on behalf of the Reserve 
Banks. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
KENYON 

6 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N • R 5 
• K THE 
Item No. 2 
1/12/70 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OrriCIAI. C D R R f;S PC N BE 
rn THE BOARD 
January 12, 1970. 
Mr. Hugh ,T. Helper, Chairman, 
Conference of First Vice Presidents 
of the federal Reserve Banks, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. He liner; 
This refers to the action by the November 1969 Conference 
of First Vice Presidents reaffirming its earlier decision that the 
Cleveland Reserve Bank be authorized tc enter into an agreement 
with Pitney-Bowes for the construction of a machine capable of a 
high-speed coun: and fitness sort of currency. 
In l.v;ht. of the subsequent statement of justification 
prepared by Mr. MacDonald, dated November 21, 1969, which shows 
that total, cost of the project including the machines required 
will be recovered in less than three years, t Lie Board has no 
objection to proceeding with the project. 
It is understood that 
the machine woui.d have no ability to detect counterfeits and its 
use would be United to the processing of $1 notes and possibly 
$5 notes. 
The Board notes that the Conference also directed the 
Committee on Currency and Coin to continue tc explore possibilities 
with regard to counterfeit detection. While the Board believes 
that the System should move ahead in this regard, it believes that 
tile System should also make a strong effort to develop a machine 
that could be used on all denominations of currency and that would 
distinguish different denominations as well as provide a means for 
reading serial numbers on currency. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

y&ssgii 
'•f^LRE'.^: 
85 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
1/12/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL. CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 12, 1970, 
Mr. William J. Korsvik, 
Assistant Secretary, 
Federal Advisory Council, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Bill: 
The Board of Governors suggests the topics shown 
on the attached list for discussion at the meeting of the 
Federal Advisory Council on February 5, 1970, and the joint 
meeting cf the Board and the Council on February 6. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Attachment. 

Suggested Topics for Discussion at Meeting of 
Federal. Advisory Council or. February 5-6, 1970 
Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the geneva1 economic outlook for 
1970? Will there be important changes in the pace of business 
in the second half of the year as compared with the first halfl 
B. How would the Council assess the present situation and outlook 
in the building industry? Are there significant differences as 
regards prospects for construction of homes, apartments, and 
commercial buildings? 
C. What are the Council's views regarding the outlook for corporate 
profits? 
How do developments in this area seem likely to affect 
capital spending plans? 
D. How would the Council assess the present outlook for labor-
management wage contract negotiations? 
Is there evidence of 
easing in labor markets, and is t.here any prospect that this 
cou.'.d significantly modify the size and character of agreements 
reached this year? 
E. How do Council members assess the current state of inflationary 
attitudes and expectations? 
Do these differ markedly as'among 
businessmen, labor leaders, consumers, and investors? 
(1) If such attitudes are regarced as still undesirably strong, 
what further actions, if any, in the field of public policy 
do the members believe should be considered in order to 
deal more effectively with inflationary sentiment and its 
consequences? 
(2) Are there any actions that the banking industry could take 
that would be helpful in dealing with this problem? 
Financial developments. 
A. What is the Council's assessment of the probable strength of 
business loan demand in the first half of 1970? How has loan 
demand during the fall and winter differed from prior expecta-
tions? 

N7 
- 2 -
B. How do Courcil members appraise the current liquidity position 
of the banking system? How do members regard the liquidity 
position oi* nonbank savings intermediaries? Are many of the 
latter ccm:.ng to commercial banks for loans to assist in meet-
ing their cash needs? 
C. How does the Council view the advertising and merchandising by 
some banks of small-denomination longer-term subordinated 
debentures to the general public? 
Is this potentially a sizable, 
source of funds, and are there any dangers to issuing banks, the 
banking system, or the public? 
Balance of payments. 
What is the Council's judgment as to the outlook in 1970 for the 
U.S. balance of payments? 
On current account? On capital account? 
What further official actions, if any, do tie members believe should 
be considered in the interests of improving the balance of payments? 
What are the Council's views on monetary anc. credit policy under 
current circum.i tances? 
