T 
609 
5-67) 
Minutes for September 6, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

3505 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, September 6, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Cloth and Sanders, and Mrs. Heller of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Greenspun, Lawrence, and Shull of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton and Lyon, and Miss Greene of the 
Division of Examinations 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 

9/6/67 
-2-
3506 
Item No. 
Letter to Security Bank and Trust Company, 
1 
Lincoln Park, Michigan, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch in Allen Park and com-
menting on the bank's capital position. 
Letter to Wyandotte Savings Bank, Wyandotte, 
2 
Michigan, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Romulus Township, Wayne County, 
and commenting on the bank's capital posi-
tion. 
Letter to Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking 
3 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to the corporation's continuing to 
hold shares of Banco Atlantida, Tegucigalpa, 
Honduras, subsequent to the establishment by 
Banco Atlantida of a branch in Guatemala City, 
Gua tema la. 
In connection with Item No. 2, Governor Brimmer noted that the 
letter included a paragraph stating the basis for approval. 
Inclusion 
of such a statement was in line with instructions sent to the Federal 
Reserve Banks in the Board's letter dated August 10, 1967, in connection 
with actions on branch applications under delegated authority. 
Governor 
Brimmer made clear that he had no objection; he was simply calling the 
innovation to the Board's attention. 
Application of Virginia Commonwealth. 
Virginia Commonwealth 
Bankshares, Inc., (formerly Virginia Commonwealth Corporation), Richmond, 
Virginia, had applied for permission to acquire more than 50 per cent of 
the voting shares of American National Bank, Fredericksburg, Virginia. 
As indicated in documentation distributed to the Board under date of 

3507 
9/6/67 
-3-
August 11, 1967, favorable action on the application was recommended by 
the Examination Department of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, by 
the Banking Markets Section, and by the Division of Examinations. 
Denial 
was recommended by the Research Department of the Reserve Bank. 
The application was complicated by the fact that in June 1966 
applicant's Richmond subsidiary (Bank of Virginia) entered into an agree-
ment with Farmers & Merchants State Bank of Fredericksburg in order to 
make its credit card program available to the Fredericksburg area. Under 
the agreement Farmers & Merchants State Bank offered Charge Plan services 
through dealers in the Fredericksburg area, and holders of the cards also 
could obtain loans from Bank of Virginia through the Fredericksburg bank 
in amounts ranging from $50 to $500 under a plan known as Charge-A-Loan. 
Question was raised within the Richmond Reserve Bank as to the legality 
of the agreement under the provisions of Federal and State law with 
regard to branch operations, and a memorandum had been prepared by the 
Bank's Legal Department. 
In a memorandum of August 30, 1967, the Board's Legal Division 
discussed (1) whether the credit card program, as presently operated 
and proposed to be operated, constituted a branch operation, and (2) 
whether such present and proposed operation contravened the antitrust 
laws. The Legal Division concluded that Farmers & Merchants State Bank 
rather clearly would not constitute a branch of Bank of Virginia so far 
as the Charge Plan operation was concerned. 
It also concluded that, 

3508 
9/6/67 
-4-
while the question might be more debatable, operations involving the 
Charge-A-Loan service did not constitute Farmers & Merchants State 
Bank a "branch place of business" within the meaning of the applicable 
Federal statute. It was believed that Virginia law was sufficiently 
different from Federal law that any differing views at the State and 
Federal levels probably could be easily reconciled. The Legal Division 
was of the opinion that Bank of Virginia's proposed affiliation with 
American National Bank (whether the relationship between Bank of Virginia 
and Farmers & Merchants State Bank continued or was terminated) did not 
present anticompetitive considerations sufficient to warrant denial of 
the pending application. 
In the discussion at this meeting Governor Mitchell called atten-
tion to the memorandum from the Research Department in which Vice Presi-
dent Ratchford stated that he found it difficult to accept applicant's 
contention that none of its present subsidiaries competed in American 
National Bank's primary service area. Mr. Ratchford believed that Bank 
°f Virginia was a significant competitive factor in the Fredericksburg 
a^ea. if the application was approved, he thought it reasonable to 
assume that Bank of Virginia would cease to compete with another sub-
sidiary of the holding company. Thus one competitor would be eliminated, 
and that would have an adverse effect on competition. 
In reply to a question by Governor Mitchell, Mr. Shull said the 
Banking Markets Section did not share the view that Bank of Virginia was 

3509 
9/6/67 
-5-
a significant competitive factor in the Fredericksburg area. Loans by 
Bank of Virginia in the area (about $2.5 million) were thought to over-
state the bank's competitive role because about 95 per cent of the total 
was accounted for by a single customer relationship of long standing. 
The only other significant loan business of Bank of Virginia in the area 
resulted from the Charge Plan relationship with Farmers & Merchants State 
Bank. At midyear 1967, balances outstanding amounted to $144,000. The 
Banking Markets Section recognized the anticompetitive possibility stem-
ming from the fact that Virginia Commonwealth would have a subsidiary 
bank in Fredericksburg and also offered its credit card service through 
the largest bank in that city. The anticompetitive effect could be sub-
stantial if the relationships resulted in the elimination of competition 
between those two banks for other types of services. However, the effect 
on over-all competition was problematical. 
Governor Brimmer commented that he had anticipated discussion 
at this meeting of the role of the credit card plan in a broader con-
text, since the implications went far beyond this particular case. He 
was disappointed that the Reserve Bank had not gotten in touch with the 
System Task Group on Bank Credit Cards, for the analysis by the Reserve 
Bank reflected a lack of understanding of the credit card movement and 
how such plans operated. 
In his opinion the Board should be cautious 
about accepting the views put forward by the Research Department of the 
Reserve Bank, and to some extent by the Legal Department. While the 

' > CT i f\ 
9/6/67 
-6-
credit card operation might in the longer run have implications such as 
the Banking Markets Section had suggested, the opinion of the Board's 
Legal Division that branch banking was not involved should be accepted. 
Asked by Governor Daane whether he agreed that the credit card 
operation should not preclude approval of the pending application, Gov-
ernor Brimmer said he felt that the credit card issue was extraneous. 
The use of credit cards had implications going well beyond this one case 
and the Board should take another look at the broader problem when the 
report of the Task Group was available, but the pending application 
should be considered on a straightforward basis, without reference to 
the credit card issue. 
Governor Mitchell noted that the Board, in its reports on com-
petitive factors, frequently referred to potential competition as an 
important consideration. American National Bank, a relatively new bank 
with a good growth record, would appear to have the potential to con-
tinue to compete without affiliation with the holding company. The 
argument had been made that it would be a better competitor if so affil-
iated, but the community would lose one competitive element if it was 
true that Bank of Virginia was already competing significantly in the 
area. According to the documentation, Bank of Virginia was at least 
competing in the community for consumer credit. 
Mr. Leavitt replied that in a situation of this kind there was 
always some potential for increased competition. However, he did not 

3511 
9/6/67 
-7-
think that in this instance any significant amount of potential competi-
tion would be eliminated if the application were approved. 
Governor Mitchell then asked the legal staff how much weight it 
would envisage putting on the banking factors in writing a statement in 
support of approval of the application. 
Mr. O'Connell replied that approval of the application would 
resolve a management problem at American National Bank resulting prin-
cipally from the resignation of the bank's president. The prospective 
strengthening of management would therefore presumably be mentioned in 
the statement. As to the elimination of potential competition, while 
the Legal Division did not feel that that factor should preclude approval 
of the application, it could not be ignored. Therefore, it would be 
necessary to cite some factor such as strengthening of management to 
substantiate approval. He would personally be inclined to give little 
weight to the convenience and needs factor. 
Governor Brimmer agreed that the basic needs of the community 
apparently were not going unmet. However, it did not appear to him that 
they were being met in the most efficient manner. American National 
Bank's loan limit of $50,000 served to preclude it from meeting many of 
the credit demands likely to arise in the area. 
Governor Robertson observed that the same statement could be 
made with respect to almost every small bank just starting operations. 
In the past two years, he noted, American National Bank had grown at a 
more rapid pace than the other two local banks. 

1 ><.> « At-/ 
9/6/67 
-8-
Governor Brimmer then commented that neither of the other two 
local banks, with deposits of around $20 million each, offered floor 
plan financing or certain other services. 
In terms of convenience and 
needs, the community might not be in as bad a shape as some others, but 
it did not have a wealth of banking services available. The convenience 
and needs factor seemed to be at least consistent with approval of the 
application, and he would have thought that it offered some slight 
weight in favor of approval. 
Mr. O'Connell noted that the Board's statements had frequently 
conceded that the basic needs of the area concerned were being met, with 
discussion following in terms of the added convenience that would be 
afforded by consummation of the proposal in question. 
In this case the 
fact that consummation of the proposal could contribute something in 
terms of convenience added slight weight toward approval, even though 
the basic needs of the community were being met. 
The Board members then stated their views, beginning with Governor 
Mitchell, who said that he would approve the application mainly on the 
grounds of the banking factors, with minimal consideration given to the 
convenience and needs factor. 
Governor Daane said that he would approve, not only because of 
the banking factors but also because he believed the convenience and 
needs of the community would be better served. This view was bolstered 
by his personal knowledge of the area and of the banks and bankers 

9/6/67 
-9-
involved. While the factor of potential competition could not be 
ignored, affiliation of American National Bank with the holding company 
would, in his view, enhance the competitive drive of that bank and cause 
the other banks also to become more competitive. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he would approve. He felt that 
the management factor was important and that there would be a slight 
benefit in terms of convenience and needs. 
Governor Brimmer then referred to a letter from the Chairman of 
the Board of American National Bank dated September 2, 1967, stating 
that the uncertainty produced by the pendency of the application had 
had adverse effects on the bank which, taken together, were such as to 
hamper its continued satisfactory operation. The hope was expressed 
that the Board would act on the application quickly. Governor Brimmer 
inquired why it had taken so long to process the application, and Mr. 
Lyon replied that part of the delay had resulted from the special study 
made by the Richmond Reserve Bank of the questions that had arisen con-
cerning the credit card operation. Governor Brimmer expressed disappoint-
ment that the Reserve Bank had not gotten in touch with the System Task 
Group, for that might have expedited the matter. 
Governor Sherrill said that he would approve the application. 
Governor Robertson expressed concern about the growing domina-
tion of the banking structure of the State by holding companies. How-
ever, he did not feel that the adverse aspects of this particular case 

3514. 
9/6/67 
-10-
were sufficiently clear to warrant denial, and therefore he would 
approve. 
Chairman Martin also said that he would approve. 
Accordingly, the application was approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that an order and statement would be drafted for the 
Board's consideration. 
Presidential reorganization plan (Item No. 4). By letter dated 
August 15, 1967, the Bureau of the Budget had renewed its annual request 
to Government agencies for recommendations with respect to organizational 
changes that might be accomplished through Presidential reorganization 
plan. 
A memorandum from the Legal Division dated September 1, 1967, 
recalled that the Board had customarily responded by indicating that it 
"has no such recommendations to make at this time." As previously indi-
cated to the Board, however, the Legal Division believed that the Presi-
dent was authorized to transmit to the Congress a reorganization plan 
affecting the Board or the Federal Open Market Committee. Under the 
law, any such plan would become effective 60 days after submission 
(assuming Congress was in session) unless either House of the Congress 
Passed a resolution against it. 
The memorandum went on to point out that a reorganization plan 
involving the transfer of certain of the Board's functions to another 
agency would seem particularly appropriate if it would eliminate over-
lapping and duplication of effort. Such a plan might, for example, 

3515 
9/6/67 
-11-
transfer to the Securities and Exchange Commission those functions of 
the Board, the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation relating to public disclosure of information with 
respect to bank stocks. That would be in accord with views expressed 
by the Board in connection with the debate on the legislation that 
vested such authority in the bank supervisory agencies. Another example 
would be a plan designed to unify bank supervision in a Federal banking 
commission. The question, therefore, was whether the Board would want 
to have its staff develop an outline of any particular reorganization 
plan before October 1, 1967, the deadline set by the Budget Bureau for 
submission of proposals. 
In discussion Governor Robertson expressed the view that it 
might well be appropriate to propose transferring to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission the functions vested in the bank supervisory agencies 
relating to public disclosure of information with regard to bank stocks. 
Governor Brimmer suggested, however, that the submission of such 
a proposal might only serve to open up broader questions of reorganiza-
tion. Perhaps, therefore, it would be advisable not to propose the 
transfer of a function unless the issue was regarded as vital. 
Governor 
Daane expressed a similar view. 
As to unified Federal bank supervision, Governor Robertson com-
mented that it probably would be preferable if others were to suggest 
a reorganization plan and the Board's views were then requested. 

351G 
9/6/67 
-12-
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that there might be reason 
to take the initiative if that problem was certain to be looked at in 
isolation. However, he was not convinced that that would be the case. 
Governor Daane expressed doubt that the Board itself could agree 
on what recommendation for reorganization should be made in the bank 
supervisory area. 
Governor Sherrill said it was his position that the present 
structure of bank supervision was adequate except that the examining 
function could be reorganized into two separate phases: 
information 
gathering and application of supervision. He thought that the first 
phase could be centralized. However, any recommendations made in this 
area were certain to provoke disagreements, and he doubted whether the 
submission of a proposal for reorganization would be advisable. 
After further discussion it was agreed unanimously to send the 
usual reply to the Budget Bureau. A copy of the letter sent is attached 
as Item No. 4. 
Changes in method of computing interest on savings accounts 
(Items 5-7). There had been received by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation a copy of a letter from a depositor of Bank of the Common-
wealth, Detroit, Michigan, to the president of that bank, expressing 
dissatisfaction because the bank had changed its method of computing 
interest on his savings account without notifying him in advance. The 
correspondence had been referred by the Corporation to the Board because 

9/6/67 
-13-
the bank was a member of the Federal Reserve System. In his letter 
the depositor (Mr. George F. Zak) also made a number of specific sug-
gestions that he felt should be included in the "rules" governing bank 
activities in connection with the payment of interest on savings deposits. 
The letter had been distributed to the Board with a memorandum 
from the Legal Division dated September 1, 1967. Submitted with the 
memorandum was a draft of letter to Mr. Zak in which reference would be 
made to the letter sent by the several Federal supervisory agencies to 
banks and savings and loan associations in December 1966 with respect 
to advertising practices in attracting funds. The draft noted that a 
bank that followed the principles and spirit of that letter would, at 
least in its advertising for funds, furnish a portion of the information 
that Mr. Zak believed should be made available to depositors. The draft 
would state, however, that there was a substantial question whether under 
present law the Board of Governors was authorized to promulgate require-
ments such as had been suggested. 
Also submitted with the memorandum was a proposed letter to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago indicating that the Board would 
appreciate the Reserve Bank's looking into the matter with a view to 
verifying the statements made by Mr. Zak, ascertaining what steps, if 
any, Bank of the Commonwealth had taken, and suggesting to the Board 
any action considered appropriate in the circumstances. The letter to 
the Reserve Bank would also state that in the Board's view it was gen-
erally undesirable for a member bank to change its method of computing 

851.8 
9/6/67 
-14-
interest on savings accounts without adequate advance notice to depos-
itors . 
In discussion Governor Mitchell suggested that the December 
1966 letter on advertising practices might be expanded to include some 
of the suggestions made by Mr. Zak. 
Governor Robertson agreed and added that in any event the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago should be asked to investigate the circumstances 
of the particular case. 
Governor Brimmer referred to the portion of the proposed letter 
to the Reserve Bank expressing the view that it was generally undesir-
able for a member bank to change its method of computing interest on 
i 
savings accounts without adequate advance notice to depositors. 
If 
that was the Board's view, he suggested including the statement in the 
letter to Mr. Zak. 
Mr. Hexter commented that among the thousands of banks in the 
country the practice referred to by the correspondent probably was not 
uncommon. This suggested to him that the Board's approach should be to 
probe in general rather than to single out a particular bank for crit-
icism. 
Governor Robertson replied that it was his view that it was 
undesirable for a member bank to change its method of computing interest 
on savings accounts without adequate advance notice to depositors. He 
hoped that that statement would be included in the letter to Mr. Zak 

9/6/67 
-15-
and that a copy of the letter would be sent to Bank of the Commonwealth. 
He agreed with Mr. Hexter that any policy statement should be directed 
to all banks. But he saw no reason why the Board should not make its 
view known. 
Governor Mitchell observed that any change in the December 1966 
letter would have to be cleared through the Coordinating Committee on 
Bank Regulation. 
After further discussion unanimous approval was given to the 
sending of a letter to Mr. Zak in the form attached as Item No. 5 and 
to the transmittal to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago of a letter 
in a form attached as Item No. 6. With the letter to the Reserve Bank 
was enclosed a copy of the Board's letter to the depositor that the 
Reserve Bank could transmit to Bank of the Commonwealth. 
Secretary's Note: The depositor's sugges-
tions were discussed at the meeting of the 
Coordinating Committee on September 7, at 
which time it was agreed that the Commit-
tee would give further consideration to 
the matter. Attached as Item No. 7 is a 
copy of a letter sent to the Federal Re-
serve Banks on September 12 requesting 
their views on possible expansion of the 
December 1966 letter on advertising prac-
tices . 
The meeting then adjourned. 
OV ; i 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 

9/6/67 
-16-
3520 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston (copy attached as 
Item No. 8) regarding arrangements for the assignment of Dorothy J. 
Bradley, an assistant examiner for the Bank, to the Board's Division 
of Examinations for a period of approximately two months beginning 
September 11, 1967. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Geraldine D. Whittington as Secretary to Governor Brimmer, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $10,796, effective September 1, 1967. 
Salary increases 
Mary P. Morris, Secretary, Board Members' Offices, from $6,065 to 
$6,664 per annum, effective September 10, 1967. 
Sandra K. Clayton, Clerk-Typist, Division of International Finance, 
from $4,557 to $4,936 per annum, effective September 10, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Patric H. Hendershott, Economist, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, effective the close of business September 15, 1967. 
Mary K. Nantell, Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative Ser-
vices, effective the close of business September 11, 1967. 
On September 6, 1967, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letter, a copy of which is attached under 
the item number indicated: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York approving the Bank's acting as fiscal 
agent with respect to a proposed bond issue 
by the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development. 
By the Acting General Counsel of the Board 
Item No. 

f # v / . 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
9/6/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 6, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Security Bank and Trust Company, 
Lincoln Park, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment by Security Bank and Trust Company, 
Lincoln Park, Michigan, of a branch at the northeast corner of 
the intersection of Allen and Goddard Roads, Allen Park, Michigan, 
provided the branch is established within six months from the 
date of this letter. 
As indicated in the Board's letter of August 14, 1967, 
approving a branch for your bank, the Board understands negotia-
tions are in process to increase the bank's capital funds through 
the sale of capital debentures in the amount of $5 million. The 
Board urges that all means to improve your bank's less than satis-
factory capital position be carefully considered and appropriate 
action taken. 
ihv Hr-.tit.wi''. -^r' i not 
co c • . . u ' ^ l f 
>-'db : c Cwiiyi'-il.I: lv;- "vj.i -
In approving this application, consideration has been 
given to your bank's satisfactory management, and it has been 
determined that the proposed branch will serve the convenience 
and needs of the community and that establishment of the branch 
will not tend to create an undesirable competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
. ?' • 
:. s,» 
aiv.h • 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
9/6/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 6, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Wyandotte Savings Bank, 
Wyandotte, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment by Wyandotte Savings Bank, Wyandotte, 
Michigan, of a branch in the vicinity of the intersection of 
Eureka Road and Middlebelt Road, Romulus Township, Wayne County, 
Michigan, provided the branch is established within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
In approving this branch, consideration has been given 
to your bank's satisfactory management, and, in addition, the 
Board understands plans are being formulated to sell capital deben-
tures in order to strengthen your bank's capital position. Moreover, 
it has been determined that the proposed branch will serve the 
convenience and needs of the community and that establishment of 
the branch will not tend to create an undesirable competitive sit-
uation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

i * n»-<« » 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
9/6/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 6, 1967. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
v'r , (:' \IU: > . r-uhul 
Gentlemen: 
i-lxuOii: l7o v!v;;ico OC liu lY^Ii 
As requested in your letter of July 28, 1967, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for Chase Manhattan Over-
seas Banking Corporation to continue to hold shares of Banco 
Atlantida, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, subsequent to the estab-
lishment by Banco Atlantida of a branch in Guatemala City, 
Guatemala. 
MUic.i of > •':•• <'k>v\ier-. 
UtaU' it 
I 
: 
; •••. « 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is estab-
lished and opened for business, furnishing information as to 
the exact location of the branch. The Board should also be 
promptly informed of any change in location of the branch in 
Guatemala City. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
P F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
9/6/67 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
September 7, 1967 
Mr. Charles L. Schultze, Director, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Executive Office of the President, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Charlie: 
This is in response to your letter of August 15, 1967, 
inviting the Board to recommend any proposed changes in the organi-
zation of the Government that it believes are necessary and can 
properly be accomplished under the Executive Reorganization provisions 
of Title 5 of the United State? Code. 
> 
The Board has no such recommendations to make at this time. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Bill 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

HrE^. 
BDARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
I t e m No# 
5 
D F T H E 
9/6/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Cy ' 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
'{ft • 
T O T H E B O A R D 
September 6, 1967 
Mr. George F. Zak, 
16706 Philomene, 
Allen Park, Michigan. 
48101 
Dear Mr. Zak: 
This refers to your undated letter to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation enclosing a letter of May 5, 1967, to 
Mr. George Miller, President of the Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, 
Michigan. By letter of August 9, 1967, the FDIC referred your cor-
respondence to this agency, since the Bank of the Commonwealth is a 
member of the Federal Reserve System. 
You indicate that, before the Bank of the Commonwealth 
acquired the assets and assumed the liabilities of the Public Bank, 
the latter paid you interest on your savings account from the date 
of deposit to the date of withdrawal. You further indicate that 
Bank of the Commonwealth paid you interest on that basis for the 
calendar quarter in which your account was taken over by that bank, 
but that with respect to the immediately following quarter, without 
notice to you, interest was credited on a basis less favorable to 
you. You acknowledge that the bank was probably within its legal 
rights in making the change but suggest that legislative or regulatory 
measures should be taken to require banks to take certain actions 
directed toward fully informing depositors of their practices with 
respect to the payment of interest on deposits - such as notifying 
depositors in advance of a change in the method of computing interest. 
In December 1966, the Board of Governors and the other 
Federal agencies that have supervisory responsibilities with respect 
to commercial banks and savings and loan associations sent to the 
executive officer of each of the institutions supervised by them a 
uniform letter that was directed against certain advertising practices 
that had been used by certain institutions seeking to attract funds. 
A copy of the Board's letter is enclosed for your information. 
A bank that follows the principles and spirit of that 
letter would, at least in its advertising for funds, furnish a portion 
of the informati on that you believe should be available to depositors. 
For example, in following principle (1) the bank would advertise its 
interest rate in terms of simple interest per annum. 

Mr. George F. Zak 
-2-
Requiring banks to follow your suggestions would certainly 
help depositors to understand a bank's method of computing interest. 
A beneficial consequence of this would be that an investor could 
then readily ascertain the advantages of depositing funds in one bank 
as compared with another. However, there is a substantial question 
whether under present law the Board of Governors is authorized to 
promulgate requirements such as you suggest. The Congress could, of 
course, confer such authority on the Board or any other Federal agency 
or include in the Federal statutes those requirements that it considers 
appropriate. 
(Incidentally, the so-called "Truth in Lending"legislative 
Proposal that is currently under consideration by the Congress would 
not authorize the Board to impose such requirements. That legislation 
is directed at fair disclosure in connection with extensions of credit, 
rfuch as lending by financial institutions, rather than conditions 
surrounding solicitation and receipt of deposits and payment of interest 
thereon.) 
The Board has requested the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
to investigate the circumstances surrounding the particular complaint 
mentioned in your letter. For your information, in making such 
request the Board expressed the view that it is generally undesirable 
for a member bank to change its method of computing interest on 
savings accounts without adequate advance notice to its depositors. 
Very truly yours, 
1J 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure 

BOARD D F G O V E R N O R S 
item No. 6 
• F T H E 
9 / 6 / 6 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 6, 1967. 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, 
President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Scanlon: 
Enclosed is a copy of the Board's letter of today's date 
to Mr. George F. Zak of Allen Park, Michigan, together with a copy 
of his letter of May 5, 1967, to Mr. George Miller, President of 
the Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan. Both letters relate 
to giving of notice with respect to a bank's "rules" governing pay-
ment of interest on deposits and significant changes therein. 
The Board would appreciate your looking into the circumstances 
surrounding the particular complaint mentioned in Mr. Zak's letter 
with a view toward (1) verifying the factual statements therein, 
(2) ascertaining what, if anything, Mr. Miller or the Bank has done 
in response to such letter, (3) suggesting to the Board any action 
that you consider appropriate. In making your investigation you 
may be guided by the Board's view that it is generally undesirable 
for a member bank to change its method of computing interest on 
savings accounts without adequate advance notice to its depositors. 
An additional copy of the Board's letter to Mr. Zak is 
enclosed with the thought that you will wish to make it available 
to the Bank of the Commonwealth. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
Enclosures 

c o c 
i HJ/WC 
BOARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
I t e m No. 7 
• F T H E 
9 / 6 / 6 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L C O R R E S P D N D E N C 
TO T H E 
H O A R D 
September 12, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
Enclosed is a copy of the Board's letter of September 6, 1967, 
0 an individual depositor in a member bank, together with a copy of his 
better of May 5, 1967, to the bank. Both letters relate to giving of 
notice with respect to a bank's "rules" governing payment of interest on 
deposits and significant changes therein. 
T h e depositor's suggestions on this subject were discussed at 
ne September 7, 1967 meeting of the interagency Coordinating Committee 
* the Federal agencies that have supervisory responsibilities with 
^spect to commercial banks and savings and loan associations. The 
onmittee will give further consideration to the matter at its next 
feting. 
hav 
It would be appreciated if, by September 25, the Board could 
e your views on whether the December 1966 joint statement that was 
J 
» 
V-^MWV... 
J. SVJVJ 
J U U I I 
A L A L C I T I C I I L 
L U CI L 
w a s 
sued by such agencies and directed against certain advertising practices 
^ at had been used by certain institutions seeking to attract funds should 
e expanded to include any of the suggestions contained in the depositor's 
in 
r ° r a n y o t h e r itetns t h a t y°ur B a n k considers would be appropriate 
the light of your experience in administering the principles and policy 
o f that statement. 
* 
Very truly yours-, 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure! 
Tn tHE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS» 

-mm: 
• ? 
3529 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
' i r 
. i ' . j , 
' 
< ; j ' J 
,3 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
J 
; >\ 
t V ... .... w i i. Tv-
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
9/6/67 
A D D N C S I OFFICIAL 
C A R R I I P Q N D I N C I 
TO THE • • A N D 
September 7, 1967. 
J 
•"• 
•' •?c / » t 
j 
Mr. George H. Ellis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Ellis: 
In accordance with the tentative arrangements made with 
Assistant Vice President Lee J. Aubrey by the Board's Division of 
Examinations, it is understood that your Bank will make available 
for a period of approximately two months, beginning September 11, 
1967, the services of Miss Dorothy J. Bradley, an assistant ex-
aminer for your Bank. While in Washington, Miss Bradley will be 
assigned to the foreign banking section of the Board's Division of 
Examinations and will be designated as a Federal Reserve Examiner. 
!_.:<.••! I A^C.iC/- A'.; 
. 
-yv;.1:'/ o, . v.)./,- rm<: 
It is understood that the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
will absorb all of Miss Bradley's salary and travel expenses in 
connection with the assignment. 
The Board of Governors appreciates the cooperation of 
your Bank in making the services of Miss Bradley available during 
this period. 
!< /Cu-x.; 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

'•f^LRtS^ 
% *«. V. J 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
9/6/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 7, 1967. 
Mr. F. T. Davis, 
Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Davis: 
This refers to your letter of August 28, 1967, and enclosures, 
concerning the proposed issue by the International Bank for Reconstruc-
tion and Development of its Two Year Bonds of 1967, due September 15, 
1969, in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $100 million. In 
this regard, you state that it is proposed to amend Schedule A of the 
Fiscal Agency Agreement, dated as of February 6, 1950, between the 
International Bank and your Bank to include the bonds in question. 
Acting on behalf of the Board pursuant to delegated authority, 
the Acting General Counsel of the Board has approved of your Bank acting 
as fiscal agent with respect to the proposed bond issue and the execution 
and delivery by your Bank of an agreement with the International Bank 
substantially in the form of the draft of Supplement No. 33 to the 
Fiscal Agency Agreement enclosed with your letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
: 1 n." r >' "! 
v- t • 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
