... 
c 
July 17, 1968 
Minutes for 
y 
' 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
4 

(O f u o 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, July 17, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 1/ 
Mr. Brimmer 1/ 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle and Porter of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver, Gedanken, Parry, and Wiles of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Goodfellow of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Attended afternoon session only. 

7/17/68 
-2-
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been 
made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective 
item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Morgan Guaranty International Banking 
1 
Corporation, New York, New York, amending the 
Board's letter of August 17, 1967, granting 
consent for the purchase of additional shares 
of Banca Vonwiller, S.p.A., Milan, Italy. 
Letter to Texas National Bank of Commerce of 
2 
Houston, Houston, Texas, granting permission 
to purchase shares of Burston, Howard de 
Walden & Company, Ltd., London, England. 
Letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve 
3 
Banks regarding enlargement of the sample used 
in the revised survey of time and savings deposit 
rates. 
Letter to the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
4 
Development responding to his request for a 
report on fair housing, with particular refer-
ence to Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 
1968. 
With respect to Item No. 4, Governor Sherrill commented that 
the letter was necessarily in general terms. It appeared, however, 
that the Department of Housing and Urban Development would be pressing 
the bank supervisory agencies to enforce compliance with the fair 
housing law by banks, and it was expected that representatives of the 
several banking agencies would meet in the near future. If the Board 
wished, he added, he would be willing to serve as chairman of the 

7/17/68 
-3-
Board's Fair Housing Committee, the appointment of which was specified 
in the letter. 
There was unanimous agreement, and Governor Sherrill was so 
designated. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in 
the proposed merger of The Springfield State Bank, Springfield, South 
Carolina, into Bank of Orangeburg, Orangeburg, South Carolina, was 
gPProved unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation. The conclu-
sion read as follows: 
Some competition exists between The Springfield State 
Bank, Springf ield, South Carolina, and Bank of Orangeburg, 
Orangeburg, South Carolina. However, in view of the small 
size of the Springfield bank, the competitive effect would 
be slightly adverse. 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed purchase of assets and assumption of 
liabilities of First State Bank of LaCrosse, LaCrosse, Washington, by 
Seattle-First National Bank, Seattle, Washington, was approved unani-
mously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion read as 
follows: 
Seattle-First National Bank and First State Bank of 
LaCrosse compete in the LaCrosse-Endicott-Colfax market area 
but the amount of competition existing between them is not 
significant. Potential for increased competition between 
the two banks is limited because of State branching restric-
tions . 

/O r\il) 
4-
Consummatiori of this transaction would enhance the posi-
tion of Seattle-First National Bank in the LaCrosse-Endicott-
Colfax area and increase the already high level of concentra-
tion in the State of Washington where Seattle-First National 
Bank and the second largest bank 
in the State hold 52 per 
cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. The 
overall competitive effect of the proposal would be adverse. 
Survey of bank loan commitments. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated July 10, 1968, from the Division of Research and Sta-
tistics requesting authorization for a quarterly survey of loan commit-
ments at large commercial banks as a supplement to the bank lending 
practices survey. The survey had been approved by appropriate System 
research groups. The memorandum, which set forth the recommendations 
°f an ad hoc committee that had explored the feasibility of the survey, 
also described the structure of the information to be requested and the 
Procedures contemplated. Attached were a reporting form and a draft of 
letter to the Federal Reserve Bank Presidents. If the Board approved 
the proposal, the staff would seek Budget Bureau clearance. 
Governor Mitchell observed that the reporting form combined 
revolving credit with term loans, and in response to his suggestion it 
w a s understood that consideration would be given to separating those 
items. 
The survey was then approved unanimously, subject to clearance 
with the Bureau of the Budget and study of the point Governor Mitchell 
h ad raised. 
7/17/68 

7/17/68 
-5-
Secretary's Note: The report form was later 
revised to reflect the change Governor 
Mitchell had suggested and the quarterly 
survey was approved by the Budget Bureau, 
after which appropriate advice was sent to 
the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Report by Haskins & Sells. The members of the Board had been 
furnished copies of the report submitted by Haskins & Sells on their 
a g ^ d . 
review for the year 1967 of the procedures followed in examination of 
the Federal Reserve Banks by the Board's examiners. The report was 
accompanied by a memorandum dated June 27, 1968, from Mr. Solomon, who 
• 
noted that the accountants' general conclusions seemed to be summed up 
in the following statements from their report: 
"...(W)e continue to be of the opinion that the Board's 
examinations meet the requirements of generally accepted 
auditing standards and the examination requirements of the 
Federal Reserve Act... We believe that the changes made 
in the examiners' programs and procedures during the past 
four years, partly in implementation of our recommendations, 
have contributed significantly to the conformance of the 
Board's examinations to a standard which more effectively 
fulfills the examiners' function..." 
"in compliance with our recommendations, the examiners 
have attempted during the past several years to predicate 
the extent of their testing or sampling on their evalua-
tions of the effectiveness of the Banks' internal controls, 
including internal auditing. In the absence, however, prior 
to 1967, of refined evaluations by the examiners of the 
internal controls, the correlation in this regard was rela-
tively imperfect. With the development of the written eval-
uations of the internal audit programs and of the systems 
°f internal control, mentioned in the preceding paragraphs, 
it is reasonable to expect that substantially more refined 
correlations will be achieved in the future. Modifications 
of the scope and extent of some of the examiners' procedures 
have already been made as a result of these evaluations." 

aj * o b 
7/17/68 
-6-
"Most of the examination reports prepared during the latter 
half of 1967 reflected substantial adoption of our recommen-
dations and we have been informed by the examiners that adop-
tion of the remainder of our suggestions will be effected in 
1968. The present report presentations conform to some extent 
with the concept of 'exception reporting', in which only depar-
tures from normal are presented." 
Mr. Solomon's memorandum indicated that the Board's staff 
agreed with the recommendations and would endeavor to carry them out. 
It also agreed with the suggestions in the report that future addi-
tions to the field staff be made in the light of the need for individ-
uals capable of employing effectively more sophisticated examining 
techniques. It was planned to make a copy of the report available to 
Lybrand, Ross Bros. 6c Montgomery, the accounting firm engaged to make 
a similar review in 1968. 
After discussion the report was accepted. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Molony, 
and Johnson then withdrew. 
Salary of Reserve Bank President. Governor Daane reported that 
he had discussed the matter of entrance salary with Mr. Morris, incom-
ing President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, and that Mr. Morris 
appeared well satisfied with the explanation given to him of the factors 
that entered into the establishment of the rate approved by the Board 
°f Governors. 
Operations subsidiaries. Governor Robertson noted that a meet-
ing of the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation was to be held 

4 < i 
i O J 
7/17/68 
-7-
today and inquired whether he should alert the Committee to prospective 
action by the Board on the matter of operations subsidiaries. 
There was agreement that Governor Robertson should do so, and 
Chairman Martin suggested that he also brief the Committee on the 
Board's tentative thinking with respect to one-bank holding companies. 
Governor Sherrill mentioned that he would be traveling in com-
pany with the Comptroller of the Currency next week and hoped to be 
at>le to explore the Comptroller's views on these subjects. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
2:30 p.m., at which time all members of the Board were present, along 
with the following members of the staff: 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Heyde, Lynch, Porter, and Sanders 
of the Legal Division 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International Finance 
Messrs. Goodfellow and Poundstone of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

274£ 
7/17/68 
-8-
Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending (Item No. 5). Further 
consideration was given to the establishment of the Advisory Committee 
on Truth in Lending called for under Title I of the recently-enacted 
Consumer Credit Protection Act, members of the Board having now been 
furnished a list of prospective appointees drawn up by an ad hoc Board 
committee and also a draft of Rules of Organization and Procedure of 
the Advisory Committee. 
Governor Brimmer called attention to the fact that the Board 
had not yet assigned to one of its members the responsibility for 
administering functions related to the implementation of the truth-in-
lending statute, and there was agreement with his suggestion that Gov-
ernor Robertson be designated. 
Consideration of procedures included comments on the question 
whether, in announcing the membership of the Committee as it would 
evolve, the Board should publish also the criteria that had guided 
selections. No objection was indicated, but a suggestion was made 
that the informal criteria, which had accompanied a staff memorandum 
dated June 28, be edited somewhat if they were to be published. 
On the matter of the prospective appointments to the Committee, 
Governor Brimmer mentioned that he had inquiries outstanding looking 
toward the selection of at least one additional person, expected to be 
a woman with a background in the home economics profession. 
Further discussion indicated that a Committee with a total 
membership of as many as 21 would be satisfactory, and there was 

7/17/68 
-9-
unanimous agreement that Dr. Richard H. Holton, Dean of the School of 
Business Administration at the University of California, Berkeley, 
should be asked to serve as Chairman. It was understood that inquiries 
would be made by telephone to determine whether the prospective appoin-
tees would be agreeable to serving on the Committee, with confirming 
letters where affirmative responses were received. 
Governor Robertson stated that he would plan to arrange the 
first meeting of the Advisory Committee in early October, and that 
time table was accepted by the other Board members. 
There followed discussion of the proposed Rules of Organization 
and Procedure of the Committee to clarify certain questions that were 
raised, after which the Rules were approved unanimously in the form 
attached as Item No. 5. 
Operations subsidiaries. The Board had discussed several times, 
m o st recently on July 15, the questions presented with respect to the 
establishment by banks of operations subsidiaries. The Board's posi-
tion, expressed in a 1966 interpretation, was that this was precluded 
by the prohibition in section 5136 of the Revised Statutes against the 
" H i 
Purchase by banks of corporate stock. The Comptroller of the Currency 
ruled otherwise, and this conflict had entered into decisions by some 
State member banks to convert to national charters. The Board's recent 
discussions had explored the possibility of reversing the 1966 inter-
pretation and of seeking clarifying legislation that would be applicable 
t o all member banks. 

'!'> 
/O < 
7/17/68 
-10-
The previous discussions by the Board had also focused on the 
apparently accelerating trend by banks to organize one-bank holding 
companies that would own the stock of the bank and could perform func-
tions that the bank itself could not perform, yet which would not come 
within the purview of the Bank Holding Company Act because of the stat-
utory "two bank" definition of a bank holding company. The staff was 
requested to draft a letter to the Chairmen of the Congressional Com-
mittees on Banking and Currency outlining the problems the Board saw 
with respect to one-bank holding companies and operations subsidiaries, 
stating that the Board was reversing its 1966 interpretation with 
respect to the latter issue, and indicating that the Board intended 
to submit legislative proposals regarding the two issues when the next 
Congress convened. Such a letter had now been distributed. 
Governor Robertson reviewed the reaction of the Coordinating 
Committee on Bank Regulation, at its meeting earlier today, to his 
Presentation of the current stance of the Board's thinking with respect 
to the two issues. He had indicated that there was a unanimous view 
within the Board to renew efforts to obtain legislation applicable to 
one-bank holding companies on the ground that a loophole previously 
considered by some to be only theoretical was now factual. He had 
Said also that there was a strong possibility that the Board would 
revise its 1966 interpretation to an extent that would allow State 
member banks to perform through operations subsidiaries functions that 
they could perform directly. The rationale for that revision would be 

/O i 41 a 
7/17/68 
-11-
that whereas paragraph 20 of section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act had 
been designed to subject State member banks to at least the same 
restrictions as national banks, the effect of the section under present 
circumstances was to penalize State member banks. Third, Governor 
Robertson had indicated that the preponderant opinion within the Board 
was that there were some other areas in which banks should be able to 
use operations subsidiaries, but that legislation should be sought. 
The reaction of the Comptroller of the Currency, Governor 
Robertson continued, was that he would vigorously oppose an effort to 
obtain a statutory one-bank definition of bank holding company. He did 
not believe the use of the one-bank holding company device would affect 
the soundness of the bank as such. He would be pleased if the Board 
reinterpreted its position with respect to operations subsidiaries, 
hut believed that an effort to obtain legislation to authorize such 
subsidiaries would serve only to point up the difference between his 
Position and that of the Board. Therefore, Governor Robertson con-
eluded, opposition could be expected. 
Chairman Martin inquired whether the Comptroller believed that 
hanks, through the one-bank holding company device, should be able to 
engage in nonbanking business, and Governor Robertson replied that he 
apparently did. 
Chairman Martin suggested that Governor Daane, who had not 
been present at the July 15 meeting, give the Board his thinking. 

7/17/68 
-12-
Governor Daane said he felt strongly that banks should not be 
able to establish one-bank holding companies to perform nonbanking 
functions. That would run counter to the spirit and intent of the 
Banking Act of 1933. So it was correct to say that in this respect 
the Board was unanimous. As to operations subsidiaries, he would favor 
^interpretation but would suggest a shift in emphasis in the explana-
tory statement toward the obligation to promote competitive equality. 
The question then was what limits should be set for State member banks. 
If competitive equality was to be the justification for reversal, it 
would appear that the limits should be fairly broad. 
Governor Mitchell recalled that there had been some difference 
opinion among the members of the Board on that point. He would be 
prepared to go as far as mortgage companies, but it was his recollec-
tion that other members did not share that view. 
Governor Robertson expressed the opinion that the Board could 
reinterpret only if it had doubt as to the proper interpretation of the 
law. jf the law was clear, he did not think the Board had authority 
merely to follow the Comptroller's view. This position had been upheld 
by the courts in the revenue bond case. 
Governor Maisel inquired whether it might be possible to obtain 
clarification of the law through the bringing of "friendly" suits in 
which the Board would challenge a bank's action or a bank might chal-
lenge the Board's position. The staff enumerated several reasons why 

/O i 41 a 
7/17/68 
-13-
that course did not appear to be practicable, after which some Board 
members expressed agreement with the staff view that it would be pref-
erable to approach the Congress with a request for legislation. 
There ensued discussion of the language of the draft letter 
and interpretation, after which Governor Robertson remarked that the 
Problem in regard to operations subsidiaries could be solved more 
simply by following a suggestion he had made earlier, namely, that the 
words "as interpretated by the Comptroller of the Currency" be added 
at the end of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes. 
Governor Daane commented that he would not favor such a solu-
tion. However, in the interest of promoting competitive equality he 
would be willing to go along with a reversal of the interpretation on 
operations subsidiaries and to extend it as far as to permit the opera-
tion of mortgage company subsidiaries. 
Governor Brimmer said he had understood that the question of 
^interpretation was still open. The materials that had been drafted 
were requested in order to assist the Board in focusing on the question, 
including what statement would be made if the 1966 interpretation 
should be revised. In his opinion, the Board should not reinterpret. 
In 1966 the Board had determined that there were good reasons for 
adopting 
the present position. While he recognized that the factor of 
inequality had become more pronounced, he did not know where a line 
could logically be drawn if it were decided to liberalize in the 

7/17/68 
-14-
interest of promoting equality. One might call point X the position 
that banks should be allowed to have operations subsidiaries to perform 
any function the bank itself could perform. Point Y might be the posi-
tion, now adopted by the Comptroller, that banks could also operate 
subsidiaries for other purposes. If the Board was unwilling to liber-
alize to point Y, he did not believe it should liberalize to point X. 
He thought the choice was between two courses--either to abide by the 
1966 interpretation or proceed to point Y. In his view, the Board 
should not proceed to either point X or point Y, and therefore the 
Paragraph of the draft letter that said a reinterpretation was being 
issued should be dropped. Otherwise, the Board would find itself with 
little alternative except to follow the Comptroller, whatever the lat-
ter's position might be. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that resting the case for 
reinterpretation entirely on the obligation to maintain competitive 
Quality did not mean that the Board would forfeit the right to seek 
^e8islation. Thus it would be put squarely up to the Congress to 
decide what both classes of banks could do. 
After additional discussion of language changes, Governor 
ertson suggested that the members of the Board summarize their posi-
tions with respect to the several questions, in order that the staff 
c°uld redraft material for further consideration. 
The ensuing comments reflected unanimity with respect to the 
desirability of making known the Board's intent to seek legislation 

SJ t I 4 
7/17/68 
-15-
covering one-bank holding companies. However, the Chairman urged that 
the Board proceed carefully, perhaps at the expense of some delay, in 
view of the Comptroller's position as reported by Governor Robertson, 
and Governor Daane commented to the same effect. 
All members except Governors Robertson and Brimmer were in 
favor of departing from the 1966 interpretation with respect to opera-
tions subsidiaries, although there were differences of view when it 
came to going further than to permit banks to perform, through such 
subsidiaries, activities that the banks could themselves perform. 
Governor Robertson's position against reinterpretation was 
based on his view that under the law operations subsidiaries were not 
Permissible, and that the Board had a responsibility to adhere to the 
law. While he believed banks should be allowed to have operations 
subsidiaries, that should come about through enabling legislation. 
Governor Brimmer agreed. 
Governor Sherrill said that at the present time he would be 
inclined to limit operations subsidiaries to those functions the bank 
could itself perform, for that would move in the direction of competi-
A V e equality. In the course of time other functions might be per-
mitted. As to the mortgage companies, which raised a significant 
competitive issue, he would personally bring them in, but that could 
be decided later if necessary. 
Governor Daane expressed himself in favor of a liberalized 
interpretation that would encompass the mortgage companies, leaving 

2748 
7/17/68 
-16-
the question of community development corporations for consideration 
if that became a point of substantial inequity. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
staff would prepare revised material on the basis of the views that had 
been expressed. 
"Shell" facilities. The Board had received a number of applica-
tions for foreign branches or overseas subsidiaries to be located in 
the Bahamas or elsewhere in the West Indies, the offices to be in 
essence nothing more than a "shell" facility consisting typically of 
an address, a set of books, and a part-time manager supplied in most 
eases by some institution currently operating in the area. In response 
to the Board's request for analytical material relating to the overall 
issue, there had been distributed memoranda from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation, from Mr. Solomon, and from Mr. Doyle. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the Board should not 
Permit the operation of branches that consisted of little more than a 
file cabinet. He had still to explore the implications of such branches 
r 
on* the point of view of the balance of payments. If the Board took 
ari Averse position toward the pending applications for shell facili-
t~ i 
est he believed it would be necessary also to reverse some earlier 
decisions. While there appeared to be no evidence so far that banks 
r e shifting foreign deposits on their books to such shell offices, 
thought the risk great enough that the Board should not permit it 

274£ 
7/17/68 
-17-
to continue. In his view, it would not be an imposition to require 
that if a bank wanted to have a foreign branch it establish a sub-
stantive office. 
Governor Daane requested that the subject be held over for 
further study. The proposed offices might provide a loophole for 
transfer of deposits; however, the documents now available did not 
indicate that they would be used for that purpose. If they would not, 
there might be an advantage in letting the banks have the additional 
flexibility of operating through the shell branches. 
Governor Maisel observed that it might be difficult to define 
what would constitute a substantive office, in response to which Gov-
e r n o r Robertson commented that there seemed to be no doubt that the 
Pending applications did not contemplate substantive offices, and in 
his view they should not be approved. 
It was agreed that the question would be considered in more 
detail after there had been further opportunity for study. 
All members 
of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Kenyon, Brill, Molony, Hexter, Solomon, and Partee. 
Margin requirements. Chairman Martin referred to the serious 
backlog problem in the offices of securities firms and said he under-
stood the situation was continuing to deteriorate. Several people had 
Su8gested to him that the Board should take some action on margin 
requirements as a means of assisting. He had discouraged them, saying 

4— 750 
7/17/68 
-18-
that that was not the function of the Federal Reserve. However, he 
had just received a call from Mr. Cohen, Chairman of the Securities 
and Exchange Commission, who said that the situation was getting very 
serious and suggested that if a case could be made that the use of 
credit was a contributing factor, one way of dealing with the problem 
would be to move to a 100 per cent margin requirement. Chairman Cohen 
noted that today would be the last of the scheduled Wednesday closings 
a nd that the majority of firms reportedly were in worse shape than 
three weeks ago, with the bookkeeping complicated by computations inci-
dent to credit transactions. 
In further comments Chairman Martin noted that if there was 
sufficient concern about the overall stock market situation there might 
he some justification in imposing a 100 per cent margin requirement for 
several months. Aside from any help it would afford in cleaning up the 
hack office problem, it might also be regarded as a deterrent to exces-
sive speculation. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that it would be unwise to 
ove to 100 per cent if there was not in fact evidence of excessive 
U s e °f credit. The Federal Reserve should do what it could to help 
0 u t in the present crisis through whatever instruments might be avail-
able. But, as he understood it, the Board had no statutory basis for 
increasing margin requirements except pursuant to a finding of exces-
s i v® use of credit. 

^ 
4 
OJL 
7/17/68 
-19-
Mr. Partee reported that there were no meaningful credit data 
available covering the period since the margin requirements were raised 
to 80 per cent. It had turned out that the increase in the use of 
credit was greater in April than at first thought, and the increase in 
May turned out to be sizable, but it was felt that probably the credit 
situation had stabilized after the margin requirements were raised. He 
added that the exchanges had authority to move to 100 per cent margin 
requirements for individual stocks based on speculative tests. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether it would not be possible to 
move to half-day trading, and Mr. Partee replied affirmatively, adding 
that in such manner the volume of trading would be compressed. Another 
problem, he said, was the apparent tendency on the part of some funds 
to put in orders for large blocks of stock and authorize their bank 
not to pay until all of the stock was delivered. The Board's staff 
had been studying the problem. 
Governor Maisel noted that the bill authorizing the extension 
of margin rules to credit extended to purchase and carry over-the-
counter securities had just gone to the President for approval and 
that the wisdom of an increase in margin requirements in such circum-
stances would seem doubtful. 
Governor Sherrill commented that if margin requirements were 
raised there would almost certainly be questions as to whether the 
Board's action had been taken within its statutory authority. More-
over, an increase in margin requirements would hardly solve the serious 

4 
• 
* > 
rO i 
7/17/68 
i 
•fH'S.-. ' V i' ' ,. ' 
- 2 0 -
.. > 
> !.\5." 
they would be misled if they thought it could be solved simply by an 
action on margin requirements. 
Governor Daane agreed, saying that he did not think this was 
the time to increase margin requirements to 100 per cent, certainly 
not on the basis on which the action actually would be predicated. 
Chairman Martin concluded the discussion by saying that he had 
wanted to alert the Board members to developments because people were 
getting excited and questions might be raised in various ways. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Attached as Item No. 6 
is a copy of a letter sent today to the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of Richmond regarding the 
supplemental retirement benefit payable to 
Mrs. Irene H. Flagg, widow of Maurice P. 
Flagg. 
Secretary 

/O 4 wj. 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• i j . 
9 
i . / 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
7/17/68 
WASHINGTON, 
C. 20S51 
July 17, 1968 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Banking Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: . 
In response to the request contained in your letter 
of June 13, 1968, the Board amends the relevant portion of 
the first sentence of its letter of August 17, 1967, to read 
. . to purchase and hold up to an additional l,00p,000 
shares of newly issued capital stock of Banca Vonwiller, S.p.A. 
• . .. 
In all other respects that letter of consent remains 
unaltered. 
The foregoing amendment is given with the understand 
ing that the investment in reference will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and invest-
ment activities of your Corporation, Morgan Guaranty Inter-
national Finance Corporation and Morgan Guaranty Trust Company 
of New York, and that due consideration is being given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
€ o 4 
Item No. 2 
7/17/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 17, 1968. 
Texas National Bank of Commerce 
of Houston, 
Houston, Texas. 77001 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 19, 1968, 
the Board of Governors grants permission, pursuant to 
Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M, 
for Texas National Bank of Commerce of Houston, Houston, 
Texas, to purchase and hold approximately 35 per cent of 
the shares of Burston, Howard de Walden & Company, Ltd., 
London, England, at a cost of approximately $1,196,195, 
provided such shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to 
the foreign lending and investment activities of Texas 
National Bank of Commerce of Houston and that due con-
sideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
n ' l l 
' • . 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
o ^ f f 
fij i 
0*J 
Item No. 3 
7/17/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 17, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
c 
This is in reference to the Board's letter of January 16, 1968, 
w i ^ e r n i n 8 the revised survey of time and savings deposit rates beginning 
t h the January 31, 1968 survey. 
ti 
Examination of the results of January and April surveys of 
m e and savings deposits indicates the desirability of increasing the 
°«mple in 
some of the smaller bank size classes* 
In order to reduce 
be
m? 
8 variability with minimum effort the sample will be enlarged, 
ginning with the July 31, 1968 survey, to include all banks with 
a l time and savings deposits IPC, of $20 million or more--instead 
in i C u t > 0 ^ 
$25 million or more as at present. This will mean the 
33° U 8 l°n of 128 additional banks in the sample (95 member banks and 
w l l
 nsured nonmember banks). The a 11-insured commercial bank sample 
b 
then include approximately 2,500 banks. A list of the new member 
8 to be included in the sample from your District is enclosed. 
c 
Since some of the data derived from the surveys compares the 
de < e n t ^ u a r t e r a n d 
P a s t quarter for the same banks, it would be 
Will 8 b l e t o o b t a i n f r o m t h e n e w banks their April 30, 1968 data. It 
8n 
aPP r e ci a ted, therefore, if you would request these banks to 
^ u n ^ t h e f i 8 u r e s f o r April 30 as well as July 31, if at all possible. 
cards containing the April 30 data for the new sample banks should 
Jul
submitted to the Board separately, and prior to the submission of the 
^ figures for all sample banks. Punch card data for April 30 
#5 U 
Subraitted in the format prescribed in Technical Memorandum 
dated January 16, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
ure 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
^ 
PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

BOARD • F GOVERNORS 
• F TH E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 Q 5 S I 
(O t o b 
Item No. 4 
7/17/68 
r^LRts^.-
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
July 17, 1968. 
The Honorable Robert C. Weaver, 
Secretary, 
Department of Housing and Urban Development, 
Washington, D. C. 20410 
Dear Mr. Secretary: 
this letter is in response to your communication of 
M ay 24, 1968, requesting a report on fair housing. In accordance 
with a later communication of June 17 from Mr. Walter B. Lewis of 
the Office of Equal Opportunity, addressed to the Designees for 
pair Housing--Civil Rights Act of 1968, our report is organized in 
the manner prescribed in his memorandum, as follows: 
.Summary of Report 
In summary, this report is comprised of the following 
principal statements: 
a. The past and present activities or programs of this agency 
ave not been specifically concerned with the issues of fair housing. 
b. Currently, we are reviewing Title VIII of the 1968 
lvil Rights Act to determine what this agency can do in furtherance 
o f that legislation. 
c. In the future, necessary changes in policies and 
Programs will be considered, particularly with regard to the 
ederal Reserve Banks and their branches, as well as the commercial 
anks under the examination supervision of the Federal Reserve System. 
d. It is difficult to formulate comments and suggestions 
a t this time in view of the further study which must be given to 
this matter. 
XX. Past and Present Activities 
The past activities of this agency have not been involved 
equal housing opportunity as Title VIII of the 1968 Civil Rights 
ct was not in effect and the Federal Reserve Act, under which this 
Syst em operates, did not include provision for this type of supervi-
» 
» 
I 
- j r - 
£ 
o n nor have we had any experience with problems of this nature. 

The Honorable Robert C. Weaver 
- 2 -
/O # kJ 
i 
With regard to present activities, the Board of Governors 
does require that all notices to be posted on the agency's bulletin 
boards advertising houses for sale or rent carry the notation that 
the property is for sale (or rent) to anyone regardless of race, 
creed, color, etc. We have not had any difficulty in applying this 
concept. 
The Federal Reserve Banks have the responsibility for any 
actions taken of this kind in connection with equal opportunity in 
housing. However, there are no specific communications along these 
Unes and the Board of Governors has not set forth any instructions 
to the Reserve Banks concerning equal housing opportunity. So far 
a s w e know, there have been no problems at the Federal Reserve Banks 
o f this nature. 
1 1 1• Current Changes 
Currently, the Board has appointed a Fair Housing Com-
mittee comprised of officials in its Divisions of Supervision and 
Regulation; Federal Reserve Bank Operations; Legal; and Personnel 
Administration. This Committee will be headed by a member of the 
°ard, an appointee of the President, and will be directed to study, 
immediately, ways to support equal housing opportunity with the 
0 jective to recommend positive action to the Board of Governors for 
consideration and approval. All aspects of the situation will be 
considered and a Federal Reserve System policy will be set that will 
! n n o w ay 
preclude any facet of equal opportunity in housing being 
taken into consideration. 
IV- 
Future Changes 
Any future changes will, of course, be dependent'upon the 
s udy by the Board's Committee on Fair Housing. However, it can be 
Reasonably assumed that action will be taken to advise the Federal 
eserve Banks and branches throughout the country of the need to 
support equal opportunity in housing and to require that constant 
attention be given to Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 
any subsequent information or changes relating to. Title VIII. 
e Board will also, no doubt, consider ways in which action may be 
• stituted on its part to insure that commercial banks under the 
examining supervisory authority of the Federal Reserve Banks will be 
aPPrised of equal housing opportunity requirements. 

The Honorable Robert C. Weaver 
Comments and Suggestions 
Without experience in the issues involved in equal oppor-
tunity in housing, the Board does not believe that it can be in the 
Position of commenting at this time in a manner that will be con-
structive or of help to you. However, the Board does suggest that 
it would appear reasonable that the bank regulatory agencies jointly 
deal with the problem of the application of Title VIII of the Civil 
Rights Act of 1968 to commercial banks. A coordinated approach 
would, in the Board's opinion, tend to eliminate conflicting approaches 
and minimi ze differences in communications. This would result in a 
more cohesive approach to equal opportunity in housing than would 
occur should each regulatory agency apply Title VIII in its own manner. 
Please accept my assurances that the Board of Governors 
will do everything within its powers to support Title VIII and will 
welcome any opportunity to assist in accomplishing equal opportunity 
in housing. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
-3-
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

2759 
RULES OF ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURE 
OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE 
I t e m N o > 5 
7/17/68 
APPOINTED BY THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PURSUANT TO THE TRUTH IN LENDING ACT 
(TITLE I OF THE CONSUMER CREDIT PROTECTION ACT). 
Section 1. Statutory Authority 
Section 110 of the Truth in Lending Act (Title I of the 
Consumer Credit Protection Act) provides: 
The Board [of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System] shall establish an, advisory committee to advise 
and consult with it in the exercise of its functions 
under this title. In appointing the members of the 
committee, the Board shall seek to achieve a fair 
representation of the interests of sellers of merchandise 
on credit, lenders, and the public. The committee shall 
meet from time to time at the call of the Board, and 
members thereof shall be paid transportation expenses and 
not to exceed $100 per diem. 
Section 2. Members 
A. The initial function of the Committee will require a 
special effort which will go beyond the continuing functions of the 
Committee in that the initial Committee will advise and consult with 
the Board in the Board's preparation and promulgation of the regulation 
to be issued by the Board under the Truth in Lending Act. Therefore, 
the initial Committee shall consist of 20 Members appointed by the Board 
who shall serve until December 31, 1969. Prior to January 1, 1970, the 
Board shall review these rules of organization and procedure and amend 
them to provide for the continuing structure of the Committee, including 
the number of Members and the terms of office of Members. In any event, 
in appointing persons to membership, the Board will seek to achieve a 
fair representation of the interests of sellers of merchandise on credit, 
lenders and the public. 

2760 
-2-
B. Resignation. Any Member may resign at any time by giving 
notice to the Board. Any such resignation shall take effect upon its 
acceptance by the Board. 
C. Compensation. Members shall be paid transportation 
expenses and $ 100 for each day devoted to attending meetings and the 
traveling to and from meetings. 
Section 3. Meetings 
A. Time. Meetings of the Committee shall be at the call 
of the Board. 
B. Agenda. Each meeting of the Committee shall be 
conducted in accordance with an agenda formulated or approved by 
the Board. 
C. Board Representation. Each meeting of the Commitee shall 
be attended by a representative of the Board who is either a member of 
the Board or of the Board's staff. ' The Board Representative shall have 
authority to and shall adjourn any meeting of the Committee when he 
considers adjournment to be in the public interest. 
Section 4. Duties of the Committee 
The duties of the Committee are to advise and consult with 
the Board in the exercise of the Board's functions under the Truth 
in Lending Act. 
Section 5. Officers 
A. Chairman. The Board may appoint a Chairman from among 
either the Members of the Committee or the members of the Board and 
may similarly appoint a Chairman pro tem. The Chairman, or in his 
absence, the Chairman pro tem shall preside at all meetings of the 
Committee. 
B. Secretary. The Board shall designate a member of its 
staff, who may but need not be the representative described in 
Section 3(c), to act as Secretary of the Committee. The Secretary 
shall record and maintain minutes of the meetings of the Committee. 

/O t 
-3-
Minutes of each meeting shall contain, among other things, a record 
of the persons present, a description of the matters discussed and 
conclusions reached, and copies of all reports received, issued, or 
approved by the Committee. The person acting as Secretary at a 
meeting shall certify to the accuracy of the minutes of that meeting 
Section 6. Amendments 
These rules of organization and procedure may be amended 
or repealed at any time by action of the Board provided, however, that 
Members of the Committee shall be promptly notified by the Board of 
any such action. 
cn ; 
. , 
w i..: 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
7/17/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 17, 1968. 
Mr. Aubrey N. Heflin, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
Dear Mr. Heflin: 
Please refer to our letter of June 30, 1964, concerning 
the supplemental retirement benefit payable to Mrs. Irene H. Flagg, 
widow of Maurice P. Flagg, under Public Laws 87-793 and 88-25. As 
this benefit is being extended for another year, please remit $72 
to the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks when billed 
by that office to cover the cost of continuation through June 30, 
1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
