Minutes for June 6, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
m
m
, 
kt 

2272 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, June 6, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room at 
9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane If 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Chairman Martin reported on recent conversations he had had 
with a number of officials regarding the domestic and international 
economic and financial situation. 
Internal affa irs (Items 1 and 2). Vice Chairman Robertson then 
reported that, after study of his duties as the Board member vested with 
responsibility for direction at the Board level of its internal admin-
istrative affairs, he had concluded that he would delegate to certain 
division directors authority to approve on his behalf a number of 
routine noncontroversial matters. These would fall particularly in 
the areas of personnel and expenditures, although there might be other 
areas where he would decide it was desirable for division heads to feel 
the responsibility for authorizing certain actions that in the past had 
been personally authorized by the Board member having this assignment. 
The immediate changes he intended to make were illustrated by memoranda 
he had requested from the Director of Personnel and the Controller, 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

6/6/67 
- 2 -
copies of which are attached to these minutes as Items 1 and 2. Even 
in the routine and noncontroversial matters, the division heads to 
whom he was giving the authority would be free to consult with him in 
any cases where they felt that might be helpful, but he hoped this pro-
cedure would encourage division heads generally to work out problems 
among themselves. He noted that under this arrangement, if the Per-
sonnel Director or the Controller was inclined to reject any proposal 
of another division head, the matter must be brought to his (Governor 
Robertson's) attention before it was acted upon. 
A number of Board members raised questions regarding the 
details of the arrangement described, particularly as to the way in 
which recommendations submitted by various division heads regarding 
personnel or expenditure items might be handled if the Personnel Direc-
tor or the Controller contemplated rejecting them. Governor Robertson 
reiterated that the authority for the Personnel Director or the Con-
troller to act would apply only when the originating division head and 
the Personnel Director or the Controller, as the case might be, reached 
agreement as to the proposed action; if they were not in agreement the 
matter would be brought to his attention promptly. 
Vice Chairman Robertson also stated that he planned to ask 
Governor Sherrill to serve as his alternate for the internal affairs 
assignment on occasions when he (Governor Robertson) was out of the 
city or otherwise not available. 

2274 
6/6/67 
- 3 -
Annex building. Governor Robertson then referred to earlier 
discussions regarding the possibility of making arrangements with the 
Department of the Interior for construction of a parking garage to the 
north of the Board's annex building. The proposal had, in effect, 
been dropped because of inability to arrive at a satisfactory basis 
for financing the costs. He was bringing the matter up at this time 
because, if there was any likelihood that the Board would ever wish to 
reconsider the earlier decision, it should act promptly since the plans 
for the annex building were at a stage where a final decision was nec-
essary in order to permit the architects to proceed with their work. 
During the ensuing discussion the members of the Board indi-
cated a desire to ascertain in final terms whether some arrangement 
for clearing of the parking lot north of the annex building and replace-
ment of it with underground garage facilities could be worked out jointly 
between the Board and the Department of the Interior. At its conclusion, 
in accordance with a suggestion from Chairman Martin, it was understood 
that Governor Sherrill, after consultation with former Governor Shepard-
son, would be authorized to explore with the Department of the Interior 
the feasibility of some new arrangement for sharing the cost or recover-
ing the cost of construction of a parking garage to be used jointly by 
the Board and Interior, and that he would report back to the Board. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 

2275 
6/6/67 
- 4 -
of The First National Bank of Hastings, Hastings, Pennsylvania, into 
The First National Bank of Ebensburg, Ebensburg, Pennsylvania, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclu-
sion read as follows: 
The proposed merger of The First National Bank of 
Hastings into The First National Bank of Ebensburg would 
eliminate a small amount of competition which exists 
between them while several nearby alternative sources 
of banking services would remain available to residents 
of the Hastings area. The overall effect of the trans-
action on competition would be slightly adverse. 
Application of Franklin National Bank (Item No. 3). Unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to Franklin National Bank, New York, 
New York, (1) granting permission to organize a corporation under sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, to be known as Franklin Inter-
national Corporation, New York, New York, and transmitting a preliminary 
permit; and (2) indicating that the Board was prepared to grant consent 
to the acquisition by the corporation of shares of American Swiss Credit 
Co. Ltd., a Canadian corporation located in New York City, upon issuance 
to the corporation by the Board of a final permit to commence business. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
H.R. 9156 (Item No. 4). Pursuant to the discussion at the 
meeting on June 5, 1967, there had been distributed a revised draft of 
reply to Congressman Thompson of Georgia relating to H.R. 9156, a bill 
that would provide for the cancellation and retirement of $40 billion 

227R 
6/6/67 
- 5 -
of U.S. Government bonds, and to a letter of May 11, 1967, sent by 
Congressman Patman to the members of the House with respect thereto. 
At today's meeting a number of additional changes in approach 
and emphasis were made in the draft, following which the letter was 
approved unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 4. It was under-
stood that similar letters would be sent to Congressmen Bennett of 
Florida and Denney of Nebraska. 
Governor Daane then withdrew from the meeting and the following 
entered the room: 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Harris, Coordinator of Defense Planning 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Sigel, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Smith, Assistant to the Director, Division of 
Administrative Services 
Mr. Rand, Systems Engineer, Division of Data 
Processing 
Mr. Ellis, President, Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Mr. Wayne, President, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Mr. Scanlon, President, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Wire transfer and automation developments. At the meeting of 
the Board on June 5, 1967, preliminary consideration was given to four 
Policy-type issues that had arisen in connection with System efforts 

SJi f y 
# 
6/6/67 
- 6 -
to replace its present wire transfer facilities with a modern communi-
cations system. The issues, as set forth in a memorandum from Governor 
Mitchell dated June 1, 1967, related to (1) the formulation of basic 
objectives of the program and what a new communications system was 
expected to accomplish; (2) the nature of the data processing installa-
tion at the Culpeper, Virginia, facility; (3) procedures to be followed 
to insure the achievement of the necessary degree of compatability and 
uniformity in communications and computer hardware and software; and 
(4) alternative sources for communications facilities and services. 
The discussion at the Board meeting on June 5 was principally 
with regard to the Culpeper operation and was in preparation for today's 
meeting with members of the Presidents' Conference Committee on Inter-
Bank Electronic Communications. 
This Committee, together with the Task 
Force on Inter-Bank Information Systems, had been actively working 
toward specification of equipment and procedures that would bring the 
new communications system into being. 
At the beginning of today's discussion, Governor Mitchell noted 
that one of the basic objectives formulated by the Presidents' Confer-
ence Committee in studying proposals for a modern communications system 
was the creation of a network that would enable the Federal Reserve 
System to offer a wire transfer service to any bank or bank customer 
whose equipment was compatible with that of the Federal Reserve. The 
present leased wire arrangement provided a limited wire transfer service 

2278 
6/6/67 
- 7 -
for Federal funds. It was contemplated that the new machinery would 
enable the Reserve Banks to expand this and other services to the mem-
ber banks and to make facilities more broadly available. Early in the 
fall of 1967 four Reserve Banks (New York, Cleveland, Chicago, and San 
Francisco) would begin an experiment with this type of operation. A 
so-called "hot" line would be utilized for transmission of wire trans-
fers between the four Reserve Banks to relieve the bottleneck in areas 
where heavily loaded circuits during peak transmission periods resulted 
in delays and other difficulties. 
In addition, the bypass network 
would provide experience in the use of higher-speed communications 
equipment and would afford an opportunity to observe the reactions of 
the business and banking community to expanded Federal funds transfer 
facilities. 
It was anticipated that the cost to the System would be 
nominal compared with the benefits that would accrue. 
An alternative objective considered by the Committee was trans-
mission, by means of the communications network, of economic intelli-
gence. The advantages to be gained by transmission of such data by 
wire had been explored by the staff, and some members of the Committee 
were of the opinion that the benefits to be derived from the transmis-
sion of economic intelligence by wire justified the additional costs 
that would be incurred. Governor Mitchell did not subscribe entirely 
to this view, his feeling being that some data could not appropriately 
be transmitted by wire unless there was idle time on an existing facility. 

6/6/67 
- 8 -
On the question of compatibility and uniformity in communica-
tions and computer hardware and software, Governor Mitchell noted that 
the posture of the System had assumed the selection by the individual 
Reserve Banks of the particular type of equipment best adapted to each 
Bank's problems. As a matter of fact, the Reserve Banks had been 
encouraged to buy different makes of equipment so that no one manu-
facturer would acquire a monopoly. However, as the over-all system 
developed it was necessary to have equipment that would be compatible 
without incurring the additional expense of data conversion. 
In 1966 
the Conference of Presidents accepted and approved a report of the 
Subcommittee on Inter-Bank Information Systems, which recommended that 
"each Reserve Bank should determine its internal procedures, equipment, 
and methods of obtaining and analyzing member bank inputs, but should 
be responsible for delivering data to a System network in the format, 
coding, mode of transmission, etc., agreed upon via appropriate Con-
ference decision." To achieve a maximum degree of compatibility and 
uniformity, the Subcommittee recommended that a task force comprised 
of Reserve Bank and Board technicians be created. 
Governor Mitchell noted that alternative communications systems 
had been discussed, and it was the Committee's view that the specific 
system selected should provide the highest degree of usefulness and 
reliability at the least cost. To assure the best possible communica-
tions service all alternatives should be considered, namely, Government 

o - « 
A •• 
6/6/67 
- 9 -
facilities, public facilities, a dedicated Federal Reserve facility, 
or a combination of facilities, in terms of reliability, flexibility, 
expansion, and cost. 
Governor Mitchell then called upon President Ellis, who indi-
cated that in looking toward an improved Federal Reserve communications 
system there was recognition of the need to modernize the existing 
system and, at the same time, the desire to include in a modern system 
equipment for a payments network. The Committee had started with the 
need to modernize the present communications system and had prepared 
an inventory of its uses in terms of operating requirements, wire trans-
fer facilities, and research activities as a basis for establishing the 
capacity that would be called for in a new system to meet minimum 
requirements. 
The new system should be one with substantial capacity 
beyond that of the present system, one that would permit expansion of 
ability to service member banks in the transfer of funds. But there 
was much to be done beyond the establishment of technical facilities, 
particularly in terms of how member banks and their customers could be 
brought to use the facilities. The experiment that four Reserve Banks 
would begin later this year, which was a technique for relieving some 
of the peak load from the wire transfer mechanism, would be a step in 
that direction. There should be compatibility of communications within 
and between the Reserve Banks and the Board of Governors, and compati-
bility of communications between the Federal Reserve System and the 

2281 
6/6/67 
- 1 0 -
financial community, primarily member banks. Mr. Ellis said that the 
Presidents' Conference would focus on this issue, and he noted that 
the September 1, 1966, report of the Subcommittee on Inter-Bank Infor-
mation Systems referred to by Governor Mitchell suggested steps to be 
taken in planning a unified electronic communications system. To do 
this even within the Federal Reserve it was necessary to develop the 
standards of coding to be employed, and the System should press forward 
in this regard in the expectation that logical standards it might develop 
would be acquiesced in by banks and others with whom the System must 
communicate. Mr. Ellis felt that one early step was the formation of 
a standards committee. Additional task forces would be developed as 
problems emerged. 
With respect to Culpeper, the Reserve Bank Presidents had long 
assumed that it would be the site of a major computer and communications 
installation. Relying on the technical judgment of the consultants as 
to its proper role, they were prepared to accept Culpeper as a prime 
location. 
Mr. Wayne indicated, in response to an inquiry by Governor 
Mitchell, that the Richmond Reserve Bank recognized that there were 
many problems to be worked out in connection with the joint use of the 
installation at Culpeper, and it was prepared to cooperate in any ven-
ture proposed by the Board. 

2282 
6/6/67 
-11-
Mr. Scanlon observed that the so-called "hot" line experiment 
later this year was expected not only to relieve peak load periods but 
to provide useful experience with respect to data compatibility. 
Governor Robertson then stated that the Board was looking 
toward the installation of a new and larger operating unit at Culpeper. 
During the overlap period of its installation and development, the 
present unit would be retained in Washington and operated in parallel, 
but eventually it might be phased out. In any event, Culpeper would be 
the central unit although the operating staff at the site would be 
fairly small. Prior to final selection of a communications system, 
all possible alternatives should be considered with a view to achieving 
the facility that would best meet the objectives of service, efficiency 
in performance, and cost. 
Governor Maisel inquired whether the goal would be to acquire 
a system geared at all times to cover peak loads with resultant excess 
capacity, or whether it would be one that would provide minimum capacity 
with ability to expand to meet peak traffic. Mr. Wayne replied that it 
was anticipated that equipment at Culpeper would be adequate to handle 
peak loads but hopefully there would also be access to additional lines. 
Mr. Byrne added that a primary problem was one of obtaining terminal 
and switching equipment that could be expanded as the need arose and 
which would be compatible. 
In response to questions by Governor Brimmer as to the type of 
equipment that would be required, Mr. Ellis indicated that the debates 

2 . 
6/6/67 
-12-
to which he had listened suggested that the situation could be handled 
in a variety of ways. The approach of the Committee had been to out-
line the kind of services that the facilities should provide and then 
turn the problem over to the technicians for resolution of the way in 
which the needs could best be met. 
Governor Mitchell then invited views by members of the staff, 
and Mr. Brill stated that he would like to speak to the research inter-
ests. 
It was his understanding that the peak capacity requirement 
would provide sufficient off-time to meet the operating needs of the 
research people. They were not pushing for capacity beyond that esti-
mated as the ultimate requirement for other purposes, but once the 
capacity was there it would be advantageous to use the network for the 
transmission of research data, particularly in instances where the 
System Research Advisory Committee believed additional cost was justi-
fied. 
In response to a question from Governor Maisel as to the need 
for rapid transmission of economic data, Mr. Brill replied that this 
was a matter of cost in part, but that practical operating problems 
were also involved. Cost was, however, an important consideration in 
transmission of economic data by wire as opposed to mail. 
Mr. Kelleher commented that in connection with the selection 
of a wire transfer service the Subcommittee report had not viewed 
favorably the use of General Services Administration facilities. How-
ever, he assumed that, on the basis of the Board's discussion yesterday, 

2284 
6/6/67 
- 1 3 -
the merits of all facilities, including those offered by GSA, would be 
explored, and he would stress the possible cost advantages to be gained 
through rental of circuits through that agency. The aggregate volume 
of business generated under GSA led to the availability of circuits to 
the individual agency at wholesale rates, whereas the cost to the Board 
direct from the supplier would be at retail level. The Board's experi-
ence with the quality of service through GSA had been good. Mr. Kelleher 
added that another possibility for technicians to consider was the 
advanced records system developed by GSA which had several switching 
centers and direct lines throughout the country. 
Mr. Harris said that he would endorse Mr. Kelleher's suggestion. 
In addition, he outlined reasons why it might be to the advantage of 
the System to tie into the national communications system, which would 
bring together all of the communications resources of the Government in 
time of emergency. He expressed the view that the System should not 
pass up the opportunity to obtain the best advice and information 
available in the Government. 
Mr. Byrne stated that he was concerned that there be an under-
standing of the orders of magnitude involved in the communications 
system or systems under consideration and related effort. First, the 
present system had a relatively small capability with a routine type 
of traffic, including some fund transfers and a small amount of data. 
If that traffic were expanded to accomplish additional transfer capa-
bility, handle administrative message traffic, and transmit all or at 

A- 10.> 
6/6/67 
-14-
least a significant part of statistically and research-oriented data, 
then there would be another order of magnitude and need for capability 
as to computer hardware, software, lines, facilities, and personnel. 
If the system were still further expanded in terms of accounting data 
and transfer of information between member banks, such a system would 
be several orders of magnitude over and above the other capabilities 
and, in fact, could be so large as to be far beyond any total inte-
grated processing system in existence today. Mr. Byrne felt that such 
a system probably could be justified in terms of relative cost effec-
tiveness, but he expressed concern that in heading toward the develop-
ment of that type of system there might not be a full awareness of the 
required level of capabilities to bring it about. There should be 
some resolution as soon as possible of the system contemplated in terms 
of relative orders of magnitude. 
Immediate and short-term goals should 
be viewed in the light of adaptability to long-term objectives. A hard 
look should be taken to determine the level of capability and avail-
ability of equipment in terms of hardware, software, and personnel and 
how they would fit together to achieve these goals. Mr. Byrne also 
expressed the view that present personnel was not of the calibre needed 
to implement the larger type of program being considered, and a positive 
program toward developing such capability should be pursued. 
It would 
be necessary to secure high-level outside help in achieving these objec-
tives with respect to personnel, standards, and compatibility. 
It would 

6/6/67 
- 1 5 -
be a sophisticated job requiring an on-going set of technical and admin 
istrative resources. Because of the various technical and other prob-
lems and because of the different orders of magnitude involved, Mr. 
Byrne was concerned that the System be well aware of the direction in 
which it might be heading. Development of a system that was supposed 
to be a panacea, a system that would carry everything the Board and 
Reserve Banks wanted to throw on it, would not be possible without a 
great devotion of resources and hard work over a long period of time. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the first step now being pro-
posed was an expansion of the present wire transfer facilities. 
This 
involved expansion of the system's capacity well within the technical 
knowledge available. When the four Reserve Bank "hot" line was put 
into effect in September, a further step would be taken from which 
additional experience would be gained. He believed that the System 
should move ahead in the general direction outlined at this morning's 
meeting, and he recommended that such action be taken. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether the Board was being asked to 
endorse the ultimate goal of a nationwide communications system in 
which banks could talk to banks, and Governor Mitchell replied in the 
affirmative. Mr. Wayne added that the program would be designed with 
such a goal in mind, but the System would move step by step and expan-
sion could be stopped at any point where the order of magnitude was 
straining capabilities. 

6/6/67 
-16-
Mr. Ellis noted Mr. Byrne's concern about resources. He said 
that everyone in the System who had studied the matter was aware that 
this was an unknown area. The Reserve Bank Presidents had developed 
a concept of self-training and self-development, starting at the top, 
so as to be able to understand the consultants. They must seek addi-
tional talent within the System, and this they were planning to do. 
It seemed clear that the ultimate goal would be the moving of funds by 
wire. What was not clear was who would organize and operate the facil-
ity and what the structure would be. One immediate problem was the 
communication system used between Federal Reserve offices, and another 
would be the need to build onto the existing wire transfer network to 
provide increased service in the movement of funds. Beyond that, a 
question would be how to use excess time. The Presidents' Conference 
had come to grips with the whole problem at its meeting on June 27, 
1966, when it adopted a position paper on Federal Reserve Commitment 
of Resources to Study Improvements in the Payments Mechanism, and a 
great deal of additional research had been done since then. 
Governor Mitchell then summarized the direction in which it 
appeared, on the basis of the discussion at today's meeting, the System 
wished to be moving. There would be an operating facility at Culpeper, 
but its precise character would not be determined at this time. Con-
sideration of the question of compatibility and uniformity would be 
turned over to a technical task force the membership of which would be 

6/6/67 
-17-
drawn from technicians at the Board of Governors and the Reserve Banks. 
Such a division of responsibility between the Board and the Reserve 
Banks was, in Governor Mitchell's opinion, as it should be in this 
area and was in keeping with the structure of the Federal Reserve 
System. The technical task force would explore and report on all alter-
native sources for communications facilities and, on the basis of a 
decision in that area, the character of the operation at Culpeper would 
be determined. 
There was general agreement with the procedural steps outlined 
by Governor Mitchell. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (copy attached as 
Item No. 5) approving the appointment of Michael Blumer, William J. 
Carone, and Andrew R. Tipton as assistant examiners. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (copy attached as 
Item No. 6) approving the designation of six employees as special 
assistant examiners. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (copy attached 
as Item No. 7) approving the appointment of Philip R. Causey as assis-
tant examiner. 
Memorandum from the Division of International Finance dated June 5, 
1967, recommending that John E. Reynolds, Adviser in that Division, be 
authorized to attend a meeting of OECD Working Party 2 to be held in 
Paris on June 20-21, 1967, with per diem at the rates prescribed in 
the Standardized Government Travel Regulations. 

2289 
6/6/67 
- 1 8 -
Letter to Manpower, Incorporated, Washington, D. C., confirming 
arrangements for that firm to furnish temporary cafeteria helpers, as 
requested from time to time by the Board, subject to stated terms and 
conditions, with the sum of $2.65 per hour worked to be paid for each 
worker furnished. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 8. 
v 
eour 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
o r THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. I 
6/6/67 
tee Correspondence 
^Governor J. L. Robertson 
ject; Approval of Personnel Actions 
3 
E. J. Johnson 
_ 
_ 
_ 
Date 
May 23, 1967 
Recommendation 
In accordance with your request, there follows the recommendation 
of thi s Division for delegation to the Director of Personnel Administration 
(in his absence, the Assistant Director) of authority to approve personnel 
actions on your behalf for entry in the Board's minutes: 
1. Progress increase, regardless of grade. 
2. Personnel actions involving individual employees 
up to (but not including) Grades FR-11, WBG-15, 
and PG-19, excluding adverse actions and merit 
increases. 
It is contemplated that merit increases and all adverse actions 
(e«g., involuntary terminations, withheld Progress Step Increases) will 
continue to require your personal approval, as at present. 
It is understood that any Division has the right of appeal to you 
when its recommendation for a personnel action is not approved by the 
division of Personnel Administration. 
Comments 
The basis for recommendation (1) is that Grade FR-11 is tradition-
ally considered the beginning of the level at which an employee participates 
the setting of policy in the Divisions of the Board. Wage Board Grade 15 
and Printing Grade 19 are recommended as their annual wage rates in Step 3 
are about the same as the entrance salary of Grade FR-11. 
The basis for recommendation (2) is that progress increases for all 
grades are part of the same personnel action. 
An analysis of personnel actions (see attached schedules) shows that 
these recommendations would have eliminated your approving 256, or 83 per cent, 
the total actions during the period reviewed. In addition, the experience 
in Grades FR-11 through 15 will probably not be as high in the future, as 
organizational activity in Data Processing contributed a large number of ap-
pointments. 
Attachments 

2291 
Wee Correspondence 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
DF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
6/6/67 
Date 
May 23, 1967. 
fror 
Governor Robertson 
John Kakalec 
Subject: 
Internal Administrative 
Affairs 
v
-
j 
r 
x ' • 
• ' • 
For the purpose of facilitating consideration of certain 
types of administrative matters, it is recommended that the categories 
of items listed below be approved on your behalf by the Controller 
(in his absence by the Assistant to the Controller). 
It is understood that all such approvals will be entered in 
the Board's Minutes as of the date of approval. A monthly list of 
such approvals will be submitted to you by the Controller. 
It is also understood that, if the Division concerned does 
not concur in the decision of the Office of the Controller, the matter 
may be appealed to you via appropriate memoranda from both parties. 
.Positions 
1. Requests to establish new positions through grade FR 10 (also 
PG 19 and WBG 15), except for new position proposals based on new 
responsibilities or functions not previously considered by the Board. 
2. Requests to re-establish positions which were previously dis-
continued in accordance with Board policy on the treatment of 
professional vacancies. 
3. Requests for "dual occupancy" of positions. Dual occupancy most 
often occurs when an employee is absent because of illness or military 
leave and another person is hired into the job during the period of 
absence. 
In 1966, 29 positions were established during the year, 
excluding 54 involved in the reorganization of Data Processing and 
expansion of Cafeteria facilities. Under the current proposal, the 
Controller would have approved 13 under (1) above and 9 under (2). 
Contractual Employees 
Requests for engagement of individuals, either directly or 
through an employment contractor, on a temporary contractual basis at 
a rate not to exceed the maximum daily rate of grade FR 10, which is 
currently about $42 per day. 

Governor Robertson 
iO( I' 
MAVt' 
n n o V E 
- 
2 
-
Budget 
V 2 
Requests for approval of budget overexpenditures not in 
excess of $10,000. In 1966, 38 out of 47 overexpenditures were under 
$10,000. 
(Proposed expenditures of unusual nature not provided for in 
the budget are excluded.) 
Currently, the Controller may approve overexpenditures up to 
?2,500 in any account classification in nonpersonal services only. 
A H other overexpenditures are referred to the Board Member in Charge 
of Internal Affairs. 
ir ' . . 
( , 
• 'in ii". • 
by S-: 
) • ir •„5 1 c ha,- i . •; v 
• 5.!". *: 
OCi'lUil 
v.)• i 
• 
-lio , : i y : „• v r cnc . 
C'O -.:!• V 
V «i • . ' • • 
• . 
V 
' U. 
: 
r'f. : 
. ' - x l 
; , 
b y 
_ 
>'. .::• 
• 
.. :. • ' :•. ; r.. , v.; 
• 
• u:. jp•:...• 
.• :.m 
i ci.••-
1 i. . . 
' 
". i 7: n vi 
II , C '.id Si.,: :.. . c\ia VCOlfi 
;.« '.) : [ 
Un i. 
i: C 
h At 
lii': " >w, ' 

^LRtS^V' 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
2293 
Item No. 3 
6/6/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 6, 1967. 
Mr. Howard D. Crosse, 
Vice Chairman of the Board, 
Franklin National Bank, 
130 Pearl Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Dear Mr. Crosse: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and Organization Certificate dated March 24, 1967, of 
Franklin International Corporation, New York, New York, and there 
is enclosed a Preliminary Permit authorizing that Corporation to 
exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its organiza-
tion. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board 
will issue its final permit to commence business, the President or 
the Secretary-Treasurer, together with at least three directors, 
must certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
(2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
by citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
under the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States, 
°r by firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned 
by citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized 
capital stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 
Per cent has been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has in-
dividually paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock sub-
scription. Thereafter the Secretary-Treasurer shall certify to the 
Payment of the remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, 
in accordance with law. 

B O A R D 
• F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
2294 
Mr. Howard D. Crosse 
-2-
It is the understanding of the Board that the initial in-
vestment of the Corporation will be to purchase and hold all the 
shares of American Swiss Credit Co. Ltd. ("Amerswiss"), a Canadian 
corporation located in New York and engaged in international finan-
cial operations, at a cost of approximately US$1,800,000. It is 
further understood that any domestic activities in the United States 
by Amerswiss will be discontinued. 
On the basis of this and the other information contained 
in your application, the Board is prepared to grant consent to the 
investment and such consent will be granted on the Board's issuance 
to the Corporation of its final permit to commence business. 
Your attention is called to the fact that Franklin Inter-
national Corporation will have no separate base under the voluntary 
foreign credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or invest-
ments will need to be made under the ceiling of Franklin National 
Bank. Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with the under-
standing that any foreign loans and investments of the Corporation, 
combined with those of Franklin National Bank, will not cause the 
total of such loans and investments to exceed the guidelines estab-
lished under the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect and that due consideration will be given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

2295 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
June 6, 1967. 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day approved the 
Articles of Association dated March 24, 1967, and the Organization 
Certificate dated March 24, 1967, of FRANKLIN INTERNATIONAL 
CORPORATION duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that 
FRANKLIN INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION is authorized to exercise such 
of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are 
incidental and preliminary to its organization pending the issuance 
by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final 
Permit generally to commence business in accordance with the pro-
visions of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant 
thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
B y (Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD • F •OVER N ORB 
Q F T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
C. 20"b5l 
Item No 
6/6/67 
OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN 
June 6, 1967 
The Honorable S. Fletcher Thompson, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Thompson: 
This is in response to your letter of May 12, 1967, 
requesting comments on H.R. 9156, and on Mr. Patman's letter of 
May 11 to the Members of the House regarding that bill, which 
proposes the "cancellation and retirement of $40 billion of U.S. 
Government bonds." In another letter to Members of the House 
dated May 31, Mr. Patman proposed "cancellation of the paid-up 
bonds, thus reducing the national debt by about $45 billion." 
As we understand this later proposal, it is intended to effect 
cancellation of the entire portfolio, which stood at $45,743 
million on May 31. 
The proposal and the accompanying letters are based 
on the erroneous premise that these obligations have been "paid 
in full." They erroneously imply that cancellation would mean 
savings for taxpayers. The proposal would result in no savings 
but would pose serious dangers to the credit of the United States 
and the standing of the dollar at home and abroad. 
At present, all of the System's earnings are paid into 
the Treasury except for those required to meet operating expenses, 
to pay statutorily required dividends of 6 per cent on Federal 
Reserve Bank stock, and to maintain the surplus of the Federal 
Reserve Banks at a level equal to their paid-in capital. In 
1966, the System earned $1,851 million in interest on Government 
securities, and paid $1,649 million to the Treasury. 
Cancellation 
of the securities held by the System would not relieve it of the 
necessity to meet operating expenses and statutorily required 
dividends. Thus, the proposal would not mean a savings of any 
amount, and to the extent that it weakened the Government's 
credit standing, could actually increase the Treasury's costs. 

The Honorable S. Fletcher Thompson 
- 2 -
Cancellation also would pose a further threat to the 
country's financial position. It would require that the Federal 
Reserve Banks surrender securities constituting about three-
fourths of the assets they hold against their liabilities as 
issuers of currency and custodians of the reserves of commercial 
banks. In the past, the Congress has recognized a distinction 
between the assets and liabilities of the Federal Reserve System 
and those of the Treasury. It is only by ignoring that distinction 
that one may conclude that Treasury obligations purchased by the 
System should be cancelled because they "have already been paid 
for in full." Certainly they have been paid for--by the Federal 
Reserve Banks. If the Congress were to treat $45 billion of 
Federal Reserve assets as though they were assets of the Treasury 
for the purpose of achieving a reduction in the public debt, the 
public might well conclude that this action was only the first 
step in an attempt to harness the credit-creating powers of the 
Federal Reserve to finance the needs of the Government without 
regard to the needs of the economy. We believe that it would be 
unwise to run the risk of undermining confidence in our monetary 
system in this fashion. 
A sound monetary and credit structure is one of the 
essential ingredients of a strong and growing economy, and this 
in turn requires that additions to the monetary base by the 
Federal Reserve System be aimed at meeting the legitimate needs 
of the economy as a whole rather than at providing the Treasury 
with funds at a particular rate of interest. The Federal Reserve 
Sys tem adds to banking reserves mainly by buying Government 
securities in the open market and thereby enables the banking 
system to expand the total supply of money and credit in the 
economy. Mr. Patman has long argued that the Federal Reserve 
System should buy Government securities in whatever amounts are 
needed to peg the interest rates paid by the Treasury. This 
objective would be incompatible with the objective of closely 
gearing the supply of money and credit to the developing needs 
of the economy. 
These comments are amplified in the enclosed copies of 
a statement of the Board's position on H.R. 7601, a predecessor to 
Mr. Patman's current proposal, presented to the House Committee on 
Banking and Currency in July of 1965, and a letter to the Committee 
in response to questions that arose at that hearing. 
Sincerely yours, 
Enclosures 

B O A R D 
O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
2298 
Item No. 5 
6/6/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 6, 1967 
Mr. Thomas M. Timlen, Jr., 
Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
• f 
Dear Mr. Timlen: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in your letter of June 1, 1967, the Board approves 
the appointment of Michael Blumer, William J. 
Carone, and Andrew R. Tipton as assistant examiners 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Please 
advise the effective dates of the appointments. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 6 
6/6/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 6y 1967 
Mr. Leland M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of June 2, 1967, the Board approves the designation 
of each of the following employees as a special assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago: 
William T. Alexander 
Hollis Gibson 
James Bryant 
Benson R. Glass 
John Follmer 
Gregory Rutkowski 
Appropriate notations have been made of the names 
to be deleted from the list of special assistant examiners. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

• • 
$r* 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
' 
D F T H E 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
6/6/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C, 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 6, 1967 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of June 2,' 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of Philip R. Causey as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, effective 
today. 
Very truly yours, 
( 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
* 
V • 
•• 1 
C 
-
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
6/6/67 
D I V I S I O N 
o r 
A D M I N I S T R A T I V E 
S E R V I C E S 
June 6, 1967. 
Manpower, Incorporated, 
810 Eye Street, N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 
20001 
Gentlemen: 
This letter will confirm verbal arrangements made with 
Mr. E. Charles Everett, Manager, Industrial Division of Manpower, Inc., 
by Mrs. Mary Sanders of this office, whereby Manpower, Inc., agrees 
to furnish temporary Cafeteria Helpers, as requested from time to 
time by the Board, subject to the following terms and conditions: 
Manpower, Inc., as the Employer, will furnish the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System only 
those temporary Cafeteria Helpers for whom it has 
arranged and received confirmation of satisfactory 
physical examinations similar in scope to the physical 
examinations now given by the Board's Dr. Frederic D. Chapman, 
to its permanent cafeteria employees. It is our under-
standing that Mr. Everett has contacted Dr. Chapman to 
ascertain the various tests, x-rays, etc., required. 
The cost of such physical examinations shall be borne 
by Manpower, Inc. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
will pay to Manpower, Inc., upon submission of weekly 
invoices, the sum of $2.65 per hour worked for each 
temporary cafeteria worker furnished per the foregoing. 
Manpower, Inc., will be solely responsible, as the 
Employer, for all salaries and payroll taxes, workmen's 
compensation, unemployment insurance, liability insurance, 
etc. 
It is understood Mrs. Beattie or Mrs. Harig, our 
Cafeteria Manager and Assistant Manager respectively, will 
call you direct, allowing as much advance notice as possible 
in each instance when such temporary help is required. 
If this agreement meets with your approval and is otherwise 

Manpower, Incorporated 
- 2 -
in accordance with your understanding, please indicate your acceptance 
thereof on the copy of this letter and return it to us in the enclosed 
self-addressed envelope. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) H. E. Kern 
H. E. Kern, Assistant Director, 
Division of Administrative Services. 
Attachments 
