Minutes for February 25, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 
4 
Amendments to Regulation Z, 
Truth in Lending. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. 
If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
M/.f 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, February 25, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
M r . O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. 
Unanimous approval was given to the applica-
tion of Bankers Trust New York Corporation, New York, New York, to 

5 0 3 
2 / 2 5 / 7 1 
- 2 -
acquire shares of The Industrial Bank of Binghamton, Binghamton, New York, 
and the issuance of an order was authorized. A copy of the document, as 
issued, is attached as Item No. 1. 
The application of First Union, Incorporated, St. Louis, Missouri, 
to acquire shares of Crystal City State Bank, Crystal City, Missouri, 
was approved unanimously, and the issuance of an order was authorized. 
A copy of the document, as issued, is attached as Item No. 2. 
Foreign banking matter. Unanimous approval was given to a letter 
to Marine Midland International Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to the continued holding of shares of Marine Midland Overseas 
Corporation after the latter acquires shares of Marine Midland (Thailand) 
Limited, Bangkok, Thailand. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
Capital notes. Unanimous approval was given to letters to 
Bankers Trust Company, New York, New York, and The Citizens State Bank, 
Liberal, Kansas, approving the issuance of capital notes. 
Copies of the 
letters are attached as Items 4 and 5. 
Bank of Idaho. On January 26, 1971, the Board denied the appli-
cation of Bank of Idaho, Boise, Idaho, to establish a branch in Burley 
on the grounds that such establishment would result in an over-banked 
situation in the community. 
Bank of Idaho requested reconsideration of 
the application, but the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and the 

4 
2 / 2 5 / 7 1 
- 2 -
Division of Supervision and Regulation were of the view that no signifi-
cant new information had been developed. 
The Division recommended denial 
of the request. 
Following discussion, the request for reconsideration was denied, 
Governor Mitchell, who had not participated in the January 26 action, 
abstaining. 
A copy of the letter sent to Bank of Idaho is attached as 
Item No. 6. 
Connecticut Bank and Trust Company. 
The Connecticut Bank and 
Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut, had requested permission to relocate 
one of its offices in Meriden to another site in Meriden 1.3 miles distant. 
Under outstanding instructions to the Federal Reserve Banks, the move 
would normally be considered the establishment of a new branch. 
However, 
Connecticut State law would preclude the establishment of a new branch 
in Meriden, and the State Banking Department had approved the move as a 
relocation. 
The Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended that, 
under the circumstances, the move be treated as a relocation. 
Following discussion, the Division's recommendation was approved 
unanimously. 
A copy of the letter sent to Connecticut Bank and Trust 
Company is attached as Item No. 7. 
There was also agreement with Governor Brimmer's suggestion that 
the staff consider the possibility of broadening the definition of 
"relocation" set forth in the Board's letter of November 20, 1957, to the 
Federal Reserve Banks. 

505 
2 / 2 5 / 7 1 
- 2 -
Amendments to Regulation Z. 
The Board had published for comment 
proposed amendments to Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, that would (1) 
permit farmers to obtain funds, goods, or services in agricultural 
credit transactions without waiting for the expiration of the three-day 
rescission period when their residence is part of the collateral for 
credit, (2) require creditors to give 15 days' notice to active customers 
of any change in terms of an open-end credit account, (3) permit modifi-
cation of the rescission notice used in credit sales of vacant lots, and 
(4) permit the advertising of meaningful credit terms applicable under 
FHA Section 235 financing but prohibit advertising of payments or annual 
percentage rates that would be misleading to most prospective customers. 
In a memorandum dated February 17, 1971, the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation recommended that the proposed amendments be adopted, 
with some modifications in the light of comments received. 
Following discussion, the amendments to Regulation Z were approved 
unanimously, effective April 5, 1971. 
Copies of the relevant press 
release and of the amendments as subsequently published in the Federal 
Register are attached under Item No. 8. 
Truth in lending litigation. 
In a memorandum dated February 18, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation discussed certain 
requests that had been received for Board participation in four lawsuits 
involving Regulation Z, through affirmation of a staff letter or through 
the filing of briefs. 

5 0 6 
2 / 2 5 / 7 1 
- 2 -
One case related to class action instituted by the NAACP Legal 
Defense Fund against Chemical Bank, New York, New York; counsel for 
Chemical had requested affirmation by the Board of an interpretation of 
Regulation Z made by the Board's staff. 
The request was discussed at the 
Board meeting on February 16, 1971, at which time there was agreement 
with the staff recommendation that the request not be complied with since 
the issue was now in the courts. 
However, it was understood that the 
proposed letter to Chemical and NAACP, which dealt principally with the 
status of a staff opinion, would be redrafted. 
A revised draft had now 
been submitted, along with an alternative draft proposed by Mr. O'Connell. 
A blending of the drafts was suggested, along with other revisions, 
and unanimous approval was then given to the sending of letters to counsel 
for Chemical Bank and for the NAACP Legal Defense Fund in a final form 
that would be satisfactory to Governors Robertson and Daane. 
Copies of 
the letters subsequently transmitted are attached as Items 9 and 10, 
respectively. 
In two other cases, there was challenge of the Board's authority 
to subject credit transactions to Regulation Z that involved no finance 
charge but would be payable in more than four instalments. 
The staff 
recommended filing amicus briefs in both proceedings. 
Discussion of this recommendation centered principally on the 
legal processes involved, and the staff was then authorized to arrange 
with the Justice Department for the filing of amicus briefs. 

507 
2 / 2 5 / 7 1 
- 2 -
In the fourth lawsuit the staff recommended compliance with 
the trial judge's request for the Board's position on the validity of 
a provision of Regulation Z requiring disclosures from a creditor who 
had a contractual right to impose a finance charge, but as a matter of 
practice did not do so. 
It appeared that the issues involved were not yet entirely 
clear, and it was agreed that the matter would be considered further 
after the court's request had been clarified. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Proposed amendments to Regulations G, T, and U. 
Pursuant to 
the understanding at the meeting on January 29, 1971, the staff had made 
further inquiries as to possible violations of Regulation U in connection 
with loans by a member bank to customers who used the funds to make sub-
ordinated loans to the underwriting subsidiary of a broker/dealer firm. 
In a memorandum dated February 24 the Division of Supervision and Regula-
tion and the Division of Research and Statistics recommended that the 
Board's margin regulations be amended so as to apply specific and 
comprehensive standards to any future extensions of credit that would be 
used directly or indirectly for the purpose of contributing capital to 
brokerage firms. 
The Divisions suggested that the amendments be published 
for comment after consultation with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

5 0 8 
2 / 2 5 / 7 1 
- 2 -
It was the view of the staff that credit of the sort identified 
as currently being extended was potentially destabilizing to the securi-
ties market and should be controlled under the Board's statutory authority. 
However, the staff did not propose that existing apparent violations of 
margin regulations relating to brokerage capital be pursued, partly 
because of possible undesirable repercussions in the brokerage industry. 
Staff also requested authorityrto make certain further technical refine-
ments in the wording of the proposed amendments. 
There was some sentiment on the part of members of the Board for 
publishing the proposed amendments for comment, looking toward correction 
of problems for the future, but questions were raised as to the appropri-
ateness of the timing of such a move. 
Reservations were expressed about 
the adequacy of available information in terms of possible effect of 
announcement of the proposed amendments on the securities industry. 
The 
desirability of developing a better understanding of the situation through 
further exploration with the Securities and Exchange Commission was 
suggested, and the matter of the relative responsibilities of the Board, 
the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the Securities Investor 
Protection Corporation was considered. 
No consensus emerged from the discussion, and it was agreed 
that further consideration would be given to the staff proposals at a 
time when Chairman Burns could participate. 

9 
2 / 2 5 / 7 1 
- 2 -
Members of the staff not concerned with the remaining item 
withdrew from the meeting at this point. Messrs. Kakalec, Controller, 
Kelleher, Director, and Anderson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Administrative Services, entered, along with other appropriate staff. 
Annex building. 
Governor Sherrill indicated that a recommenda-
tion would be forthcoming to award to Chas. H. Tompkins Co., Washington, 
D. C., as low bidder, the contract for construction of the Board annex 
building. 
He referred to other construction projects undertaken by 
that company and commented on provisions of the firm's bid. 
Question was raised whether it had been ascertained that no 
relationships existed between management of the construction company 
and Federal Reserve Bank or branch directors, and it was understood 
that that point would be checked. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Item No. 
2/25/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORPORATION,
 
1 
New York, New York,
 
1 
f
or approval of acquisition of all
 
1 
the voting shares of The Industrial
 
1 
Bank of Binghamton, Binghamton,
 
1 
New York. 
» 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
S e
ction 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l 8
42(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Bankers Trust New York Corpora-
t i o
n , New York, New York ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding 
C o i
&pany, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of all the 
v
°ting shares of The Industrial Bank of Binghamton, Binghamton, New 
("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
^ e New York Superintendent of Banks of the application and requested 

5 1 1 
-6-
his views and recommendation. The New York State Banking Board 
approved an application involving the same proposal in accordance 
with the recommendation of the New York State Superintendent of 
Banka and advised this Board of its action. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on January 12, 1971 (36 Federal Register 390), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for 
its consideration, Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communi-
ties to be served. Upon such consideration the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the largest registered holding company in New 
York State and the sixth largest banking organization, controls seven 
banks with total deposits of $5.5 billion. 
(All banking data are as 
June 30, 1970, and reflect holding company applications approved 
b
y the Board to date.) 
Bank (deposits $15.2 million) is organized 
under the laws of New York State as an industrial bank. As such, 

-6-
5 1 2 
it has the power under New York State statutes to, and in this case 
does, accept demand deposits and make commercial loans. It is thus' 
a bank for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act of 
1956. 
Acquisition of Bank would represent Applicant's initial 
entry into New York State's Seventh Banking District, Applicant's 
closest subsidiary, First Trust Company of Albany, N. A., has its 
closest office approximately 110 road miles east of Binghamton and 
under New York State banking laws all of Applicant s subsidiaries 
are precluded from branching outside their respective districts. 
Bank is the fifth largest of 11 banking organizations operating 
within the Binghamton area. Each of the larger banks is a «ub-
aidiary of a large bank holding company. Consummation of the pro-
posal would have no adverse effect on any banking organization in 
any relevant area and might serve to stimulate competition in the 
Binghamton area. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
resources and prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are 
regarded as consistent with approval of the application. Addition-
ally, Applicant proposes to seek full commercial bank powers for 
Bank. Such powers would enable Bank to expand, since its deposit 
volume is limited to 10 times capital accounts, would enable Bank 
to offer additional services such as trust services, and would give 
it greater branching privileges, making it more accessible to its 

-6-
5 1 3 
customers. Considerations regarding the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served support approval of the application. 
It is 
the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public 
interest and should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth above, that 
said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acquisition 
so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
day following the date of this Order, or (b) later than three months 
after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 25, 1971. 
Voting for this action: 
Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

514 
Item No. 2 
2/25/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST UNION, INCORPORATED, 
St. Louis, Missouri, 
for approval of the acquisition of 80 
per cent or more of the voting shares 
°f Crystal City State Bank, Crystal City, 
Missouri, 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(!2 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Union, Incorporated, St. 
L
°uis, Missouri ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
m 0 r e 
o f 
t h e
 voting shares of Crystal City State Bank, Crystal City, 
Missouri ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
W r i
t t e n notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 

Finance of the State of Missouri and requested his views and recommenda-
tion. The Commissioner advised that his office had no objection to 
approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on January 12, 1971 (36 Federal Register 390), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
Was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
^sources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant has three subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits 
approximately $730 million, representing about 7.2 per cent of the 
t o
tal commercial bank deposits in the State, and is the third largest 
banking organization and third largest bank holding company in Missouri. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding 
c
°mpany acquisitions and formations approved by the Board to date). 

516 
-6-
Bank, the only bank in Crystal City, holds deposits of $8.5 
million, representing approximately 12 per cent of the aggregate 
commercial bank deposits in Jefferson County. Bank 
is the fourth 
largest of the eleven banks in Jefferson County and is the second 
largest of the three banks serving Crystal City and environs, which area 
approximates Bank's primary service area. Applicant's closest subsidiary 
to Bank is located in St. Louis some 40 miles north of Bank. A large 
number of banks are located in the intervening area. It appears that 
none of Applicant's present subsidiaries competes with Bank to any signifi-
cant extent; moreover, the development of such competition seems unlikely-
°n the facts of record and in the light of Missouri's restrictive branching 
iaws. It appears that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
n
°t eliminate any meaningful competition nor foreclose significant 
Potential competition, and would not have any undue adverse effects on 
o t
her banks in the areas involved. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consumma-
t i o
n of the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect competition 
i n
 any relevant area. Considerations relating to financial and managerial 
^sources and prospects, as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiaries, 
a n d
 Bank are regarded as consistent with approval of the application, 
applicant proposes to institute trust services at Bank and to assist 
B a
n k i n providing expanded mortgage and business lending services. In 
X i
8ht of the expected future development of the area and the prospective 

-4-
incrcasing need for such services, considerations relating to the con-
venience and needs of the communities to be served lend some weight in 
support of approval. It is the Board's judgment that consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest 
and 
that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period shall be extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 25, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, arid Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 
(Signed) Kenneth A* Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

5 1 8 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 3 
2/25/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 25, 1971 
Marine Midland International Corporation 
250 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10017 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 8, 1971, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("MMIC") to con-
tinue to hold the shares of Marine Midland Overseas Corporation 
("MMOC") after MMOC acquires 100 per cent (1,000 shares) of the 
shares of Marine Midland (Thailand) Limited ("MMTL"), Bangkok, Thailand, 
at a total cost of approximately $5,000, provided such shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of MMTL by MMOC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(!) 
That MMIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in MMTL if MMTL at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permis-
sible to a corporation in which a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Gov-
ernors, purchase and hold stock, or if MMTL estab-
lishes any branch or agency or takes any action or 
undertakes any operation in Thailand or elsewhere, 
in any manner, which at the time would not be per-
missible to MMIC; 
(2) 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, MMIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of MMTL as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by MMTL 
be reported under Section 2.11.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if MMTL were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 

5 1 9 
Marine Midland 
International Corporation 
-2 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by MMTL in Thailand 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Memorandum of Association 
and By-Laws of MMTL. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the foreign lending and investment activities of MMOC will be gov-
erned by the foreign credit restraint guidelines, in particular by 
those provisions which call for the foreign assets of MMOC, minus 
outstanding amounts of foreign borrowing by MMOC of an original 
maturity of three years or more, to be consolidated with the foreign 
assets of MMIC for the purposes of the guidelines. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

crop 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F
 ™
E
 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/25/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 25, 1971 
Board of Directors 
. 
Bankers Trust Company 
New York, New York 
Gentlemens 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of 
Regulation Q and section 204 o1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D , 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the issuance of $75,000,000 in subordinated 
notes by Bankers Trust Company, New York, New York, as 
proposed in your letter of February 16, 1971, with 
attachments to the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E
 
Item No. 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/25/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
a r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 25, 1971 
Board of Directors 
The Citizens State Bank 
Liberal, Kansas 
67901 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1 (f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
of $300,000 in subordinated notes by The Citizens State Bank, 
Liberal, Kansas, as proposed in President Whitaker's letter 
of February 4, 1971 with enclosures. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

B D A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
5 2 2 
Item No. 6 
2/25/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 25, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Bank of Idaho 
Boise, Idaho 
Gentlemen: 
The Board has received a copy of Senior Vice President 
Fulghum's letter of February 1, 1971, to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of San Francisco, regarding your bank's application to establish a 
branch in Burley, Idaho. 
The Board also understands that the 
application was the subject of discussion between President Bianco 
and officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco on 
February 2, 1971. 
As you are aware, the Board's denial of Bank of Idaho's 
application to establish a branch in Burley was based on the lack 
of need for another banking facility in Burley particularly since 
there were no immediate prospects for substantial economic growth 
for the area. 
The Board has considered the information regarding your 
Burley branch application recently submitted through the Reserve 
Bank, and does not believe it substantiates a basis for reconsider-
ation of the application at this time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
5 2 3 
Item No. 7 
2/25/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 25, 1971 
Board of Directors 
The Connecticut Bank and Trust Company 
Hartford, Connecticut 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of February 8, 1971, 
addressed to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, regarding a 
proposed move of your West Main Street office in Meriden, 
Connecticut, to a new location in the Meriden Shopping Mall, 
Meriden, Connecticut. 
The circumstances surrounding the proposed move 
of your branch office have been reviewed by the Board, and it 
has concluded that the move involves a relocation of an existing 
branch rather than the establishment of a new branch. 
Therefore, 
the proposed relocation does not require Board approval. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

< Jj'.HMiSWq'yM-'iWtiWM'' ^^^V^^WJ'MJyyW'yiMfSi'JWW Wpgi^'M^ ^ Wl-WPMm-J?!^*!
1
 A'Wj'MM,! 
• r j i r 
^ 
Item No. 8 
2/25/71 
For immediate release 
February 26, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
approved four amendments to its Truth in Lending Regulation Z, effec-
tive April 5. 
One amendment will permit farmers to obtain funds, goods or 
services in agricultural credit transactions prior to the expiration of 
the three-day rescission period which applies when a person's residence 
is security for the transaction. This amendment does not exclude agri-
cultural credit from the right of rescission. However, the creditor 
need not delay performance until after the three-day rescission period 
has expired. 
I 
Other new amendments will: 
1. Require creditors to give 15 days notice to active 
customers of any change in terms of an open-end credit account. 
At 
Present, creditors must give 30 days notice of any change in terras to 
all customers, whether active or inactive. Under the amendment, persons 
w
 th inactive accounts must be notified of chants when their account 
becomes active and before any increase in finance charges. No notice 
to 
any customer is required if the minimum payment or finance charges 
a i
*° reduced. 
2. Modify the rescission notice used in credit sales of 
•-cant lots by permitting use of the words "the property you are pur-
b a s i n g " or the word "lot" instead of the word "home" where it appears 
l n
 the proscribed notice. 

5 2 5 
- 2 -
» 
3. Provide special advertising requirements for financing 
under FHA Section 235 assistance programs. 
Copies of the amendments are attached. 
-0-
. tj - •"" 
S I s 
!<) >i i 
v'iVi 

52G 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Reg. Z 
PART 226--TRUTH IN LENDING 
1, Effective April 5, 1971, § 226.7(e), § 226.9(b) and 
5 226.9(c) are amended and § 226.10(e) is added to Part 226 as follows: 
§ 226.7 
Open End Credit Accounts--Spccific Disclosures 
i< >V Vf i'< •>'< 
Change in terms. Not later than 15 days prior to the 
^ginning date of the billing cycle in which any change is to be made in 
the terras previously disclosed to the customer of an open end credit 
Q
ccount, the creditor shall mail or deliver a written disclosure of such 
c h a n g e to each customer required to be furnished a statement under para-
graph (b) of this section. Such disclosure shall be mailed or delivered 
t o
 each other customer who subsequently activates his account not later 
t h a
n the date of mailing or delivery of the next required billing statement 
°
n
 his account. However, if the periodic rate or rates, or any minimum, 
f i
*ed, check service, transaction, activity, or similar charge is increased, 
t h e
 creditor shall mail or deliver a written disclosure of such increase 
t o
 each customer at least: 15 days prior to the. beginning date of the billing 
in which the increase is imposed on his account. No notice is 
P e s s a r y if the only change is a reduction in the minimum periodic 
^ V m e n t , periodic rate or rates, or in any minimum, fixed, check service, 
tv f a c t i o n , activity* or similar charge applicable to the account. 
* * 
>v * 

327 
-2-
/ 
§ 226.9 
Right to Rescind Certain Transactions 
•k \ft Vr -k -k 
(b) Notice of opportunity to rescind. Whenever a customer lias 
the right: to rescind a transaction under paragraph (a) of this section, 
the creditor shall give notice of that fact to the customer by furnishing 
the customer with two copies of the notice set out below, one of which 
May be used by the customer to cancel the transaction. Such notice shall 
kfc printed in capital and lower case letters of not less than 12 point 
hold-faced type on one side of a separate statement which identifies the 
transaction to which it: relates. 
Such statement shall also set: forth 
t l l
e entire paragraph (d) of this section, "Effect of rescission." 
If 
S u
ch paragraph appears on the reverse side of the statement, the face of 
statement shall state: 
"See reverse side for important information 
Q
hout your right of rescission." 
Before furnishing copies of the notice 
t o
 the customer, the creditor shall complete both copies with the name of 
the creditor, the address of the creditor's place of business, the date 
Of 
consummation of the transaction, and the date, not earlier than the 
^ i r d business day following the date of the transaction, by which the 
C U s
tomer may give notice of cancellation. Where the real property on 
'hich the security interest may arise does not include a dwelling, the 
C t G d
* t o r 
m a y substitute the words "the property you are purchasing" for 
•i 
home," or "lot" for "home," where those words appear in the notice. 
Notice to customer required by Federal law: 
Yotihdvie entered dhffb-'a tlrafngfabtton oh 
r 
• -s 
(date) 
' 
! 
>which 
-£ilSuj t In a lien, mortgage, or other security interest on your heme. 

5 2 8 
- 6 -
j^HLhave a legal right under Federal law to cancel this transaction, if 
^L-desire to do so, without any penalty or'obligation within three 
L 
»^siness days from the above date or any later date on which all material 
•^Isjclosures required under the Truth in Lending Act have been ;qven to you. 
^ L ^ o u so cancel the transaction, any lien, mortgage, or other security 
^UiLgrest on your home arising from this transaction is automatically 
You are also entitled to receive a refund of any downpayment or 
^ G r _ c o n s i d e r a t l o n if you cancel. 
If you decide to cancel this transaction, 
Jag. fray do SO by notifying 
— 
(Name of creditor) 
""^X^ddres3 of creditor's place of business) by mail or telegram sent 
J]pt 1 
midnirht of 
(date) 
. You may also use 
form of written notice identifying the transaction if it is 
^•••^JiSred to the above address not later than that time. This notice may 
bfc ty , 
^ 
that purpose by dating and signing below. 
iJieroby cancel this transaction. 
n m 
(date) 
(customer's signature) 
(c) Delay of performance. 
Except as provided in paragraph (e) 
s
 section, the creditor in any transaction subject to this section, 
L
nan an extension of credit primarily for agricultural purposes, 
s
h a n not perform, or cause or permit the performance of, any of the 
f o U 
V ;
ing actions until after the rescission period has expired and he 
0
-^sonably satisfied himself that the customer has net exercir.ee> his 
of rescission: 

29 
- A -
(1) 
Disburse any money other than in escrow, 
(2) Make any physical changes in the property of the customer; 
(3) 
Perform any work or service for the customer; *>r 
(4) Make any deliveries to the residence of the customer if the 
creditor has retained or will acquire a security interest other than >•• 
°ne arising by operation of lav/. 
•k "k "k k -k 
§ 2 2 6
'
1 0
 
Advertising Credit Terms 
•k -k "k -k k 
Advertising of FHA Section 235 financing. Any advertisement 
t o
 aid, promote, or assist directly or indirectly the sale of residential 
estate under Title II, Section 235, of the National Housing Act 
U.S.C. 1715z) shall clearly identify those credit terms which apply 
the assistance program and, except as provided in this paragraph, comply 
V;
ith the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section. No such aovertisement 
8 h a
H 
state; 
(1) the amount of any payment scheduled to repay the 
^dobtedness without stating the family size and income level aoplicable 
to that amount. 
(2) any rate of a finance charge, or the amount of the finance 
expressed as an annual percentage rate based on the assistance. 
The 
nt
Hiai percentage rate exclusive of the assistance may be stated, but is 
n
°t r e q u i r e d < 

530 
-6-
2a. The amendment to § 226.7(e) is designed to simplify 
disclosure of changes in open end credit account terms. Notice of changes 
m
ay be sent to active accounts with the billing statement preceding 
the billing cycle in which the change takes place, provided it is given 
a
t least 15 days prior to the beginning of that billing cycle. 
Notice 
n
^ed not be given to inactive accounts until they become active, except 
that notice must be given of any change which would result in an increase 
/finance charges at least 15 days prior to the beginning of the billing 
c
Vcle in which the increase is imposed on the account. No prior disclosure 
required if the minimum payment or finance charges are reduced. 
b. The last sentence in § 226.9(b) prior to the required form 
o f
 notice has been amended to read as follows: 
"Where the real property 
°
n
 vhich the security interest may arise does not include a dwelling, the 
E d i t o r may substitute the words "the property you are purchasing" for 
>°nr home," or "lot" for "home," where these words appear in the notice." 
0
 amendment is intended to make the rescission notice more meaningful in 
t 0 s
cindable transactions involving only a vacant lot intended to be used as 
•ornesite by permitting the substitution of the words "the property you 
Purchasing" for "your home" or "lot" for "home." 
c. The amendment to § 226.9(c) consists of the insertion of the 
"other than an extension of credit primarily for agricultural pur-
S e
s . " 
The amendment will allow agricultural credit customers to obtain 
n
°y. Property, or services prior to expiration of the rescission period. 

5 3 1 
-6-
The creditor will not be required to delay performance until expiration 
°f the rescission period as required in other transactions subject to the 
right of rescission. 
The amendment does not generally remove agricultural 
credit from the right of rescission provisions. 
d . 
The new § 226.10(e) provides special advertising requirements 
f
or section 235 F1IA Federal assistance programs. The amendment prohibits any 
statement of an annual percentage rate based on the assistance. 
Such a 
statement could be misleading in view of the fact that the Truth in Lending 
A c
t permits an advertisement to contain the annual percentage rate without 
Q d
< H t i o n a l terms, and the assistance may subsequently vary or be terminated. 
A n
V statement of the amount of payments under the assistance program must 
g l
v e the applicable family nizc and income level. 
3. 
Notice of proposed rule making with respect to these amendments 
published in the Federal Register of November 5 
1970 (35 F.R. 17061), 
G
K c G p t w l t h 
r e s p e c t 
t 0 
t h e p r o p 0 g e d amendment of § 226.9(c), which was 
P u b
l i o h e d in the Federal R e n t e r of December 17, 1970 (35 F.R. 19124). 
The 
^ n d m e n t o were adopted by the Board after consideration of all relevant 
Q t o
r i a l , including communications received from interested persona. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 25, 1971. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
532 
Item No. 9 
2/25/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R O 
March 1, 1971 
Cravath, Swaine & Moore 
One Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
This is in reply to your letter of January 13, 1971, 
requesting the Board to indicate that a November 28, 1969, staff 
letter on Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, represents the position 
of the Board of Governors.' 
A staff opinion represents the informed view of the 
particular official responding to the inquiry, who is authorized 
by the Board to express opinions on the particular subject. 
While 
it is possible that in some instances it might not represent the 
position which the Board members themselves would take if they 
formally considered the. issue, the Board considers the present 
informal and flexible procedure, by which members of its staff 
provide opinions on regulatory provisions, an essential part 
of its operations. 
It is the Board's view that the public is entitled to 
rely on a formal staff opinion unless and until it is altered by 
the Board after formal consideration. Where the issue involves a 
statement of legal position, it may be assumed that while the 
question discussed has not been presented to, nor reviewed by the 
Board, such view is believed by the staff to be legally sound and 
judicially sustainable, and would be recommended by the staff for 
Board adoption should the matter be presented to the Board. 
How-
ever, in view of the pending litigation involving the issue dis-
cussed in the staff letter of November 28, 1969, the Board deems 
it inappropriate to examine at this time the opinion contained in 
that letter and therefore is not able to comply with your request. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary / 

B O A R D 
O F G O V E R N • R S 
0.33 
• F T H E 
Item No. 10 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/25/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R O 
March 1, 1971 
M r . Eric Schnapper 
NAACP Legal Defense Fund 
10 Columbus Circle 
New York, New York 
10019 
Dear M r . Schnapper: 
This is in reply to your letter of January 20, 1971, 
concerning the request from attorneys for Chemical Bank that 
the Board indicate that a November 28, 1969, staff letter on 
Regulation Z , Truth in Lending, represents the position of the 
Board of Governors. 
A staff opinion represents the informed view of the 
particular official responding to the inquiry, who is authorized 
by the Board to express opinions on the particular subject. 
While 
it is possible that in some instances it might not represent the 
position which the Board members themselves would take if they 
formally considered the issue, the Board considers the present 
informal arid flexible procedure, by which members of its staff 
provide opinions on regulatory provisions, an essential part of 
its operations. 
It is the Board's view that the public is entitled to 
rely on a formal staff opinion unless and until it is altered by 
the Board after formal consideration. Where the issue involves 
a statement of legal position, it may be assumed that while the 
question discussed has not been presented to, nor reviewed by the 
Board, such view is believed by the staff to be legally sound and 
judicially sustainable, and would be recommended by the staff for 
Board adoption should the matter be presented to the Board. 
How-
ever, in view of the pending litigation involving the issue dis-
cussed in the staff letter of November 28, 1969, the Board deems 
it inappropriate to examine at this time the opinion contained in 
that letter and therefore has not complied with Chemical Bank's 
request 
Very truly your 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
