Minutes for February 1, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 Adoption of revised Regulation T, 
revised Regulation U, and new 
Regulation G. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below to indicate approval of the 
minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
UJ> 

> 
O 
. - ( V 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, February 1, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Ma isel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administra-
tive Services 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Miss Hart and Messrs. Plotkin and Shuter of 
the Legal Division 
Mr. Maguire of the Division of Examinations 
Mr. Smith of the Division of Administrative 
Services 

2/1/68 
-2-
Regulations T, U, and G (Items 1-5). Pursuant to the discus-
sion at the meeting on January 24, 1968, there had been distributed, 
with a memorandum dated January 31, 1968, from the Legal Division and 
the Divisions of Examinations and Research and Statistics, further 
drafts of revised Regulations T and U and new Regulation G, all relat-
ing to margin requirements for securities transactions, a proposed 
amendment to Regulation U regarding market makers in convertible secu-
rities, and a draft of press statement that would announce adoption of 
the various measures. Drafts of several forms related to the regula-
tions were also distributed, the form for purpose statements under 
Regulation U having been revised in the light of comments at the 
meeting on January 29. 
The early part of today's discussion dealt with the form of 
purpose statement to be executed by a bank for credits subject to 
Regulation U. Governor Robertson, having met with the Coordinating 
Committee on Bank Regulation, reported that the Committee believed an 
undue burden would be placed on banks by the requirement that the form 
be retained for at least six years after the termination of the credit. 
His own view was that a three-year retention requirement might be 
sufficient. 
In discussion of this point, comment was made that it 
might be desirable to include the six-year retention requirement ini-
tially, with the possibility of relaxing it if circumstances pointed 
to a need for doing so. 

401 
2/1/68 
-3-
Governor Robertson also initiated discussion of the part of 
the statement regarding the amount of other credits the bank had out-
standing to the same borrower. The present draft of the form required 
the reporting of such other credits in excess of $5,000 in the aggre-
gate; Governor Robertson suggested that the exemption of $5,000 be 
attached only to unsecured credit. The purpose of the exemption was 
to release from the reporting requirement such credit as automobile 
or appliance loans. Discussion developed general agreement with 
Governor Robertson's suggestion, as well as with a change in wording 
suggested by Governor Maisel in another part of the form. 
Chairman Martin then inquired whether the Board wished to 
consider separately the present versions of the several regulations. 
However, there was general concurrence with a suggestion by Governor 
Robertson that they be accepted in their present form, on the basis 
that the staff had done its best to carry out the Board's views 
expressed in previous lengthy discussions and that changes could be 
made later as and when justification appeared. 
In the absence of detailed discussion, Mr. Partee called 
attention to two points that the staff wished to be sure were in accord 
with the Board's wishes. One related to the retention requirement of 
70 per cent of the proceeds of a sale in an undermargined convertible 
bond account (the same retention requirement as for a stock account). 
The other was a requirement that in a stock option account the margin 

401 
2/1/68 
-4-
deficiency be repaid at the rate of 20 per cent a year (rather than 
10 per cent as specified in previous drafts). The Board indicated 
agreement with both of those provisions. 
The discussion then turned to the draft of press statement, 
and agreement was reached on several changes, principally in the 
interest of clarity. 
Unanimous approval was then given, effective on the dates indi-
cated in the following paragraph, to the amendments to Regulation T 
(Credit by Brokers, Dealers, and Members of National Securities 
Exchanges) and Regulation U (with the new title, Credit by Banks for 
the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Stocks), to the new 
Regulation G (Credit by Persons other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers 
for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity Securities), 
to the forms relating to Regulations U and G, and to the press release 
announcing these actions. Copies of the revised Regulations T and U 
are attached as Items 1 and 2, the new Regulation G as Item No. 3, and 
the press release as Item No. 4. 
One change in Regulation T, an extension from 4 to 5 days in 
the period in which a broker or dealer must obtain the customer's 
margin deposit after a transaction, was made effective February 5, 
1968. The other changes in Regulations T and U, and the new Regula-
tion G, were adopted effective March 11, 1968. Loans made by banks 
between October 20, 1967, and March 11, 1968, were required to be fully 

2/1/68 
-5-
margined by April 10; bank loans made before October 20 were not 
affected unless there had been subsequent substitutions of collateral 
or conversions into stock. Loans made by lenders subject to Regula-
tion G between February 1 and March 11, 1968, were also required to 
be fully margined by April 10. 
The Board also approved unanimously, for publication in the 
Federal Register for comment, a proposed amendment to Regulation U 
that would provide an exemption from margin requirements for market 
makers in convertible securities. A copy of the proposal, in the form 
in which it was sent to the Federal Register, is attached as Item No. 5 
Requests for hearing on margin regulations (Item No. 6). At 
the meeting on January 24, 1968, it had been understood that Governor 
Brimmer would work with the staff on a reply to be made to numerous 
letters from persons and organizations who wished to present to the 
Board in person their views regarding the published proposals relating 
to margin requirements (Regulations G, T, and U). The bulk of the 
requests dealt with the proposal to apply margin requirements to trans-
actions in convertible bonds. 
At today's meeting a draft of reply was distributed. After 
discussion reflected agreement with suggestions by Governor Brimmer 
for revisions in the draft, the form of letter was approved unanimously 
A sample of the letter subsequently addressed to correspondents who had 
requested to be heard is attached as Item No. 6. 

401 
2/1/68 
-6-
Messrs. Kelleher, Shay, Partee, Keir, Smith, Plotkin, and 
Shuter then withdrew from the meeting, as did Miss Hart. 
Eligibility for directorship. There had been distributed a 
memorandum from Mr. Morgan dated January 25, 1968, submitting the 
names of several persons whom the Board might wish to consider appoint-
ing to succeed Chairman Hirschler of the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco, who had recently died. The list included Dr. Owen Meredith 
Wilson, Director of the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral 
Sciences at Stanford University, considered by President Swan to be 
the best choice. However, a technical question was involved regarding 
his eligibility in terms of residence. Although most of his adult 
life had been spent in the Twelfth District and he had held high aca-
demic posts there, he had served in recent years as President of the 
University of Minnesota. His appointment to his present post was 
announced in August 1966, but he did not resume California residence 
and assume his new duties until July 1967. Thus a question was pre-
sented whether or not the statutory two-year residence requirement 
would be fulfilled. 
The question rested upon interpretation of paragraph 20 of 
section 4 of the Federal Reserve Act, which requires that Class C 
directors "shall have been for at least two years residents of the 
district for which they are appointed". 
In 1915 the Board's General 
Counsel expressed the view that the statutory qualification was 

401 
2/1/68 
-7-
manifestly incorporated in order that those selected would be familiar 
with the local conditions of the district. The General Counsel of the 
San Francisco Reserve Bank, in response to President Swan's request 
for his view on the question, cited the 1915 opinion of the Board's 
General Counsel and then commented that he agreed that "the purpose 
of the residence requirement is that class C directors 'be familiar 
with the local conditions'. 
If a prospective appointee has maintained 
his permanent residence in this district for periods aggregating two 
years or more, it would seem that he would meet the requirements of 
the language of the statute even though such residence is not main-
tained continuously for two years immediately preceding the appoint-
ment. Also, the purpose of the statute would be satisfied if such 
residence occurs recently enough to insure the requisite familiarity 
with local conditions that is the aim of Section 4 of the Federal 
Reserve Act." 
President Swan's letter regarding possible appointees included 
the following comment: 
"In our opinion, it would be reasonable to 
conclude that Dr. Wilson, who has an extensive background in the 
Twelfth District, has met the residence requirement. A more restric-
tive interpretation may have been justified earlier, when the residence 
requirement applied to the Chairman and Federal Reserve Agent as a 
full-time salaried position, and when there was considerably less 
mobility among business and academic leaders, but the situation is 
significantly different today." 

2/1/68 
-8-
Mr. Hexter stated that the Legal Division's view was that 
Congress had intended that all Class C directors be residents of their 
districts for two years immediately preceding appointment in order to 
insure their current knowledge of and interest in the district. 
This 
view was consistent with opinions of the Board's General Counsel in 
1916 and 1930, and also with the legislative history of the statutory 
provision in question. The language of the law admittedly did not 
specify residence for two years immediately preceding appointment, but 
it might be difficult to sustain an interpretation that that was not 
what Congress had contemplated. 
Mr. Hackley commented that while he recognized the desirability 
of obtaining qualified directors, and he was in no sense arguing against 
the appointment of Dr. Wilson, he was somewhat apprehensive that too 
liberal an interpretation of the statute might give rise to future 
difficulties. 
Further dis cussion emphasized the need to obtain capable direc-
tors such as Dr. Wilson, although some question was raised whether his 
other commitments would permit him to devote sufficient time to the 
affairs of the Reserve Bank. The view also was expressed that without 
doubt Dr. Wilson would meet the test of familiarity with district con-
ditions, and in that light it seemed unfortunate to forego an oppor-
tunity to obtain his services because of a somewhat obscure technical-
ity. Other comments reflected some reservations regarding the degree 

401 
2/1/68 
-9-
of discretion available to the Board under the law, but there was 
general agreement as to Dr. Wilson's qualifications. 
It was the con-
sensus that this was the overriding consideration. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
Chairman Martin would talk with Dr. Wilson to determine whether his 
other duties would permit him to devote sufficient attention to Reserve 
Bank responsibilities. 
If that question was resolved favorably, it was 
understood that the appointment would be made. 
Testimony on organized crime and banking. There had been dis-
tributed, with a memorandum dated January 31, 1968, from Mr. Cardon, 
a draft of statement to be presented by Governor Sherrill in response 
to an invitation by Chairman Fascell of the Subcommittee on Legal and 
Monetary Affairs of the House Committee on Government Operations that 
a representative of the Board testify on February 7, 1968, in connec-
tion with hearings regarding organized crime and banking. The Comp-
troller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, and the Securities and Exchange 
Commission also had been asked to have representatives appear. 
Several suggestions were offered by members of the Board 
regarding the 
content of the statement, principally in the direction 
of including additional information regarding current supervisory pro-
cedures. 
It was understood that the statement would be revised in 
recognition of the points made and would be presented in a final form 
satisfactory to Governor Sherrill. 

4 0 1 
2/1/68 
-10-
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been 
made available to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under 
the respective item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
7 
approving the payment of salary to Jeffrey 
Wells as Vice President and Manager of the 
Nashville Branch at the rate fixed by the 
Bank's Board of Directors. 
Letter to Chairman Sparkman of the Senate 
8 
Committee on Banking and Currency reporting 
favorably on S. 2857, a bill to eliminate 
reserve requirements for Federal Reserve 
notes and other types of currency. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board a 
memorandum from the Division of Adminis-
trative Services recommending the trans-
fer of Mildred Williams, Cafeteria Helper 
in that Division, from a part-time to a 
full-time position, with basic annual 
salary at the rate of $3,776, effective 
February 1, 1968. 
On February 1, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
items, copies of which are attached under 
the respective numbers indicated: 
By the General Counsel of the Board 
Item No. 
Order in the matter of the application of 
9 
Denver U.S. Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, 
Colorado, for a determination under sec-
tion 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act. 

1 1 9 
2/1/68 
_ U _ 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
10 
approving the appointment of Ronald E. Knodel 
as assistant examiner. 
Letter to Peoples Bank of Charles Town, Charles 
11 
Town, West Virginia, approving an investment in 
bank premises. 
By the Director of the Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
12 
City approving the appointment of Timothy J. 
Riley as Federal Reserve Agent's Representa-
tive at the Denver Branch. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking 
13 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting an 
extension of time within which to acquire 
shares of Banque de Commerce, Antwerp, 
Belgium. 
Secretary 

Item No 
REGULATION T 
2 / 1 / 6 8 
(12 CFR 220) 
As Amended effective March 11, 1968 
CREDIT 
BY BROKERS, 
DEALERS, 
AND 
MEMBERS 
OF NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGES * 
SECTION 220.1—SCOPE OF PART 
This part is issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System (hereinafter called the "Board") pursuant to the 
Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 
(called the "Act" in this 
Part),** particularly sections 7 and 8(a) thereof (15 U.S.C. 78g, 
7 8 h ( a ) ) , and applies to every member of a national securities 
exchange and to every broker or dealer who transacts a business 
in securities through the medium of any such member. 
SECTION 220.2—DEFINITIONS 
For the purposes of this part, unless the context otherwise 
requires: 
( a ) 
T h e t e r m s "person", "member", "broker", "dealer", " b u y " , 
"purchase", "sale", "sell", "seeurity", "equity security", and " b a n k " 
have the meanings given them in section 
(3a) 
of the Act 
(15 U.S.C. 7 8 c ( a ) ) . 
(b) The term "creditor" means any member of a national 
securities exchange or any broker or dealer who transacts a 
business in securities through the medium of any such member. 
(c) The term "customer" includes any person, or any group 
of persons acting jointly, (1) to or for whom a creditor is 
extending or maintaining any credit, or (2) who, in accordance 
with the ordinary usage of the trade, would be considered a 
customer of the creditor. It includes, in case the creditor is a firm, 
any partner in the firm who would be considered a customer 
of the firm if he were not a partner, and includes any joint 
adventure in which a creditor participates and which would be 
considered a customer of the creditor if the creditor were not a 
participant. 
(d) The term "registered security" means any security which 
(1) is registered on a national securities exchange; or (2) in 
* This text corresponds to the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 12, 
Chapter II, Part 220, cited as 12 CFR 220. The words "this Part," as used 
herein, mean Regulation T. 
** See Appendix. 
1 

2 
R E G U L A T I O N 
T 
SECS. 
220.2-220.3 
consequence of its having unlisted trading privileges on a na-
tional securities exchange is deemed, under the provisions of 
section 1 2 ( f ) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 7 8 0 , to be registered on a 
national securities exchange; or (3) is exempted by the Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission from the operation of section 
7 ( c ) (2) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78g(c) ( 2 ) ) only to the extent 
necessary to render lawful any direct or indirect extension or 
maintenance of credit on such security or any direct or indirect 
arrangement therefor which would not have been unlawful if 
such security had been a security 
(other than an exempted 
security) registered on a national securities exchange. 
(e) 
The term "exempted security" has the meaning given it in 
section 3 ( a ) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 78c (a) ( 1 2 ) ) , except that the 
term does not include a security which is exempted by the Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission from the operation of section 
7(c) (2) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 78g(c) ( 2 ) ) only to the extent 
described in paragraph (d) (3) of this section. 
( / ) The term "non-equity security" means any security other 
than an equity security or an exempted security. 
SECTION 220.3—GENERAL ACCOUNTS 
(a) 
Contents of general account.—All 
financial 
relations be-
tween a creditor and a customer, whether recorded in one record 
or in more than one record, shall be included in and be deemed 
to be parts of the customer's general account with the creditor, 
except that the relations which § 220.4 permits to be included 
in any special account provided for by that section may be in-
cluded in the appropriate special account, and all transactions 
in commodities, and, except to the extent provided in para-
graph (b) (2) of § 220.3, all transactions in non-equity securi-
ties, exempted securities, and in other securities having no loan 
value in a general account under the provisions of § 220.3(c) 
and § 220.8 (the Supplement to Regulation T) (except unissued 
securities, short sales, and purchases to cover short sales and 
contracts involving an endorsement or guarantee of any put, 
call. or other option), shall be included in the appropriate special 
account provided for by § 220.4. During any period when such 
§ 220.8 specifies that registered equity securities shall have no 
loan value in a general account, any transaction consisting of a 
purchase of a security other than a purchase of a security to 
reduce or close out a short position shall be effected in the special 
cash account provided for by § 220.4(c) or in some other appro-
priate special account provided for by § 220.4. 

SEC. 220.4 
REGUI^ATION 
T 
3 
(b) 
General rule—(1) 
A creditor shall not effect for or with 
any customer in a general account, special bond account sub-
ject to § 220.4 (i) or special convertible security account subject 
to § 220.4 ( / ) any transaction which, in combination with the 
other transactions effected in such account on the same day, 
creates an excess of the adjusted debit balance of such account 
over the maximum loan value of the securities in such account, 
or increases any such excess, unless in connection therewith the 
creditor obtains, as promptly as possible and in any event before 
the expiration of five full business days following the date of 
such transaction, the deposit into such account of cash or securi-
ties in such amount that the cash deposited plus the maximum 
loan value of the securities deposited equals or exceeds the excess 
so created or the increase so caused. 
(2) Except as permitted in this subparagraph, no withdrawal 
of cash or registered or exempted securities shall be permissible 
if the adjusted debit balance of the account (whether the gen-
eral account, the special bond account subject to § 220.4 (t) or 
the special convertible security account subject to § 220.4 (;')) 
would exeed the maximum loan value of the securities in such 
account after such withdrawal. The exceptions are available 
only in the event no cash or securities need to be deposited 
in such account in connection with a transaction on a previous 
day and none would need to be deposited thereafter in connec-
tion with any withdrawal of cash or securities on the current 
day. The permissible exceptions are (i) registered non-equity 
or exempted securities held in the general account on March 
11, 1068, and continuously thereafter may be withdrawn upon 
the deposit in the account of cash (or registered equity securi-
ties counted at their maximum loan value) at least equal to the 
"retention requirement" of such withdrawn securities, or 
(ii) 
except as provided in (i) of this subparagraph, securities hav-
ing loan value in the general account, the special bond account 
subject to § 220.4(i), or the special convertible security account 
subject to § 220.4 ( / ) may be withdrawn upon the deposit in such 
account of cash or securities having loan value in such account 
counted at the maximum loan value at least equal to the "reten-
tion requirement" of those securities, or (iii) cash may be with-
drawn upon the deposit in the general account, the special bond 
account subject to § 220.4 (/), or the special convertible security 
account subject to § 220.4 ( ; ) of securities having a maximum 
loan value in such account at least equal to the amount of cash 

4 
R E G U L A T I O N 
T 
SEC. 220.3 
withdrawn, or (iv) upon the sale (other than the short sale) 
of securities having loan value in the general account, special 
bond account subject to § 220.4(i) or special convertible security 
account subject to § 220.4 (/) there may be withdrawn in cash 
an amount equal to the difference between the current market 
value of the securities sold and the "retention requirement" of 
such securities, or (v) upon the sale (other than the short sale) 
of a registered non-equity security or an exempted security that 
was held in the general account on March 11, 1968 and continu-
ously thereafter there may be withdrawn in cash an amount 
equal to the difference between the current market value of the 
securities sold and the "retention requirement" of those securities 
as prescribed in § 220.8 (the Supplement to Regulation T ) . 
(3) Rules for computing the maximum loan value of the 
securities in a general account, special bond account subject to 
§ 220.4(t) 
or special convertible security account subject to 
§ 220.4(;) and the adjusted debit balance of such account are 
provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, and certain 
modifications of and exceptions to the general rule stated in this 
paragraph are provided in the subsequent paragraphs of this 
section and in § 220.6. 
( c ) 
Maximum loan value and current market value.— ( 1 ) 
T h e 
maximum loan value of the securities in a general account, spe-
cial bond account subject to § 220.4 (i), or special convertible 
security account subject to § 220.4 (;) is the sum of the maxi-
mum loan values of the individual securities in such account, 
including securities (other than unissued securities) bought for 
such account but not yet debited thereto, but excluding securi-
ties sold for such account whether or not payment has been 
credited thereto. 
(2) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, the 
maximum loan value of a security in a general account, special 
bond account subject to §220.4 (z),or special convertible security 
account subject to § 220.4 (;) shall be such maximum loan value 
as the Board shall prescribe from time to time in § 220.8 (the 
Supplement to Regulation T ) . No collateral other than an ex-
empted security or a registered non-equity security held in such 
account on March 11, 1968 and continuously thereafter, pr 
registered equity security shall have any loan value in a general 
account except that a registered equity security eligible for a 
special convertible bond account pursuant to § 220.4(j) shall 

S E C . 
2 2 0 . 4 
REGUI^ATION T 
5 
have loan value in a general account only if held in the account 
on March 11, 1968 and continuously thereafter. 
(3) A warrant or certificate which evidences only a right to 
subscribe to or otherwise acquire any security and which expires 
. within ninety days of issuance shall have no loan value in a 
general account, special bond account subject to § 220.4 (i), or 
special convertible security account subject to § 220.4(;) ; but, 
if the account contains the security to the holder of which such 
warrant or certificate has been issued and such warrant or cer-
tificate is held in an appropriate account maintained by the 
creditor for the customer the current market value of such 
security (if such security is a registered security) shall, for 
the purpose of calculating its maximum loan value, be increased 
by the current market value of such warrant or certificate. 
(4) For the current market value of a security throughout the 
day of its purchase or sale, the creditor shall use its total cost 
or the net proceeds of its sale, as the case may be, and at any 
other time shall use the closing sale price of the security on 
the preceding business day as shown by any regularly published 
leporting or quotation service. In the absence of any such closing 
sale price, the creditor may use any reasonable estimate of the 
market value of such security as of the close of business on such 
preceding business day. 
id) 
Adjusted debit balanee.—For the purpose of this Part, the 
adjusted debit balance of a general account, special bond account 
subject to § 220.4(i) 
or special convertible security account 
subject to § 220.4(;) shall be calculated by taking the sum of 
the following items: 
(1) the net debit balance, if any, of such account; 
(2) the total cost of any securities (other than unissued 
securities) bought for such account but not yet debited thereto; 
(3) the current market value of any securities (other than 
unissued securities) sold short in such account plus, for each 
such security (other than an exempted security), such amount 
as the Board shall prescribe from time to time in § 220 8 
(the Supplement to Regulation T) 
as the margin required 
-
T
™
1 
S a l G S' G X C e p t t h a t s u c h a m o u n t 
8 0 Prescribed in 
such fe 220.8 need not be included when there are held in such 
account securities exchangeable or convertible within 90 calen-
dar days, without restriction other than the payment of money, 
into such securities sold short; 
(4) the amount of margin specified by paragraph (h) 
of 
this section for every net commitment in such account in un-

6 
R E G U L A T I O N 
T 
SECS. 220.4-220.5 
issued securities, plus all unrealized losses on each commitment 
in unissued securities and minus all unrealized gains 
(not 
exceeding the required margin) on each commitment in un-
issued securities; and 
(5) the amount of any margin customarily required by the 
creditor in connection with his endorsement or guarantee of 
any put, call or other option; 
and deducting therefrom the sum of the following items: 
(6) the net credit balance, if any, of such account; and 
(7) the net proceeds of sale of any securities (other than 
unissued securities) sold for such account but for which pay-
ment has not yet been credited thereto. 
In case such account is the account of a partner of the creditor 
or the account of a joint adventure in which the creditor partici-
pates, the adjusted debit balance shall be computed according 
to the foregoing rule and the supplementary rules prescribed 
in § 220.6(a) and (ft). 
(e) Liquidation in lieu of deposit.*—In any case in which the 
deposit required by paragraph (b) of this section, or any portion 
thereof, is not obtained by the creditor within the five-day period 
specified therein, registered nonexempted securities shall be sold 
(or, to the extent that there are insufficient registered non-
exempted securities in the general account, special bond account 
subject to § 220.4(0, or special convertible security account 
subject to § 220.4 (j) 
other liquidating transactions shall be 
effected in such account), prior to the expiration of such five-
day period, in such amount that the resulting decrease in the 
adjusted debit balance of such account exceeds, by an amount 
at least as great as such required deposit or the undeposited 
portion thereof, the "retention requirement" of any registered 
or exempted securities sold: Provided, 
That a creditor is not 
required to sell securities or to effect other liquidating transac-
tions specified by this paragraph in an amount greater than 
necessary to eliminate the excess of the adjusted debit balance 
of such account over the maximum loan value of the securities 
remaining in such account after such liquidation. 
(/) Extensions of time—In exceptional cases, the 
five-day 
period specified in paragraph (b) of this section may, on appli-
'" This requirement relates to the action to be taken when a customer 
fails to make the deposit required by § 220.3(6), and it is not intended to 
countenance^on the part of customers the practice commonly known as 
tree-riding 
to prevent which the principal national securities exchanges 
have adopted certain rules. See the rules of such exchanges and § 220.7(e). 

S E C . 220.4 
REGUI^ATION 
T 
7 
cation of the creditor, be extended for one or more limited 
periods commensurate with the circumstances by any regularly 
constituted committee of a national securities exchange having 
jurisdiction over the business conduct of its members, of which 
exchange the creditor is a member or through which his transac-
tions are effected, provided such committee is satisfied that the 
creditor is acting in good faith in making the application and 
that the circumstances are in fact exceptional and warrant 
such action. 
(g) 
Transactions on given day—For the purposes of paragraph 
(b) 
of this section, the question of whether or not an excess 
of the adjusted debit balance of a general account, special bond 
account subject to § 220.4 (t), or special convertible bond account 
subject to § 220.4 (j) over the maximum loan value of the securi-
ties in such account is created or increased on a given day shall 
be determined on the basis of all the transactions in the account 
on such day exclusive of any deposit of cash, deposit of securities, 
covering transaction or other liquidation that has been effected 
on such day, pursuant to the requirement of paragraphs 
(b) 
or (e) of this section, in connection with a transaction on a 
previous day. In any case in which an excess so created, or in-
creased so caused, by transactions on a given day does not ex-
ceed $100, the creditor need not obtain the deposit specified 
therefor in subparagraph (b)(1) 
of this section. Any transac-
tion which serves to meet the requirements of paragraph 
(e) 
of this section or otherwise serves to permit any offsetting 
transaction in an account shall, to that extent, be unavailable to 
permit any other transaction in such account. For the purposes of 
this Part (Regulation T), if a security has maximum loan value 
under subparagraph (c) (1) of this section in a general account, 
special bond account subject to § 220.4 (i), or special convertible 
security account subject to § 220.4 (;) a sale of the same security 
(even though not the same certificate) in such account shall be 
deemed to be a long sale and shall not be deemed to be or treated 
as a short sale. 
(h) 
Unissued securities—(1) The amount to be included in the 
adjusted debit balance of a general account, special bond account 
subject to § 220.4 (?'), or special convertible security account 
subject to § 220.4 (j) as the margin required for a net long com-
mitment in unissued securities shall be the current market value 
of the net amount of unissued securities long minus the maxi-
mum loan value which such net amount of securities would have 

8 
R E G U L A T I O N 
T 
SECS. 220.4-220.5 
if they were issued registered securities held in such account; and 
the amount to be so included as the margin required for a net 
short commitment in unissued securities shall be the amount 
which would be required as margin for the net amount of un-
issued securities short if such securities were issued securities 
and were sold short in such account: Provided, That no amount 
need be included as margin for a net short commitment in un-
issued securities when there are held in such account securities 
in respect of which the unissued securities are to be issued, nor 
for any net position in unissued securities that are exempted 
securities. 
(2) Whenever a creditor, pursuant to a purchase of an un-
issued security for a customer, receives an issued security which 
is not a registered or exempted security, the creditor shall treat 
any payment by him for such issued security as a transaction 
(other than a withdrawal which increases the adjusted debit 
balance of a general account, special bond account subject to 
8 
n°'4 ^ ' 
° r 
s p e c i a l convertible security account subject to 
8 - 2 0 . 4 0 ) by the amount of the payment minus the amount re-
quired to be included in the adjusted debit balance of such 
account, at the time of and in connection with the purchase of 
the unissued security, as the margin required for such purchase. 
SECTION 220.4—SPECIAL ACCOUNTS 
(a) General rule—(1) Pursuant to this section, a creditor 
may establish for any customer one or more special accounts. 
(2) Each such special account shall be recorded separately 
and shall be confined to the transactions and relations specifically 
authorized for such account by the appropriate paragraph of this 
section and to transactions and relations incidental to those 
specifically authorized. An adequate record shall be maintained 
showing for each such account the full details of all transactions 
in the account. 
(3) A special account established pursuant to this section 
shall not be used in any way for the purpose of evading or 
circumventing any of the provisions of this Part. If a customer 
has with a creditor both a general account and one or more 
such special accounts, the creditor shall treat each such special 
account as if the customer had with the creditor no general ac-
count, special bond account subject to § 220.4(0, or special con-
vertible security account subject to § 220.4 ( ; ) . 

SEC. 220.4 
REGUI^ATION 
T 
9 
(4) The only other conditions to which transactions in such 
special accounts shall be subject under the provisions of this 
Part shall be such conditions as are specified in the appropriate 
paragraph of this section and in §§ 220.2, 220.6, or 220.7. 
(b) Special omnibus account—In a special omnibus account, a 
member of a national securities exchange may effect and finance 
transactions for a broker or dealer from whom the member 
accepts in good faith a signed statement to the effect that he is 
subject to the provisions of this Part (or that he does not extend 
or maintain credit to or for customers except in accordance 
therewith as if he were subject thereto) and from whom the 
member receives (1) written notice, pursuant to a rule of the 
Securities and Exchange Commission concerning the hypothe-
cation of customers' securities by brokers or dealers (Rule 8c-l 
(17 CFR § 240.8c-l) or Rule 15c2-l (17 CFR § 240.15c2-l)), to 
the effect that all securities carried in the account will be car-
ried for the account of the customers of the broker or dealer 
and (2) written notice that any short sales effect in the account 
will be short sales made in behalf of the customers of the broker 
or dealer other than his partners. 
(c) Special cash account—(1) In a special cash account, a 
creditor may effect for or with any customer bona fide cash 
transactions in securities in which the creditor may: 
(i) Purchase any security for, or sell any security to, any 
customer, provided funds sufficient for the purpose are already 
held in the account or the purchase or sale is in reliance upon 
an agreement accepted by the creditor in good faith that the 
customer will promptly make full cash payment for the 
security and that the customer does not contemplate selling 
the security prior to making such payment. 
(ii) Sell any security for, or purchase any security from, 
any customer, provided the security is held in the account or 
the creditor is informed that the customer or his principal 
owns the security and the purchase or sale is in reliance upon 
an agreement accepted by the creditor in good faith that the 
security is to be promptly deposited in the account. 
(2) In case a customer purchases a security 
(other than 
an exempted security) in the special cash account and does not 
make full cash payment for the security within 7 days after the 
date on which the security is so purchased, the creditor shall, 
except as provided in subparagraphs (3) — ( 7 ) of this paragraph, 
promptly cancel or otherwise liquidate the transaction or the 
unsettled portion thereof. 

10 
R E G U L A T I O N 
T 
SEC. 220.4 
(3) If the security when so purchased is an unissued security, 
the period applicable to the transaction under subparagraph (2) 
of this paragraph shall be 7 days after the date on which the 
security is made available by the issuer for delivery to pur-
chasers. If the security when so purchased is a "when distrib-
uted" security which is to be distributed in accordance with a 
published plan, the period applicable to the transaction under 
subparagraph (2) of this paragraph shall be 7 days after the 
date on which the security is so distributed. If the security 
when so purchased is a new security issued or to be issued for 
the purpose of refunding outstanding securities which mature, 
or are to be payable upon presentation for redemption, within 
35 days of the date on which the new security is made available 
by the issuer for delivery to purchasers, the period applicable 
to the transaction under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph 
shall be 7 days after such maturity or payment date: 
Provided, 
That this sentence shall apply only to the payment of that portion 
of the purchase price that does not exceed 103 per cent of the 
amount that will be payable to the purchaser of the new security 
upon such maturity of, or payment for, securities owned by him 
at the time of the purchase. 
(4) If any shipment of securities is incidental to the consum-
mation of the transaction, the period applicable to the transac-
tion under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph shall be deemed 
to be extended by the number of days required for all such 
shipments, but not by more than 7 days. 
(5) If the creditor, acting in good faith in accordance with 
subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, purchases a security for 
a customer, or sells a security to a customer, with the under-
standing that he is to deliver the security promptly to the 
customer, and the full cash payment to be made promptly by 
the customer is to be made against such delivery, the creditor 
may at his option treat the transaction as one to which the 
period applicable under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph 
is not the 7 days therein specified but 35 days after the date of 
such purchase or sale. 
(6) If an appropriate committee of a national securities ex-
change or a national securities association is satisfied that the 
creditor is acting in good faith in making the application, that 
the application relates to a bona fide cash transaction, and that 
exceptional circumstances warrant such action, such committee, 
on application of the creditor, may (i) extend any period speci-

SEC. 220.4 
REGUI^ATION 
T 
11 
fied in subparagraphs (2), (3), (4) or (5) of this paragraph for 
one or more limited periods commensurate with the circum-
stances, or (ii), in case a security purchased by the customer in 
the special cash account is a registered or exempted security, 
authorize transfer of the transaction to a general account, special 
bond account subject to § 220.4(f), special convertible security 
account subject to § 220.4 ( / ) , or special omnibus account and 
completion of the transaction pursuant to the provisions of this 
Part relating to such an account. 
(7) The 7-day periods specified in this paragraph refer to 
7 full business days. The 35-day period and the 90-day period 
specified in this paragraph refer to calendar days, but if the 
last day of any such period is a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, 
such period shall be considered to end on the next full business 
day. For the purposes of this paragraph, a creditor may, at his 
option, disregard any sum due by the customer not exceeding 
$100. 
(8) Unless funds sufficient for the purpose are already in the 
account, no security other than an exempted security shall be 
purchased for, or sold to, any customer in a special cash account 
with the creditor if any security other than an exempted secu-
rity has been purchased by such customer in such an account 
during the preceding 90 days, and then, for any reason whatever, 
without having been previously paid for in full by the customer, 
the security has been sold in the account or delivered out to 
any broker or dealer: Provided, 
That an appropriate committee 
of a national securities exchange or a national securities associa-
tion, on application of the creditor, may authorize the creditor 
to disregard for the purposes of this subparagraph any given 
instance of the type therein described if the committee is satis-
fied that both creditor and customer are acting in good faith and 
that circumstances warrant such authorization. For the purposes 
of this subparagraph, the cancellation of a transaction, otherwise 
than to correct an error, shall be deemed to constitute a sale. 
The creditor may disregard for the purposes of this subpara-
graph a sale without prior payment provided full cash payment 
is received within the period described by subparagraph (2) of 
this paragraph and the customer has not withdrawn the proceeds 
of sale on or before the day on which such payment (and also 
final payment of any check received in that connection) 
is 
received. The creditor may so disregard a delivery of a security 
to another broker or dealer provided such delivery was for 

12 
R E G U L A T I O N 
T 
SECS. 220.4-220.5 
deposit into a special cash account which the latter broker or 
dealer maintains for the same customer and in which account 
there are already sufficient funds to pay for the security so 
purchased; and for the purpose of determining in that connection 
the status of a customer's account at another broker or dealer, 
a creditor may rely upon a written statement which he accepts 
in good faith from such other broker or dealer. 
(d) Special arbitrage account.—In a special arbitrage account, 
a member of a national securities exchange may effect and finance 
for any customer bona fide arbitrage transactions in securities. 
For the purposes of this paragraph, the term "arbitrage" means 
(1) a purchase or sale of a security in one market together 
with an offsetting sale or purchase of the same security in a 
different market at as nearly the same time as practicable, for 
the purpose of taking advantage of a difference in prices in 
the two markets, or 
(2) a purchase of a security which is, 
without restriction other than the payment of money, exchange-
able or convertible within 90 calendar days following the date 
of its purchase into a second security together with an offsetting 
sale at or about the same time of such second security, for the 
purpose of taking advantage of a disparity in the prices of the 
two securities. 
(f>) Special commodity account—In a special commodity ac-
count, a creditor may effect and carry for any customer trans-
actions in commodities. 
(/) Special miscellaneous account.—In a special miscellaneous 
account, a creditor may: 
(1) With the approval of any regularly constituted commit-
tee of a national securities exchange having jurisdiction over 
the business conduct of its members, extend and maintain credit 
to meet the emergency needs of any creditor; 
(2) (i) Extend and maintain credit, (a) to or for any part-
ner of a firm which is a member of a national securities exchange 
to enable such partner to make a contribution of capital to such 
firm, or to purchase stock in an affiliated corporation of such 
firm; 
or (b) to or for any person who is or will become the 
holder of stock of a corporation which is a member of a national 
securities exchange to enable such person to purchase stock in 
such corporation, or to purchase stock in an affiliated corpora-
tion of such corporation; provided the lender as well as the 
borrower is a partner in such member firm or a stockholder in 
such member corporation, or the lender is a firm or a stock-
holder in such member corporation, or the lender is a firm or 

SEC. 220.4 
REGUI^ATION 
T 
13 
corporation which is a member of a national securities exchange 
and the borrower is a partner in such firm or a stockholder in 
such corporation; 
(ii) Extend and maintain subordinated credit to another 
creditor for capital purposes: Provided, That, 
(a) Either the lender or the borrower is a firm or corpo-
ration which is a member of a national securities exchange, 
the other party to the credit is an affiliated corporation of such 
member firm or corporation, and, in addition to the fact that 
an appropriate committee of the exchange is satisfied that the 
credit is not in contravention of any rule of the exchange, the 
credit has the approval of such committee, or 
(b) The lender as well as the borrower is a member of 
such exchange, the credit has the approval of an appropriate 
committee of the exchange, and the committee, in addition to 
being satisfied that the credit is not in contravention of any 
rule of the exchange, is satisfied that the credit is outside the 
ordinary course of the lender's business, and that, if the bor-
rower's firm or corporation or an affiliated corporation of such 
firm or corporation does any dealing in securities for its own 
account, the credit is not for the purpose of increasing the 
amount of such dealing. 
(iii) For the purpose of subdivisions (i) and (ii) of this 
subparagraph, the term "affiliated corporation" means a corpo-
ration all the common stock of which is owned directly or in-
directly by the member firm or general partners and employees 
of the firm, or by the member corporation or holders of voting 
stock and employees of the corporation and an appropriate 
committee of the exchange has approved the member firm's or 
member corporation's affiliation with such affiliated corporation. 
(3) Purchase any security from any customer who is a 
broker or dealer, or sell any security to such customer: 
Provided, 
That the creditor acting in good faith purchases or sells the 
security for delivery, against full payment of the purchase price, 
as promptly as practicable in accordance with the ordinary 
usage of the trade; 
(4) Effect and finance, for any member of a national secu-
rities exchange who is registered and acts as an odd-lot dealer 
in securities on the exchange, such member's transactions as an 
odd-lot dealer in such securities, or effect and finance, for any 
joint adventure in which the creditor participates, any trans-
actions in any securities of an issue with respect to which all 
participants, or all participants other than the creditor, are 

14 
R E G U L A T I O N 
T 
SECS. 220.4-220.5 
registered and act on a national securities exchange as odd-lot 
dealers; 
(5) Effect transactions for and finance any joint adventure 
or group in which the creditor participates and in which all par-
ticipants are dealers (whether such participants be acting jointly 
or severally), or any member thereof or participant therein, 
for the purpose of facilitating the underwriting or distributing 
of all or part of an issue of securities (i) not through medium 
of a national securities exchange, or (ii) the distribution of 
which has been approved by the appropriate committee of a 
national securities exchange; 
(6) Effect for any customer the collection or exchange 
(other than by sale or purchase) of securities deposited by the 
customer specifically for such purposes, and (subject to any other 
applicable provisions of law) receive from or for any customer, 
and pay out or deliver to or for any customer, any money or 
securities; 
(7) Effect and carry for any customer transactions 
in 
foreign exchange; and 
(8) Extend and maintain credit to or for any customer 
without collateral or on any collateral whatever for any purpose 
other than purchasing or carrying or trading in securities. 
(ff) Specialist's account—In a special account designated as 
a specialist's account, a creditor may effect and finance, for any 
member of a national securities exchange who is registered and 
acts as a specialist in securities on the exchange, such member's 
transactions as a specialist in such securities, or effect and 
finance, 
for any joint adventure in which the creditor partici-
pates, any transactions in any securities of an issue with respect 
to which all participants, or all participants other than the 
creditor, are registered and act on a national securities exchange 
as specialists. Such specialist's account shall be subject to the 
same conditions to which it would be subject if it were a general 
account except that if the specialist's exchange, in addition to 
the other requirements applicable to specialists, is designated 
by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as 
requiring reports suitable for supplying current 
information 
regarding specialists' use of credit pursuant to this paragraph, 
the requirements of 
§ 220.6(6) 
regarding joint 
adventures 
shall not apply to such account and the maximum loan value of 
a registered security in such account shall be as determined by 
the creditor in good faith. 
(h) Special subscriptions account—In a special subscriptions 

S E C . 
2 2 0 . 4 
REGUI^ATION 
T 
15 
account a creditor may effect and finance the acquisition of a 
registered security for a customer through the exercise of a right 
to acquire such security which is evidenced by a warrant or 
certificate issued to stockholders and expiring within 90 days 
of issuance, and such special subscriptions account shall be 
subject to the same conditions to which it would be subject if 
it were a general account, except that: 
(1) Each such acquisition shall be treated separately in the 
account, and prior to initiating the transaction the creditor shall 
obtain a deposit of cash in the account such that the cash 
deposited plus the maximum loan value of the securities so 
acquired equals or exceeds the subscription price, giving effect 
to a maximum loan value for the securities so acquired of 75 
per cent of their current market value as determined by any 
reasonable method; 
(2) After October 20, 1967, at the time when credit is ex-
tended pursuant to this paragraph, the creditor shall compute 
the amount by which the credit exceeds the maximum loan value 
ol the collateral as prescribed by § 220.8 (the Supplement to 
regulation T) 
and the customer shall reduce the credit by 
an amount equal to at least one-fourth of such sum by the end 
ol each of the four succeeding three-calendar-month periods or 
until the credit does not exceed the current maximum loan value 
ol the collateral, whichever shall occur first, and, if the creditor 
tails to obtain the required quarterly reduction or a portion 
thereof with respect to a particular acquisition within five full 
business days after such reduction is due, the creditor shall 
promptly liquidate a portion of the collateral so acquired and 
apply the proceeds of the sale to reduce the credit, in an amount 
equal to at least twice the required payment or portion thereof 
tor the first two such liquidations, at least equal to the required 
payment or portion thereof for the third such liquidation, and 
at least sufficient so that the remaining credit does not exceed 
the current maximum loan value of the remaining collateral 
alter the fourth such liquidation: Provided, 
That, no such liqui-
dation need be in an amount greater than is necessary so that 
the remaining credit does not exceed the maximum loan value 
of the remaining collateral determined as of the date the credit 
was extended: And provided 
further, 
That as to loans made 
between October 20, 1967, and March 11, 1968 such four suc-
ceeding periods shall begin on March 11, 1968; and 
(3) The creditor shall not permit any withdrawal of cash or 
securities from the account so long as the remaining credit 

16 
R E G U L A T I O N 
T 
SECS. 
220.4-220.5 
exceeds the maximum loan value of the remaining collateral in 
the account, except that when the remaining credit extended in 
connection with a given acquisition of securities in the account 
has become equal to or less than the maximum loan value of 
such securities as prescribed in § 220.8 (the Supplement to Reg-
ulation T) 
(or in connection with an acquisition after October 
20, 19G7, the requirements of subparagraph (2) of this section 
have been fulfilled), such securities shall be transferred to the 
general account (or, if eligible, to a special convertible security 
account pursuant to § 220.4 ( ; ) ) together with any remaining 
portion of such credit. In order to facilitate the exercise of a 
right in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, a 
creditor may permit the right to be transferred from a general 
account to the special subscriptions account without regard to 
any other requirement of this Part. 
(1) Special bond account—In a special bond account a creditor 
may effect and finance transactions in exempted securities and 
registered non-equity securities for any customer. 
( j ) 
Special convertible security account 
(1) 
In a special c o n -
vertible security account a creditor may extend credit on any 
registered equity security consisting of a security convertible 
into stock or a security carrying a warrant or right to subscribe 
to or purchase stock. 
(2) A special convertible security account shall be subject to 
the same conditions to which it would be subject if it were a 
general account except that the maximum loan value of the 
securities in the account shall be as prescribed from time to time 
in § 220.8 (the Supplement to Regulation T ) . 
(3) Any security which ceases to be an equity security while 
held in this account shall continue to be treated as an equity 
security as long as it is continuously held in this account. 
(4) In the event that any stock is substituted for security 
held in this account such stock shall thereupon be transferred to 
the customer's general account against a deposit of cash or 
registered equity securities eligible for an extension of credit 
in this account (counted at their maximum loan value) equal 
to at least the maximum loan value of the security for which 
such substitution is made. 
SECTION 220.5—BORROWING BY MEMBERS, 
BROKERS, AND DEALERS 
(a) General rule—It is unlawful for any creditor, directly or 
indirectly, to borrow in the ordinary course of business as a 

SECS. 
220.5-220.6 
R E G U L A T I O N 
T 
17 
broker or dealer on any registered security 
(other than an 
exempted security) except: 
(1) from or through a member bank of the Federal Reserve 
System; or 
(2) from any nonmember bank which shall have filed with 
the Board an agreement which is still in force and which is in 
the form prescribed by this Part; or 
(3) to the extent to which, under the provisions of this 
Part, loans are permitted between members of a national secu-
rities exchange and/or brokers and/or dealers, or loans are 
permitted to meet emergency needs. 
(b) 
Agreements of nonmember banks 
A n a g r e e m e n t filed p u r -
suant to section 8 ( a ) of the Act (15 XJ.S.C. 7 8 h ( a ) ) by a bank 
not a member of the Federal Reserve System shall be substantially 
in the form contained in Form F.R. T-2 if the bank has its 
principal place of business in a territory or insular possession 
of the United States, or if it has an office or agency in the 
United States and its principal place of business outside the 
United States. The agreement filed by any other nonmember 
bank shall be in substantially the form contained in Form F.R. 
T-l. Any nonmember bank which has executed any such agree-
ment may terminate the agreement if it obtains the written 
consent of the Board. Blank forms of such agreements, informa-
tion 
regarding 
their 
filing 
or termination, and 
information 
regarding the names of nonmember banks for which such agree-
ments are in force, may be obtained from any Federal Reserve 
Bank. 
( c ) 
Borrowing from other creditors 
A c r e d i t o r m a y 
b o r r o w 
from another creditor in the ordinary course of business as a 
broker or dealer on any registered security to the extent and 
subject to the terms upon which the latter may extend credit to 
him in accordance with the provisions of this Part, and subject 
to any other applicable provisions of law. 
SECTION 220.6—CERTAIN TECHNICAL DETAILS 
(a) 
Accounts of partners—In case a general account, special 
bond account subject to § 220.4 (t), or special convertible security 
account subject to § 220.4 ( / ) is the account of a partner of the 
creditor, the creditor, in calculating the adjusted debit balance 
of such account and the maximum loan value of the securities 
therein, shall disregard the partner's 
financial 
relations with 
the firm as reflected in his capital and ordinary drawing ac-
counts. 

18 
R E G U L A T I O N 
T 
SEC. 220.6 
(b) Contribution to joint adventure—In case a general account, 
special bond account subject to § 220.4(0, or special convertible 
security account subject to § 220.4 (/) is the account of a joint 
adventure in which the creditor participates, the adjusted debit 
balance of such account shall include, in addition to the items 
specified in § 220.3(d), any amount by which the creditor's con-
tribution to the joint adventure exceeds the contribution which 
he would have made if he had contributed merely in proportion 
to his right to share in the profits of the joint adventure. 
(c) Guaranteed accounts—No guarantee of a customer's ac-
count shall be given any effect for purposes of this Part. 
{d) Transfer of accounts—(1) I n the event of the transfer of 
a general account, special bond account subject to § 220.4(0, 
or special convertible security account subject to § 220.4(0 
from one creditor to another, such account may be treated for 
the purposes of this Part as if it had been maintained by the 
transferee from the date of its origin: Provided, That, the trans-
feree accepts in good faith a signed statement of the transferor 
that no cash or securities need be deposited in such account in 
connection with any transaction that has been effected in such 
account or, in case he finds that it is not practicable to obtain 
such a statement from the transferor, accepts in good faith 
such a signed statement from the customer. 
(2) In the event of the transfer of a general account, special 
bond account subject to § 220.4(0, or special convertible secur-
ity account subject to § 220.4 ( j ) , from one customer to another, 
or to others, as a bona fide incident to a transaction that is not 
undertaken for the purpose of avoiding the requirements of 
this Part, each such transferee account may be treated by the 
creditor for the purposes of this Part as if it had been main-
tained for the transferee from the date of its origin: 
Provided, 
That, the creditor accepts in good faith and keeps with such 
transferee account a signed statement of the transferor describ-
ing the circumstances giving rise to the transfer. 
(c) Reorganizations—A creditor may, without regard to the 
other provisions of this Part, effect for a customer the exchange 
of any registered or exempted security in a general account, 
special bond account subject to § 220.4 (i), or special convertible 
security account subject to § 220.4(/), for the purpose of par-
ticipating in a reorganization or recapitalization in which the 
security is involved: Provided, 
That if an unregistered non-
exempted security is acquired in exchange, the creditor shall 
not, for a period of 60 days following such acquisition, permit 

S E C . 220.4 
REGUI^ATION 
T 
19 
the withdrawal of such security or the proceeds of its sale from 
such account except to the extent that such security or proceeds 
could be withdrawn if the security were a registered security 
( / ) 
Time of reeeipt of funds or securities 
F o r the purposes 
of this Part, a creditor may, at his option (1) treat the receipt 
in good faith of any check or draft drawn on a bank which in 
the ordinary course of business is payable on presentation, or 
any order on a savings bank with passbook attached which is 
so payable, as receipt of payment of the amount of such check, 
draft or order; (2) treat the shipment of securities in good faith 
with sight draft attached as receipt of payment of the amount 
of such sight draft; and (3) in the case of the receipt in good 
faith of written or telegraphic notice in connection with a special 
omnibus account of a customer not located in the same city 
that a specified security or a check or draft has been dispatched 
to the creditor, treat the receipt of such notice as receipt of 
such security, check or draft: Provided, 
however, 
That if the 
creditor receives notice that such check, draft, order, or sight 
draft described in subparagraphs (1),(2), or (3) if this para-
graph is not paid on the day of presentation, or if such security, 
check or draft described in subparagraph (3) of this paragraph 
is not received by the creditor within a reasonable time, the 
creditor shall promptly take such action as he would have been 
required to take by the appropriate provisions of this Part if 
the provisions of this paragraph had not been utilized. 
iff) 
Interest, 
serviee 
charges, 
etc 
(1) 
Interest 
on 
credit 
maintained in a general account, special bond account subject to 
§ 220.4(0, or special convertible security account subject to 
§ 220.4 0'), communication charges with respect to transactions 
in such account, shipping charges, premiums on securities bor-
rowed in connection with short sales or to effect delivery, divi-
dends or other distributions due on borrowed securities, and 
any service charges (other than commissions) which the creditor 
may impose, may be debited to such account in accordance with 
the usual practice and without regard to the other provisions 
of this Part, but such items so debited shall be taken into con-
sideration in calculating the net credit or net debit balance of 
such account. 
(2) A creditor may permit interest, dividends or other dis-
tributions received by the creditor with respect to securities in 
a genera] account, special bond account subject to § 220.4(0, 
or special convertible security account subject to § 220.4 ( j ) , 
to be withdrawn from such account only on condition that the 
adjusted debit balance of such account does not exceed the 

20 
R E G U L A T I O N 
T 
SECS. 220.4-220.5 
maximum loan value of the securities in such account after such 
withdrawal, or on condition that (i) such withdrawal is made 
within 35 days after the day on which, in accordance with the 
creditor's usual practice, such interest, dividends or other dis-
tributions are entered in such account, (ii) such entry in the 
account has not served in the meantime to permit in the account 
any transaction which could not otherwise have been effected 
in accordance with this Part, and (iii) any cash withdrawn does 
not represent any arrearage on the security with respect to 
which it was distributed, and the current market value of any 
securities withdrawn does not exceed 10 per cent of the current 
market value of the security with respect to which they were 
distributed. Failure by a creditor to obtain in a general account, 
special bond account subject to § 220.4(0, or special convertible 
security account subject to § 220.4 ( ; ) , any cash or securities 
that are distributed with respect to any security in such account 
shall, except to the extent that withdrawal would be permitted 
under the preceding sentence, be deemed to be a transaction 
in such account which occurs on the day on which the distribu-
tion is payable and which requires the creditor to obtain in 
accordance with § 220.3(6) a deposit of cash or maximum loan 
value of securities at least as great as that of the distribution. 
(h) Borrowing and lending securities 
Without regard to the 
other provisions of this Part, a creditor (1) may make a bona 
fide deposit of cash in order to borrow securities 
(whether 
registered or unregistered) for the purpose of making delivery 
of such securities in the case of short sales, failure to receive 
securities he is required to deliver, or other similar cases, and 
(2) may lend securities for such purpose against such a deposit. 
(i) Credit for clearance of securities—The extension or main-
tenance of any credit which is maintained for only a fraction 
of a day (that is, for only part of the time between the beginning 
of business and midnight on the same day) shall be disregarded 
for the purposes of this Part, if it is incidental to the clearance 
of transactions in securities directly between members of a na-
tional securities exchange or through an agency organized or 
employed by such members for the purpose of effecting such 
clearance. 
(/) Foreign currency—If foreign currency is capable of being 
converted without restriction into United States currency, a 
creditor acting in good faith may treat any such foreign cur-
rency in an account as a credit to the account in an amount 
determined in accordance with customary practice. 

SECS. 
220.6-220.7 
R E G U L A T I O N 
T 
21 
(k) 
Innocent mistakes—If any failure to comply with this 
Part results from a mechanical mistake made in good faith in 
executing a transaction, recording, determining, or calculating 
any loan, balance, market price or loan value, or other similar 
matter, the creditor shall not be deemed guilty of a violation 
of this Part if promptly after the discovery of such mistake he 
takes whatever action may be practicable in the circumstances 
to remedy such mistake. 
S E C T I O N 
2 2 0 . 7 — M I S C E L L A N E O U S 
P R O V I S I O N S 
(a) Arranging for loans by others—A creditor may arrange for 
the extension or maintenance of credit to or for any customer of 
such creditor by any person upon the same terms and conditions 
as those upon which the creditor, under the provisions of this 
Part, may himself extend or maintain such credit to such cus-
tomer, but only upon such terms and conditions, except that this 
limitation shall not apply with respect to the arranging by a 
creditor for a bank subject to Part 221 of this chapter (Regula-
tion U) to extend or maintain credit on registered securities or 
exempted securities. 
(b) 
Maintenance of credit.—Except as otherwise specifically 
forbidden by this Part, any credit initially extended without 
violation of this Part may be maintained regardless of 
(1) 
reductions in the customer's equity resulting from changes in 
market prices, (2) the fact that any security in an account ceases 
to be registered or exempted, and (3) any change in the maxi-
mum loan values or margin requirements prescribed by the 
Board under this Part. In maintaining any such credit, the 
creditor may accept or retain for his own protection additional 
collateral of any description, including unregistered securities. 
(C) Declaration as to purpose of loan 
Every extension of 
credit on a registered security (other than an exempted secur-
ity) shall be deemed to be for the purpose of purchasing or 
carrying or trading in securities, unless the creditor has accepted 
in good faith a written statement by the customer signed by 
the customer which shall state the use to be made of such credit 
and which shall state specifically that such credit is neither for 
the purpose of purchasing or carrying or trading in securities 
nor for the purpose of evading or circumventing the provisions 
of this Part. To accept the customer's statement in good faith, 
the creditor must (1) be alert to the circumstances surround-
ing the extension of credit and (2) if he has any information 
which would cause a prudent man not to accept the statement 

22 
R E G U L A T I O N 
T 
SEC. 220.7 
without inquiry, have investigated and be satisfied that the cus-
tomer's statement is truthful. A creditor may rely upon such a 
written statement if accepted in accordance with this paragraph. 
(d) Reports—Every creditor shall make such reports as the 
Board may require to enable the Board to perform the functions 
conferred upon t by the Act. 
(r>) Additional 
requirements 
by 
exchanges 
and 
creditors.— 
Nothing in this Part shall 
(1) 
prevent any exchange from 
adopting and enforcing any rule or regulation further restricting 
the time or manner in which its members must obtain initial 
or additional margin in customers' accounts because of trans-
actions effected in such accounts, or requiring such members 
to secure or maintain higher margins, or further restricting the 
amount of credit which may be extended or maintained by them, 
or (2) modify or restrict the right of any creditor to require 
additional security for the maintenance of any credit, to refuse 
to extend credit, or to sell any securities or property held as 
collateral for any loan or credit extended by him. 
( / ) Acting as agent—No creditor shall act as agent of any 
person extending credit which the creditor knows or should 
know is secured directly or indirectly by any registered security 
unless the creditor accepts in good faith a statement signed by 
such person that he does not extend or maintain credit to or for 
borrowers in violation of Parts 207, 220, or 221 of this Chapter 
(Regulations G, T or U). For this purpose, such activities of 
an "agent" include, for example, receiving securities to be used 
as collateral for such credit, determining whether the market 
value of the collateral for such credit is adequate, and requir-
ing the deposit of additional collateral or the reduction of such 
credit. In determining whether there has been an extension of 
credit subject to the provisions of Parts 207, 220, or 221 of this 
Chapter, and whether he can rely in good faith on the statement 
described herein, the creditor must (1) be alert to the circum-
stances surrounding the extension of credit and (2) if he has 
any information that would cause a prudent man not to accept 
the statement without inquiry, must have investigated and be 
satisfied that the credit either is not subject to such Part or is 
extended or maintained in conformity with the provisions of 
such Part. 
Section 220.8 (the Supplement to Regulation T ) , prescribing maximum 
loan values, margin required for short sales and retention requirements, 
which are changed from time to time, is printed separately. 

SUPPLEMENT T O REGULATION 
T 
Section 220.8—SUPPLEMENT 
ISSUED BY THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Effective March 11, 1968 
( а ) Maximum loan value for general accounts.—The maximum 
loan value of securities in a general account subject to § 220.3 
shall be: 
(1) of a registered non-equity security held in the account 
on March 11, 1968 and continuously thereafter and of a regis-
tered equity security 
(except as provided in § 220.3(c) 
and 
§ 220.8(b), 30 per cent of the current market value of such 
securities. 
(2) of an exempted security held in the account on March 
11, 1968, and continuously thereafter the maximum loan value 
of the security as determined by the creditor in good faith. 
(б) 
Maximum 
loan value for special convertible security ac-
count—The maximum loan value of a registered equity security 
eligible for a special convertible security account pursuant to 
§ 220.4 (;') shall be 50 per cent of the current market value of 
the security. 
(c) Margin required for short sales.—The amount to be in-
cluded in the adjusted debit balance of a general account, pur-
suant to 
§ 220.3 (d) (3), 
special 
bond 
account 
pursuant 
to 
§ 2 2 0 . 4 ( 0 , or special convertible security account subject to 
§ 220.4 (;) as margin required for short sales of securities (other 
than exempted securities) shall be 70 per cent of the current 
market value of each such security. 
(d) 
Retention requirement—(1) In the case of a general ac-
count which would have an excess of the adjusted debit balance 
of the account over the maximum loan value of the securities 
in the account following a withdrawal of cash or securities from 
the account, pursuant to § 220.3(6) (2), the "retention require-
ment" of an exempted security held in the account on March 
11, 1968, and continuously thereafter shall be equal to its maxi-
mum loan value as determined by the creditor in good faith, 
and the "retention 
requirement" of a registered 
non-equity 
security held in the account on March 11, 1968, and continuously 

REGULATION T SUPPLEMENT 
thereafter and of a registered equity security shall be 70 per 
cent of the current market value of the security. 
(2) In the case of a special convertible security account sub-
ject to § 220.4 ( / ) which would have an excess of the adjusted 
debit balance of the account over the maximum loan value of 
the securities in the account following a withdrawal of cash or 
securities from the account the retention requirement of a secur-
ity having loan value in the account shall be 70 per cent of the 
current market value of the security. 
(3) For the purpose of effecting a transfer from a general 
account to a special convertible security account subject to 
§ 220.4 ( ; ) , the retention requirement of a security described in 
§ 220.4 (/) shall be 70 per cent of it current market value. 
(e) 
Securities having no loan value in general account 
N o 
securities other than an exempted security or a registered non-
equity security held in the account on March 11, 1968, and con-
tinuously thereafter, and a registered equity security shall have 
any loan value in a general account except that a registered 
equity security eligible for the special convertible security ac-
count pursuant to § 220.4 (j) shall have loan value only if held 
in the account on March 11, 1968, and continuously thereafter. 

R E G U L A T I O N U 
_ 
I t e m 
No, 
(12 CFR 221) 
2/1/68 
As Amended effective March 11, 1968 
CREDIT BY BANKS FOR T H E PURPOSE OF 
PURCHASING OR CARRYING REGISTERED 
STOCKS 
SECTION 221.1—GENERAL RULE 
(a) Purpose credit secured by stock.—No bank shall extend 
any credit secured directly or indirectly 1 by any stock 2 for the 
purpose of purchasing or carrying any stock registered on a 
national securities exchange 3 (and no bank shall extend any 
credit described in § 221.3 (9) regardless of whether or not such 
credit is secured by any stock) in an amount exceeding the maxi-
mum loan value of the collateral, as prescribed from time to time 
for stocks in § 221.4 (the Supplement to Regulation U) and as 
determined by the bank in good faith for credit subject to 
§ 221.3(s) for any collateral other than stocks: Provided, 
That 
unless held as collateral for such credit on October 20, 1967, and 
continuously thereafter, any collateral other than stock shall have 
loan value for the purpose of this Part only as collateral for a 
credit which is not secured by stock, as described in § 221.3 (s), 
and any collateral consisting of convertible securities described 
in § 221.3(0 shall have loan value only for the purpose of that 
section, and not for other credit subject to this Part. 
(b) Substitutions and withdrawals.—Except as permitted in 
paragraph (c), of this section, while a bank maintains any credit 
subject to this Part, whenever extended, the bank shall not at 
any time permit any withdrawal or substitution of collateral 
unless either (1) the credit would not exceed the maximum loan 
value of the collateral after such withdrawal or substitution, or 
(2) the credit is reduced by at least the amount by which the 
maximum loan value of any collateral deposited is less than the 
"retention requirement" of any collateral withdrawn. The "re-
tention requirement" of collateral other than stock is the same 
as its maximum loan value and the "retention requirement" of 
collateral consisting of stock is prescribed from time to time in 
§ 221.4 (the Supplement to Regulation U ) . 
(c) Same-day transactions. — E x c e p t as p r o v i d e d in 
§ 2 2 1 . 3 ( r ) ( l ) , 
a bank may permit a substitution of 
stock 
1 As defined in g 221.3(c). 
1 Aa defined in § 221.8 (i). 
'Sometimes referred to aa a "purpose credit". See $ 221.8(6), | 221.3 (I), and f 221.3 ( m ) . 

2 
R E G U L A T I O N 
U 
SECS. 
2 2 1 . 1 - 2 2 1 . 2 
whether registered or unregistered, effected by a purchase and 
sale on orders executed within the same day: Provided, 
That 
(1) if the proceeds of the sale exceed the total cost of the pur-
chase, the credit is reduced by at least an amount equal to the 
"retention requirement" with respect to the sale less the "re-
tention requirement" with respect to the purchase, or (2) if 
the total cost of the purchase exceeds the proceeds of the sale, 
the credit may be increased by an amount no greater than the 
maximum loan value of the stock purchased less the maximum 
loan value of the stock sold. If the maximum loan value of the 
collateral securing the credit has become less than the amount 
of the credit, the amount of the credit may nonetheless be in-
creased if there is provided additional collateral having maxi-
mum loan value at least equal to the amount of the increase. 
(d) 
Single credit rule.—For the purpose of this Part, except 
for credit subject to § 221.3(s) or (t), the entire amount of the 
credit extended to any customer by any bank at any time for the 
purpose of purchasing or carrying stocks registered on a national 
securities exchange shall be considered a single credit; and all 
the collateral securing such indebtedness shall be considered in 
determining whether or not the loan complies with this Part. 
SECTION 221.2—EXCEPTIONS TO GENERAL RULE 
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 221.1, a bank may extend 
and may maintain any credit for the purpose specified in § 221.1, 
without regard to the limitations prescribed therein, or in 
§ 221.3(0 if the credit comes within any of the following de-
scriptions : 
(a) Any credit extended to a bank or to a foreign banking 
institution; 
(b) Any credit extended to a "plan-lender" as defined in 
§ 207.4(a) of Part 207 of this Chapter (Regulation G) to finance 
a plan described therein: Provided, That in no event does the bank 
have recourse to any stock purchased pursuant to such plan; 
(c) Any credit extended to a dealer, or to two or more dealers, 
to aid in the financing of the distribution of securities to cus-
tomers not through the medium of a national securities exchange; 
(d) 
Any credit extended to a broker or dealer that is extended 
in exceptional circumstances in good faith to meet his emergency 
needs; 
(e) Any credit extended to a broker or dealer secured by any 
securities which, according to written notice received by the bank 
from the broker or dealer pursuant to a rule of the Securities and 

SEC. 221.3 
R E G U L A T I O N 
U 
3 
Exchange Commission concerning the hypothecation of 
cus-
tomers' securities (Rule 8c-l (17 CFR § 240.8c-l) or Rule 15c2-l 
(17 CFR § 240.15c2-l)), are securities carried for the account 
of one or more customers: Provided, 
That the bank accepts in 
good faith4 from the broker or dealer a signed statement to the 
effect that he is subject to the provisions of Part 220 of this 
Chapter (Regulation T) (or that he does not extend or maintain 
credit to or for customers except in accordance therewith as if 
he were subject thereto); 
( / ) Any credit extended to finance the purchase or sale of 
securities for prompt delivery which is to be repaid in the 
ordinary course of business upon completion of the transaction: 
Provided, 
That the advance is not made to a person described in 
§ 221.3(7): And provided further, 
That it is either (1) extended 
to a broker or dealer, or (2) extended for a purpose other than 
to enable the borrower to pay for stock purchased in an account 
subject to Part 220 of this Chapter (Regulation T ) ; 
(g) 
Any credit extended against securities in transit, or sur-
rendered for transfer, which is payable in the ordinary course 
of business upon arrival of the securities or upon completion 
of the transfer: Provided, 
That the credit is not extended to a 
person described in § 221.3 (q): 
And provided further, 
That it 
is either (1) extended to a broker or dealer, or (2) extended for 
other than to enable the customer to pay for stock purchased 
in an account subject to Part 220 of this Chapter (Regulation T ) ; 
(h) 
Any credit which is to be repaid on the calendar day on 
which it is extended: Provided, That the credit is not extended to 
a person described in § 221.3(7): And provided further, 
That it 
is either (1) extended to a broker or dealer, or (2) extended for 
a purpose other than to enable the customer to pay for stock 
purchase in an account subject to Part 220 of this Chapter (Reg-
ulation T ) ; 
(i) Any credit extended outside the States of the United 
States and the District of Columbia; 
(/) Any credit extended to a member of a national securities 
exchange for the purpose of financing his or his customers' bona 
fide arbitrage transactions in securities. For the purposes of 
this paragraph, the term "arbitrage" means (1) a purchase or 
sale of a security in one market together with an offsetting sale 
or purchase of the same security in a different market at as 
nearly the same time as practicable, for the purpose of taking 
advantage of a difference in prices in the two markets, or (2) 
* As described in § 221.3 ( o ) . 

4 
R E G U L A T I O N 
U 
SECS. 221.1-221.2 
a purchase of a security which is, without restriction other than 
the payment of money, exchangeable or convertible within 90 
calendar days following the date of its purchase into a second 
security together with an offsetting sale at or about the same 
time of such second security, for the purpose of taking advantage 
of a disparity in the prices of the two securities; and 
(k) Any credit extended to a member of a national securities 
exchange for the purpose of financing such members' transac-
tion as an odd-lot dealer in securities with respect to which he 
is registered on such national securities exchange as an odd-lot 
dealer. 
SECTION 221.3—MISCELLANEOUS 
PROVISIONS 
( a ) 
Required statement as to stock-secureil l o a n . — I n 
c o n n e c -
tion with an extension of credit secured directly or indirectly 
by any stock, the bank shall obtain and retain in its records for 
at least six years after such credit is extinguished a statement 
in conformity with the requirements of Federal Reserve Form 
U-l executed by the recipient of such extension of credit (some-
times referred to as the "customer") 
and executed and ac-
cepted in good faith by a duly authorized officer of the bank 
prior to such extension. In determining whether or not an exten-
sion of credit is for the purpose specified in § 221.1 or for any 
of the purposes specified in § 221.2 the bank may rely on the 
statement executed by the customer if accepted in good faith. 
To accept the customer's statement in good faith, the officer 
must (1) be alert to the circumstances surrounding the credit 
and (2) if he has any information which would cause a prudent 
man not to accept the statement without inquiry, have investi-
gated and be satisfied that the customer's statement is truthful. 
(b) Purpose of a credit.—The "purpose of a credit" is deter-
mined by substance rather than form. 
(1) Credit which is for the purpose, whether immediate, 
incidental, or ultimate, of purchasing or carrying a stock is 
"purpose credit", despite any temporary application of funds 
otherwise. 
(2) Credit to enable the customer to reduce or retire in-
debtedness which was originally incurred to purchase a stock 
is for the purpose of "carrying" such a security. 
(3) Credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying a se-
curity issued by an investment company registered pursuant to 
section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 
80a-8), whose assets customarily include registered stocks, is 
for the purpose of purchasing or carrying such stocks. 

SEC. 221.3 
R E G U L A T I O N 
U 
5 
(c) Indirectly secured.—The term "indirectly secured" in-
cludes any arrangement as to assets of the customer which (1) 
serves to protect the interest of the bank, (2) serves to make 
assets of the customer more readily available to the bank than 
to other creditors of the customer, or (3) under which the cus-
tomer surrenders the right to dispose of assets so long as the 
credit remains outstanding: Provided, 
That the foregoing shall 
not apply to securities held by the bank only in the capacity of 
custodian, depositary or trustee, or under similar circumstances, 
if the bank in good faith has not relied upon such securities as 
collateral in the extension or maintenance of the particular 
credit. 
(d) 
List of registered stocks.—In determining whether a 
security is a "stock registered on a national securities exchange" 
or a security described in paragraph (b) (3) of this section, a 
bank may rely upon any reasonably current record of such 
securities that is published or specified in a publication of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. A bank may 
also rely upon such a record to determine whether a stock into 
which a security, warrant, or right is convertible or exchange-
able is a stock registered on a national securities exchange. 
(e) Renewals and extensions of maturity.—The renewal or 
extension of maturity of a credit need not be treated as the ex-
tension of a credit if the amount of the credit is not increased 
except by the addition of interest or service charges in respect 
to the credit or of taxes on transactions in connection with the 
credit. 
(/) Transfers.—A bank, without following the requirements 
of this Part as to the extension of a credit may: 
(1) permit the transfer of a credit from one customer to 
another, or to others: Provided, 
That a statement by the trans-
feror, describing the circumstances giving rise to the transfer, 
is accepted in good faith8 and signed by an officer of the bank 
as having been so accepted, and kept with each such transferee 
account, or 
(2) accept the transfer of a credit originally extended in 
conformity with the requirements of this Part directly from 
another bank: Provided, That the statement of purpose, executed 
by the customer in connection with the original extension of 
credit and accepted in good faith and signed by an officer of 
the bank originally extending such credit in conformity with 
the requirements of § 221.3(a), is obtained and kept with each 
such transferee account, 
* 
As described in § 221.3 (o). 

6 
R E G U L A T I O N 
U 
SECS. 221.1-221.2 
And provided further, 
That any transfer pursuant to this para-
graph is made as a bona fide incident to a transaction not 
undertaken for the purpose of avoiding the requirements of this 
Part, the amount of the credit is not increased and the collateral 
for the credit is not changed; and, after such transfer, a bank 
may permit such withdrawals and substitutions of collateral as 
are permitted in respect to a credit it extends subject to this 
Part. 
(g) 
Reorganizations and recapitalizations.—Nothing in this 
Part shall be construed to prevent a bank from permitting with-
drawals or substitutions of securities to enable a customer to 
participate in a reorganization or recapitalization. 
(h) Mistakes in good faith.—No mistake made in good faith 
in connection with the extension or maintenance of a credit 
shall be deemed to be a violation of this Part. 
(i) Action for hank's own protection.—Nothing in this Part 
shall be construed as preventing a bank from taking such action 
as it shall deem necessary in good faith for its own protection. 
(j) Reports.—Every bank, and every person engaged in the 
business of extending credit who, in the ordinary course of 
business, extends credit for the purpose of purchasing or carry-
ing securities registered on a national securities exchange, shall 
make such reports as the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System may require to enable it to perform the func-
tions conferred upon it by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(15 U.S.C. 78). 
(k) Definitions.—Except as otherwise provided in this Part, 
terms herein have the meanings assigned to them in section 
3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)), 
except that the term "bank" does not include a bank which is 
a member of a national securities exchange. 
(I) Stock.—The term "stock" includes any security commonly 
known as a stock; any voting trust certificate or other instru-
ment representing such a security; any security convertible with 
or without consideration into such security, certificate or other 
instrument, or carrying any warrant or right to subscribe to or 
purchase such a security; or any such warrant or right. 
(m) Credit subject to § 221.1—A "credit subject to § 221.1" 
is a credit which is (1) secured directly or indirectly by any 
stock (or made to a person described in paragraph (q) of this 
section), (2) extended for the purpose of purchasing or carrying 
any stock registered on a national securities exchange, or any 

SEC. 221.3 
R E G U L A T I O N 
U 
7 
security convertible6 with or without consideration into such a 
stock or carrying any warrant or right to subscribe to or pur-
chase or carry such a stock, or any such warrant or right (such 
security, warrant or right is sometimes referred to as a "security 
convertible into a stock registered on a national securities ex-
change"), and (3) not excepted by § 221.2. 
(n) Segregation of collateral.— (1) The bank shall identify 
all the collateral used to meet the requirements of § 221.1 (the 
entire credit being considered a single credit and collateral being 
similarly considered, as required by § 221.1(d) ) and shall not 
cancel the identification of any portion thereof except in cir-
cumstances that would permit the withdrawal of that portion. 
Such identification may be made by any reasonable method, and 
in the case of a credit outstanding at the opening of business 
on June 15, 1959, need not be made until immediately before 
some change in that or other indebtedness of the customer or 
in collateral therefore. 
(2) Only the collateral required to be so identified shall have 
loan value for purposes of § 221.1 or be subject to the restric-
tions therein specified with respect to withdrawals and substitu-
tions; and 
(3) For any credit extended to the same customer that is 
not subject to 
§ 221.1 
(other than a credit described 
in 
§ 221.2(b), (d), ( / ) , ( g ) , or (h) ), the bank shall in good faith 
require as such collateral not so identified as the bank would 
require (if any) if it held neither the indebtedness subject to 
§ 221.1 nor the identified collateral. This shall not be construed, 
however, to require the bank, after it has extended any credit, 
to obtain any collateral therefor because of any deficiency in 
collateral already existing at the opening of business on June 
15, 1959, or any decline in the value or quality of the collateral 
or in the credit rating of the customer. 
(4) Nothing in this Part shall require a bank to waive or 
forego any lien, and nothing in this Part shall apply to a credit 
extended to enable the customer to meet emergency expenses 
not reasonably foreseeable, provided the extension of credit is 
supported by a statement executed by the customer and accepted 
in good faith and signed by an officer of the bank as having been 
so accepted in conformity with the requirements of § 221.3(a). 
For this purpose, such emergency expenses shall include expenses 
arising from circumstances such as the death or disability of 
the customer, or some other change in his circumstances in-
a See aUo § 221.3 (r) and (t). 

8 
R E G U L A T I O N 
U 
SEC. 221.3 
volving extreme hardship, not reasonably foreseeable at the time 
the credit was extended. The opportunity to realize monetary gain 
is not a "change in his circumstances" for this purpose. 
(o) Specialist.—In the case of a credit extended to a member 
of a national securities exchange who is registered and acts as 
a specialist in securities on the exchange for the purpose of 
financing 
such member's transactions as a specialist in such 
securities, the maximum loan value of any stock shall be as de-
termined by the bank in good faith: Provided, 
That the spe-
cialist's exchange, in addition to other requirements applicable 
to specialists, is designated by the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System as requiring reports suitable for supply-
ing current information regarding specialists' use of credit pur-
suant to this section. 
(p) 
Subscriptions issued to stockholders.—An extension of 
credit need not comply with the other requirements of this Part 
if it is to enable the customer to acquire a stock by exercising a 
right to acquire such stock which is evidenced by a warrant or 
certificate issued to stockholders and expiring within 90 days of 
issuance: Provided, 
That: 
(1) each such aquisition under this paragraph shall be 
treated separately, and the credit when extended shall not ex-
ceed 75 per cent of the current market value of the stock so 
acquired as determined by any reasonable method; 
(2) after October 20, 1967, at the time credit is extended 
pursuant to this paragraph, the bank shall compute the amount 
by which the credit exceeds the maximum loan value of the 
collateral as prescribed by § 221.4 and the customer shall reduce 
the credit by an amount at least equal to one-fourth of such sum 
by the end of each of the four succeeding three-calendar month 
periods or until the credit does not exceed the current maximum 
loan value of the stock, whichever shall occur first, and if the 
bank fails to obtain the required quarterly reduction or a portion 
thereof with respect to a particular acquisition within five full 
business days after such reduction is due, the bank shall promptly 
sell a portion of the collateral so acquired and apply the proceeds 
of the sale to reduce the credit, in an amount at least equal to 
twice the required payment or portion thereof for the first two 
such reductions, at least equal to the required payment or portion 
thereof for the third such reduction, and at least sufficient so 
that the remaining credit does not exceed the current maximum 
loan value of the remaining collateral after the fourth such 
reduction: 
Provided, 
That no such reduction need be in an 

SEC. 221.3 
R E G U L A T I O N 
U 
9 
amount greater than is necessary so that the remaining credit 
does not exceed the maximum loan value of the remaining 
collateral determined as of the date when the credit was ex-
tended : And provided further, That as to credit extended between 
October 20, 1967, and March 11, 1968, such four succeeding 
periods shall begin on March 11,1968; and 
(3) while the customer has any credit outstanding at the 
bank under this paragraph no withdrawal of cash or substitution 
or withdrawal of stock used as collateral for such extension of 
credit shall be permissible, except that when the remaining credit 
has become equal to or less than the maximum loan value of the 
remaining stock as prescribed for § 221.1 or § 221.3(0 in § 221.4 
(the Supplement to Regulation U) whichever is applicable (or 
with respect to credit extended after October 20, 1967, the 
requirements of the preceding clause have been fulfilled) the 
remaining stock and related indebtedness shall thereafter be 
treated as subject to § 221.1 or § 221.3(0, whichever is ap-
plicable, instead of this paragraph. In order to facilitate the 
exercise of a right under this paragraph, a bank may permit the 
right to be withdrawn from a credit subject to § 221.1 without 
regard to any other requirement of this Part. 
{q) 
Credit to certain lenders.—Any credit extended to a 
customer not subject to this Part or to Part 220 of this Chapter 
(Regulation T) engaged principally, or as one of the customer's 
important activities, in the business of extending credit for the 
purpose of purchasing or carrying stocks registered on a national 
securities exchange, is a credit for the purpose of purchasing or 
carrying stocks so registered unless the credit and its purposes 
are effectively and unmistakably separated and disassociated 
from any financing or refinancing, for the customer or others, of 
any purchasing or carrying of stocks so registered. Any credit 
extended to any such customer, unless the credit is so separated 
and disassociated or is excepted by § 221.2, is a credit "subject 
to § 221.1" regardless of whether or not the credit is secured by 
pny stock; and no bank shall extend any such credit subject to 
§ 221.1 to any such customer on or after June 15, 1959, without 
collateral or without the credit being secured as would be re-
quired by this Part if it were secured by any stock. Any such 
credit subject to § 221.1 to any such customer, whether or not 
made after June 15, 1959, shall be subject to the other provisions 
of this Part applicable to credit subject to § 221.1, including pro-
visions regarding withdrawal and substitution of collateral, 
(r) Convertible securities.— (1) If, after June 15, 1959, and 

10 
R E G U L A T I O N 
U 
SEC. 221.3 
prior to October 21, 1967, credit was extended for the purpose 
of purchasing or carrying a security convertible into a stock 
registered on a national securities exchange and the credit was 
secured by such a security, and after October 20, 1967, there is 
substituted any stock as direct or indirect collateral for such 
credit, the credit shall thereupon be treated as subject to § 221.1 
or § 221.3(0, whichever is applicable. In any such case, the 
amount of the outstanding credit, or such amount plus any 
increase therein to enable the customer to acquire a stock so 
registered through the conversion of the security pursuant to 
its terms, shall not be permitted on the date of such substitution 
to exceed the maximum loan value of the collateral for the credit: 
Provided, That any reduction in the credit or deposit of collateral 
required on that date to meet this requirement may be brought 
about within 30 days of such substitution, or by April 10, 1968, 
whichever is later. 
(2) Any credit extended after October 20, 1967, for the pur-
pose of purchasing or carrying a security convertible into a stock 
registered on a national securities exchange, if the credit is 
secured, directly or indirectly, by any stock, is a credit subject 
to § 221.1 or § 221.3(t), whichever is applicable: Provided, 
That 
any reduction of the credit or deposit of collateral necessary to 
meet the requirements of § 221.4 (the Supplement to Regulation 
U) in respect to such credit extended before March 11, 1968, 
need not be brought about before April 10, 1968. 
(s) 
Credit secured by collateral other than stocks.—A bank 
may extend credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying a 
stock registered on a national securities exchange secured by 
collateral other than stock, and, in the case of such credit, the 
maximum loan value of the collateral shall be as determined by 
the bank in good faith. 
(t) 
Credit on convertible securities.— (1) A bank may extend 
credit for the purpose specified in § 221.1 on collateral consisting 
of any security convertible into a stock registered on a national 
securities exchange or any security carrying a warrant or right 
to subscribe to or purchase a stock so registered. 
(2) Credit extended under this paragraph shall be subject to 
the same conditions as if it were subject to § 221.1 except: (i) 
the entire amount of such credit shall be considered a single 
credit treated separately from the single credit specified in 
§ 221.1 (d) and all the collateral securing such credit shall be 
considered in determining whether or not the credit complies 
with this Part, and (ii) the maximum loan value of the collateral 

SEC. 221.3 
R E G U L A T I O N 
U 
11 
shall be as prescribed from time to time in § 221.4 (the Supple-
ment to Regulation U ) . 
(3) Any convertible security originally eligible as collateral 
for a credit extended under this paragraph shall be treated as 
such as long as continuously held as collateral for such credit 
even though it ceases to be convertible or to carry warrants 
or rights. 
(4) In the event that any stock is substituted for a convertible 
security held as collateral for a credit extended under this para-
graph, the stock and any credit extended on it in compliance with 
this Part shall thereupon be treated as subject to § 221.1 and the 
credit extended under this paragraph shall be reduced by an 
amount equal to the maximum loan value of the security with-
drawn less the maximum loan value of any convertible security 
described in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph deposited as 
collateral. 
(u) Bank acting as agent.—No bank shall act as agent of any 
person extending credit which the bank knows or should know is 
secured directly or indirectly by any registered security unless 
the bank accepts in good faith7 a statement signed by such person 
that he does not extend or maintain credit to or for customers in 
violation of Part 207, 220, or 221 of this Chapter (Regulations 
G, T, or U ) . For this purpose, such activities of an "agent" 
include, for example, receiving securities to be used as collateral 
for such credit, determining whether the market value of the 
collateral for such credit is adequate, and requiring the deposit 
of additional collateral or the reduction of such credit. In de-
termining whether there has been an extension of credit subject 
to the provisions of such Part, and whether it can rely in good 
faith on the statement described herein, the bank shall (1) be 
alert to the circumstances surrounding the extension of credit 
and (2) if it has information that would cause a prudent man 
not to accept the statement without inquiry, must have investi-
gated and be satisfied that the credit either is not subject to 
such Part or is extended or maintained in conformity with the 
provisions of such Part. 
(v) 
Arranging for credit.—No bank shall arrange for the 
extension or maintenance of any credit for the purpose of pur-
chasing or carrying any stock registered on a national securities 
exchange, except upon the same terms and conditions on which 
the bank itself could extend or maintain such credit under the 
provisions of this Part. 
* As described in § 221.3 (o). 

SUPPLEMENT TO REGULATION U 
Section 221.4—SUPPLEMENT 
ISSUED BY THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Effective March 11, 1968 
(a) Maximum loan value of stocks.—For the purpose of 
§ 221.1, the maximum loan value of any stock, whether or not 
registered on a national securities exchange, shall be 30 per cent 
of its current market value, as determined by any reasonable 
method. 
(b) Maximum loan value of convertible securities subject to 
§ 2 2 1 . 3 ( 0 . — F o r the purpose of § 2 2 1 . 3 ( 0 , the maximum loan 
value of any security against which credit is extended pursuant 
to § 221.3(0 shall be 50 per cent of its current market value, as 
determined by any reasonable method. 
(c) Retention requirement.—For the purpose of § 221.1, in 
the case of a loan which would exceed the maximum loan value 
of the collateral following a withdrawal of collateral, the "reten-
tion requirement" of a stock, whether or not registered on a 
national securities exchange, and of a convertible security sub-
ject to § 2 2 1 . 3 ( 0 , shall be 70 per cent of its current market 
value, as determined by any reasonable method. 

439 
REGULATION G 
Item No. 3 
(12 CFR 207) 
2 / 1 / 6 8 
Effective March 11, 1968 
CREDIT BY PERSONS OTHER THAN BANKS, 
BROKERS, OR DEALERS FOR PURPOSE OF 
PURCHASING OR CARRYING REGISTERED 
EQUITY SECURITIES 
SECTION 207.1—GENERAL 
RULE 
(a) 
Registration.—Every person who, in the ordinary course 
of his business, during any calendar quarter ended after October 
20, 1967, extends or arranges for the extension of a total of 
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000) or more, or has outstanding at 
any time during the calendar quarter, a total of one hundred 
thousand dollars ($100,000) or more, in credit, secured directly 
or indirectly, in whole or in part, by collateral that includes any 
registered equity securities, unless such person is subject to Part 
220 (Regulation T) or Part 221 (Regulation U) of this Chapter, 
is subject to the registration requirements of this paragraph and 
shall, within 30 days following the end of the calendar quarter 
during which the person becomes subject to such registration 
requirements, register with the Board of Governors of the Fed-
eral Reserve System by filing a statement in conformity with the 
requirements of Federal Reserve Form G-l with the Federal 
Reserve Bank of the district in which the principal office of 
the lender is located: Provided, 
That no such statement need be 
filed with respect to credit extended in the calendar quarter that 
ended December 31, 1967, until April 10, 1968. 
(b) Termination of registration.—Any person so registered 
who has not, during the preceding six calendar months, extended 
or maintained or arranged for the extension or maintenance of 
any credit secured directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by 
collateral that includes any registered equity securities may apply 
for termination of such registration by filing Federal Reserve 
Form G-2 with the Federal Reserve Bank of the district in 
which the principal office of the lender is located. 
(c) Definition of lender and applicability of margin require-
ments.—Any person subject to the registration requirements of 
paragraph (a) of this section who, in the ordinary course of his 
business, extends or maintains or arranges for the extension or 
maintenance of any credit for the purpose of purchasing or 

50 
R E G U L A T I O N 
U 
SEC. 221.3 
carrying any registered equity security1 
(hereinafter called 
"purpose credit"), if such credit is secured directly or indirectly 2 
in whole or in part by collateral that includes any such security, 
is a "lender" subject to this Part and shall not after February 1, 
1968, except as provided in section 207.4(a), extend or arrange 
for the extension of any purpose credit in an amount exceeding 
the maximum loan value of the collateral, as prescribed from 
time to time for registered equity securities in section 207.5 (the 
Supplement to Regulation G), or as determined by the lender in 
good faith for any collateral other than registered equity securi-
ties: 
Provided, 
That any collateral consisting of convertible 
securities described in paragraph (d) of this section shall have 
loan value only as provided in that paragraph: And 
provided 
further, 
That in respect to a credit extended after February 1, 
1968, and before March 11, 1968, any reduction in the credit or 
deposit of collateral required to meet this requirement shall be 
accomplished by April 10,1968. 
(d) 
Credit on convertible securities.— (1) 
A lender may 
extend credit for the purpose specified in paragraph (c) of this 
section on collateral consisting of any security convertible into 
a registered equity security or any security carrying a warrant 
or right to subscribe to or purchase such a security (sometimes 
herein referred to as a "convertible security"). 
(2) Credit extended under this paragraph shall be subject to 
the same conditions as any other credit subject to this section 
except: (A) the entire amount of such credit shall be considered 
a single credit treated separately from the single credit specified 
in paragraph (g) of this section and all the collateral securing 
such credit shall be considered in determining whether or not 
the credit complies with this Part, and (B) the maximum loan 
value of the collateral shall be as prescribed from time to time 
in section 207.5(6) (the Supplement to Regulation G). 
(3) Any convertible security originally eligible as collateral 
for a credit extended under this paragraph shall be treated as 
such as long as continuously held as collateral for such credit 
even though it ceases to be convertible or to carry warrants or 
rights. 
(4) In the event that any stock is substituted for a convertible 
security held as collateral for a credit extended under this sec-
tion the stock and any credit extended on it in compliance with 
this Part shall thereupon be treated as subject to paragraph (c) 
1 See § 207.2(d). 
2 See § 207.2 (g). 

SECS. 207.1—207.2 
R E G U L A T I O N 
G 
5 
of this section and not to this paragraph and the credit extended 
under this paragraph shall be reduced by an amount equal to 
the maximum loan value of the convertible security withdrawn 
less the maximum loan value of any convertible security de-
scribed in subparagraph (d) (1) deposited as collateral. 
(e) Statements as to purpose of credit.—In connection with 
any extension of credit secured directly or indirectly, in whole 
or in part, by collateral that includes any registered equity se-
curity, the lender shall, prior to such extension, obtain a state-
ment in conformity with the requirements of Federal Reserve 
Form G-3 executed by the customer and executed and accepted 
in good faith by the lender. The lender shall retain such state-
ment in his records for at least six years after such credit is 
extinguished. In determining whether credit is "purpose credit", 
the lender may rely on the statement executed by the customer 
if accepted in good faith. To accept the customer's statement in 
good faith, the lender must (1) be alert to the circumstances 
surrounding the credit and (2) if he has any informaiton which 
would cause a prudent man not to accept the statement without 
inquiry, have investigated and be satisfied that the customer's 
statement is truthful. Circumstances which could indicate that 
the lender has not exercised reasonable diligence in so acquaint-
ing himself and so investigating would include, but are not 
limited to, facts such as that (1) the proceeds of the credit were 
paid to a broker or to a bank in connection with contemporane-
ous delivery of registered equity securities, whether or not pay-
ment was made against delivery, (2) there were frequent substi-
tutions of registered equity securities serving as collateral for the 
credit, or (3) the amount of the credit was disproportionate, or 
the terms inappropriate, to the stated purpose. 
(/) Credit extended to person subject to Regulation T.— 
(1) 
No lender shall extend or maintain any credit for the 
purpose of purchasing or carrying any registered equity security 
to any person who is subject to Part 220 of this Chapter (Reg-
ulation T) without collateral or on collateral consisting of reg-
istered securities (other than exempted securities3). Where the 
credit is to be used in the ordinary course of business of such 
person, such credit is presumed to be for the purpose of pur-
chasing or carrying registered equity securities unless the lender 
has in his records statements obtained and executed in con-
formity with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section. 
3 A s d e f i n e d in 15 U . S . C . 7 8 c ( a ) ( 1 2 ) . 

52 
R E G U L A T I O N 
U 
SEC. 221.3 
(2) The prohibition of this paragraph ( / ) shall not apply to 
a credit which is unsecured or secured by collateral other than 
registered equity securities, and which is (i) made to a dealer 
(as defined in section 220.2(a) of Regulation T) to aid in the 
distribution of securities to customers not through the medium 
of a national securities exchange, or (ii) subordinated to the 
claims of general creditors by a subordination agreement ap-
proved by an appropriate committee of a national securities ex-
change or by a "satisfactory subordination agreement" as de-
fined in paragraph (e) (7) of Rule 240-15c3-l of the Securities 
and Exchange Commission. 
(g) Combining purpose credit extended to the same customer.— 
For the purpose of this Part, except for a credit subject to 
paragraph (d) of this section, the aggregate of all outstanding 
purpose credit extended to a person by a lender after February 
1, 1968, shall be considered a single credit and, except as pro-
vided in paragraphs (d) 
and (i) of this section, all the col-
lateral securing such a credit, whether directly or indirectly, in 
whole or in part, shall be considered in determining whether the 
credit complies with this Part. 
(h) Purpose and nonpurpose credit extended to the same 
person.—No lender shall after February 1, 1968, extend or 
maintain or arrange for the extension of any purpose credit, or 
shall arrange for the maintenance of any purpose credit ex-
tended after February 1, 1968, if the credit is secured directly 
or indirectly, in whole or in part, by collateral that includes 
any registered equity security which also secures, directly or 
indirectly, in whole or in part, any other credit extended to the 
same customer; and no lender shall have outstanding at the 
same time to the same customer both purpose credit extended 
after February 1, 1968, and any other credit extended after 
February 1, 1968. 
(i) 
Purpose credit secured both by registered equity securi-
ties and by other collateral.—No lender shall after February 1, 
1968, extend or maintain or arrange for the extension of any 
purpose credit, or shall arrange for the maintenance of any 
purpose credit extended after February 1, 1968, which is secured 
directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by collateral that in-
cludes any registered equity security, unless at the time such 
credit was extended, the lender thereof obtained collateral con-
sisting of registered equity securities in an amount sufficient to 
meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section, and such 
credit was thereafter maintained in accordance with the re-

SECS. 2 0 7 . 1 — 2 0 7 . 2 
R E G U L A T I O N 
G 
5 
quirements of this Part, and where any such credit is so secured, 
no other collateral shall have any loan value in respect to such 
credit for the purposes of this Part. 
(j) Withdrawals and substitutions of collateral.—(1) General 
rule. Except as permitted by the next subparagraph and by section 
207.4(a), while a lender maintains any purpose credit extended 
after February 1, 1968, the lender shall not at any time permit 
any withdrawal or substitution of collateral unless either (i) the 
credit would not exceed the maximum loan value of the col-
lateral after such withdrawal or substitution, or (ii) the credit 
is reduced by at least the amount by which the maximum loan 
value of any collateral deposited is less than the "retention 
requirement" of any collateral withdrawn. The retention re-
quirement of collateral other than registered equity securities is 
the same as its maximum loan value and the retention require-
ment of collateral consisting of registered equity securities or 
securities convertible into registered equity securities is pre-
scribed from time to time in section 207.5 (the Supplement to 
Regulation G). 
(2) Same-day 
substitution 
of collateral. 
Except as pro-
hibited by section 207.4(a) a lender may permit a substitution of 
registered equity securities effected by a purchase and sale on 
orders executed within the the same day: Provided, 
That (i) if 
the proceeds of the sale exceed the total cost of the purchase, the 
credit is reduced by at least an amount equal to the retention 
requirement in respect to the sale less the retention requirement 
in respect to the purchase, or (ii) if the total cost of the pur-
chase exceeds the proceeds of the sale, the credit may be 
increased by an amount no greater than the maximum loan value 
of the securities purchased less the maximum loan value of the 
securities sold. If the maximum loan value of the collateral 
securing the credit has become less than the amount of the credit, 
the amount of the credit may nonetheless be increased if there is 
provided additional collateral having maximum loan value at 
least equal to the amount of increase, or the credit is extended 
pursuant to section 207.4(a). 
SECTION 207.2—DEFINITIONS 
For the purpose of this Part, unless the context otherwise 
requires: 
(a) The term "person" means an individual, a corporation, a 
partnership, an association, a joint stock company, a business 
trust, or an unincorporated organization. 

54 
R E G U L A T I O N 
U 
SEC. 221.3 
(6) The term "in the ordinary course of his business" means 
occurring or reasonably expected to occur from time to time in 
the course of any activity of the lender for profit or the manage-
ment and preservation of property or in addition, in the case of 
a lender other than an individual, carrying out or in furtherance 
of any business purpose. 
(c) The "purpose" of a credit is determined by substance 
rather than form. 
(1) Credit which is for the purpose, whether immediate, 
incidental, or ultimate, of purchasing or carrying a registered 
equity security is "purpose credit", despite any temporary ap-
plication of funds otherwise. 
(2) Credit to enable the customer to reduce or retire in-
debtedness which was originally incurred to purchase a reg-
istered equity security is for the purpose of "carrying" such a 
security. 
(3) Credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying a 
security issued by an investment company registered pursuant 
to section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 
80a-8), whose assets customarily include registered equity secu-
rities, is for the purpose of purchasing or carrying such reg-
istered equity securities. 
(4) Credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any 
security convertible into a stock registered on a national securi-
ties exchange or any security carrying a warrant or right to 
subscribe to or purchase a stock registered on a national securi-
ties exchange is for the purpose of purchasing or carrying such 
registered equity securities. 
(d) The term "registered equity security" means any equity 
security4 which (1) is registered on a national securities ex-
change; or (2) has unlisted trading privileges on a national 
securities exchange, or (3) is exempted by the Securities and 
Exchange Commission from the operation of section 7 ( c ) ( 2 ) 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 7 8 g ( c ) ( 2 ) ) 
only to the extent necessary to render lawful any direct or indi-
rect extension or maintenance of credit on such security; or (4) 
any security convertible with or without consideration into such 
registered equity security or carrying any warrant or right to 
subscribe to or purchase such registered equity security, or any 
such warrant or right. 
(e) 
(1) The term "purchase" includes any contract to buy, 
purchase, or otherwise acquire. 
4 As defined in U.S.C. 7 8 c ( a ) l l . 

SECS. 2 0 7 . 2 — 2 0 7 . 3 — 2 0 7 . 4 
R E G U L A T I O N 
G 
7 
(2) The term "sale" includes any contract to sell or other-
wise dispose of. 
( / ) The term "customer" includes any recipient of the credit 
to whom credit is extended directly or indirectly for the use of 
the customer, and also includes any person engaged in a joint 
venture, or as a member of a syndicate or a group, with the 
customer with respect to a purpose loan. 
(g) The term "indirectly secured" includes, except as provided 
in section 207.4(a)(3), any arrangement as to assets of the 
customer which (1) serves to protect the interests of the lender, 
(2) serves to make assets of the borrower more readily available 
to the lender than to other creditors of the borrower, or (3) 
under which the borrower surrenders the right to dispose of 
assets so long as the credit remains outstanding. 
SECTION 207.3—REPORTS A N D RECORDS 
(a.) Every person who is registered pursuant to 
section 
207.1(a) of this Part shall within thirty (30) days following 
the end of each succeeding calendar quarter file a report on 
Federal Reserve Form G-4 with the Federal Reserve Bank of the 
district in which the principal office of the lender is located. 
(b) Every person who has registered pursuant to section 
207.1(a) of this Part shall maintain such records as shall be 
prescribed by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System to enable it to perform the functions conferred upon it 
by the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. (15 U.S.C. 78). 
SECTION 207.4—MISCELLANEOUS 
PROVISIONS 
(a) Stock option and employee stock purchase plans.—In re-
spect to any credit extended and maintained by a corporation or 
by a lender wholly controlled by such corporation (such cor-
porations and such lenders are both sometimes referred to as 
"plan-lenders"), to an officer or employee of the corporation or 
subsidiary thereof to finance the exercise of rights granted such 
officer or employee under a stock option plan or employee stock 
purchase plan adopted by the corporation and approved by a 
majority of its stockholders to purchase registered equity securi-
ties of such corporation or subsidiary, 
(1) Sections 207.1(c), (d), 
(/), 
(g), 
(h), 
and (i) of this 
Part shall not apply to any such credit extended to finance the 
exercise of such rights granted to any named officer or employee 
prior to February 1, 1968, and effectively exercised by such 

56 
R E G U L A T I O N 
U 
SEC. 221.3 
officer or employee prior to February 1, 1969, nor to any credit 
extended, prior to February 1, 1969, to a plan-lender pursuant 
to a bona fide written commitment in existence on February 
1,1968, to finance the exercise of such rights; 
(2) The restrictions imposed by section 207.1(c) and (d) 
and section 207.5 (the Supplement to this Part) on the maximum 
loan value of registered equity securities serving as collateral for 
purpose credit shall not apply to securities purchased, and serv-
ing as direct or indirect collateral for credit extended, pursuant 
to such a plan, Provided, 
That: 
(i) The entire amount of credit extended to any officer 
or employee pursuant to this paragraph in connection with the 
exercise of rights under such plan or plans shall be considered 
a single credit; 
(ii) At the time when credit is extended under a plan sub-
ject to this paragraph, 
(A) 
the plan-lender computes the 
amount by which the credit exceeds the maximum loan value 
of the collateral as prescribed by section 207.5 (the Supple-
ment to Regulation G), (the "deficiency"), and (B) the agree-
ment under which the credit is extended provides that except 
as permitted by the proviso in subparagraph (iii) the officer 
or employee shall, in respect to such deficiency, make equal 
repayments to the plan-lender at least quarterly and equivalent 
to at least 20 per cent of such deficiency per annum, or such 
lesser amount as the Board of Governors, upon application, 
may permit, for at least three years from the extension of the 
credit; 
(iii) The officer or employee is not permitted under such 
plan or agreement to sell, withdraw, pledge, or otherwise dis-
pose of all or any part of such collateral until (A) all repay-
ments have been made for at least the three-year period pro-
vided in subparagraph (ii) and the deficiency has been repaid, 
or (B) the maximum loan value of the collateral, as prescribed 
by section 207.5 (the Supplement to Regulation G), is at least 
equal to the credit which remains owing from the officer or 
employee to the plan-lender, whichever shall occur 
first: 
Provided, 
That this restriction need not apply where such 
collateral is required to be sold to meet emergency expenses 
arising from circumstances not reasonably foreseeable at the 
time of the extension of the credit (for this purpose such 
emergency expenses shall include the death, disability, or 
involuntary 
termination 
of 
employment of the officer or 
employee or some other change in his circumstances, involving 

SECS. 207.1—207.2 
R E G U L A T I O N 
G 
5 
extreme hardship, not reasonably foreseeable at the time the 
credit is extended. The opportunity to realize monetary gain 
is not a "change in his circumstances" for this purpose); and 
(iv) At such time as either of the conditions with respect 
to sale, withdrawal, pledge, or other disposition of collateral 
specified in subparagraph 
(iii) 
are satisfied, the credit is 
thereafter treated as a credit subject to all the requirements 
of this Part. 
(3) No extension of credit to a plan-lender to finance such 
a plan shall be deemed to be indirectly secured by a registered 
equity security purchased pursuant to the plan provided such 
security is not repledged by the plan-lender to secure such ex-
tension of credit to the plan-lender and the amount of the credit 
does not exceed the total amount of credit currently extended 
by such plan-lender pursuant to such plan. 
(b) List of securities.—In determining whether a security is a 
registered 
equity 
security 
or 
a 
security 
convertible 
into 
such security, or a security of the kind described in section 
207.2(c)(3), a lender may rely upon the latest list of equity 
securities registered on a national securities exchange and securi-
ties of the kind described in section 207.2(c) (3) issued by the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
(c) Extensions and renewals.—The renewal or extension of 
maturity of a credit need not be treated as the extension of a 
credit if the amount of the credit is not increased except by the 
addition of interest or service charges on the credit or of taxes 
on transactions in connection with the credit. 
(d) Reorganization or recapitalization.—Nothing in this Part 
shall be construed to prohibit withdrawal or substitution of se-
curities to enable a customer to participate in a reorganization 
or recapitalization. 
(e) Mistakes in good faith.—Failure to comply with this Part 
due to a mechanical mistake made in good faith in determining, 
recording, or calculating any credit, balance, market price or 
loan value, or other similar mechanical mistake, shall not con-
stitute a violation of this Part if promptly after discovery of the 
mistake the lender takes whatever action is practicable to remedy 
the noncompliance. 
(/) Acting as agent.—No person shall act as agent for any 
lender, bank, or creditor subject to Parts 207, 220, or 221 of this 
Chapter (Regulation G, T, or U) extending, maintaining, or ar-
ranging for any credit which the agent knows, or should know, 

58 
R E G U L A T I O N 
U 
SEC. 221.3 
is secured directly or indirectly by any registered security unless 
the agent obtains and accepts in good faith a statement signed by 
such lender, bank, or creditor that he does not extend or main-
tain credit to or for customers in violation of such 
Part 
For this purpose such activities of an "agent" include but are 
not limited to receiving securities to be used as collateral for 
such credit, determining whether the market value of the col-
lateral for such credit is adequate, and requiring the deposit 
of additional collateral or the reduction of such credit 
In 
determining whether there has been an extension of 
credit 
subject to the provisions of Parts 207,220, or 221 of this Chapter 
and whether he can rely in good faith on the statement de-
scribed herein, the person shall (1) be alert to the circumstances 
surrounding the credit and (2) if he has any information which 
would cause a prudent man not to accept the statement without 
inquiry, must have investigated and be satisfied that the credit 
either is not subject to such Part, or is extended and maintained 
in conformity with such Part. 
(0) Arranging for credit—A lender may arrange for the ex-
tension or maintenance of credit by any person upon the same 
terms and conditions as those upon which the lender, under the 
provisions of this Part, may himself extend or maintain such 
credit, but only upon such terms and conditions, except that this 
limitation shall not apply with respect to the arranging by a 
lender for a bank subject to Part 221 of this Chapter (Regula-
tion U) to extend or maintain credit on registered securities or 
exempted securities. 

SUPPLEMENT TO REGULATION G 
SECTION 
207.5—SUPPLEMENT 
ISSUED BY THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Effective March 11, 1968 
(a) 
Maximum loan value of registered equity securities.—For 
the purpose of section 207.1, the maximum loan value of any 
registered equity security, except convertible securities subject 
to section 207.1(d), shall be 30 per cent of its current market 
value, as determined by any reasonable method. 
(b) Maximum loan value of convertible securities subject to 
section 207.1(d).—For the purpose of section 207.1, the maxi-
mum loan value of any security against which credit is extended 
pursuant to section 207.1 (d) shall be 50 per cent of its current 
market value, as determined by any reasonable method. 
(c) 
Retention requirement.—For the purpose of section 207.1, 
in the case of a loan which would exceed the maximum loan value 
of the collateral following a withdrawal of collateral, the "reten-
tion requirement" of a registered equity security and of a 
security against which credit is extended pursuant to section 
207.1(d) shall be 70 per cent of its current market value, as 
determined by any reasonable method. 

£1 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
" ' ^ L R E S F ? -
For immediate release 
Item No. 4 
2/1/68 
February 1, 1968 
in.; 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today that it has adopted a number of changes to broaden the coverage of, 
and, in most respects, to tighten its regulations governing the use of 
credit in stock market transactions. These changes are based on proposals 
which were published for comment on October 20, 1967. Interested persons 
were asked to submit their comments in writing by November 20, 1967. The 
proposals have been revised extensively in the light of numerous comments 
received in response to the Board's invitation. As adopted, the changes 
will: 
1. Extend the period in which a broker or dealer must obtain 
the customer's margin deposit on a margin transaction by one day, to 
five full business days after the transaction. This change will become 
effective on February 5, 1968. The purpose of this liberalizing proposal 
is to reduce the current pressures on bookkeeping departments of brokerage 
firms by insuring that a weekend will always be included in the period 
of time within which the deposit must be obtained. 
The margin required on stock transactions remains unchanged at 
70 per cent. This means in effect that anyone buying a $100 stock on 
credit must deposit in his margin account at least $70 in cash, or 
securities with an equivalent loan value. 

-2' 
451 
2. Impose a new matglh requirement on loans made by banks for the 
purpose of purchasing or carrying securities convertible into registered 
stock. This requirement will be set independently of the margin requirement 
for loans to purchase or carry registered stock, and is fixed initially at 
50 per cent in recognition of the fact that convertible securities combine 
characteristics of both stocks and bonds. The same requirement applies to 
loans by brokers and dealers on registered convertible securities, instead 
of the present 70 per cent, but margin requirements are removed from loans 
they m^ke on non-convertible bonds. In consequence, banks, brokers and 
dealers will be on substantially the same footing in these respects. 
Beginning March 11, the 50 per cent initial requirement will apply 
to all new loans on convertibles by banks, brokers and dealers, or other 
lenders. On loans made b^ banks between October 20, 1967, and March 11, 
1^68, a fully margined status must be achieved by April 10; bank loans made 
.kgfore October 20, 1967, are not affected unless there have been subsequent 
substitutions of collateral or conversions into stock. On loans made by 
lenders other than banks or brokers and dealers between February 1, 1968, 
a
nd March 11, 1968, a fully margined status must also be achieved by April 10, 
1963. 
For all lenders--banks, brokers and others--loans on convertibles 
that have a margin status below the prescribed 50 per cent will be subject 
to a 70 per cent "retention requirement": 
that is, 70 per cent of the pro-
ceeds from a sale of these securities will have to be retained to improve 
the status of the loan until it is margined at the full 50 per cent. 
3. Require that non-convertible bonds and exempted securities 
(
e
'g., Government securities) on the one hand, and convertible securities 
the other, be segregated in two new accounts, separate from the ordinary 
m
argin account in which only stock may be held. The purpose of requiring 

i r « ) 
-3-
separate accounts is to foreclose use of the "same-day-substitution" 
Privilege to circumvent the retention requirement for accounts that are 
below the prescribed margin. Placing convertible securities in a separate 
account will also, it is believed, avoid some bookkeeping and other 
mechanical problems which would result from having in the same margin 
account securities with different loan values. 
4. Require that collateral in special subscription accounts--
that is, securities acquired by the exercise of subscription rights on 
the preferential 25 per cent initial margin presently allowed for such 
acquis it ions--be brought into "fully margined" status by payments in four 
e
qual quarterly instalments. This provision, as adopted, requires that 
w
hen a payment is not made, the bank, broker cr dealer sell enough collateral 
s
° that the remaining credit will be roughly in the same proportion to the 
collateral remaining in the account as if the payment had been made. As 
originally proposed, the changes would have required all the collateral in 
the account to be sold, and the loan paid off, if a payment were missed. 
5. Introduce a new regulation (designated "Regulation G") to 
e
*tend to other lenders margin requirements corresponding to those long 
applicable 
to brokers, dealers, and banks on credit extended for the purpose 
°f purchasing or carrying registered equity securities. 
The " o t h e r l e n d e r s " whose s e c u r i t y 
loans are thus put on a 
c o r r e s p o n d i n g f o o t i n g with those o f banks and brokers 
i n c l u d e the 
f o l l o w -
ing: 
'factors," "collateral lenders," and others whose stock loans usually 
r
ise during periods when both margin requirements and stock market activity 
a r e
 high; insurance companies; tax-exempt organizations; credit unions; 
finance companies; those State-chartered savings and lean associations 

'1 »>u 
-4-
authorized to make such loans; and anyone acting as agent for a lender-
foreign or domestic--in handling securities loans. 
The new Regulation G does not apply to any credit extended before 
February 1, 1968, and persons extending credit in relatively small amounts 
will not be subject to its requirements. Only credit on registered equity 
securities (stocks and securities convertible into stock) will be subject 
to the regulation (as contrasted with the proposals, which applied to 
credit on all registered securities). Lenders extending more than $50,000 
in credit in any calendar quarter against registered equity securities, or 
whose loans against such securities amount to $100,000 at any time during 
the quarter, must register with the Board by the end of the month following 
the close of the quarter. Margin requirements will apply to any loan made 
for the purpose of purchasing or carrying registered equity securities by 
a person subject to the registration requirement, and all registered 
lenders must file quarterly reports. 
An exception "from initial margin requirements is provided for 
credit extended by corporations to finance the exercise of stock purchase 
rights granted officers and employees under corporate plans that contain 
certain safeguards designed to make it less likely that the credit will be 
repaid with proceeds of the sale of the securities. Exceptions are also 
made for borrowing to finance plans of this kind, and for rights that were 
granted prior to February 1, 1968. 
6. Require that banks and other persons performing certain 
services "as agent" for foreign and other stock market lenders obtain a 
signed statement from their principals to the effect that the activities of 
the principal conform to the applicable margin regulations. The agent may 

act in reliance on such a statement. A similar requirement has been 
inserted into Regulation T, as to services by brokers and dealers. Also, 
banks and other lenders will be forbidden to arrange for credit on lower 
margin than they can extend themselves; brokers and dealers have long 
been subject to this rule. 
7. Require that banks and other lenders obtain from the 
borrower a signed statement of the purpose of any stock-secured loan, on 
a form prescribed by the Board, determine in good faith that the statement 
is correct, and sign it as so accepted. A false statement on the form may 
be punishable by fine or imprisonment. The forms will have to be kept in 
the records of the bank or lender for at least six years after the credit 
is extinguished. Loans by brokers and dealers are generally for the pur-
Pose of purchasing or carrying securities, and no statement of purpose is 
ordinarily required in connection with such loans. 
In adopting the new provisions relating to convertible securities, 
the Board also published for comment a proposal to exempt from margin 
requirements loans made by banks to dealers to finance their market-making 
activities in convertible securities. 
If adopted, this exemption would 
become effective not later than March 11, 1968. Dealers who wish to be 
eligible for the exemption should begin to file reports promptly on 
Federal Reserve Form U-3, copies of which will be available from any 
Federal Reserve Bank. Information supplied on such reports will be 
accorded confidential treatment, in conformity with the Board's rules. 
Margin requirements were established initially in October, 1934, 
under authority Congress granted the Federal Reserve Board in the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 "for the purpose of preventing the excessive use of 
credit for the purchase or carrying of securities." 

- 3 -
Under present law, margin requirements can be applied only to 
ioang for the purpose of purchasing or carrying securities registered cn 
a
 nation&l securities exchange. The Reserve Board has, however, submitted 
to Congress a legislative proposal that would provide authority to apply 
m a
rgin regulations also to securities that are actively traded in the over-
the-counter market. 
Attached are texts of the Board's Regulation T (relating to 
extension of credit by brokers and dealers) and Regulation U (loans by 
hanks) as amended, and of the new Regulation G relating to securities 
credit extended by other lenders. 
- 0 -
Attachments. 

loo 
Item No. 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/1/68 
[12 CFR Part 221] 
[Reg. U] 
LOANS BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING 
OR CARRYING REGISTERED STOCKS 
The Board of Governors is considering amending 5 221.2 by 
adding a new paragraph (l) as follows: 
£ 221.2 Exceptions to general rule. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of £ 221.1, a bank may extend 
and may maintain any credit for the purpose specified in £ 221.1, with-
out regard to the limitations prescribed therein, if the credit comes 
within any of the following descriptions: 
•k "k ic 
(I) (1) Any credit extended, against collateral described below, 
to a creditor—^ subject to Part 220 of this Chapter (Regulation T) who 
holds himself out to the public as making a continuous market in any 
security convertible with or without consideration into a stock regis-
tered on a natipnal securities exchange, or carrying any warrant or 
right to subscribe to or purchase such stock, or any such warrant or 
right (such security is referred to herein as a "convertible security"). 
To be eligible for this exception the creditor must register with the 
i 
Board of Governors by filing a registration statement on Federal Reserve 
Form U-3 with the Federal Reserve Bank of the district in which his 
principal office is located, specifying the securities in which he is 
1/ As defined in section 220.2(b) of Part 220 (Regulation T). 

-3-
prepared to make a market, which registration shall not be effective 
until approved by the Board of Governors. The collateral as to which 
credit may be so extended shall consist only of convertible securities 
in respect to which the creditor is so registered. A creditor who 
ceases to make a market in any or all of the securities for which he is 
registered, or intends to make a market in convertible securities other 
than those in which he is currently so registered, shall amend his 
registration by promptly notifying the Federal Reserve Bank of the 
district in which his principal office is located. Any such amendment 
will be effective immediately on receipt. 
(2) Every creditor shall file such weekly and other reports 
with respect to his market making activities as the Board of Governors 
roay prescribe. If a creditor fails to file any such periodic report, 
the Board of Governors may summarily suspend his registration pending 
final determination of termination proceedings, which shall be instituted 
concurrently. 
(3) Any registration of a creditor may be terminated or restricted 
by action of the Board of Governors, after notice and opportunity for a 
hearing, when, in the judgment of the Board, the creditor is not making 
a market in all or part of the securities as to which he is so registered. 
In making such determination, the Board of Governors may consider such 
criteria as the capital adequacy of the creditor, the relative frequency 
of transactions (both purchases and sales) in issues in which the creditor 
has represented to the Board that he makes markets, the relative prices 

at which transactions were executed on average and the volume of such 
transactions in relation to trading positions and allocated capital. 
Upon termination of his registration by the Board, as provided herein, 
a creditor may not file a new registration statement for a period of 
six months from the date of such action. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
The proposed exception to the general rule is designed to 
avoid possible adverse effects on the stability of the market for 
convertible securities by reason of the imposition of margin require-
ments on loans collateralized by such securities. Broker-dealers who 
hold themselves out to the public as making a continuous market in 
such securities and hence might be eligible, in the event that the 
Board should deem it appropriate to adopt such an exception, should 
immediately undertake to supply the reports and information required 
by the proposed sub-section, in order to facilitate prompt approval of 
their registration before March 11, I960, the date by which additional 
deposits of margin would have to be made in respect to credit subject 
to loans affected by the new requirements of $ 221.3(t). Forms for 
this purpose are available at any Federal Reserve Bank. 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, 
interested persons are invited to submit, in writing, relevant data, 
views, or arguments. Such material should be sent to the Secretary, 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 
20551, to be received not later than March 6, I960. Under the Board's 

-4-
453 
rules regarding availability of information (12 CFR 261), such materials 
will be made available for inspection and copying to any person upon 
request unless the person submitting the material requests that it be 
considered confidential. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 1st day of February, 193C. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD • F GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
2/1/68 
«AL RES*. 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T Q 
T H E 
B O A R D 
This will acknowledge receipt of your request for a 
hearing or oral presentation in connection with the Board's 
Notice of Proposed Rule Making, dated October 20, 1967. Under 
that notice, among other things, the Board's margin regulations 
would be extended to loans by banks for the purpose of purchasing 
or carrying securities convertible into registered stocks, and 
by adoption of a new Regulation G, to lenders other than banks, 
brokers, or dealers. 
In certain types of rule making the Board finds public 
hearings very helpful. However, in view of the nature and com-
plexity of the October 20, 1967 proposals, the Board concluded that 
the submission of written arguments, views, and data would be the 
most effective and appropriate method of determining the desirability 
of adopting the proposed amendments and the new regulation. A great 
many written expressions of views were received by the Board in 
response to publication of the proposals, and full consideration 
was given to all such communications. Accordingly, the Board feels 
it would be inappropriate to grant your request. 
Nevertheless, the Board appreciates having heard from 
you. As you will understand, the Board continually reviews the 
operations of its regulations. Any comments or criticism you may 
have in the future will be given careful attention. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

461 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
2/1/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 1, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30303 
Dear Mr. Kimbrel: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salary to Mr. Jeffrey Wells as Vice President and Manager 
of the Nashville Branch at the rate of $19,000 per annum 
for the period February 1 through December 31, 1968. This 
is the rate fixed by your Board of Directors as reported 
in your letter of January 25, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
1 with 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D OF G D V E R N O R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
3 D 5 5 I 
Item No. 8 
2/1/68 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
February 1, 1968. 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your request for a report 
on S. 2857, a bill to eliminate the reserve requirements for 
Federal Reserve notes and for United States notes and Treasury 
notes of 1890.
 
3 
Continued growth in the volume of Federal Reserve 
notes in circulation will necessitate a change in the gold 
certificate reserve requirement in the near future. Enact-
ment of S. 2857 would visibly and definitively free the 
United States' gold stock for use as an international monetary 
reserve--the principal function performed by gold today—and 
in conjunction with continued strong efforts to achieve a 
sustainable equilibrium in United States' international 
transactions, would strengthen the international position 
of the dollar. 
Accordingly, the Board favors enactment of S. 2857. 
Sincerely yours, 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
V 

463 
Item No. 9 
2/1/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
DENVER U.S. BANCORPORATION, INC., 
Denver, Colorado, 
pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 for 
a determination re the proposed Lincoln 
Agency, Inc., and Fidelity National Life 
Insurance Company. 
DOCKET NO. BHC-82 
ORDER 
Denver U.S. Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado, a bank 
holding company v/ithin the meaning of section 2(a) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841(a)), filed a request for a deter-
mination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System that 
the activities planned to be undertaken by its proposed subsidiaries, 
Lincoln Agency, Inc., and Fidelity National Life Insurance Company, are 
of the kind described in section 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) 
and section 222.5(b) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.5(b)) so as 
to make it unnecessary for the prohibitions of section 4(a) of the Act 
with respect to acquisition of shares in ncn-banking companies to apply 
in order to carry out the purposes of the Act. 

4 6 4 
- 2 -
Pursuant to the requirements of section 4(c)(8) of the Act 
and in accordance with the provisions of sections 222.5(b) and 222.7(a) 
of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.5(b), 222.7(a)), a hearing was 
held on this matter on July 11, 1967. On December 23, 1967, the Hearing 
Examiner filed his Report and Recommended Decision, a copy of which is 
appended hereto, wherein he recommended that the request be granted. 
The time for filing exceptions to the aforesaid Report and Recommended 
Decision has expired, and none has been filed. The Board hereby adopts 
the findings of fact, conclusions of law, and recommendations embodied 
therein, and on the basis thereof and of the entire record, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the activities planned to be under-
taken by Lincoln Agency, Inc., and Fidelity National Life Insurance 
Company, all of which are of an insurance nature, are determined to be 
so closely related to the business of banking or of managing or controlling 
banks as to be a proper incident thereto and as to make it unnecessary 
for the prohibitions of section 4(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act to 
apply in order to carry out the purposes of the Act; provided, however, 
that this determination is subject to revocation if the facts upon which 
it is based should change in any material respect. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 1st day of February, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors, acting by its General 
Counsel pursuant to delegated authority (12 CFR 265.2(b)(2)). 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

465 
BDARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
2/1/68 
f^LRt^V 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 2, 1968 
Mr. Leland M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of January 29, 1968, the Director of the Division 
of Examinations on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointment of Ronald E. 
Knodel as an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago. Please advise the effective date of the 
appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

466 
''f^LM^f'' 
BOARD DF GDVERNDR5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
2/1/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 2, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Peoples Bank of Charles Town, 
Charles Town, West Virginia. 
Gentlemen: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves an investment in bank premises by Peoples Bank of 
Charles Town, Charles Town, West Virginia, of $284,100 for 
the purpose of constructing new banking quarters. 
This 
action is in lieu of the Board's previous approval on 
June 7, 1967, for an investment of $216,466. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

0V 
. 
AIR MAIL 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 12 
2/1/68 
A D D R E S S 
O r F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 2, 1968 
Mr. Dolph Simons, 
Federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64106 
Dear Mr. Simons: 
Acting under delegated authority, the Director of the Division 
of Personnel Administration has approved the request contained in Mr. 
Cahill's letter of January 29, 1968, for the appointment of Mr. Timothy 
J. Riley as Federal Reserve Agent's Representative at the Denver Branch 
to succeed Mr. Richard C. Krieger. 
This approval is given with the understanding that Mr. Riley 
will be solely responsible to the Federal Reserve Agent and the Board 
of Governors for the proper performance of his duties, except that, dur-
ing the absence or disability of the Federal Reserve Agent or a vacancy 
in that office, his responsibility will be to the Assistant Federal 
Reserve Agent and the Board of Governors. 
When not engaged in the performance of his duties as Federal 
Reserve Agent's Representative, Mr. Riley may, with the approval of the 
Federal Reserve Agent and the Vice President in charge of the Denver 
Branch, perform such work for the Branch as will not be inconsistent 
with the duties as Federal Reserve Agent's Representative. 
It will be appreciated if Mr. Riley is fully informed of 
the importance of his responsibilities as a member of the staff of the 
Federal Reserve Agent and the need for maintenance of independence from 
the operations of the Bank in the discharge of these responsibilities. 
Please have Mr. Riley execute the usual Oath of Office which 
should then be forwarded to the Board of Governors along with notifica-
tion of the effective date of his appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4.68 
' ^OA.2-4/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF N E W YORK 
NEW YORK. NEW YORK 10045 
Item No. 13 
2/1/68 
I 
1968 
.—OJ't Harry I« Khbloa 
f 
T^ca Prasidant 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
One Chat* Manhattan Plaza 
Baw York, lav York 
1000$ 
Bear Mr. Bkbloas 
Va refer to /oar lattar of Jauuary 11, 1963, ad* 
a sad to the Board of Oovernors of the Federal Stitrvt 
taa In which your Corporation requests consent of the Board 
increase lta investment In shares of Banque da Cosmrce, 
warp, Belgium (ISC), end also requests an axtanalon of the 
ae within which It aay coaplete tha acquisitioa of up to 
0 percent of tha outstanding shares of BC• 
Yoa ladieata la your lattar that it la now estlaated 
at tha final total coat of acquiring tha 50 parcaat equity 
ia BC will not exceed US$5,435,000, coaparad with tha approxiaatc 
coat of QB$5«^OOtOOO originally authorised by tha Board of 
Oovaraor* for this investment. 
However, in our opinion, tha 
propoeed additional expenditure of 98$32,QOO would eoaa within 
thpr approxiaata figure originally authorized by tha Board of 
vernors, aad would not raquira tha furthar authorisation of 
tha Board of ftoveraors raquastad by your Corporation. 
With raapact to your request for an axtanalon of tlaa, 
tha Federal Beeerve Bank of Saw York, acting uadar dalagatad 
authority oo bahalf of tha Board of Governors of tha Fadaral 
Reserve System, axtaoda to January 
1969, tha tlaa within 
which thia lnreataent aay ba completed. 
Yery truly youra, 
Fred V. Fiderit, Jr. 
Ylaa President 
O B v s t 
