^ 609 
i 
Minutes for 
April 17, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 1.0 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, April 17, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Koch, Deputy Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Sanders, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Keir, Chief, Capital Markets Section, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Investment by Edge corporation (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval 
given to the application of First National City Overseas Investment 
Corporation, New York, New York, for permission to acquire the capital 
stock of a corporation, tentatively designated as First National City 
Eurosecurities Corporation, to be organized in Belgium for the primary 
Purpose of acting as a "selected dealer" for securities issued abroad. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant pursuant to the Board's 
action is attached as Item No. 1. 

1444. 
4/17/67 
-2-
Messrs. Sammons and Dahl then withdrew from the meeting. 
Classification of member banks (Item No. 2). The Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis had recommended a reclassification of 
member banks in the Ninth District for the purpose of electing Class A 
and Class B directors. The Division of Bank Operations then recommended 
to the Reserve Bank a modification of the proposal that would forestall 
early movement back to Group 1 of a number of banks that, under the 
original proposal, would be at the upper limit of Group 2. The 
Minneapolis Reserve Bank had agreed to the modification, and in a memo-
randum of April 7, 1967, the Division of Bank Operations recommended 
approval of the modified reclassification of member banks. 
Mr. Daniels discussed the reasons for the modification that had 
been suggested by the Division of Bank Operations, and agreement was 
expressed by the Board. Accordingly, the proposed reclassification of 
member banks, as modified, was approved unanimously. A copy of the 
letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis pursuant to this 
action is attached as Item No. 2. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether the staff had reviewed 
recently the formula used by the Board as a guide in classifying member 
banks for electoral purposes. —/ 
IV The formula provides that the number of member banks in Group 2 
w i H be approximately one-third of the total number of member banks 
the district, with the number of member banks in Group 1 as nearly 
a s way be in the same ratio to the total number of all member banks 
a s the combined capital and surplus of member banks in Group 3 bears 
t o the combined capital and surplus of all member banks. 

1AAS 
4/17/67 
-3-
Mr. Daniels said the Division of Bank Operations felt that the 
formula was intended as a mathematical expression of the intent of the 
law, which provides that the Board shall classify member banks into 
three groups consisting "as nearly as may be of banks of similar capi-
talization." The Division also believed that the formula should be 
applied flexibly as a rough guide, for otherwise the outcome would 
often be undesirable. 
Mr. Hackley noted that for several months the Legal Division 
had had an assignment from the Board to determine whether some different 
formula would be more appropriate; or, if a more appropriate formula 
could not be found, to explore the possibility of some change in the 
law to provide a different basis for classification of member banks. 
Thus far, it seemed difficult to devise a formula much better than the 
present one, assuming that the present formula could be applied flexi-
bly. However, the Legal Division was continuing its study and hoped 
shortly to present a memorandum to the Board as a basis for discussion. 
Revenue bond underwriting (Items 3 and 4). Chairman Sparkman 
the Senate Banking and Currency Committee had requested the Board's 
views on S. 1306, a bill that would give member banks limited underwrit-
e s powers with respect to revenue bonds. Subsequently, Chairman 
Proxmire of the Committee's Subcommittee on Financial Institutions asked 
the Board to undertake an investigation of the annual amount of savings, 
1f any, that might accrue to State and local governments as a result of 

1446. 
4/17/67 
-2-
enactment of this measure. A similar letter was sent by Senator 
Proxmire to the Comptroller of the Currency, and he had suggested that 
the respective staffs might cooperate in the study. Submission of con-
clusions by July 1, 1967, was requested. 
A memorandum from the Legal Division dated April 13, 1967, con-
tained an analysis of S. 1306. On the assumption that the Board would 
wish to comply with Senator Proxmire's request and conduct the requested 
study in cooperation with the Comptroller of the Currency, there was 
submitted a draft of reply to Senator Proxmire indicating that the study 
would go forward. Also submitted was a draft of reply to Chairman 
Sparkman indicating that the Board assumed there would be no objection 
if its response to the request for views on S. 1306 was postponed until 
after completion of the study. 
The memorandum suggested that the Director of the Division of 
Research and Statistics be authorized to make the necessary arrangements 
with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency for the joint conduct 
°f the study under the lead of appropriate members of the Board's staff. 
The memorandum further suggested that if the Board desired to hear 
representatives of the investment banking fraternity and the commercial 
banks on the subject of commercial bank underwriting of revenue bonds 
before the Board determined a current position on that subject, such 
Presentations might be invited after completion of the study to be made 
Senator Proxmire and before hearings on S. 1306 began. 

1447. 
4/17/67 
-2-
Governor Daane suggested moving ahead as rapidly as possible 
with the study and said he considered the draft letters appropriate. 
When the results of the study were available, he felt that the Board 
might have a better basis for determining a current position on the 
question whether the privilege of underwriting revenue bonds should be 
made available to commercial banks. His only question related to 
whether interested parties should be given a chance to appear before the 
Board and express their views before or after the study was completed. 
Governor Brimmer spoke in favor of following the procedural 
recommendation of the staff. He felt it would be unfortunate if the 
Board opened the subject up for general discussion by inviting inter-
ested parties to be heard before the results of the study were available. 
He then asked Mr. Koch what the Research Division believed could reason-
ably be done in conducting the requested study. 
Mr. Koch said it was contemplated that a study conducted earlier 
would be updated and that the staff would try to go beyond the scope of 
the earlier work. The terms of the request suggested, for example, that 
the study cover all issues, small and large, and include negotiated 
issues as well as those on which there were competitive bids. The 
Board's staff would make inquiry through the Federal Reserve Banks to 
See if it could uncover any significant data. 
Mr. Keir noted that there might be some regional differences 
and said an effort would be made to investigate that question. Gener-
ally, however, he would anticipate following much the same approach as 

1448. 
4/17/67 
-2-
before, which would mean trying to check factors such as underwriting 
spreads and the number of bidders active in the revenue bond market 
compared with the market for general obligations. His feeling was that 
probably the study would not reveal significant differences from the 
previous study, but that was only a conjecture. 
Governor Brimmer inquired about the extent of assistance likely 
to be obtained from the Comptroller's Office, and Mr. Koch said a mem-
ber of the Comptroller's staff had indicated that resources were lack-
ing for such a study. However, factual findings of the Board's staff 
would be made available to the Comptroller's Office, and an effort would 
be made to come up with reasonably consistent conclusions. 
Chairman Martin suggested that Governor Daane spend some time 
with the members of the Board's staff who would be working on the 
study, and Governor Daane expressed willingness to do so. 
Unanimous approval then was given to the proposed letters to 
Senators Sparkman and Proxmire; copies are attached as Items 3 and 4, 
respectively. 
Gold policy. Governor Brimmer referred to an article in this 
morning's Washington Post indicating that key Federal Reserve officials 
were disturbed by recent suggestions emanating from two major American 
banks that the U.S. should consider a halt in the sale of gold to for-
eign central banks in a time of crisis, and that so far as such offi-
cials could influence policy there would be no embargo on sales of gold 

1449. 
4/17/67 
-2-
by the U.S. Government. The article further indicated that, while 
parties at the Federal Reserve were willing to support the new emphasis 
at the Treasury that there must be a sharing of responsibility by for-
eign countries in using and managing the total supply of official gold, 
they also held the view that the U.S. must be willing to use its gold 
supply "even to the last bar" rather than embargo gold. The article 
suggested that both Federal Reserve and Treasury officials were likely 
to propose the abolition of the 25 per cent gold cover requirement 
against Federal Reserve notes. 
Governor Brimmer commented that this article went further than 
others he had seen in attributing views to Federal Reserve officials 
and that he would like to have the benefit of any expressions by 
members of the Board. 
Chairman Martin said he did not know of any change in the long-
standing view of the Board that there should be no change in the policy 
of the U.S. to buy and sell gold at $35 an ounce. 
Governor Daane likewise said that he did not know of any change 
in the position that the Board had taken for a long time. 
After a discussion by Mr. Solomon of various interpretations 
that had been placed upon the materials emanating from the two afore-
mentioned U.S. banks, Governor Brimmer commented that it was the import 
of the Post article that a tougher U.S. gold policy was in an evolving 
phase and that it had the support of key monetary policy-makers. The 

1450. 
4/17/67 
-2-
article also contained, as aforesaid, an indication that the Adminis-
tration, backed by the Federal Reserve, would soon ask to have the gold 
cover removed. He inquired whether some basic decision had been 
reached of which he was unaware. 
Chairman Martin replied that the thinking of the Administration, 
and certainly the Treasury, was trending toward a request for removal 
of the gold cover. 
Governor Brimmer then inquired to what extent the Board had 
thrown its weight behind a position that the U.S. should not pay out 
gold freely. He had not been aware of any such general Board feeling. 
Governor Daane said that he knew of no new formulation of Gov-
ernment position. The question had come up from time to time in 
committee meetings at the Treasury that he had attended, but he was 
not aware of any new position. To his knowledge there had been no 
expression of Federal Reserve position or agreement to back any Trea-
sury position that might be developed in this area. 
Chairman Martin inquired about the placement of responsibility 
for gold policy from a legal standpoint, and Mr. Hackley replied that, 
although in the matter of the gold cover there was joint responsibility 
between the Treasury and the Federal Reserve, the buying and selling 
of gold was entirely the responsibility of the Treasury. 
Mr. Solomon described some of the possible implications of a 
change in U.S. gold policy, and Governor Brimmer then asked for 

1451. 
4/17/67 
-2-
confirmation of his understanding that in matters relating to gold 
operations the Federal Reserve acted simply as an agent of the Treasury. 
Mr. Hackley replied that in such matters the Federal Reserve 
acted as agent of the Treasury, although the Federal Reserve of course 
made gold collateral loans to other central banks from time to time. 
Governor Daane remarked that Vice President Coombs of the New 
York Reserve Bank held the view that he was an agent of the Treasury 
in gold operations, and the Treasury so regarded him. In Governor 
Daane's opinion, the responsibility for gold policy clearly devolved 
on the Treasury. Of course, that did not preclude the Federal Reserve 
from having a view. 
Chairman Martin said that the recent public discussion of U.S. 
gold policy was a subject of conversation at the Treasury luncheon 
that he and Governor Robertson had attended on Monday, but with no 
implications of any change in policy. He then asked Governor Brimmer 
whether the latter felt that there should be an embargo on the sale 
of gold, and Governor Brimmer replied in the negative, adding that he 
felt the whole recent public discussion had been unfortunate. 
Chairman Martin commented that his own position traced back to 
the public statements issued by Presidents Kennedy and Johnson. Presi-
dent Kennedy had stated that the U.S. would be prepared to use its gold 
supplies down to the last bar, if necessary, and that position had been 

1452. 
4/17/67 
- 2 -
confirmed by President Johnson. The Board had consistently taken a 
position in line with what Presidents Kennedy and Johnson had said. 
To do anything different would mean departing from what must be con-
sidered the official U.S. position. 
Study of budgetary concepts. Governor Shepardson referred to 
a memorandum from the Director of the Division of Research and Statis-
tics dated April 13, 1967, relating that the staff director of a 
special commission appointed by the President to study methods of 
i 
improving the organization and presentation of the U.S. budget had 
sought staff assistance from the Federal Reserve. 
The memorandum indicated that the Board's staff would be pre-
pared to offer a substantial amount of help. Specifically, it was 
proposed that Stephen P. Taylor, Chief of the Flow of Funds and Savings 
Section, be freed for a substantial period of time over the next 
several months for this purpose, with others in the Research Division 
made available for specific jobs. It had been ascertained that the 
staff director of the special commission would be pleased with such an 
arrangement. 
Members of the Board expressed themselves as favoring support 
°f the project, and the arrangement described in the memorandum was 
approved unanimously. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
1 

1453. 
4/17/67 
- 2 -
Secretary's Notes: Pursuant to the author-
ity granted by the Board on April 13, 1967, 
a letter was sent on April 14 to Herrick, 
Smith, Donald, Farley & Ketchum of Boston, 
Massachusetts, granting an extension of time, 
until June 29, 1967, for Harvard Trust Com-
pany, Cambridge, Massachusetts; Newton-Wa1tham 
Bank and Trust Company, Waltham, Massachusetts; 
Norfolk County Trust Company, Brookline, Massa-
chusetts; and Valley Bank and Trust Company, 
Springfield, Massachusetts, to file registra-
tion statements pursuant to section 12(g) of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Regu-
lation F, Securities of Member State Banks. 
On April 14, 1967, Governor Shepardson approved 
on behalf of the Board the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis (copy attached as 
Item No. 5) approving the appointment of Patrick J. Brady as assistant 
examiner. 
Memorandum from the Office of the Controller dated April 14, 1967, 
recommending the establishment of an additional accounting position in 
that Office. 
Memorandum from the Division of Data Processing recommending the 
appointment of Wingfield Roberts as Programmer in that Division, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $7,696, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Governor Shepardson today approved on behalf 
of the Board a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond (copy attached as Item No. 6) 
approving the designation of John F. Beattie, 
Tyrone C. Carter, and Charles R. Selden, Jr., 
as special assistant examiners. 
QA^ 
Secretary 

1454 
B D A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
4/17/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TD THE BOARD 
April 17, 1967. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 30, 1967, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to pur-
chase and hold 100 per cent of the capital stock of a new company to 
be organized in Belgium, tentatively known as First National City 
Eurosecurities Corporation ("FNCEC"), at a cost of approximately 
US$2,000, provided such stock is acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of FNCEC by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FNCEC if FNCEC at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if FNCEC establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Belgium or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FNCEC as it may require from time . 
to time; and, 

14 
First National City Overseas 
-2-
Investment Corporation 
• ! 
(3) That any share acquisitions, for its own account 
other than as underwriter or dealer, or dispositions 
by FNCEC be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if FNCEC were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans 
and investments of your Corporation, First National City Bank and 
International Banking Corporation, will not cause the total of such 
loans and investments to exceed the guidelines established under the 
voluntary foreign credit restraint effort now in effect and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1456 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
4/17/67 
o'oi^V/. 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
April 17, 1967 
Mr. M. H. Strothman, Jr. , 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 55440 
Dear Mr. Strothman: 
This refers to your letter of March 27, 1967, 
containing a recommendation for the reclassification of 
member banks for the purpose of electing Class A and 
Class B d irectors in the Ninth Federal Reserve District 
and the modification thereof in the telephone conversa-
tion on April 5 between you and Mr. Daniels. In accor-
dance with your recommendation, the Board has changed 
the classification of member banks to the following: 
Group 
Banks with Capital and Surplus of: 
j| 
3 
2 
1 
$1,200,000 and over 
$400,000 and over, but under $1,200,000 
Under $400,000 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman. 
Secretary. 

1457 
ov "* ~ 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 
4/17/67 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
April 18, 1967 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is to acknowledge receipt of your request of March 20, 
1967, for the Board's views on S. 1306, a bill that would give member 
banks limited underwriting powers with respect to certain revenue bonds. 
Subsequent to receipt of your letter, the Board received a 
request from Senator Proxmire, Chairman of the Financial Institutions 
Subcommittee, for a study of the probable effect of such bank under-
writing of revenue bonds on the costs of municipal borrowing. The 
Board has agreed to conduct such a study jointly with the Comptroller 
of the Currency, and it is hoped that the conclusions will be submitted 
by July 1, 1967. It is understood that hearings on S. 1306 will not 
begin until after that time. 
In these circumstances, the Board assumes that there would 
be no objection if its response to your request is postponed until 
after completion of the study. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

1.458 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
Item No. 4 
4/17/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
April 18, 1967 
The Honorable William Proxmire, Chairman, 
Financial Institutions Subcommittee, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your letter of March 31, 1967, 
requesting the Board to conduct a study of the probable effect of 
S. 1306, which would give member banks limited underwriting powers 
with respect to certain revenue bonds, on the costs of municipal 
borrowing. 
The Board will undertake such a study and has been informed 
that the Comptroller of the Currency will work with the Board in this 
matter. We will endeavor to submit the conclusions of a joint study 
by the staffs of the Board and the Comptroller by July 1, 1967, as 
requested. 
The Chairman of the Committee on Banking and Currency has 
- 
.1 . 
. 1 • , 1_ 
1 _ 
J J- I. _ i- i- U. ^ D/miv^ ^ 
been informed that this study is to be made and that the Board's 
legislative report on S. 1306, which he requested by letter of 
March 20, 1967, is being postponed until its completion. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

•HreS^.-" 
1459 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
4/17/67 
ADDRESS OTFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
April 14, 1967 
Mr. 0. 0. Wyrick, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 63166 
Dear Mr. Wyrick: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of April 10, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of Patrick J. Brady as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. Please advise 
the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1.460 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
4/17/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
April 18, 1967 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in your letter of April 13, 1967, the Board 
approves the designations of John F. Beattie, 
Tyrone C. Carter, and Charles R. Selden, Jr., as 
special assistant examiners for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond. 
Very truly yours, 
I
j
f
' 
UK< cjcr< ( 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
