MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 11, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 4 Amendment to Regulation Y, Bank Holding 
Companies. 

3553 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, December 11, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Hersey, Senior Adviser, Division of Inter-
national Finance 1/ 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Staff presented the regular weekly economic and financial review. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Members of the staff who had attended the meeting specifically 
for the economic review then withdrew. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, 
1/ Other staff and officers of the Divisions also were present. 

3554 
12/11/72 
-2-
Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco on December 7, 
1972, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules 
w a s approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Boston Overseas 
Financial Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, to acquire indirectly shares 
of a leasing company to be formed in Brazil. A copy of the letter sent 
to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Republic National 
Bank of New York, New York, New York, to acquire shares of Republic National 
Bank of New York (Overseas, Panama), Inc., Panama City, Panama. A copy 
of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to Chase Manhattan Over-
seas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent to the 
acquisition of shares of Chase Merchant Bankers Jamaica, Limited, Kingston, 
Jamaica, and to the continued holding of those shares after the latter 
issues and has outstanding borrowings with maturities in excess of one 
year. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Colonial Bank, 
New Orleans, Louisiana, for admission to membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 4. 
As recommended in a memorandum from the Legal Division and the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated December 4, 1972, the Board 

3555 
12/11/72 
-3-
unanimously approved publication for comment of a proposed revision of 
Appendix A of Regulation P, Minimum Security Devices and Procedures for 
Federal Reserve Banks and State Member Banks. It was understood that 
the proposal would be issued for comment simultaneously with similar 
proposals of the other Federal supervisory agencies to amend their compa-
rable regulations. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of First National 
Bank in Dallas, Dallas, Texas, and its trusteed affiliate, First National 
Securities Company in Dallas, to retain shares of (1) Citizens State Bank 
of Irving, Irving, Texas, and (2) De Soto State Bank, De Soto, Texas, 
and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Frisco-Dillon 
Inc., Lincoln, Nebraska, to become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of shares of Summit County Bank, Frisco, Colorado, and 
authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Texas Commerce 
Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of The Citizens 
National Bank of Lubbock, Lubbock, Texas, and authorized the issuance of 
an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved, for transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, a report on the competitive factors involved 

3556 
12/11/72 
-4-
in the proposed merger of First Citizens National Bank, Montgomery, 
Pennsylvania, with Northern Central Bank and Trust Company, Williamsport, 
Pennsylvania. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is some competition existing between First 
Citizens National Bank, Montgomery, and Northern 
Central Bank and Trust Company, Williamsport, the 
largest bank in the Williamsport banking market. 
Further, there is potential for increased competition 
between proponents. The overall effect of the proposed 
merger on competition would be adverse. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Insurance activities. On December 5, 1972, the Board considered 
a proposed amendment to Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, together 
with an accompanying interpretation, that would add the underwriting of 
credit life and credit accident and health insurance to the list of 
permissible activities for bank holding companies. At that time staff 
had been requested to provide additional documentation based on the 
general approach that was discussed. 
With a memorandum dated December 7, 1972, the Legal Division 
submitted a revised draft amendment prepared on the basis of the Board's 
discussion on December 5. 
During today's discussion, while general agreement was indicated 
with respect to the staff's approach, concern was expressed and changes 
were suggested regarding certain portions of the proposal. It was believed 
that the Board should avoid any language that might lead to the misinter-
pretation that the Board was interested in controlling rates, but should 

3557 
12/11/72 
-5-
also require that applicants establish that approval of their applications 
to underwrite credit life and credit accident and health insurance would 
produce expected benefits to the public. 
After further brief discussion the Board unanimously approved 
the amendment to Regulation Y, effective December 11, 1972, with the 
understanding that the changes discussed today would be incorporated. A 
copy of the amendment in the form published in the Federal Register is 
attached under Item No. 8, along with a copy of the related press release. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

•WRtt**.-
3558 
B D A R D • F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
r.-r-r-xr_-cs /. i 
n r c t r o x / C ' 
q v c i T P M 
12/11/72 
• r THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
aooress o r r iciAL c n n R c s P D N O E N C c 
TO THC BOAHO 
December 11, 1972 
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation 
P. 0. Box 2016 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Gentlomen: 
As requested in your letter of October 10, 1972, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation, ("BOFC"), 
to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, all of the shares 
of Boston Leasing-Arrendaniento, Locacao e Servicos Ltda,, ("BL"), 
Sao Paulo, Brazil, at a cost of approximately Cr $50.000 (about 
$8,SCO), provided the shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter* 
The Board*s consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of BL by BOFC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions; 
(1) That BOFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in BL if BL at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if BL establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Brazil or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to BCFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of. Governors, BOFC 
will furnish the Boaro with such reports regarding 
the activities of BL as it may require from ti«ae to 
time; and 
(3) That any shaie acquisitions cr dispositions by BL 
be reported under Section 211 „3(d) cf Eemulation K 
in the same manner as if BL were a corporation 
organized under Section 2 5(?) of the Federal Re-
serve Act, 

Boston Overseas Financial Corporation 
-2** 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph cf this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by BL in Brazil in 
the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Fede 
Reserve Bank of Boston, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of B'L, 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to The First National Bank of Boston and its 
affiliates or will be made with the resources of C.olina do Farol 
Administracao e Empreendimentos S„A. and will not involve any 
transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from the United 
States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3560 
B O A R D 
G F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
• r THE 
12/11/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20351 
AGORES3 OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
December .11, 1972 
Republic National Bank of New York 
Fifth Avenue at 40th Street 
New York, New York 
10018 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 24, 1972, the-Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Regulation M, for Republic National Bank. of New York, 
("RNE"). New York, New York, to purchase and hold all of the shares 
of Republic National Bank of New York (Overseas, Panama), Inc., 
("RNBO"), Panama City, Panana, at a total cost of approximately 
$1,000,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter, 
The Board1s consent to the proposed holding of the shares 
of. RNB0 by KNB is granted subject to the following conditions; 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if RNBO shall in any manner engage 
in any activity or take any action whatsoever 
that would not be permissible if RNBO were a 
corporation organized under Section 2 5(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
RNB will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of RNBO as it may re-
quire from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
RNBO be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if RNBO were 
a corporation organised under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act, 

1 5 ' 
Republic National Bank of New York 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b) , and (c) 
of Regulation K. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to your bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3562 
B O A R D OF 
G D V E R N D R K 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• r" THE 
Item No. 3 
12/11/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . - 2 0 E 5 i 
ADDRESS DrriCIAL CDRREBPaNO£HCE 
TC THE BOARD 
December 11, 1972 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
B anking Co r por at ion 
1 Chase Manhat tan PIaza 
Nev» York, New York 
10005 
Centlemon: 
As requested in your letter of October 19, 1972, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation, ("CMOBC"), 
to purchase and hold all of the outstanding shares of Chase 
Merchant Bankers Jamaica, Limited, ("CMBJ"), Kingston, Jamaica, 
at a cost of approximately $625,000, provided the shares are 
acquired within one year from the date cf this letter* 
The Boardrs consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of CMBJ by CMOBC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(!) That CMOBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in CMBJ if CMBJ at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organised under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board 
of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or ir 
OiBJ establishes any branch or agency or takes 
any action or undertakes any operation in Jamaica 
or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible to CMOBC: 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
CMOBC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of CMBJ as it may 
require from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
CMBJ be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if CMBJ were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of: 
the Federal Reserve Act. 

3 5 6 3 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the restrictions set forth in 
Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) of Regulation K as they apply to 
the activities of CKBJ. 
You have requested consent for CMBJ to engage in the 
business of underwriting or dealing in securities. The Board's 
consent to such activities is conditioned upon your Corporation's 
obtaining the prior consent of the Board tor the continued holding 
of shares of CMBJ should CMBJ acquire stock of individual issuers 
costing in excess of $500,000 or representing 25 per cent of the 
voting shares of any company, except in the case of underwriting 
operations covered by firm commitments from subunderwriters or 
other purchasers,, With respect to trading in securities in which 
Corporations are prohibited from investing by the provisions of 
the eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, 
the Board's consent is further conditioned on the fact that CMBJ 
will acquire such shares only as dealer or underwriter, maintain 
a size and turnover of inventory that is reasonable in relation to 
demand, and dispose cf such shares within a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need net: 
be- reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they 
are to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of 
acquisition, or any Call Report cf Condition or similar report re-
quested by the Boardr 
The Board also grants consent for CMOBC to continue to 
hold the shares of CMBJ after CMBJ issues and has outstanding 
debt obligations with maturities in excess of cne year in an amount 
poc to exceed at any one time $6,250,000. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board ot Governors be furnished, through the Federal 
He serve Bank of Kew York, with copies of Articles of: Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of CMBJ, 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to The Chase Manhattan Bank, National Association, and 
its affiliates. 
V e r y t r u 1. y y o u r s, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Beard 

3564 
B O A R D 
O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
x-'v;.;-. 
OF the 
12/11/72 
''vv;;/. 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
\ > £' 
• Sr 
i r ^ 
f . j 
: : • 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
December 11, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Colonial Bank 
New Orleans, Louisiana 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Colonial Bank, New Orleans, Louisiana, 
for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, subject to the 
numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its asser.s and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
in connection with foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions 
*n the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 
208.7 thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
branch at 
The Board of Governors also approves the operation of a 
215 Baronne Street, New Orleans, Louisiana. 

Board of Directors 
- 
2 
-
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
bo determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
°f directors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy of 
such resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made, to accept payment for an appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit 
°f the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount 
°f Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 30 days from the date of this letter, unless rhe bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate or 
Membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant- 
The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
t o assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank, means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
^closure 

3566 
Item No. 5 
12/11/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL BANK IN DALLAS 
FIRST NATIONAL SECURITIES COMPANY IN DALLAS 
Order Approving Retention of Banks 
First National Bank in Dallas, Dallas, Texas, a bank holding 
i 
/ 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act,- has applied 
f o* the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
retain 1,029 voting shares of Citizens State Bank of Irving, Irving, 
Texas ("Citizens Bank") and 743 voting shares of De Soto State Bank, De Soto, 
x a s ("De Soto 
Bank"), acquired through rights offerings. Applicant 
states that the proposed acquisitions were made directly by Applicant's 
trusteed affiliate, First National Securities Company in Dallas, Dallas, 
Texas ("First Securities") 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for 
^terested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views 
h a s exPired, and the Board has considered the applications and all comments 
teceived in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
^ 2 ( C ) ) . 
7 
APPlicant has one subsidiary bank, Guaranty Bank, Dallas, Texas 
^ormerly South Oak Cliff Bank). The interest in Guaranty Bank was acquired 
966 in satisfaction of a debt previously contracted. 
2/ 
J 
First Securities acquired 1,029 shares of stock in Citizens Bank on 
thrUary 2 8' 1 9 7 1 a n d 7 4 3 s h a r e s o f s t o c k i n D e S o t o B a n k o n M a r c h 18» 1 9 7 1> 
^ 
0ugh exercising its preemptive rights to acquire additional shares. 
Registration Statements of Applicant and First Securities were not filed 
apD
 
J u n e 21> 1971, and Applicant states it was unaware that prior Board 
adcH°Val W a s recluireci i n o r der to exercise preemptive rights to acquire 
it:ional stock in Citizens Bank and De Soto Bank. 

-2-
3567 
Applicant is a bank and with its one subsidiary bank controls 
aggregate deposits of $1.52 billion, representing 5.0 per cent of total commer-
cial bank deposits in the State-. Presently, Applicant is the second largest 
banking organization in Texas and in the relevant market, which is the entire 
Dallas SMSA. 
(Banking data are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect 
holding company acquisitions and formations approved through October 31, 
1972.)—^ Through its trusteed affiliate^ Applicant now controls 17.14 
Per cent of the shares of Citizens Bank ($4.5 million deposits) and 24.76 
Per cent of the shares of De Soto Bank ($9.3 million deposits), two of 
the smaller banks in the Dallas banking market. 
The trusteed affiliate's 
Percentage ownership in Citizens Bank and De Soto Bank remained unchanged 
before and after purchase of the additional shares. 
The acquisition of 
S u ch shares involved neither an expansion of Applicant nor an increase in 
fche banking resources controlled by it. 
The Board concludes, therefore, 
that approval of the retention would eliminate neither existing nor potential 
competition nor would there be any adverse effects on any bank in the area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
applicant, its subsidiary, and Citizens Bank and De Soto Bank are regarded 
a s satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. The 
convenience and needs of the area involved would not be affected by approval 
^ 
On November 30, 1972, the Board announced its approval of the formation 
a new bank holding company, First International Bancshares, Inc., Dallas, 
J X a s , through the acquisition of two banks, one of which is Applicant. 
Applicant's trusteed affiliate controls more than 5 per cent but less 
han 25 per cent of each of thirteen other Texas banks. The Board's action 
etein does not constitute a determination that any of the banks in which 
PPlicant's trusteed affiliate owns shares is or may become a subsidiary 
^ 
APplicant nor does the action herein indicate that the Board would in 
he future permit Applicant to acquire directly or indirectly any additional 
hares of any of aaid banks. However, the determination herein does not 
lnf C l u d G t h e B°ard from determining that Applicant exercises a controlling 
nfluence over the m a n a g e m e n t or policies of any of said banks within the 
e*ning 0f § 2(a)(2)(C) of the Act. 

3568 
-3-
o f Applicant's proposal. It is the Board's judgment that the applications 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
reasons summarized above. 
By order of the Board of Governors,"^ effective December 11, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
l ?SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Brimmer. 

3569 
Item No. 6 
12/11/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FRISCO-DILLON, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Frisco-Dillon, Inc., Lincoln, Nebraska, has applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
Acquisition of 81.8 per cent or more of the voting shares of Summit 
County Bank, Frisco, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
ested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accor-
dance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and the Board has considered the application and 
a H comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
e*Press purpose of acquiring Bank ($4 million deposits). (All 
inking data are as of December 31, 1971.) The purpose of the 
Proposed transaction is to convert individual to corporate owner-
slliP, and substantially equivalent offers to acquire the bank 
stock have been made to all shareholders. Since Applicant has 
n° Present operations, it appears that consummation of this pro-
posal would have no effect on existing or potential competition. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of 
applicant are dependent upon these same conditions as they exist 
Bank, and appear to be generally satisfactory, especially in 

-2-
3570 
view of recent improvements made in Bank's collection and internal 
security programs. Prospects for Applicant and Bank appear favorable 
• > 
and considerations relating to banking factors are consistent with 
and lend some support toward approval of the application. Although 
the two market banks appear to adequately serve the banking needs 
Summit County, proposed improvement 
in the operations of Bank 
under corporate structure, which will include longer banking hours 
and drive -up windows, should benefit the residents of the area. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the com-
munities to be served are consistent with approval of the applica- 
v 
tion. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction is 
in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
f°r good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective, December 11, 1972, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action* Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Sheehan and Bucher, Absent and not voting: Governors Daane 
a n d Brimmer. 

3571 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/11/72 
TEXAS COMMERCE 3ANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
the Board's approval under 5 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
t o acquire 95 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Citizens National 
Bank of Lubbock, Lubbock, Texas ("Citizens Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
* 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a n d the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
i n light of the factors set forth in 5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls seven banks located in the Houston, Beaumont, and 
S a n Al*gelo, Texas, areas with aggregate deposits of $1.5 billion, representing 
u 
y 
Per cent of total deposits of commercial banks in the State. 
Applicant, 
P ^ ^ N o v e m b e r 2, 1972, the Board approved Applicant's application to 
0n q U l r e B a n k P l a z a d e l O r o» N.A., Houston, Texas, a proposed new bank. 
a November 28, 1972, the Board announced its approval of Applicant's 
PPlication to acquire American Bank of Commerce, Odessa, Texas. As a 
t Q ^ t i o n to the Board's approval of that application, Applicant is required 
^ divest, within two years, its interest in Permian Bank & Trust, Odessa, 
*as> acquired as an incident to acquisition of American Bank. 

3572 
-2-
the fourth largest banking organization in Texas, is the second largest 
banking organization in the Houston banking market with four subsidiary 
banks controlling approximately 17.9 per cent of deposits of commercial 
banks in that market. In addition, Applicant holds, through a subsidiary, 
between 20 and 24.9 per cent of each of three other banks located in the 
Houston area. These three banks hold aggregate deposits of $77.2 million, 
^presenting 1.1 per cent of the total deposits of commercial banks in 
the Houston area. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, and 
reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved through 
October 31, 1972.) Acquisition of Citizens Bank would constitute Applicant's 
initial entry into the Lubbock banking market and will not change Applicant's 
tanking among banking organizations in the State. 
Citizens Bank ($105.5 million of deposits) is the third largest 
o f 10 banks in the Lubbock banking market and controls 19.2 per cent of 
2/ 
tQtal deposits of commercial banks in that area." Applicant's lead bank 
i s located in Houston, Texas, approximately 500 miles southeast of Citizens 
Applicant's nearest banking subsidiaries will be located approximately 
1 5 0 miles and 185 miles south, respectively, of Citizens Bank upon con-
summation of acquisition by Applicant of American Bank of Commerce, Odessa, 
Texas, and San Angelo National Bank of San Angelo, San Angelo, Texas. It 
^Pears that no meaningful competition exists between any of Applicant's 
^ ^ i t T r e s p e c t to IPC deposits of less than $100,000, Citizens Bank 
tanks fourth among the 10 banks in the market, controlling 14.5 per cent 
o f those deposits in the Lubbock area. 

3573 
-2-
Present or approved future subsidiary banks and Citizens Bank; and, on 
the facts of record, in particular the distances involved and the Texas 
law prohibiting branch banking, consummation of the proposal herein is 
unlikely to foreclose any significant potential competition between 
Citizens Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiary or satellite banks. 
In view of Applicant's intention to expand into major markets 
across the State, the present ratio of persons per banking office and bank 
deposits per capita in the Lubbock market would indicate conditions are 
attractive for entry de novo by Applicant or through acquisition of a bank 
Waller than Citizens Bank. However, there are three bank charter applica-
tions now pending for new banks in the Lubbock area; and it appears 
ualikely that entry into the relevant market through acquisition of a 
smaller bank may be attempted in the foreseeable future. Moreover, 
acquisition of Citizens Bank by Applicant should have a substantially more 
beneficial effect on competition among commercial banks in the Lubbock area 
than either of these alternative methods of entry. The proposed acquisition 
s W l d enable Citizens Bank to reverse its declining role as a significant 
competitor among the largest banks in the market by permitting that bank 
t o draw needed financial, technical and management resource strength 
froni Applicant. Citizens Bank's control of market area deposits has 
A l i n e d approximately 50 per cent since 1950 when that bank was the largest 
b a r* in the Lubbock market. The Board concludes that consummation of 
proposed transaction will not have an adverse effect on competition 
l n any relevant area and may, in fact, serve to stimulate competition 
^ong commercial banks in the Lubbock banking market. 

3574 
-4-
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant 
and its subsidiary banks appear satisfactory and future prospects of all 
aP?ear favorable. The financial condition and managerial resources of 
Citizens Bank have deteriorated in recent years. At the present time, 
Citizens Bank is experiencing capital, asset and loan loss"problems.tor 
gether with a lack of stability and depth in managerial resources. As 
a subsidiary of Applicant, Citizens Bank's prospects for future growth 
and service as a meaningful competitor in the Lubbock area would be signifi-
cantly improved. Applicant has proposed a number of immediate steps to 
improve Citizens Bank's condition; including the restructuring of that bank's 
loan portfolio and investment account and the installation of additional 
experienced management personnel. An agreement between Applicant and the 
t wo principal shareholders of Citizens Bank provides for the placing in 
escrow by these shareholders of funds sufficient to absorb any loan losses 
*hich may occur over the next three years on any loans outstanding since 
December 13, 1971. 
The major banking needs of the residents of the Lubbock area 
appear to be adequately served at the present time by existing institutions. 
However, Applicant's entry into the Lubbock area through acquisition of 
Citizens Bank should benefit customers for larger loans who are now 
Squired to go outside of the Lubbock area to satisfy their credit needs. 
addition, Applicant has stated its intention to make available through 
Citizens Bank expanded loan services for construction, real estate and 

-5-
m°bile home financing, a wider range of trust services and specialized 
commercial and international banking services. To the extent such added 
services become available as a result of consummation of this proposal, 
considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the residents of 
^ e Lubbock area are consistent with and lend some weight toward approval 
o f the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that consummation of 
proposed transaction is in the public interest and the application 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the 
Reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
^ i s Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
0 r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors," effective December 11, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
|7 Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
itche11s Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane 
a n d Brimmer. 

Item No. 8 
12/11/72 
immediate release 
December 11, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
decided, effective today, that underwriting credit life insurance 
and credit accident and health insurance which is directly related to 
extensions oc credit by a bank holding company system is a permissible 
activity fot. a bank holding ccmpany. 
The Board's decision followed consideration of the record 
a March 2U , 1.972 hearing on the subject cf credit insurance 
underwriting and comments received with respect to the hearing, 
tc£ether with the Board's prior experience in the field of bank 
company insurance activities. 
The new ruling amended the Board's Regulation Y to add 
this activity to the list of businesses closely related to banking or 
ttXinanor 
controlling banks in which a bank holding company may 
c'n&age, subject to approval of individual applications. 
In announcing its decision, the Board set up the following 
it will apply 
considering applications under its new ruling: 
"To assure that engaging in the underwriting of credit life 
credit accident: and health insurance can reasonably be expected 
ivv the public interest, the Board will only approve application, 
tax applicant demonstrates that approval viil benefit the con-
Kx*\\iiv or resj'.t in other public benefits, normally such a showing 

U"? k • 
-2-
ttould be made by a projected reduction in rates or increase in 
policy benefits due to bank holding company performance of thi3 
service." 
The Board also said: 
"The operation of such a program assures a bank or bank-
delated firm of repayment of a credit extension in. the event of death 
or disability while at the same time providing the borrower with 
financial security in the event of a death or disability. Further, 
the legislative history of the Bank Holding Company Act indicates 
th£t Congress felt that the operation of a credit life and credit 
accident and health insurance program is closely related to 
banking." 
A copy of the Board's amendment of its Regulation Y is 
attached. 
- 0 -

3 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Y] 
PART 225--BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Nonbanking Activities of Bank Holding Companies 
By notice of hearing regarding the proposed acquisition of 
'oting shares of companies engaging in underwriting credit life and 
CrGclit accident and health insurance; and of possible rulemaking thereto 
^ 
Board of Governors announced it was considering aiding underwriting 
•Cl'Gdit life and credit accident and health insurance to the list of 
activiti£s th&t it has determined under, section 4(c)(8) of the Bank 
folding Company Ac.t to be closely related to banking or managing or 
Patrolling banks by amending section 225.4(a) of its Regulation *Y. 
A h 
faring considering six applications to engage in the activity as 
as possible rulemaking was held on March 24, 1972 after notice 
the 
* "tc-of was published with respect to five of the applications in the 
Register c,n February 2, 1972 (37 F.R, 2342), and with respect 
4, 
0 
sixth application on February 29, 1972 (37 F.R. 4230). 
In January 1971, triia Board's initial publication of proposed 
""tivj.ties under section 4(c)(8) included "acting as insurer for the 
hoirH 
company and its subsidiaries with respect to insurance sold by 
th -
* "Ol-rfiiijj; company or: any of its subsidiaries as agent or brokerc" 

3579 
- 2 -
After a hearing on insurance activities, the Board in August 1971 
announced that it had deferred adoption at that time of general 
regulatory provisions regarding insurance underwriting activities as 
closely related to banking. 
Following consideration of the comments received and the 
record of the March 24 hearing as well as the Board's prior proceeding 
insurance activities and the Board's experience prior tc the 1970 
amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act, the Board ha3 determined 
that the operation of a credit life ar.d credit accident and health 
insurance program including the underwriting of such insurance directly 
Elated to extensions of credit by a bank holding company system is 
closely related to banking. The operation of such a program assures 
s bank or bank-related firm of repayment of a credit extension in the 
®vent of death or disability while at the same time providing the 
borrower with financial security in the event of a death or disability. 
S'urth.n-, the legislative history of the Bank Holding Company Act 
^'iJcates that Congress felt that the operation of a credit life and 
Qredit accident and health insurance program is closely related to 
Wising, Accordingly, the Board has amended section 225.4 (a), by 
Gauging the period at the end thereof to a semicolon and adding 
(10) as set forth below and redesignating footnotes 3 
4 as 4 and 5 respectively, effective December 11, 1972. 

3580 
- 3 -
To assure that engaging in the underwriting of credit life 
and credit accident and health insurance can reasonably be expected 
to be in the public interest, the Board will only approve applications 
in which an applicant demonstrates that approval will benefit the 
consumer or result in ether public benefits. Normally such a showing 
vould be made by a projected reduction in rates or increase in policy 
benefits due to bank holding company performance oi; this service. 
§ 225.A Nnnbsnkinft activities 
(a) Activities closely related to banking or ,PjanagingJ£ 
controlling banks, * * * The following activities have been determined 
by the. Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or 
controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto: 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* , 
. 
(10) acting as underwriter for credit life insurance and 
credit accident and health insurance which is directly related to 
extensions of credit by the bank holding company system.3/ 
3/ To assure that engaging in the underwriting of credit lite and 
credit accident and health insurance can reasonably be expccted to 
be in the public interest, the Board will only approve applications 
in which an applicant demonstrates chat approval will benefit the 
consumer or result In other public benefits. Normally such a showing 
^ould bo made by a projacted reduction in rates or increase in policy 
benefits due to bank holding company performance of r.his service. 

3 b 8 1 
- 4 -
By order of the Board of Governors, effective December 11, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
