PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
September 18, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
t 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes 
• 

£ ! > 5 9 
Minutes of a meeting of members of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on Friday, September 18, 1970. The 
meeting was held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics JL/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Ghiardi, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Economic and financial review. The usual weekly economic and 
financial review was presented. Copies of the statistical charts and 
tables prepared for today's review have been placed in the Board's 
files, along with copies of the individual briefings; these were also 
made available to all Board members. 
Review of margin credit developments. Mr. Stoffels of the re-
search staff summarized recent margin credit developments, his remarks 
being based on a distributed memorandum dated September 16, 1970. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also attended. 

9/18/70 
-2-
Members of the staff who had attended for the purpose of the 
foregoing presentations then withdrew and Messrs. O'Connell, General 
Counsel, Dahl and Egertson, Assistant Directors, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation, and other appropriate staff members entered. 
Actions taken at this meeting were subject to ratification 
at the next meeting of the Board at which a quorum was present. 
Reports on competitive factors. A draft report to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in 
the proposed consolidation of Cambridge Savings Bank and North Avenue 
Savings Bank, both of Cambridge, Massachusetts, concluded that the 
overall effect of the proposal on competition would be slightly adverse. 
However, the staff felt that the Board might want to consider an "adverse" 
finding. 
i 
V 
• k' 
> . 
„••'> 
> 
Governor Robertson expressed a preference for use of the term 
"adverse", and Governor Brimmer agreed. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the transmittal of a report 
to the Corporation in a form in which the conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed consolidation of Cambridge 
Savings Bank and North Avenue Savings Bank, Cambridge, would 
eliminate some competition existing between them and poten-
tial for increased competition between them. The overall 
effect of the proposed consolidation on competition would be 
adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Pioneer Banking Company, Pioneer, Ohio, with The Citizens 

* J t J 6 1 
9/18/70 
-3-
National Bank, Bryan, Ohio, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
•it;".' 
' 
: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Pioneer 
Banking Company and The Citizens National Bank, Bryan, 
would increase the size of the largest bank in Williams 
County and the resulting bank would hold almost 38 per 
cent of the deposits in the county. The overall effect 
of the proposed transaction on competition would be 
adverse. 
CCn 
i ' '.''•'! 
Foreign banking matters. The following items were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background information that had 
been made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the 
.5 r, j • 
i 
' \ 
respective numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Franklin International 
1 
Corporation, New York, New York, 
granting consent to the acquisition 
of sshares of Franklin Limitada, Sao 
Paulo, Brazil. 
V'i..»it to 
Couxrr;i»tu</^vi}.th aiiiJ 
. 
•".: ;»trf.i 
,• • 
rv 
' •« '; 
Le tter to Bankers International Corporation, 
2 
New York, New York, granting consent to the 
acquisition, either directly or indirectly, 
of shares of B. T. Rio de la Plata S.A., 
Buenos Aires, Argentina. 
* * • - •''•>•:>,'•'.:: rtCiU C Ct 
i* • .»'.» ' i " «. ? •. 1 
ll'JWJt' 
•.' '. 
> - • ' • •' ' 
Letter to Wachovia International Investment 
3 
Corporation, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, 
(1) denying its request for reversal of the 
Board's requirement, as set forth in a letter 
dated April 15, 1970, that the corporation 
di spose of its stock in Consumers Oil Company 
Limited and Allied Roxana Minerals Ltd., both 
of Calgary, Alberta, Canada, but (2) extending 
until December 31, 1970, the time within which 
disposition of the stock must be accomplished. 

9/18/70 
-4-
Item No. 
Letter to First National City Overseas 
4 
Investment Corporation, New York, New York, 
granting consent to the acquisition of 
shares of Franco Distribuidora de Titulos 
e Valores Mobiliarios Ltda., Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil. 
Letter to Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking 
5 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to the acquisition of shares of a 
finance company to be formed in San Jose, 
Costa Rica, tentatively known as Chase 
Manhattan (Costa Rica) Sociedad Anonima, 
and to the continued holding of those shares 
after the finance company issues and has out-
standing debentures or similar obligations 
with maturities in excess of one year up to 
a specified amount. 
Cash distribution in Puerto Rico. In a memorandum dated 
September 16, 1970, Governor Brimmer discussed arrangements with 
respect to cash distribution in Puerto Rico in light of his recent 
visit to the Commonwealth and noted that effective January 1, 1971, 
the Puerto Rican commercial banks were expected to begin to absorb the 
cost of the on-island cash operation which had been undertaken by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta following discontinuance of the depot 
formerly maintained and subsidized by the U.S. Treasury Department. 
Governor Brimmer recommended that the Secretary of the Treasury of 
Puerto Rico and the President of the Puerto Rico Bankers Association 
be informed that the Board was looking forward to the assumption of 
the financial responsibility by the commercial banks on January 1, 

£ 6 6 3 
9/18/70 
-5-
1971, and would be unwilling for the System to continue subsidizing 
the operation beyond that date. A draft letter along those lines was 
attached. 
Governor Brimmer's recommendation was approved. A copy of the 
letter sent to the Secretary of the Treasury of Puerto Rico is attached 
as Item No. 6. 
o -. i 
Request for budget and personnel information. In a memorandum 
dated September 17, 1970, Mr. Molony commented on a request for infor-
mation relating to the Board's budget and official salaries for use in 
connection with an article on the Federal Reserve being prepared by a 
reporter for the National Journal and recommended that the Board nei-
ther grant nor deny the request outright but furnish certain relevant 
summary information. A proposed letter along these lines was attached. 
Following discussion, approval was given to a letter in the 
form attached as Item No. 7. 
Truth in Lending Advisory Committee. Upon recommendation of 
Governor Robertson, Mrs. Lynnett Taylor was appointed to membership on 
the Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending in lieu of Miss Valerie 
Dickerson. 
Hearings on S. 4268. Governor Brimmer stated that Mr. Irvine 
had attended yesterday's hearings on S. 4268, a bill that would exclude 
the receipts and disbursements of the Export-Import Bank from the totals 
°f the budget of the United States Government and exempt them from any 

9/18/70 
-6-
annual expenditure and new lending limitations imposed on the budget. 
A memorandum on the hearings would be forthcoming for the Board's 
information. The Board's letter of September 16, recommending against 
enactment of the bill, had been received by the Senate Banking and 
Currency Committee and served as the basis for a few questions in 
connection with the testimony of the Chairman of the Export-Import 
Bank, who appeared in support of the bill, and the Comptroller General 
of the United States, who testified in opposition. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

•rfOY MJ 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R 5 
OF 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
9/18/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 18, 1970. 
Franklin International Corporation, 
130 Pearl Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 7, 1970, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and 
hold all of the shares of Franklin Limitada ("FL"), Sao Paulo, 
Brazil, at a cost of approximately $10,000, provided such shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
This consent is granted on the condition that FL is to 
act as Franklin National Bank's representative office in Brazil, 
performing only those functions that are normal for foreign repre-
sentative offices of United States banks, including those of an 
administrative nature. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation and Franklin National Bank, New 
York, and that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2666 
B D A R D • F G • V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
9/18/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P 0 N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 18, 1970. 
Bankers International Corporation, 
16 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 12, 1970, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("BIC"), 
either directly or indirectly through a nominee, to purchase and 
hold all of the shares of B.T. Rio de la Plata S.A. ("BTRP"), 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, at a cost of approximately $5,000, pro-
vided such shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
This consent is granted on the condition that BTRP is 
fco act as Bankers Trust Company's representative office in Argentina, 
Performing only those functions that are normal for foreign rep-
resentative offices of United States banks, including those of an 
administrative nature. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
Activities of your Corporation, and Bankers Trust Company, New 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
c°ntained therein. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary. 

•fHRtsf:--
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
9/18/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 18, 1970. 
Wachovia International Investment Corporation, 
P. 0. Box 3099, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 
27102 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your letter of June 24, 1970, the Board 
has reviewed its determination of April 15, 1970, regarding your 
Corporation's purchase and holding of shares of Consumers Oil 
Company Limited ("Consumers") and Allied Roxana Minerals Ltd. 
("Allied"), both of Calgary, Alberta, Canada. 
As cited in the Board's letter of April 15, 1970, Sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act provides that Corporations 
chartered thereunder may not purchase or hold stock in a company 
"transacting any business in the United States except such as in 
the judgment of the Board . . . may be incidental to its inter-
national or foreign business." Such judgments of the Board have 
been based on whether the transactions in the United States are 
dependent on and directly related to the company's international 
or foreign business. The size or value of the transactions do not 
alone control whether the statutory prohibition is applicable. 
Your letter of June 24, 1970, contains no pertinent in-
formation that was not considered by the Board in reaching its 
original determination, except that Consumers as well as Allied 
has formed a subsidiary corporation in the United States, and the 
assertion that the companies' interests in the land in Alaska are 
completely non-operative and miniscule in value. In the Board's 
judgment, neither of these constitutes a reason to alter the Board's 
earlier decision and your request in this regard is denied. 
In accordance with your alternative request that the 
Period of time for the disposition of the stock of Consumers and 
All ied by your Corporation be extended, the last sentence of the 
last paragraph of the Board's letter of April 15, 1970, is amended 

£ 6 6 8 
Wachovia International 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
to read, 
. . be disposed of by December 31, 1970, and that WIIC 
advise the Board, through the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, at 
the end of each intervening month of the progress toward such end, 
together with all details of each and all dispositions." Of course, 
should Consumers and/or Allied terminate the holding of all of their 
interests in the United States within the above period of time, the 
Board, upon being advised of such termination, would be disposed to 
withdraw the directive contained in its letter of April 15, 1970. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
9/18/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
MLRtS^T-
September 18, 1970. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 12, 1970, the Board 
of Governors grants permission to your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to pur-
chase and hold all the shares of Franco Distribuidora de Titulos e 
Valores Mobil iarios Ltda., Rio de Janeiro, Brazil ("Franco"), at a 
total cost of approximately $48,100, provided the investment is made 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Franco by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in Franco if Franco at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if Franco establishes any branch 
or agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Brazil or elsewhere, in any manner, which at 
the time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Franco as it may require from time 
to time; 

K'U s ij 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Franco 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if Franco were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; 
and 
(4) That FNCOIC shall not carry on its books the shares of 
Franco at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of Franco, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
°f the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by Franco in Brazil 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of As sociation, and By-Laws of Franco. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
a s they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation and First National City Bank and its other subsidiaries, 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 5 
9/18/70 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 18, 1970 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 6, 1970, the Board 
of Governors grants permission for your Corporation ("CM0BC") to 
purchase and hold up to 80 per cent of the shares of a finance 
company to be formed in San Jose, Costa Rica, tentatively known as 
Chase Manhattan (Costa Rica) Sociedad Anonima ("CMSA"), at a cost 
of approximately $850,000, provided the investment is made within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of CMSA by CMOBC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(1) That CMOBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in CMSA if CMSA at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permis-
sible to a corporation in which a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if CMSA establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Costa Rica or elsewhere, in any 
manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to CMOBC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CMOBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of CMSA as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CMSA 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if CMSA were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by CMSA in Costa Rica in 
the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of CMSA. 
The Board also grants consent to CMOBC to continue to hold 
shares of CMSA after CMSA issues and has outstanding debentures or 
similar obligations with maturities in excess of one year up to ten 
times CMSA* s capital stock. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), 
and Chase International Investment Corporation, and that due con-
sideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2 6 7 3 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 6 
9/18/70 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SY5TEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
A N D R E W 
F. 
B R I M M E R 
M E M B E R 
O F T H E 
B O A R D 
September 18, 1970 
The Honorable Angel M. Martin, 
Secretary of the Treasury, 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, 
Department of the Treasury, 
San Juan, Puerto Rico. 00905 
Dear Mr. Secretary: 
I enjoyed meeting with you during my recent visit to 
San Juan, and I feel that our discussions on the cash distribution 
situation were most beneficial. 
expressed my satisfaction with the progress being made with the 
cash operation in Puerto Rico. The Board was particularly pleased 
to learn that the commercial banks will assume full financial 
responsibility for the on-island cost of the cash depot effective 
January 1, 1971. It was clear from the discussion that the 
Federal Reserve System would be unwilling to continue subsidizing 
costs beyond that date. 
I am also informing Mr. Angel Rivera, as President of 
the Puerto Rico Bankers Association, of this conclusion. 
Thank you again for your kindness, and I look forward to 
our future contacts. 
I reported on my visit to the Board of Governors and 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Andrew F. Brimmer 
Andrew F. Brimmer 

tf ^ 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 7 
9/18/70 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 18, 1970. 
Mr. Henry A. Lenhart, Jr. 
National Journal 
1730 M Street, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 
Dear Mr. Lenhart: 
In response to your request of August 26, 1970, there is 
enclosed a copy of the summary information on the Board's budget 
for each of the calendar years 1968, 1969, and 1970, which was 
published last January in the Appendix (pages 1076-7) to the Budget 
of the U. S. Government for fiscal year 1971. In addition, since 
the Board has subsequently adopted a Budget by Program Structure 
which will appear henceforth in the Appendix to the U. S. Government 
Budget, there are enclosed four relevant tables providing details 
in further response to your request. 
You also requested a list of the salaries of each of 
the officers of the Board. It is the Board's policy and practice, 
out of consideration for the personal privacy of its employees and 
the morale of its staff, not to make public the salary of individual 
employees. However, in aid of your research, the Board considers 
it appropriate to inform you that it presently has 65 officers, 
with an average annual salary of $30,000. Included among these 
are 14 heads of Divisions and Assistants to the Board with salaries 
ranging from $30,200 to $39,000, and an average salary of about 
$35,500. Salaries of the remaining 51 officers range from $21,500 
to $35,500, with an average of about $28,500. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosures 
