MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 27, 1970 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Friday, November 27, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Ma isel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
S tatistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Supporting staff of the respective 
divisions. 

3328 
11/27/70 
-2-
Chase Manhattan. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, 
an Edge subsidiary of The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), 
New York, New York, had applied for the consent of the Board to acquire 
up to one-third of the shares of Orion Termbank and one-third of the 
shares of Orion Management Limited, each to be formed in the United 
Kingdom. 
The staff recommended approval of those requests. At the 
same time, Chase's parent one-bank holding company, Chase Manhattan 
Corporation, had applied to the Comptroller of the Currency and received 
approval to acquire up to one-third of the shares of Orion Limited, a 
merchant bank to be formed in the United Kingdom. 
In a memorandum dated November 24, 1970, Governor Brimmer 
recommended that Chase be informed that the Board was not prepared to 
act on the applications that had been submitted to it unless Chase also 
submitted for Board approval its proposal to acquire an interest in the 
merchant bank and agreed to abide by limitations set by the Board on 
the merchant bank's activities. 
Governor Brimmer believed that no 
exceptions should be made at this time that would allow foreign invest-
ments to be made by member banks through their holding companies. 
Enactment of the pending holding company legislation would give the 
Board authority over foreign investments by one-bank holding companies, 
but the development of rules under that legislation would take con-
siderable time. 

11/27/70 
-3-
In a memorandum to Governor Brimmer of November 20, 1970, 
Mr. 0
1
Connell stated why in his judgment the best course of action 
would be to approve the proposed acquisitions by the Edge subsidiary 
without reference in the letter of approval to the acquisition by 
Chase's parent one-bank holding company of an interest in the English 
merchant bank, except perhaps to point out the Board's policy with 
respect to acquisitions by holding companies of foreign banks and the 
provision of the pending legislation that would make that policy the 
law. As an alternative, he recommended that the Board approve the Edge 
corporation's applications but request from Chase written assurances 
that its parent's investment in the merchant bank would be disposed of 
if the merchant bank engaged in business in the United States in a manner 
that the Board regarded as other than incidental to its foreign business. 
After statements by Governor Brimmer and Mr. 0'Connell in 
support of their respective recommendations, there followed a general 
discussion of the issues involved and the alternatives available to the 
Board, against the background of the existing law and the pending bank 
holding company legislation. While some members of the Board indicated 
that they would be willing to approve the applications of the Edge 
subsidiary, several members expressed the view that the three proposals, 
including the investment by the holding company, must be treated as a 
package. 
In further discussion, however, some members of the latter 
group indicated that they would be willing to approve the applications 

3330 
11/27/70 
-4-
of the Edge subsidiary if a letter could be obtained from Chase 
containing assurances that the operations of the merchant bank would 
be conducted as though approval of that investment had been obtained 
from the Board and subject to the restrictions that would normally be 
imposed in connection with such an investment. 
All members of the Board except Governor Brimmer expressed 
agreement in principle to approve the applications of the Edge sub-
sidiary if a letter of the kind described was available. 
Accordingly, 
Mr. O'Connell was requested to be in touch with Chase with a view to 
obtaining such a letter. 
Citizens and Southern. 
In a memorandum dated November 6, 1970, 
the Legal Division advised that the General Counsel, acting pursuant to 
delegated authority, was prepared to release an order and statement 
overruling the Hearing Examiner and making a favorable determination 
in the matter of applications of The Citizens and Southern National 
Bank and The Citizens and Southern Holding Company, Savannah, Georgia, 
under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act, relating to the 
planned activities of a nonbanking subsidiary, The Citizens & Southern 
Credit Service Corporation. 
Under the arrangement contemplated by the 
determination, Citizens and Southern would be permitted to insure 
correspondent banks against loss with respect to most of their small 
business loans in amounts between $5,000 and $100,000. 
However, the 
Legal Division was inclined to believe that the balance of the considerations 

am 
11/27/70 
-5-
involved in this case weighed in favor of postponing release of the 
determination until after the outcome of the pending holding company 
legislation was certain. 
In discussion, Governor Robertson expressed disagreement with 
the course of action proposed by the Legal Division. 
He felt that it 
was incumbent upon the Board to dispose of cases coming before it on 
the basis of the law as it existed at the particular time. 
Further, 
he felt that the Board itself should act on the case in question rather 
than for the General Counsel to take action under delegated authority. 
However, other members of the Board concluded that it would be 
preferable to await the outcome of the pending bank holding company 
legislation, principally on the ground that such legislation might 
provide guidance on the manner in which the case should be decided. 
Accordingly, it was agreed, with Governor Robertson dissenting, to hold 
the case in abeyance. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Annex building. 
In a memorandum of August 24, 1970, Governor 
Sherrill had recommended that the Board authorize the necessary actions 
to award a contract for construction of the proposed Board annex build-
ing. 
On August 27 the Board agreed that the necessary steps should be 
taken to finalize plans prior to extending invitations to bid, but that 
no announcement of building plans would be made until the matter had 
been considered by the full Board. 

11/27/70 
-6-
In a further discussion at today's meeting, it was agreed that 
there would be no objection to the issuance of a press release at the 
appropriate time, which might be when bids were taken. 
It was under-
stood that such a release would emphasize efficiency of operations and 
the pressures that had been building up since the Board deferred its 
plans for construction of the annex building. 
In response to a question, Governor Sherrill reviewed communi-
cations with the Budget Bureau in which the Bureau had indicated informally 
that it could see no reason for holding up further a project of this kind 
in the Washington area. 
In response to another question, Governor Sherrill discussed 
the amount of space that would be available in the annex building as 
compared with the amount of space now rented by the Board, and expressed 
the view that there would be room in the annex building for expansion. 
In this connection, Governor Sherrill also discussed the possibility of 
operating the Board's computer at a different location and emphasized 
the difficulties that would be encountered from an administrative stand-
point, even though such an operation might become technically feasible. 
It was suggested that there might be means of rearranging the 
Board's present building to provide more total working space, and 
Governor Sherrill indicated that this matter would be reviewed. 
The Board then approved unanimously Governor Sherrill's recom-
mendation that it authorize the necessary actions to award a contract 
for construction of the annex building. 

3333 
11/27/70 
-7-
Euro-dollars. 
In a memorandum dated November 17, 1970, 
Mr. Robert Solomon had discussed the advantages and disadvantages of 
permitting a continued flow of Euro-dollar repayments by U.S. banks 
without taking action to discourage that flow. 
In a related memorandum 
of November 20, 1970, Mr. Gemmill had discussed alternative methods of 
discouraging the Euro-dollar outflow. 
He pointed out that the Board 
could seek to induce banks to retain their Euro-dollar borrowings by 
reducing the costs of borrowing up to specified limits, by increasing 
the benefits to be derived from retention of specified amounts of 
borrowings, or by use of moral suasion. 
His memorandum examined the 
essential elements of four proposals for reducing costs of, or increas-
ing benefits from, retention of Euro-dollar borrowings. 
Any of those 
proposa Is (with one possible exception) could be supplemented by moral 
suasion, and any of them could be supplemented by an announcement that 
the marginal reserve requirement above reserve-free bases could be 
raised above 10 per cent in the future. 
In Mr. Gemmill's judgment, 
the method with the greatest prospect for success for reducing Euro-
dollar outflows would be the establishment of a special reduced rate 
of reserve requirement on that part of a bank's demand deposits equal 
in amount to the bank's Euro-dollar borrowing, up to specified limits. 
In another memorandum, dated November 25, 1970, Messrs. Solomon 
and Gemmill commented on a proposal by Governor Mitchell that the 
Federal Reserve stand ready to offer branches of American banks an 

aim 
11/27/70 
-8-
asset that would absorb the funds received by them as repayments from 
their head offices. The asset offered by the Federal Reserve would bear 
a rate of interest attractive enough to induce the branches to continue 
to maintain their liabilities to Euro-dollar depositors. 
It had been 
suggested that the Federal Reserve might implement the proposal by 
carrying out matched sale-purchase agreements with the banks. 
A further memorandum from Mr. Solomon, dated November 23, 1970, 
transmitted and commented on a letter that had been received from 
Mr. Coombs, Special Manager of the System Open Market Account, in which 
Mr. Coombs outlined a proposal for dealing with Euro-dollar repayments 
by American banks that would involve operations of the Bank for 
International Settlements. 
At the beginning of today's discussion, Chairman Burns commented 
that the Board probably could not reach a decision today. 
However, he 
had wanted to move the discussion of the subject forward. At his 
request, Mr. Solomon described and commented upon Governor Mitchell's 
suggestion, following which Governor Mitchell offered supplementary 
remarks on the rationale involved in that proposal. 
It was generally 
agreed that, if the Board was inclined to move in that direction, there 
would have to be further study of elements of the proposal and the steps 
that would be required to implement it. 
Governor Maisel spoke in favor of a program of moral suasion, 
backed up as necessary by a plan for the downward adjustment of 

3335 
11/27/70 
-9-
reserve-free bases or other steps that he outlined. 
He was disinclined 
to enter into a program of subsidies and suggested that if the Federal 
Reserve moved in that direction the program should have as its basis a 
letter from the President, or at least the Secretary of the Treasury, 
indicating that such a program was considered vital from the standpoint 
of the U.S. balance of payments. 
Governor Daane was sympathetic to the Solomon-Gemmill reserve 
requirement proposal, saying that it would have the basic advantage of 
signalling forcefully to interested parties here and abroad the Federal 
Reserve's cognizance of the problem and its effort to deal with the 
problem effectively. 
Governor Brimmer expressed doubt that a letter from the 
President of the type to which Governor Maisel had referred would be 
necessary in view of the delegations of authority that had already been 
given to the Treasury and to the Federal Reserve to devise and operate 
programs to improve the U.S. balance of payments. 
However, in his 
opinion it should be possible to achieve through a system of penalties 
what was sought to be achieved through a system of subsidies, and he 
would much prefer that route. 
He hoped that there could be put before 
the Board an analysis of alternative penalty arrangements. 
Governor Robertson suggested that the main objective should be 
to prevent an avalanche of Euro-dollar repayments. 
The basic actions 
that had been taken earlier this year seemed to him to have been 

3336 
11/27/70 
-10-
appropriate, and as a next step he would increase from 10 per cent to 
17-1/2 per cent the reserves required to be maintained by member banks 
against Euro-dollar borrowings that exceeded the amounts that the banks 
were allowed as a reserve-free base. That would give the banks an 
added inducement to preserve their reserve-free bases against a time 
of future need. 
It would be a sign that the Federal Reserve was 
cognizant of the problem and would amount in effect to moral suasion 
without the use of moral suasion. 
If this step was not effective, he 
would be willing to consider something like the Solomon approach and 
provide an incentive for banks to retain their Euro-dollar borrowings 
to a reasonable extent, but he would take such action only as a last 
resort. 
Governor Robertson also discussed reasons why he would be 
fundamentally opposed to the use of matched sale-purchase agreements 
of the kind envisaged by the proposal of Governor Mitchell. 
His 
reasons constituted basically an extension of the reservations that 
he had long held with respect to the use of repurchase agreements in 
connection with System open market operations. 
Governor Daane expressed doubt that Governor Robertson's 
proposal would be effective and indicated that he probably would vote 
against announcing such a step unless it was accompanied by other 
actions. 

3337 
11/27/70 
-11-
The Chairman then noted that the Robertson proposal appeared to 
be the only one of the several alternatives placed before the Board for 
consideration that could be acted on immediately, since the others would 
require further refinement and perhaps interagency consultation. 
Announce-
ment of adoption of the Robertson proposal would be a sign to the banks 
of the Board's concern, and the announcement could be made in such a 
manner as to indicate clearly that the Board might take other measures 
as necessary. 
The Chairman added that he had already told the New York 
clearing house banks flatly that if the Euro-dollar outflow continued 
in heavy volume the Board would not simply stand by. 
Governor Brimmer then discussed a plan that he believed held 
considerable promise that would involve amendment of the Voluntary 
Foreign Credit Restraint Program. 
It would take a little time to work 
out that plan, and consultation with other elements of the Government 
probably would be required, but he felt that if such a plan were adopted 
it might not be necessary to adopt the Robertson proposal. 
Another 
possibility would be to adopt the Robertson proposal and continue to 
work on the plan he had in mind. 
There followed a suggestion that if the Robertson proposal were 
adopted it might be well to defer the effective date until January in 
view of the fact that the costs of Euro-dollar borrowing might be expected 
to be seasonally higher during the month of December. 
Questions also were 
raised about the likely reaction of the banks to announcement of adoption 

3338 
11/27/70 
-12-
of the Robertson proposal. 
Chairman Burns again noted that such an 
announcement could make it clear that this was not necessarily the only 
action that the Board would take. 
Another suggestion was that the Robertson proposal might be 
issued for comment, but it was noted that that might suggest that the 
Board was prepared to proceed at a leisurely pace. A further sugges-
tion was that the Robertson proposal might be adopted and that at the 
same time the Solomon proposal might be issued for comment, but here 
again reservations were expressed, principally on the ground that such 
a proposal should not even be issued for comment without further study 
and consultation within the Government. 
Certain other possible methods of stemming the outflow of 
Euro-dollars were also discussed, but disadvantages were cited and it 
appeared to be generally agreed that they did not warrant further 
exploration. 
In summary, Chairman Burns commented that it appeared that the 
Board was not ready to act today on the Robertson proposal. 
He suggested 
that the staff give further attention to the several proposals that had 
received a measure of support during today's discussion in order that 
the Board might be in the best position possible to give additional 
consideration to the problem early next week. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
