MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 20, 1971 

3489 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Monday, December 20, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Bryant, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Chairman Burns, Governor Daane, and Mr. Solomon reported on 
the Group of Ten negotiations that took place on December 17 and 18 
and the resulting agreement regarding relative currency values. The 
Possible effects of these exchange rate relationships upon the balance 
°f payments and capital flows were also discussed. 
All staff members other than Messrs. Holland, Melnicoff, and 
Smith then withdrew from the meeting and Messrs. Kakalec, Controller, 
and Halley, Deputy Controller, entered. 

3420 
12/20/71 
-2-
Board budget for 1972. It was agreed to dispense with the 
review of the proposed 1972 budget on a division-by-division basis in 
view of the detailed consideration that had already been given to the 
budget by the Board member in charge of administration, the Executive 
Director, and the Controller. 
After discussion the Board approved an operating budget total-
ing $26 million for 1972 with the understanding that adjustments would 
be made in the proposed budget, which totaled $26.5 million, in order 
to reduce the proposed expenditures by $500,000. These adjustments 
Would be made by the Executive Director in coordination with the 
Controller and the Division Directors. 
The Board also approved a 1972 annex building construction 
budget of $17,981,728. 
Assessment for Board expenses. The Board approved an assessment 
on the Federal Reserve Banks to cover expenditures for the first half 
°f 1972 based on the approved budgets. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
