Minutes for 
June 13, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
°nly that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

28SO 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, June 13, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 1/ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Chief Federal Reserve 
Examiner 
Messrs. Noble and Porter of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Golden, Greenspun, and Shull and Mrs. 
Sette of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Kline and Maguire and Miss Greene of 
the Division of Examinations 
Approved items. The following letters were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
akle to the members of the Board. Copies are attached under the respec-
tive item numbers indicated. 
Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

6/13/67 
-2-
O ' 
! 3 M 
Item No. 
Letter to Chase International Investment 
1 
Corporation, New York, New York, approving 
an amendment to its articles of association. 
Letters to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National 
2-3 
Association), New York, New York, and to the 
Secretary of the Treasury of the Commonwealth 
of Puerto Rico regarding the proposal of Chase 
Manhattan to establish an additional branch in 
Puerto Rico. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
4 
Francisco approving the payment of salaries 
to two officers (Mr. Erne at the Los Angeles 
Branch and Mr. Smith at the Seattle Branch) 
at the rates fixed by the Bank's Board of 
Directors. 
Reports on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal of a report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
cl-on on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of County 
Bank and Trust Company of Danielson, Danielson, Connecticut, into 
WiUimantic Trust Company, Willimantic, Connecticut. The conclusion 
read as follows: 
The proposed merger of County Bank and Trust 
Company of Danielson and Willimantic Trust Company 
would eliminate a small amount of competition which 
exists between the two banks; the overall effect of 
the transaction on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
Unanimous approval also was given to the transmittal to the 
fed 
eral Deposit Insurance Corporation of a report on the competitive 
fa 
ctors involved in the proposed merger of The Bank of Gibson, Gibson, 

2382 
6/13/67 
-3-
Tennessee, into Merchants State Bank, Humboldt, Tennessee. The con-
clusion stated that the proposed merger would have no adverse competi-
tive effects. 
Application of Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc. There 
had been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Examinations 
dated June 6, 1967, and other pertinent papers with regard to an appli-
cation by Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc., Richmond, Virginia, 
for prior approval of the acquisition of more than 50 per cent of the 
voting shares of National Bank of Commerce of Fairfax County, Falls 
Church, Virginia. The recommendations of the Comptroller of the Cur-
rency, the Richmond Reserve Bank, and the Board's staff were all favor-
able. 
After presentation of the case by Mr. Leavitt the application 
was approved unanimously, with the understanding that an order and state-
ment reflecting the decision would be prepared for the Board's consid-
eration. 
In connection with the statement to be prepared, Governor Brimmer 
noted that the justification for approval of the application was found 
Principally in management deficiencies at the Falls Church bank. How-
ever, much of the information presented by the staff concerning the 
Management problem was taken from the confidential section of national 
kank examination reports, which raised the question how the situation 
w°uld be handled in the Board's statement. 

2883 
6/13/67 
-4-
Mr. O'Connell said that the Board's statement would have to 
make some reference to the existence of a serious management problem 
at the Falls Church bank, with an indication of the Board's conclusion 
that approval of the application would offer a solution. Such language 
would necessarily relate, although without specific reference, to the 
examiners' findings because the problem was not spelled out in detail 
in the application. Fortunately, it did not appear in this case that 
the proposed acquisition would have significant competitive effects. 
Therefore, the preparation of the Board's statement would not be as 
difficult as would be the case if it were necessary to demonstrate that 
approval of the application was justified despite adverse competitive 
consequences. 
Governor Daane noted that there might also be a complication 
in preparing the statement due to the fact that the president of the 
bank reportedly was going to continue in that capacity if the bank was 
acquired by the holding company, and Mr. O'Connell explained how he 
felt that the matter could be handled so as to avoid unjustified criti-
cism of the individual in question. 
Several members of the staff who had attended the meeting for 
the consideration of the foregoing holding company application withdrew 
a t this point. 
Open Market Committee policy record entries. There had been 
distributed a memorandum from Mr. Holland dated June 12, 1967, submitting 

2 3 8 4 
6/13/67 
-5-
drafts of entries for the record of policy actions of the Federal Open 
Market Committee covering the four meetings held from January 10 through 
April 4, 1967, as revised to take account of comments received following 
distribution of preliminary draft entries for the respective meetings. 
The entries thus were in a form for approval by the Board for inclusion 
in the Board's Annual Report for 1967 if the Board was prepared at this 
time to approve the entries for that purpose. 
It was recommended, if the entries were approved by the Board, 
that they be distributed to the Open Market Committee prior to its 
June 20, 1967, meeting, which presumably would be the last held before 
the effective date of the Freedom of Information Act (July 4, 1967). 
Discussion at recent Committee meetings had suggested that the Commit-
tee would decide to publish its directives and associated policy record 
entries on a regular basis with a lag of 60 or 90 days starting shortly 
after July 4. Thus, it was contemplated that the question of approval 
°f the entries now submitted would be placed on the agenda for the 
June 20 Committee meeting and that later the entries for subsequent 
meetings proposed for publication might be placed on the Committee's 
agenda routinely, perhaps in advance of Board action to approve such 
entries for inclusion in the Annual Report. 
Also submitted with the memorandum was a draft of explanatory 
Preface patterned closely after the preface used in recent Annual Reports 
o f the Board, with modifications to allow for the fact that this preface 

O O Q C 
<•<* 
) 0 * 
6/13/67 
-6-
was associated with entries for only a part of the calendar year. The 
draft preface included a statement to the effect that it was planned to 
publish subsequent entries on a regular basis with a specified time lag. 
Thus, if the Committee decided on a 60-day lag, it would be necessary 
to include the entry for the May 2 Committee meeting in the initial 
publication. It was suggested that a revised draft of entry for the 
May 2 meeting probably could be cleared with the Board and the Commit-
tee members before July 4. 
The memorandum also raised a question concerning the method by 
which the policy record entries were to be released, the alternatives 
appearing to be (1) to confine publication to the Federal Reserve Bul-
letin, with coincident transmittal to the Federal Register, or (2) to 
Precede Bulletin publication with a press release. On balance the 
staff recommended the latter method. Specifically, it recommended that 
the initial set of entries, together with the preface, be issued in the 
form of a press release on Wednesday, July 5 (and concurrently sent to 
the Federal Register), and that the same material then be published in 
the July 1967 issue of the Bulletin. 
After Mr. Holland had reviewed the questions presented in the 
Memorandum, Governor Maisel inquired about the administrative problem 
that would appear to be involved in view of the fact that the Open 
Market Committee met only periodically. 
Mr. Holland expressed the opinion that there should be ample 
time to obtain approval of individual policy record entries at Committee 

2386 
6/13/67 
-7-
meetings if the Committee adopted a 90-day lag for publication. If the 
Committee decided upon a 60-day lag, approvals could be obtained by 
mail when necessary. 
Governor Mitchell pointed out that the suggested procedure would 
require obtaining the approval of twelve Committee members, as con-
trasted with seven Board members. He also pointed out that by law it 
was the Board's responsibility to keep a record of the policy actions 
of the Open Market Committee. Accordingly, while it was appropriate 
for the Board to obtain all of the advice it wanted, he would prefer to 
adhere to the existing practice whereby the entries covering policy 
actions of the Open Market Committee were approved by the Board. 
Governor Mitchell then called attention to a problem that he 
saw in the policy record entry for the meeting of the Committee on 
APril 4 arising from the fact that the policy consensus, as stated at 
that meeting and as recorded in the minutes and the policy record entry, 
appeared not altogether consistent with the current economic policy 
directive adopted by the Committee. This suggested to him that the Com-
mi-ttee should always take time at its meetings to make sure that such 
questions were resolved. In any event, however, the terms of the direc-
tive as adopted should take precedence over any consensus stated at a 
Committee meeting, and the staff should develop the policy record 
eritries accordingly. 
Governor Maisel noted that the foregoing comments were relevant 
to the question that he had posed originally concerning the administrative 

2387 
6/13/67 
-8-
problem that would be involved in having the policy record entries 
approved for publication by the Committee. In his judgment, any ques-
tion of the kind to which Governor Mitchell had referred could be 
resolved more effectively through consideration by the Board, partic-
ularly in view of the time schedule for publication that was envisaged. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the opinion that at this stage, when 
the procedures for release of information were being substantially 
revised, it would be advisable to minimize innovations except as they 
were clearly improvements. Thus, he felt that it would be prudent to 
avoid introducing the Open Market Committee into the process of approv-
ing open market policy record entries at this time. 
Governor Daane agreed that there was much to be said for the 
views that had been expressed. However, he also saw reasons for fol-
lowing procedures designed to assure that all of the Open Market Commit-
tee members would have a full sense of participation. Since the proce-
dure suggested by the staff contemplated that Reserve Bank Presidents 
who were members of the Committee would continue to be asked for com-
ments on preliminary draft entries, and since their comments presumably 
would be incorporated to the extent feasible in the revised drafts, he 
^elt that in most instances approval of the policy record entries by 
t^e Committee would be rather perfunctory. In the few remaining cases, 
the proposed policy record entries might benefit from debate in which 
a H of the Committee members would participate. 

2388 
6/13/67 
-9-
At the request of the Board, Mr. Holland then reviewed in 
detail the procedures that had been followed to date in drafting policy 
record entries, obtaining comments thereon, and presenting revised 
entries to the Board for approval of their inclusion in the Board's 
Annual Report. Mr. Broida noted that subsequent to such approval the 
entries were sent again to the Reserve Bank Presidents, primarily as 
a matter of information. However, if there were then any further com-
ments or suggestions of substance, the entries were resubmitted to the 
Board. 
In response to a further question, Mr. Holland reviewed the 
change in procedure contemplated by the recommendations in the June 12 
memorandum. 
Governor Mitchell and Mr. Sherman pointed out that in any event 
it would be legally necessary for the Board to give final approval to the 
Policy record entries for inclusion in the Board's Annual Report. 
Governor Robertson expressed the opinion that the Board always 
should operate according to the requirements of the law and should go 
to the Congress with recommendations for changes in the law if desired. 
At the same time, he considered it highly desirable to call to the 
attention of all concerned the need for reviewing the draft policy 
record entries carefully and submitting their comments and suggestions, 
^hile he did not believe that there would necessarily be any violation 
the law in the procedure suggested by the staff if the final approval 

2389 
6/13/67 
-10-
of the policy record entries rested with the Board, it did appear that 
there might sometimes be a problem of timing in reaching agreement on 
the form of the entries to be released, either with a 60 or 90-day lag. 
Governor Mitchell agreed and commented that arguments about 
semantics would be multiplied under a procedure that involved obtain-
ing Committee approval. 
In response to a question by Governor Maisel as to the require-
ments of the law with respect to publication of the policy record 
entries, Mr. Hackley recalled that under section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act the Board is required to keep a complete record of actions 
taken by the Open Market Committee on all questions of policy relating 
to open market operations, with votes and reasons underlying the 
actions taken, and to include that record in its Annual Report. Under 
the Freedom of Information Act the directives of the Committee appar-
ently should be regarded as statements of general policy. The Adminis-
trative Procedure Act requires that all statements of general policy 
be published in the Federal Register, but the Open Market Committee's 
directives had heretofore been withheld from such publication on the 
ground that that would not be in the public interest. Such statements 
would now have to be published unless they fell within one of the 
exemptions contained in the Freedom of Information Act, and it was not 
believed that the directives of the Open Market Committee were covered 
by any of those statutory exemptions. Moreover, for policy reasons it 
seemed to the staff desirable to publish not only the directives but 

2:\<)<' 
6/13/67 
-11-
the associated policy record entries, thus presenting an explanation 
of the reasons for the issuance of each directive. There seemed to be 
some question whether the Federal Register would accept the entire 
policy record entry for publication, but in any event the entry could 
be press released by the Board. 
Mr. Brill inquired whether Mr. Hackley felt that the require-
ments of the Freedom of Information Act could be satisfied simply by 
publishing the directives in the Federal Register, and Mr. Hackley 
said he thought that was correct. 
Governor Brimmer said it was his recollection that in discus-
sions of this question a decision had been reached to publish the 
Policy record entries, and Mr. Brill commented that he had intended 
merely to raise the question of the basic legal requirement. 
Governor Brimmer then asked if the staff was in effect propos-
ing that the Board relinquish approval of the policy record entries to 
the Open Market Committee, and Mr. Holland replied in the negative, 
saying that while it was proposed that the Committee approve the lan-
guage of the policy record entries the Board would continue to approve 
the entries for inclusion in its Annual Report. 
Governor Brimmer commented that nevertheless the proposal 
aPpeared to contemplate that for practical purposes the Board would 
8ive up the right to change the content of a policy record entry once 
Committee had put its stamp of approval upon it. 

2 8 C M 
6/13/67 
_ 1 2. 
Mr. Sherman said he would have interpreted the suggestion as 
meaning that both the Board and the Committee would have an opportunity 
to clear the form of the entries, although the Board obviously would 
have to approve the entries in final form for inclusion in the Annual 
Report. 
Mr. Hackley expressed the opinion that in actuality there would 
appear to be no substantial change from the present procedure, under 
which preliminary draft entries were submitted to all of the Board mem-
bers and Reserve Bank Presidents for their comments and revised entries, 
after approval by the Board, were transmitted to the Presidents with an 
indication that any further comments would be considered. However, it 
could be misleading, he thought, to suggest that the Open Market Com-
mittee would approve the entries when the Board was required by law to 
approve them. There was also the mechanical aspect, namely, whether 
the proposed procedure could be carried through in time to meet what-
ever schedule of publication was decided upon under the Freedom of 
information Act. 
Governor Maisel observed that questions of relationships might 
a r i S e i f t h e B o a r d were to change a policy record entry after it had 
been passed by the Open Market Committee even though the Board techni-
Cally retained that right. Governors Robertson and Brimmer agreed and 
expressed the opinion that in practice it would be difficult to make 
any such changes. 

23Q2 
6/13/67 
-13-
Governor Robertson then said that, as he understood the com-
ments made thus far, the Board was not inclined to deviate from the 
present practice under which preliminary drafts of policy record 
entries were sent to the members of the Board and the Reserve Bank 
Presidents for comment, after which they were then revised and presented 
to the Board for approval and, upon such approval, were transmitted to 
the Committee members and other Presidents with the understanding that 
any further comments would be considered by the Board. Except perhaps 
for Governor Daane, there seemed to be agreement that it would be 
advisable to adhere to the present practice. 
Governor Daane said he would agree to adhere to the present 
Practice with the caveat that the Presidents should be urged to review 
carefully both the preliminary draft and revised policy record entries 
and should be assured that their views would be taken into account. 
Governor Mitchell said he would be inclined to encourage the 
Residents to comment on the revised entries, as distinguished from the 
Prelimitiary draft entries, only if they had substantial reservations. 
Governor Robertson then commented that he understood the fore-
going remarks to reflect a view that the attention of the Presidents 
should be called to the need for careful analysis of the draft entries 
atlc* prompt submission of comments. 
Governor Daane remarked at this point that he was not aware 
t^at the Board had decided the question of publishing the policy record 
tltries, as contrasted with the directives only. 

2398 
6/13/67 
-14-
In a discussion of that point, members of the staff brought 
out that memoranda submitted to date had suggested that the directives 
and the associated policy record entries both be published, on the 
ground that such a procedure would insure a better understanding of 
each directive and the reasons for its adoption. The staff had not 
received any comments reflecting a different view. 
Governor Daane then repeated that he did not believe the Board 
had addressed itself specifically to the question, or that the question 
had been resolved. If the directives were published, and if that repre-
sented sufficient compliance with the requirements of the Freedom of 
Information Act, somewhat more flexibility would be retained in terms 
°f publishing the policy record entries and the question of a 60 or 
90-day lag might become less acute. The Board could then publish the 
Policy record entries according to a time schedule of its choice, either 
through issuance of a press release or inclusion of the entries in the 
Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
Governor Robertson asked that Mr. Hackley prepare for the 
Sard's consideration a memorandum on the question raised by Governor 
Daane of publishing in the Federal Register the directives only. He 
then suggested that the Board decide at this time to continue to fol-
low the existing procedures for drafting, obtaining comments, and 
aPProving the policy record entries of the Open Market Committee. 
It was agreed that the present procedures should continue to 
b e followed. 

2394 
6/13/67 
-15-
Governor Maisel reverted to the question that had been raised 
by Governor Mitchell with respect to the draft policy record entry for 
the April 4 Committee meeting and asked whether in the circumstances 
the Board was prepared to approve that particular entry. Governors 
Mitchell and Daane indicated that they would like to review the entry 
further. Therefore, it was agreed that the Board would not take action 
at this time with respect to approval of that particular entry. 
Governor Brimmer observed that there appeared to be no question 
with respect to the entries covering the policy actions taken by the 
Committee at its meetings on January 10, February 7, or March 7. He 
Su8gested that the staff be authorized to send those entries to the 
Committee members and other Reserve Bank Presidents with a statement 
that they were in form approved by the Board for inclusion in its 
Annual Report, but with indication that any further comments would 
b e considered. 
The entries for the three meetings in question were then 
^££oved unanimously, and it was understood that copies thereof would 
b g 
q 
bent to the Committee members and other Reserve Bank Presidents with 
a statement that the entries were in form approved by the Board but that 
a n y further comments would be considered by the Board. 
Mr. Holland raised the question whether the Board wished also 
to approve the proposed prefatory statement, which he noted contained 
n indication of intent to publish entries for policy actions taken 

2395 
6/13/67 
-16-
subsequent to April 4, 1967, on a regular basis, with each entry to be 
published approximately a certain number of days following the date of 
the meeting at which the corresponding policy action or actions were 
taken. 
Governor Daane suggested that with the movement toward more 
rapid publication it behooved everyone to take an especially close 
iook at the language of the policy record entries, particularly insofar 
as they reflected differences of opinion within the Committee. 
Governor Maisel noted that this comment was particularly 
relevant to the paragraphs in the policy record entries immediately 
Preceding the quotation of the current economic policy directive. 
Governor Daane then called attention to a paragraph in the pro-
Posed prefatory statement pointing out that the fact that a decision 
i n favor of a certain policy was by a large majority or even that it 
was by 
unanimous vote did not necessarily mean that all members of the 
Committee were equally agreed as to the reasons for the particular 
decision or as to the precise operations in the open market that were 
C aHed for to implement the general policy. While he thought such lan-
guage was probably satisfactory, he suggested that it be given further 
t U d y' s i nce it might give an impression of less solidarity within the 
Committee than actually existed. 
Governor Maisel noted that the language cited by Governor Daane 
acked the language used heretofore in prefatory statements to the 

2396 
6/13/67 
-17-
record of policy actions published in the Annual Report. Now, however, 
the prefatory statement would be associated with policy record entries 
proposed to be released with a time lag of only 60 or 90 days. 
Accordingly, it was understood that the proposed prefatory 
statement would be considered further by the Board. 
Reference also was made to a memorandum from Mr. Brill dated 
March 29, 1967, with which had been submitted a memorandum from the 
Editorial Committee entitled "Publication of Federal Open Market Com-
mittee Policy Record and Directive in the Bulletin." The Editorial 
Committee's memorandum set forth certain alternative approaches to the 
question of the role that the Federal Reserve Bulletin might play in 
Presenting official views, staff analyses, and economic statistics. 
One of the suggestions in the Editorial Committee's memorandum 
was that the textual portion of the Bulletin might be limited to offi-
cial entries, including records of policy actions taken by the Open 
Market Committee and the Board of Governors, and that staff studies 
might form the nucleus of a new publication. 
Governors Mitchell and Robertson said it was their reaction 
that the policy record entries, including the economic analysis therein, 
W° U l d b e too far out of date to warrant "leading article" status, while 
G°Vernor Daane pointed out that much would depend on whether the policy 
record entries were published initially in the Bulletin or were issued 
the first instance by means of a press release. 

2897 
6/13/67 
-18-
Other members of the Board stated that there were a number of 
questions with respect to the Editorial Committee's memorandum that 
they would like to explore fully. Accordingly, it was decided to con-
sider the memorandum at another meeting of the Board, perhaps in 
conjunction with discussion of the unresolved questions raised by Mr. 
Holland's memorandum on the Open Market Committee policy record entries 
Withdrawal of time deposits before maturity. At Governor 
Robertson's request, Mr. Solomon (Adviser) commented on further devel-
opments in connection with the questions (mentioned at the Board meet-
ing on Friday, June 9) growing out of the receipt by New York City 
banks of requests from certain foreign depositors, principally in the 
Middle East countries, to withdraw time deposits before maturity. 
Mr. Solomon recalled that the Board's staff had worked with the 
staff of the New York Reserve Bank in developing language that the 
commercial banks might want to use in advising foreign depositors who 
wished to withdraw time deposits before maturity of the requirement of 
Regu lation Q (Payment of Interest on Deposits) that such withdrawal was 
Prohibited except where necessary to "prevent great hardship." Such 
language presumably was being used by the commercial banks as necessary 
The problem that had now arisen, Mr. Solomon said, related to 
whether the Federal Reserve should give the commercial banks some guid-
ance in determining when "great hardship" existed, that is, guidance 
In deciding whether to grant requests for prepayment of time deposits. 

23-98' 
6/13/67 
-19-
It was hoped that there would not be many such requests, but the pos-
sibility existed. 
In actuality, Mr. Solomon noted, the only real argument that 
most foreign depositors could use in claiming "great hardship" was 
that they were fearful of some sort of political emergency and a 
blocking of their accounts. 
In reply to a question, Mr. Solomon said he understood that 
such requests for withdrawal as had been received had come principally 
from official bodies rather than private depositors. However, he 
thought that account must be taken of both situations. He went on to 
say, with regard to the general question whether it seemed desirable 
to give some guidance to the commercial banks or leave for them the 
determination whether "great hardship" existed, if and when requests 
for withdrawal were received, that there were arguments pro and con. 
The arguments in favor of giving some guidance seemed to be that in 
the present situation foreign depositors could seek withdrawal of time 
deposits from a whole series of banks, that there might be a problem 
°f equity among the banks, and that there might be a problem of rela-
tionships with foreign depositors. It seemed desirable for foreign 
depositors to be treated consistently from one bank to another. The 
0verriding question, of course, was the whole attitude of foreign 
depositors toward their balances in the U.S. It seemed advisable to 
avoid any impression that foreign accounts would be blocked. The 

2 8 9 £ ) 
6/13/67 
-20-
arguments against giving some guidance to the banks seemed to be, 
first, that it was hard to know what guidance to give, and second, 
that the offering of guidance in this situation would be an important 
precedent, with implications in terms of accounts of domestic deposi-
tors . 
Mr. Solomon added that he understood from the New York Reserve 
Bank that a Treasury official had expressed doubt that the political 
emergency and the possible threat of a blocking of accounts provided 
grounds for demonstrating that "great hardship" existed. In fact 
there was no intent to block accounts. Accordingly, it appeared that 
the Treasury official would be opposed to giving the commercial banks 
guidance in terms that would make it relatively easy to comply with 
requests from foreign depositors for withdrawal of their deposits 
before maturity. 
Mr. Hackley commented that the law prohibits payment before 
maturity except as permitted by regulations of the Board. Thus, the 
Board had authority to determine by regulation the circumstances under 
which payment might be made before maturity. The comparable regula-
tion of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation was not as strict as 
Regulation Q; it permitted payment upon a showing of need. 
Mr. Hackley said he would be disturbed about taking any posi-
tion that would afford more liberal treatment to the payment of foreign 
°^ficial deposits before maturity than other time deposits, for that 

n o 
6/13/67 
-21-
would amount to discrimination under a general regulation. The Board 
could, of course, amend Regulation Q and permit the payment of offi-
cial deposits under circumstances not as rigorous as those required to 
be shown with respect to nonofficial deposits. 
general guidance to banks on this matter in the past, it had answered 
inquiries with respect to particular situations. Conceivably, if ques-
tions were now to be presented to the Board with requests for rulings, 
such rulings could be published as interpretations. 
In reply to a question, Mr. Solomon said he understood that a 
significant number of time deposits held by foreigners in New York City 
banks were not in the form of negotiable certificates. 
Governor Mitchell said he felt the Federal Reserve should not 
give guidance and instead should leave the matter in the hands of the 
hanks. He would not want to create an impression of trying to keep 
depositors from withdrawing their funds in hardship cases, but he felt 
that it should be left to the banks to interpret the regulation. —^ 
s; 
Mr. Hackley also noted that although the Board had not provided 
Governor Maisel said he thought the critical question was 
whether the staff felt that the maintenance of foreign deposits in the 
^•S. would be endangered in the longer run by one particular policy or 
another. Absent such a statement from the staff, he was inclined to 
that the Federal Reserve should stay out of the picture. 
Governor Mitchell withdrew from the meeting at this point. 

6/13/67 
-22-
Governor Brimmer said he would like to examine the short-run 
aspects of the matter, leaving aside for the moment the longer-run 
implications on which Governor Maisel had focused. If it appeared that 
a run might develop, and if the Treasury felt there was a need for the 
U.S. to defend itself, that would be one thing. Otherwise, he would 
be inclined to pay out the deposits on a liberal basis as requests were 
received. In an emergency situation, a central bank must be in a posi-
tion to defend itself. If the emergency was sufficiently grave to 
require amending regulations, he would amend them quickly. Here a 
Board regulation was involved, and if amendment of the regulation was 
required to achieve an overriding objective, he would be willing to 
amend it. But apparently the present situation was not such as to 
require amending the regulation. 
Mr. Solomon expressed doubt that Regulation Q was the most 
aPpropria 
te vehicle to use as a means of dealing with a run. If the 
Federal Reserve were to make a firm statement that foreign depositors 
W e re required under Regulation Q to leave time funds on deposit until 
maturity, the question was how that statement would be interpreted 
abroad. An interpretation that this was a method of blocking accounts 
might lead foreigners to liquidate other holdings in the U.S. The 
argument in favor of telling foreign depositors that they could with-
draw time deposits easily would be to reassure them, so that they would 
n°t attempt to withdraw other funds held in this country. Parties in 

2402 
6/13/67 
-23-
smaller or remote foreign countries might be presumed to lack famil-
iarity with the details of Regulation Q. If such a party received a 
cable from a commercial bank advising of the need to submit a justifi-
cation of great hardship, one could not predict how that would be 
interpreted. 
Governor Brimmer then said that for the present he would be 
inclined to leave matters as they stood and take no action either to 
make withdrawal of time deposits before maturity more difficult or 
more easy. 
Governor Robertson said that he would not be inclined to give 
the commercial banks guidance at this stage, and Governor Maisel indi-
cated that he would not be inclined to provide such guidance unless 
that seemed necessary in the national interest, particularly from the 
longer-run standpoint. 
Examination of Atlanta Reserve Bank. There had been distributed 
to the Board members copies of a memorandum from the Division of Exami-
nations dated May 19, 1967, with reference to the examination of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta made as of February 20, 1967, and com-
pleted March 17, 1967. The memorandum noted that the report of exami-
nation and the usual supplemental memoranda were being circulated to 
members of the Board. It quoted portions of the examination report 
relating to the administration of the discount window and suggested 
the report be discussed at a meeting of the Board. 

24 OS 
6/13/67 
-24-
Mr. Solomon noted that pursuant to suggestions made at meetings 
of the Board, the Division of Examinations recently had begun sending 
to the members of the Board a brief memorandum on each Reserve Bank 
examination presenting salient features of the examination report and 
stating whether there were any findings that would seem to warrant 
discussion at a Board meeting. Absent such findings, it was contem-
plated that the report of examination and the related supplemental 
memoranda would be circulated to the members of the Board and then be 
Placed in the Board's files unless discussion was requested by a Board 
member. 
No disagreement with the procedure was indicated. 
Mr. Solomon went on to say that discussion of the Atlanta exam-
lnation report had not been suggested because of any current special 
Problems but rather because criticisms with regard to the administra-
tion of the discount window had been made at the time of the 1966 
lamination and it was thought that the Board might be interested in 
the improvements subsequently effected. 
Mr. Walcutt then summarized developments with regard to the 
administration of the discount window, noting among other things that 
Mi 
e Atlanta Bank may now have shifted to a somewhat more conservative 
stance than other Reserve Banks. 
v S 
Mr. Walcutt also reviewed, as a matter of information, several 
minor exceptions in other areas that had been discussed with officers 
• % 

2404 
6/13/67 
-25-
of the Bank and as to which it was understood that corrective action 
would be taken. He mentioned these exceptions simply because they 
were typical of the rather large number of minor matters usually dis-
cussed with management in connection with Reserve Bank examinations. 
Such exceptions were not individually of great consequence, and nor-
mally they would not be spelled out in the examination report. However, 
an untoward number of such exceptions might indicate over-all adminis-
trative laxity. 
Governor Robertson inquired whether the examiners were usually 
successful in obtaining correction of such matters, and Mr. Walcutt 
replied in the affirmative. He added that the examiners followed up 
to determine whether corrections had been made in those cases where 
they were not effected before the conclusion of the examination. 
Governor Brimmer referred to previous discussion by the Board 
°f the role played by the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors 
the Atlanta Reserve Bank in relation to the discount function. It 
Was his understanding that the Executive Committee decided when borrow-
ing member banks should be contacted with regard to their further use 
the discount window. This stood in contrast to the procedure at 
°ther Reserve Banks where officers contacted borrowing member banks 
and subsequently reported to the directors. He gathered that the ques-
tioned procedure was still in effect at the Atlanta Reserve Bank, and 
had gotten the impression from conversations with the President and 

2405 
6/13/67 
-26-
First Vice President that they were not inclined to press for a modi-
ficat ion. In his opinion the procedure was not appropriate, particu-
larly when the Executive Committee included members of the banking 
community, and he felt that it should be changed. 
Governor Brimmer also said that he would like to have a judg-
ment on the part of the Division of Examinations as to how the Atlanta 
Bank compared with other Reserve Banks in terms of over-all management 
efficiency. 
Mr. Solomon replied to the second question by referring to 
several improvements that had been noted by the examining staff in 
operating practices, including the strengthening of discount adminis-
tration. 
Governor Maisel requested a comparative evaluation of manage-
ment, and Mr. Solomon replied that the examiners had not attempted to 
Provide an evaluation of the management of Reserve Banks in comparative 
terms. 
h . 
Governor Brimmer observed that the Board relied on the examin-
n8 staff to keep it informed as to how the respective Reserve Banks 
W e re being operated. He repeated that, like Governor Maisel, he 
thought it would be helpful to have an evaluation as to how one Bank 
(Atlanta) stood in a system of Reserve Banks. 
Mr. Johnson commented on improvement noted in the management 
^ the personnel function, following which Governor Robertson suggested 

2406 
6/13/67 
-27-
that the Division of Examinations prepare a memorandum for the Board 
dealing with the questions that had been raised. 
In further discussion, Mr. Solomon reverted to the matter of 
participation by the Executive Committee in the discount function and 
said he had understood the Board's concern to center on the fact that 
contacts with borrowing banks tended to be delayed because the Execu-
tive Committee did not meet too frequently and seemed somewhat inclined 
toward leniency. In reviewing the problem with President Patterson, 
he (Mr. Solomon) had stated that he felt confident the Board would be 
billing to write a letter to the Reserve Bank. However, President 
Patterson had ind icated that he would be able to take care of the 
matter. Thereafter, discount procedures at the Atlanta Bank were con-
siderably altered, and from recent statistics on member bank borrowing, 
along with other evidence from the Bank's files, it appeared that the 
Bank's practices might now be, if anything, somewhat on the severe side. 
In reply to a question from Governor Brimmer, Mr. Solomon said 
had not pursued further with the Reserve Bank the question of chang-
its procedures insofar as they related to the participation of the 
Executive Committee. He had concluded that the Bank management might 
allowed to handle that facet of the matter as it thought best if 
*-he operating results seemed satisfactory. 
Governor Brimmer said he would suggest that the staff work out 
a Proposal that the Board could transmit to the Atlanta Bank requesting 

2407 
6/13/67 
-28-
the Bank to terminate the practice under which the Executive Committee 
exercised a role of the kind that it had played in relation to the 
discount function. In his judgment, as long as such a procedure con-
tinued, it would constitute an impediment to effective discount admin-
istration. The mere fact that it now appeared that the Reserve Bank 
was pursuing a more conservative course did not mean that the machinery 
was operating correctly. 
Governor Maisel referred at this point to copies of correspon-
dence between the Atlanta Reserve Bank and certain member banks that 
had been attached to a memorandum from the Board's staff summarizing 
the most recent quarterly reports from the Reserve Banks on discount 
activity. It did not appear to him that the correspondence reflected 
a proper understanding of concepts embodied in Regulation A (Advances 
and Discounts by Federal Reserve Banks). 
Mr. Holland said his reading of the correspondence suggested 
a certain lack of flexibility in appraising the circumstances surround-
ing 
individual borrowing situations. Mr. Solomon agreed but suggested 
that the correspondence should be read in the context of a situation 
in which adjustments were being made by the Reserve Bank in discount 
administration procedures against the background of previous criticisms. 
Governor Maisel remarked that this illustrated why he would 
^ike to have an over-all evaluation of the management of the Atlanta 
®ank in comparative terms. 

2408 
6/13/67 
-29-
Governor Brimmer then suggested that the staff should at least 
discuss further with President Patterson the matter of participation 
by the Executive Committee in the discount function and determine what 
steps on the part of the Board might be necessary to bring about a 
change in the existing procedure. 
Mr. Solomon brought out that his conversations with President 
Patterson had reflected his understanding that the Board's principal 
objection to the procedure involved the thought that the role of the 
Executive Committee contributed to delay in taking up problems of con-
tinuous borrowing with member banks and perhaps led to an overly 
generous attitude in such cases. 
Governor Brimmer said that his objection, which went deeper, 
was based on a view that the Executive Committee should not exercise 
the role of determining what administrative action, if any, should be 
taken in individual cases of member bank borrowing. 
Governor Maisel, who was now in the Chair, Governors Robertson 
Daane having left the room, commented that he was not certain how 
the matter would be viewed by the other members of the Board, particu-
larly since relationships with directors were involved. Therefore, 
e suggested that Mr. Solomon defer talking again with President 
Patterson until the subject had been given further consideration by 
' e Board. Governor Brimmer agreed and suggested that in the meantime 
fch 
e staff prepare for the Board an evaluation of the role of the Execu-
tive Committee. 

6/13/67 
-30-
2 4.1 )9 
Secretary's Note: As an outgrowth of 
the foregoing discussion, there was 
distrib uted to the Board a memorandum 
from Mr. Solomon dated June 14, 1967, 
stating that the examiners' work papers 
prepared in connection with the 1967 
examination of the Atlanta Bank indi-
cated that the Executive Committee had 
set down general guidelines to be used 
in the granting of Federal Reserve 
credit. These guidelines specified 
that, in the absence of some justifi-
cation, member banks would not be 
allowed to borrow in more than a 
stated number of consecutive reserve 
periods and that they would be con-
tacted by the senior discount officer 
if they had borrowed in a stated per-
centage of recent reserve periods. 
These guidelines suggested a timing 
of contacts with borrowing banks not 
much different from that followed by 
other Reserve Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Letters were sent 
today to The First National Bank of 
11 
Boston, Boston, Massachusetts, acknowl-
edging receipt of notice of its intent 
to establish three additional branches 
in Argentina, to be located in Buenos 
Aires, Flores, and Rosario. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board memoranda recom-
mending the following actions relating 
to the Board's staff: 
^Egointments 
William Richard Hill as Messenger, Division of Administrative 
Services, with ba sic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 

6/13/67 
-31-
2410 
Appointments (continued) 
Diana Kay McKamey as Accounting Clerk (Trainee), .Office of the 
Controller, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,413, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Sylvia Stroman as Stenographer, Division of Personnel Administra-
tion, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,269, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Transfers 
Millicent H. Hurlbut, Secretary, Division of Examinations, to 
another secretarial position in that Division, with an increase in 
basic annual salary from $5,507 to $5,867, effective June 18, 1967. 
James Jackson, from the position of Messenger-Driver to the posi-
tion of Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, with no change 
in basic annual salary at the rate of $4,989, effective June 18, 1967. 
Concetta M. Nobilio, Secretary, Division of Data Processing, to 
another secretarial position in that Division, with an increase in basic 
annual salary from $5,507 to $5,867, effective June 18, 1967. 
Leave without pay 
Marguerite S. Fountain, Records Clerk, Office of the Secretary, 
leave of absence without pay for an indefinite period beginning June 17, 
1967. 

B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R B 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
6/13/67 
'•fVRtsf: 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 13, 1967. 
Chase International Investment Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter dated May 5, 1967, enclosing 
the written consent under date of May 5, 1967, of the sole stockholder 
of your Corporation, The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), 
New York, consenting to the amendment of the Articles of Association 
of your Corporation to increase the capital stock to $6,000,000, con-
sisting of 60,000 shares of the par value of $100 each. 
The Board of Governors approves the amendment to Article 
SEVENTH. Please advise the Board when the capital increase has been 
effected. 
It is noted that your present capital structure will be in-
creased by a sale of 10,000 additional shares to The Chase Manhattan 
Bank (National Association) for $3,000,000, of which $2,000,000 will 
b e shown as capital surplus. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

_ I 
BOARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
6/13/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 13, 1967. 
The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York, 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of June 2, 1967, ad-
vising, pursuant to the provisions of Section 213.3(a) of Regula-
tion M of your intention to establish an additional branch in 
Puerto Rico to be located between State Highway No. 887 and the 
marginal street of 65th Infantry Avenue, Municipality of Carolina, 
. Puerto Rico. 
In this instance, the Board of Governors wishes to 
consider the proposal more closely, and its consideration may not 
be completed within thirty days. Accordingly, the Board of 
Governors has suspended the provisions of Section 213.3(a) of 
Regulation M relating to the establishment of an additional branch 
in Puerto Rico after thirty days' notice to the Board. You will 
be advised as to the Board's action in due course. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

24.18 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 3 
• F T H E 
6/13/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 13, 1967 
AIR MAIL 
The Honorable Jorge Font Saldana, 
Secretary of the Treasury, 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, 
Box 4515, 
San Juan, Puerto Rico. 00905 
Dear Mr. Secretary: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 213.3(a) of Regula-
tion M, The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), New York, 
New York, has advised the Board of Governors of its intention to 
establish an additional branch in Puerto Rico to be located between 
State Highway No#887 and the marginal street of 65th Infantry Avenue, 
Municipality of Carolina, Puerto Rico. Regulation M provides that 
additional branches may be established in foreign countries, overseas 
territories or possessions of the United States and the Commonwealth 
of Puerto Rico 
. . unless otherwise advised by the Board . . . 
after thirty days' notice to the Board with respect to each such 
branch." 
The Board of Governors will appreciate the benefit of 
your views regarding the proposal, particularly as to whether you 
know of any reasons why the branch should not be established. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
6/13/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 13, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salaries to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco listed below for the period July 1 through 
December 31, 1967, at the following rates fixed by your 
Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of June 1. 
1967. 
Name 
Title 
Harold A. Erne 
Assistant Manager 
Parker R. Smith 
Assistant Manager 
Annual 
Salary 
$12,250 
12,000 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
