MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Meeting with Federal Advisory Council 
February A, 1972 

266 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room of the 
Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D. C., at 10:30 a.m. on Friday, 
February 4, 1972. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. English, Rockefeller, Dorrance, 
Fangboner, Barr, Bassett, Freeman, 
Morey, Lind, Miller, Bond, and Clausen, 
Members of the Federal Advisory Council 
from the First, Second, Third, Fourth, 
Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, 
Tenth, Eleventh, and Twelfth Federal 
Reserve Districts, respectively 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of 
the Council 
The following officers had been elected by the Federal Advisory 
Council to serve for the year 1972: 
President 
A. W. Clausen 
Vice President 
G. Morris Dorrance, Jr. 
Secretary 
Herbert V. Prochnow 
Assistant Secretary 
William J. Korsvik 
The following had been elected members of the Executive 
Committee to serve with the President (Mr. Clausen) and Vice President 
(Mr. Dorrance): 
Gaylord Freeman, John S. Fangboner, and Harry Hood 
Bassett. 

2/4/72 
-2-
The following persons, newly elected, were attending their 
first meeting as members of the Council: 
James F. English, Chairman of the Board, Connecticut 
Bank and Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut 
David Rockefeller, Chairman of the Board, The Chase 
Manhattan Bank (National Association), New York, 
New York 
David H. Morey, Chairman of the Board, The Boatmen's 
National Bank of St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri 
Chester C. Lind, President, First American National 
Bank of Duluth, Duluth, Minnesota 
Lewis H. Bond, Chairman of the Board and Chief 
Executive Officer, The Fort Worth National 
Bank, Fort Worth, Texas 
1. Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the outlook for 
general economic activity and resource use this 
year? In particular, how do Council members 
view the prospects for consumer spending and 
for business expenditures on plant and equip-
ment and on inventories as the year progresses? 
The Council believes that general economic activity in 1972 
will be characterized by a gradual but accelerating rate of growth. 
This will be spurred by a continued rise in spending by consumers as 
income trends upward and employment opportunities improve. 
Business 
spending for inventories and capital investment also are expected to 
ri se. This judgment is strengthened by the level of inventories in 
relation to sales volume and the rising trend in manufacturers' new 
orders, as well as recent surveys of businessmen relative to their 
capital spending intentions. In the process, plant utilization will 
tend to move up. Even if the most favorable forecasts prove correct, 
the unemployment rate will still be above 5 per cent at year-end. 
The Council shares the deep concern of many businessmen about the 
nation's fiscal program and its probable inflationary impact. 

2m 
2/4/72 
-3-
Governor Robertson observed that over the past two years there 
had been continued but unfulfilled expectations that consumers would 
start spending, and he inquired what there was in the present situation 
to support the Council's view that consumer activity would increase. 
Responses cited a feeling on the part of the Council that the 
peak of unemployment had been reached, the fact that the Administra-
tion had adopted an incomes policy and appeared to be dedicated to 
combatting inflationary pressures, and the length of time consumers 
had held aloof. Moreover, major retailers were more optimistic than 
they had been in the light of their good Christmas season and post-
Christmas sales. One event contributing to the change in attitudes 
was the Lockheed guarantee, which several mail order houses had 
indicated had been closely followed by improvement in orders. Unfor-
tunately, the Council could see only slow improvement in unemployment, 
with no significant drop likely in the near future. Underlying reasons 
were the lack of a rapid rate of expansion in the economy and the fact 
that businessmen were still energetically cutting costs and improving 
the use of present staff. 
B. How do Council members view the outlook for 
construction activity in various parts of the 
country this year? In particular, how well 
balanced do supplies and demands appear to be 
for new office buildings, apartment houses, 
and individual family dwellings? 
The members of the Council report that the outlook for con-
struction is generally favorable but with significant qualifications. 

285 
2/4/72 
-4-
Housirig is expected to have another good year, about on a par with 
1971. The outlook is somewhat better for single family units than for 
apartment construction. In many areas there is a shortage of low and 
middle-income housing but a surplus of luxury apartments. 
Flows of supporting funds are ample, and should be more than 
adequate for the year as a whole, especially since they are backed by 
the growing list of Federal subsidy programs. The availability and low 
cost of mortgage funds have led to the unusual situation that the typical 
family home owner can now borrow at a lower rate and with more favorable 
terms than can a corporation issuing a AAA bond. To sustain an adequate 
flow of funds in the future, variable mortgage rates might be desirable. 
Office building projects already under way will tend to sus-
tain the volume of such construction through 1972. However, because of 
over-building in many areas, office-building construction after 1972 will 
be weak for some time. 
In response to questions, members of the Council verified that 
bank rates on home mortgages were now in the general range of 7 to 7-3/8 
per cent, without points and without prepayment penalties. There were 
some secti onal differences, and in some areas the range mentioned had 
been achieved only in the last couple of weeks. Rates charged by 
savings and loan associations were somewhat higher. 
Discussion of the vigorous pace of construction activity 
included a comment by Mr. Barr that in the Fifth District there would 
be even greater activity except for the scarcity of labor, especially 
in Metropolitan Washington. Mr. Bassett spoke of the vigorous pace of 
construction activity throughout the Atlanta District and noted the 
expansionary impact on the economy of the whole State of Florida gen-
erated by the establishment of Disney World near Orlando. Attendance 
was running substantially ahead of projections, and there had been an 

285 
2/4/72 
-5-
inflow of permanent residents that had created a great demand for 
housing and other types of construction. Another member suggested 
that the increased volume of mortgage loans by commercial banks might 
represent in part the pressure that had been exerted to induce banks 
to become more active in the financing of real estate. 
Mr. Freeman observed that one should not be misled by what was 
probably a temporary phenomenon. The flow of bank money to mortgages 
might be at least partly attributable to the fact that there was money 
available. He expected mortgage rates to rise as demands for funds 
from other types of borrowers expanded. It stood to reason that a 
bank would prefer a corporate bond of the same maturity rather than 
a home mortgage when the latter involved heavy servicing expense for 
separating monthly payments into credits for principal, interest, taxes, 
and insurance, plus other administrative costs. Banks would like to 
see more of their money available for mortgages continuously rather 
than just in slack times, but he did not believe that was likely unless 
something could be accomplished in the way of a variable rate. 
The continuing discussion turned to the statutory and other 
obstacles to variable mortgage rates. Variation of the interest rate 
directly was not feasible as a practical matter; variation of the pay-out 
period offered some possibility through adjustments in amounts applied to 
principal and to interest with constant monthly payments. Mr. English 
observed that although rates could not be increased in the course of a 

r 271 
2/4/72 
-6-
mortage term, in effect they could be decreased. When a mortgage was 
written without a prepayment penalty and rates subsequently dropped, 
banks were under pressure to refinance at the lower rates. President 
Clausen commented that some savings and loan associations in California 
had contractual rights to apply variable rates, but when in the credit 
stringency of 1966 they had attempted to exercise those rights, they 
had had to withdraw that effort because of a severely adverse public 
reaction. Mr. Bond suggested that a home owner would not be willing 
to sign a mortgage unless some limitation was provided on how far 
upward the rate could be adjusted. Other comments indicated that 
variable rate reform would unfold very gradually. 
C. What impressions are Council members gathering 
from their various contacts with regard to the 
effectiveness of the Price Commission and the 
Pay Board in holding down price and wage 
increases? What appears to be the price and 
wage outlook for 1972 as viewed in the busi-
ness and financial communities? What are the 
problem areas that seem to be attracting the 
greatest concern? 
The members of the Council have the impression from contacts 
with businessmen as well as from the reading of the press that the Price 
Commission has been reasonably successful in restraining price increases. 
While the Pay Board appears to be somewhat less effective in limiting 
wage increases because of the series of exceptions, increases on average 
probably are less than they would have been had the Pay Board not been 
in operation. If the policy of the Pay Board is to be effective, union 
labor ought not receive pay increases in excess of those granted to 
comparable non-union labor. 
The Council believes that price and wage increases in 1972 
will be somewhat less than they were last year. 

285 
2/4/72 
-7-
Perhaps the greatest concern in the business and financial 
community arises from the conviction that the political power of orga-
nized labor, with legislative support, enables it to demand and obtain 
wage increases far in excess of improved productivity. 
Fiscal and 
monetary policies validate these demands and fractionated employers 
cannot resist them. The inevitable results are inflationary price 
increases at home and inability to compete in world markets. Wage and 
price controls, which do not attack these underlying factors, will not 
long be effective. There also is some feeling in the business community 
that the Price Commission does not attach adequate importance to the 
necessity of investment and research to increase productivity. 
In response to a request for elaboration of the last sentence 
of the foregoing statement, members of the Council indicated that 
increase in productivity through investment in research and development 
did not seem to be given adequate weight as justification for price 
increases. It was true that it was difficult to measure the impact 
of increased productivity on increased profits, but it appeared that 
a company that had continued to operate at a profit because it had 
pursued a research and development program had less of a case for 
price increases than one that had not so invested and was operating 
at a loss. That realization, plus the philosophy that profit margins 
should not rise above a certain level, resulted in a disincentive to 
investment in research for increasing productivity. Moreover, within 
an industry, much of the technology gained by one company through its 
research and development program soon became available to other 
companies that had not made similar investments. 
Chairman Burns observed that benefits from such investments 
had a long gestation period, and he inquired whether the Council's 

285 
2/4/72 
-8-
comments meant that its members expected price and wage controls to 
continue for a number of years. 
Responses by the Council stressed the problem of the power of 
labor; unless the Federal Government could effectively control the 
ability of labor to demand wage increases greater than productivity 
gains justified, it would be virtually impossible to remove controls 
without a resurgence of wage settlements of a magnitude that would 
badly distort wage and price relationships. Since it seem improbable 
that effective curbs could be put on the power of labor in the near 
future, it appeared that the lesser evil was to ride with the contin-
uance of controls. The form might change. They might become variations 
of the present wage and price bodies, or they might become more voluntary. 
The discussion emphasized the need to improve productivity in 
the United States, the gains in which had been diminishing for some 
years, although there had been some slight improvement recently. Among 
other considerations mentioned were human relationships with employees; 
instances were cited in which greater enlistment of employee motivation 
had produced impressive results. 
Other comments stressed the effect of diminished productivity 
gains on international trade. Other industrial nations, notably Japan 
and Western Germany, had been superior in this respect. The United 
States was not able at present to compete on equal terms in many 
product lines because of the cost of labor content of its products. 

285 
2/4/72 
-9-
However, if greater incentive could be provided for research and 
development expenditures as well as investments in plant and equipment, 
perhaps that gap might be narrowed through emphasis on technological 
excellence. 
The power of labor, again, put the United States at a disadvan-
tage with respect to other industrial nations, and at a difficult 
moment in international relations. An example cited was the longshore-
men's strike on the West Coast. Not only was American business put at 
a disadvantage because it could not deliver its products abroad, but 
foreign buyers who could not depend upon timely delivery of United States 
merchandise would tend to seek permanent sources elsewhere from which 
there would be no such embarrassment. 
The discussion then reverted to the question of continuance of 
price and wage controls. It was observed that in a democracy there were 
the possibilities that erosion of effectiveness would result in the 
demise of controls, or that accomplishment of their objectives would 
signal that they were no longer needed. In any event, the Council 
members agreed on the present necessity of the controls. 
Chairman Burns expressed special interest in the Council's views 
of what the price and pay agencies should be doing, and asked how improve-
ments could be accomplished. Comments of Council members stressed the 
difficulties of measurement within an industry, with varying performances 
among its units. There was no feeling by the Council that the pay and 

285 
2/4/72 
-10-
price organizations were disinterested in solving these difficulties, 
but they did not have staff to do an in-depth job. 
2. Financial developments. 
A. What impact do Federal budgetary developments 
appear to be having on (a) business and con-
sumer attitudes? 
(b) the outlook for interest 
rates and other conditions in financial matters? 
Recent Federal budgetary developments, including the estimated 
$38 billion deficit for the current fiscal year, came as a shock to the 
business and financial community. While it is recognized that unem-
ployed resources may be adequate to absorb the expansion generated by 
such a deficit in the current fiscal year, there is widespread concern 
that continued large deficits will ultimately be inflationary. To date, 
the principal evidence of its impact, however, has been in the apparent 
shift in the tone of the credit markets and the apparent uneasiness in 
financial circles abroad. Short-term interest rates, which had been 
trending down, now appear to have bottomed out and yields on longer 
corporate obligations seem to have firmed. Consumer attitudes do not 
appear to have been adversely affected. 
Discussion disclosed some reservations whether the $38 billion 
budget deficit would in fact materialize. Expenses could be shifted 
from one fiscal year to another, but time limitations might work against 
completing expenditures of the projected magnitude within the fiscal 
year. Comments were made also on the possibility that a limitation 
would be placed on Federal spending for fiscal 1973. It was observed 
that if such a limitation were in prospect, increased spending in fiscal 
1972 by Federal agencies would be more likely to raise the budget deficit 
to the full $38 billion. 
B. How do Council members appraise the current and 
prospective strength of business loan demands at 
banks? Are significant changes occurring, or 

285 
2/4/72 
-11-
in prospect, with respect to business financings 
in the capital markets and the relative depen-
dence of businessmen on the latter source of 
funds? How does the Council view the outlook 
for consumer loans? 
Business loan demand at commercial banks generally continues 
to be relatively slack. No significant increase in commercial loan 
demand, especially from the larger corporations, is likely until the 
March-April tax period. Owing to the higher level of consumer spend-
ing expected in 1972, outlays for inventories as well as plant and 
equipment should increase business loan demand. 
A considerable part of business borrowing is likely to continue 
to be intermediate or longer term financing in the capital markets rather 
than from the banks. The anticipated increase in consumer expenditures 
suggests a continued rise in demand in consumer loans, a trend that has 
been under way for a number of months. 
Chairman Burns inquired why banks were not competing more 
vigorously for business loans rather than letting their corporate 
customers go to the public market. The ensuing discussion included 
comments that in the last 18 months or so corporations had been improv-
ing their liquidity, and with plant utilization currently at about 74 
per cent, their liquidity position was now good. Even the volume of 
commercial paper had declined. With the economy not showing signs of 
a strong advance, corporations were not inclined to rush into plant 
expansion. 
The recent sharp decline in the prime rate gave evidence of 
the efforts banks were making to attract loans. Inducements were also 
being given in term lending, with 5-7 year maturities common and 10-12 
years being available for some types of loans. However, some corpora-
tions preferred to go to the bond market rather than accept a fluctuating 

2/4/72 
-12-
rate on a bank loan, which was currently the typical arrangement. 
Businesses were not convinced that inflation was over, and some would 
rather obtain money from the market for a 10-15 year term at a constant 
rate rather than take a bank loan at 5 per cent that might go up to 8.5 
per cent. Banks were not anxious to extend themselves too far at 
present by offering even greater inducements on term loans, because 
they thought that a significant increase in loan demand would develop 
in the latter part of 1972. 
Varying experiences were indicated by Council members regarding 
business loan commitments, some reporting a decline or flattening and 
one member mentioning substantial increases. A view was expressed that 
the long-run prospect, reaching to the end of the century, was that 
banks would not have sufficient funds to meet all business needs. It 
seemed probable that the international side would generate an enormous 
demand for bank credit. 
Mr. Freeman recalled that soon after taking office Chairman 
Burns had expressed concern over the increase in bank loan commitments, 
partly because they might reduce the effectiveness of monetary policy. 
He inquired whether similar concern would be felt about substantial 
increases in loan commitments at the present time, when everyone would 
like to see improvement in economic growth. 
Chairman Burns responded that he would still be concerned about 
the wisdom of commitments running into tens of billions of dollars, 

285 
2/4/72 
-13-
because such an exposure on the part of banks might cause a dilemma for 
the Federal Reserve at some indefinite future time. Since banks had to 
make good on their commitments, the Federal Reserve might become the 
prisoner of the commercial banks, which was not a desirable position 
for any central banking authority. If the Federal Reserve provided 
sufficient funds to enable banks to honor their contracts, monetary 
policy would become ineffective. On the other hand, it would not be a 
happy solution for the Federal Reserve to leave the banks to fulfill 
their commitments in any way they could. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether there was any inclination on 
the part of bank loan committees to instruct men in the field to obtain 
additional loans even at the expense of lowering quality standards. 
Some Council members indicated that quality standards were being main-
tained; although banks were being more aggressive in seeking loans 
because more money was available, applications were being scrutinized 
with great care. One member spoke of actively seeking loans from 
smaller companies and working with them to provide management advice. 
Other members remarked that recent loss experiences gave evidence of 
deteriorating quality, although one member suggested that higher loss 
figures might be attributable in part to stricter classifying of loans 
by examiners. Banks that had experienced increased losses were making 
strong efforts to improve portfolio quality. 

285 
2/4/72 
-14-
C. How do Council members evaluate prospects for 
savings flows to bank and non-bank financial 
intermediaries over the months ahead? What 
interest rate policies are banks pursuing with 
regard to consumer-type time and savings deposits? 
Savings flows to banks and non-bank financial intermediaries 
are likely to remain relatively high in the months ahead. Two factors, 
however, could result in some slowdown. 
(1) Yields on alternative 
short-term investments are likely to move higher, thus diminishing the 
attractiveness of present interest rates paid on savings funds, and 
(2) the expected improvement in consumer expenditures may result in 
some reduction in the rate of savings. While the decline in the prime 
rate has pinched bank earnings, many banks have hesitated to cut their 
savings rates and lose their market position inasmuch as they believe 
that short-term interest rates may be near the bottom and will move 
upward in the months ahead. 
There was no further discussion of this topic. 
3. Regulatory matters. 
A. What are the Council's reactions to the general 
thrust of the Hunt Commission Report as it per-
tains to commercial banks, particularly with 
regard to the recommendations related to: 
a) Regulation and supervision, 
b) Allowable activities of banks and 
savings institutions, and 
c) Chartering and branching of banks 
and competing financial institutions? 
In general, the Council approves the broad thrust of the 
Hunt Commission Report when viewed as a whole. Various members of 
the Council will express their views orally on specific aspects of 
the Report. 
President Clausen expressed the view that, because the Hunt 
Commission's recommendations were of such broad scope that a great 
many legislative changes would be necessary to implement them, there 
was a danger that financial industry groups might push for certain 

285 
2/4/72 
-15-
segments of the recommendations that were of particular interest. The 
resulting piece-meal implementation of recommendations out of context 
would lead to inequities. The Commission itself had advocated that its 
findings be treated as a package, but he believed that it would be 
Utopian to believe that that could be accomplished. 
Mr. English, who had served as a member of the American Bankers 
Association's committee to study the Hunt Commission report, expressed 
concern about aspects of the report advocating broadened powers for 
thrift institutions. 
One problem was that a change from specialized 
to general institutions would require some alternative way to insure 
a flow of funds to the housing market. Another problem was the ques-
tion of equity with commercial banks. A good compromise had been 
suggested in the report, namely, that if thrift institutions were 
allowed to have checking accounts, they also should bear the burdens 
of commercial banks with respect to taxes and reserve requirements. 
Mr. English hoped that thrift institutions could be held to household 
business. 
Mr. Bond spoke of another possible inequity. The Commission 
recommendations contemplated that implementing legislation would be 
sought at the Federal level, which would have the effect of granting 
thrift institutions full branching powers. Unless unit banking States 
also changed their laws, the result would be two types of institutions, 
one of which could have branches whereas the other could not. 

285 
2/4/72 
-16-
Chairman Burns requested that members of the Council write to 
the Board their views on any particular aspects of the Hunt Commission 
report that were of special interest or concern to them, and it was 
understood that the Council members would do so. 
4. International developments. 
A. Do Council members see early favorable effects 
on the U.S. trade balance resulting from the 
exchange rate realignment? What seems to be 
the prevailing view among bank customers and 
other business contacts with interests in 
Europe regarding the outlook for economic 
activity there and the related impact on U.S. 
exports? 
The U.S. trade position is expected to improve somewhat in 
1972 as a result of the recent currency realignments. The improvement 
will not be substantial, however. At best, it is likely to bring the 
trade position into balance or a small surplus. Normally it takes 
several years for changes in exchange rates to exercise their full 
impact on exports and imports. Today there also are structural and 
cyclical factors which are acting to slow the improvement in the trade 
balance. These include the narrowing of the technological gap between 
the United States and our major competitors. Many companies in Europe 
and Japan can out-compete U.S. firms - even in our own markets. This 
advantage may persist despite the currency realignments. 
At the same time the U.S. economy is expected to experience 
an upturn this year, while Europe and Japan will be undergoing business 
slowdowns. This will tend to spur U.S. imports while limiting the 
growth of U.S. exports. 
President Clausen indicated that the Council had also discussed 
and was troubled by the possibility that devaluation of the dollar might 
cause some deterioration in the United States balance of payments over 
the near term by increasing the price of United States imports while 
the slower rate of growth abroad held down growth in United States exports. 

285 
2/4/72 
-17-
Another possibility was that devaluation of the dollar would cause 
other countries to pull in their belts to achieve greater productivity 
and hold their wages down. That would increase the differential in 
wage costs of United States products competing in world markets. 
Both 
of these sets of circumstances would hurt the objectives of the 
United States. 
B. How do Council members view the prospects for 
inflows of both liquid and long-term funds into 
the United States? How significant are interna-
tional interest rate differentials likely to be 
in influencing flows of funds in the months ahead? 
The absence of a substantial flow of funds into the United 
States suggests that foreigners may be uncertain about the future 
strength of the dollar and the longevity of the realignment of exchange 
rates agreed upon at the meeting in December. In view of our fiscal 
problems, they may feel that there is insufficient evidence that we 
are willing to accept the disciplines necessary to strengthen the 
dollar. 
An additional factor, which has contributed to the delay in 
the return flow of funds into the United States, is the wide spread 
between interest rates here and abroad. This trend could be reversed, 
however, if the anticipated strengthening in business activity in the 
United States, which will put some upward pressure on the interest 
rate structure, will tend to stimulate an inflow of funds from abroad. 
Discussion included a comment that the crucial question was 
whether the dollar would be stabilized at the rate agreed upon at the 
Smithsonian meeting in December 1971 or whether it would prove necessary 
to drop its value further. Members of the Council noted that many 
observers were somewhat skeptical as to whether legislation to implement 
the Smithsonian agreement would materialize; a concern had arisen in 

ma 
2/4/72 
-la-
the business and financial community as to whether the agreement would 
endure. Chairman Burns indicated a firm expectation that the necessary 
legislation would be proposed and hearings would be held. The Smith-
sonian agreement provided no convertibility, and foreign central banks 
had committed themselves to accumulate dollars, if necessary. In 
response to a suggestion that it would be reassuring if some public 
statement could be made to that effect, Chairman Burns responded that 
it was a sensitive matter for a public statement. 
5. What are the Council's views on monetary and credit 
policy under present circumstances? 
Monetary and credit policy under present circumstances presents 
somewhat of a dilemma. 
(1) The relatively moderate pace of business 
activity with the nation's resources under-utilized suggests a more 
rapid growth in the monetary aggregates than has characterized the past 
six months or so. (2) On the other hand, the relatively low level of 
short-term interest rates in the United States, in contrast to rates 
abroad, suggests an abundance of liquidity in the United States which 
would warrant a less accommodating credit policy. 
Monetary policy at present needs to avoid the risk of stimu-
lating inflationary pressures over the longer term, especially with 
continued large government deficits. Still lower short-term interest 
rates might encourage the further outflow of funds. However, the 
major problem of concern at present is probably fiscal policy. 
President Clausen commented that neither Mx nor other similar 
measures of money and bank credit included corporate savings. Undue 
attention to these statistics could therefore be misleading, since they 
did not reflect fully the large degree of liquidity that had been built 
UP in the economy. 

285 
2/4/72 
-19-
Mr. English agreed that the tendency to over-emphasize 
might 
depend upon developments in other aggregates. If businesses did not 
want to borrow, there was not much one could do about it, but if 
reserves were being provided amply and M 2 was going up, perhaps there 
was no great cause for worry. Council members generally agreed that 
should be de-emphasized, although it was observed that the figures 
had to be judged in the context of other circumstances. 
Discussion of the stubbornness of the unemployment rate included 
comments that the composition of the figure differed from earlier periods 
in that it included a higher proportion of women and teen-agers, and was 
subject to special influences such as servicemen returning from Viet 
Nam. It was suggested that it might be desirable to accord greater 
weight to the figure for total employment rather than the rate of 
unemployment. 
Mr. Freeman spoke of the moderate progress made in 1971 in 
almost every economic sector except unemployment, and expressed the 
view that it would be a mistake to try to cure one festering sore in 
the economy through monetary and fiscal policy, at the probable cost 
of a resurgence of inflation. Ensuing comments indicated agreement 
that there were limits to what monetary policy could accomplish and 
further ease might not be productive. 
In fact, Council members felt 
that the point might be nearing where further monetary expansion might 
be counter-productive. 
Interest rates were at their lowest levels in 

285 
2/4/72 
-20-
recent years, and banks were liquid and looking for loans. It was hard 
to believe that businessmen might be holding up expansion because money 
was expensive or hard to get. It was suggested that the key point was 
..., j 
... i 
, 
consumer confidence j
t
W
t
I
r
a
V
g
r
a
d
u
a
l
l
y 
being 
restored. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Federal Advisory 
Council would be held on May 4-5, 1972. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
