sift. 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 12, 1969 

514 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, February 12, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Report on competitive factors. The staff had drafted a report, 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, on the competitive 

515 
2/12/69 
-2-
factors involved in the proposed purchase of assets and assumption of 
liabilities of The First National Bank of Sabina, Sabina, Ohio, by The 
Clinton County National Bank and Trust Company of Wilmington, Wilmington, 
Ohio. The conclusion would describe the competitive effect as slightly 
adverse. 
During discussion at today's meeting Governor Robertson expressed 
a preference to describe the competitive effect as adverse. However, 
the other members of the Board favored the language of the draft, and 
the report was therefore approved with the conclusion reading as follows: 
The proposed acquisition of The First National Bank of Sabina 
by The Clinton County National Bank and Trust Company of Wilmington 
would eliminate some competition which exists between them. Overall, 
the effect of the proposal on competition would be slightly adverse. 
First Financial Corporation. The Board authorized the issuance 
of an order and statement reflecting its action, on January 24, 1969, 
approving the application of First Financial Corporation, Tampa, Florida, 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of 
The First National Bank of Tampa and Union Security & Investment Company, 
also of Tampa. Copies of the documents are attached under Item No. 1. 
Bank holding company legislative proposals. The Board today 
continued its series of discussions (the most recent one on January 21, 
1969) regarding legislative proposals relating to holding companies and 
bank subsidiaries. Documentation included memoranda dated February 3 
from the Legal Division, from Mr. Cardon, from the Office of the Secretary, 

5 I G 
2/12/69 
-3-
and from Governor Robertson, and a memorandum from the Office of the 
Secretary dated February 11. 
Discussion at today's meeting brought out majority agreement 
that it would be preferable to comment on one or more of the bills 
being developed by various sources rather than to formulate a Federal 
Reserve bill. Governor Mitchell suggested that the Board draw up a 
statement of principles to indicate its thinking with respect to the 
major points to be covered in any bank holding company legislation, 
and he described the positions he advocated with respect to salient 
issues. Other members of the Board then also expressed their views on 
such questions as the placement of administrative authority, the use of 
a grandfather clause, the possibility of excluding small bank holding 
companies from coverage of the legislation, the extent to which nonbanking 
activities might be permitted, and provisions such as a percentage of 
ownership that might be used to determine whether a bank was controlled. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
staff would prepare additional material for the Board's consideration 
looking toward the development of a statement of principles. 
Foreign mission. The Board unanimously approved the sending of 
a letter to the International Monetary Fund regarding participation by 
Mr. Merritt Sherman in an advisory mission to Pakistan. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 2. (Mr. Sherman, at present Assistant to 

w m m m a n 
517 
2/12/69 
-2-
the Board, would be retained as a consultant to the Board following 
his retirement on March 1, 1969.) 
Unionization and collective bargaining. Governor Sherrill 
reported on progress being made by Judge Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., in 
developing a proposed policy on unionization and collective bargaining 
within the Federal Reserve System and said it was anticipated that Judge 
Pierce would have a first draft available for review by the Board and 
Reserve Bank Presidents early in March. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
fas Secretary 
/ 

518 
Item No. 1 
2/12/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D; C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST FINANCIAL CORPORATION, 
Tampa, Florida, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of voting shares of The First National 
Bank of Tampa, Tampa, Florida, and Union 
Security & Investment Company, Tampa, 
Florida, both of which are registered 
bank holding companies. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Financial 
Corporation, Tampa, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of action 
\tfhereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of voting shares of The First National Bank of Tampa, 
Tampa, Florida, and Union Security & Investment Company, Tampa, Florida, 
both of which are registered bank holding companies. Union Security & 
Investment Company, 60.4 per cent of the voting shares of which are 

519 
- 2 -
held by trustees for the benefit of shareholders of The First National 
Bank of Tampa, owns a majority of the voting shares of four banks in 
Florida: The Broadway National Bank of Tampa, Tampa; The First 
National Bank of Brooksville, Brooksville; The First National Bank 
of Lakeland, Lakeland; and The Second National Bank of Tampa, Tampa, 
Applicant proposes to acquire 85 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of First National Bank of Tampa, and sufficient additional shares of 
Union Security & Investment Company to result in its direct and indirect 
ownership of 05 per cent or more of the voting shares of that corporation. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended that the appli-
cation be approved. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on January 9, 1969 (34 Federal Register 339), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for 
filing comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 

520 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time shall 
be extended by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 12th day of February, 1969, 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
» . r ~ a* ' > • Lti' 
h . 
* 
v 
- • 
' 
< " },s 
< 
(SEAL) 

521 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST FINANCIAL CORPORATION, TAMPA, FLORIDA, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
First Financial Corporation, Tampa, Florida ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of voting 
shares of The First National Bank of Tampa, Tampa, Florida ("First 
National"), and Union Security & Investment Company, Tampa, Florida 
("US&I"), both of which are registered bank holding companies. 
The present proposal contemplates a reorganization involving 
First National, US&I, and their four subsidiary banks: The Broadway 
National Bank of Tampa, Tampa; The First National Bank of Brooksville, 
Brooksville; The First National Bank of Lakeland, Lakeland; and The 
Second National Bank of Tampa, Tampa, all of which are located in 
Florida. A majority of the voting shares of each of the four subsid-
iary banks is owned by US&I, and 60.4 per cent of the stock of US&I 
is held by trustees for the benefit of shareholders of First National. 
Applicant proposes to acquire 85 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of First National and sufficient additional shares of US&I to result 

-2-
in its direct and indirect ownership of 35 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of that corporation. Existing relationships among First 
National, US&I, and the four subsidiary banks v/ould not be altered; 
both First National and US&I xjould therefore continue to be bank 
holding companies. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
was given to, and views and recommendation requested of, the Comptroller 
of the Currency. The Comptroller recommended that the application be 
approved. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or v/ould be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of x-zhich, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Consummation 
of Applicant's proposal would result in a reorganization of an existing 
bank holding company system. The size and extent of operations of the 

5 ^ 3 
-3-
1/ 
group, consisting of First National ($182 million deposits) 
and its 
four banking subsidiaries ($50 million aggregate deposits), would not 
be changed; no elimination of existing or potential competition would 
result, and existing levels of banking concentration would not be 
affected in any area. Neither does it appear that the competitive 
position of Applicant would be so enhanced by comparison with that 
of First National and US&I as to threaten the viability or competitive 
effectiveness of any competing bank. 
It therefore appears that the proposed transaction would not 
result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy 
or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any area, and would 
not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or 
restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant is a newly formed corporation, and has no financial or 
operating history. Its financial condition, managerial resources, and 
prospects would be entirely dependent upon those of its proposed 
subsidiaries. 
The financial condition and management of First National, 
US&I, and their subsidiary banks are generally satisfactory, and their 
prospects are favorable. The purpose of the present proposal is to 
stabilize the relationships among the components of the present organi-
zation, and to provide greater flexibility with respect to possible 
1/ All banking data are as of June 29, 1968. 

future acquisitions and increases in capital. Under the existing 
arrangement, the affiliation between First National and its four 
subsidiary banks depends upon continued beneficial ownership by 
First National shareholders of a controlling interest in the stock 
of US&I; any broadening of the ownership of the US&I stock, x^hether 
through public sale or exchanges made in connection with acquisitions, 
tends to weaken the affiliation with First National, the lead bank in 
the group. Consummation of the present proposal would result in all 
banks in the group, including First National, becoming subsidiaries 
of Applicant, thereby allowing a broad market to be established for 
Applicant's stock without affecting existing relationships among the 
banks. In addition, the larger net worth of Applicant, as compared 
with US&I, will place it in a better borrowing position should such 
action become necessary. 
All considerations relating to the banking factors are 
consistent with approval of the application. The increased access to 
capital markets which Applicant's proposal would provide to the First 
National group, as it relates to the prospects of the group, provides 
some weight in favor of approval. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Applicant' 
proposal will have no immediate effect on the convenience and needs of 
the communities served by the proposed subsidiary banks. First National 
and its subsidiary banks will continue to offer the same services that 
are presently being offered. Considering the extent to which the banks 

are presently serving the convenience and ne&Bs of their respective 
communities, this factor, as it relates to the present proposal, is 
consistent with approval of the application* 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act* it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
February 12, 1969. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N • R S 
Item No. 2 
2/12/69 
• F T H E 
% 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Uj 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 12, 1969 
Mr. J. V. Mladek, Director, 
Central Banking Service, 
International Monetary Fund, 
Washington, D. C. 20431 
Dear Mr. Mladek: 
In reply to your letter of January 27 addressed to 
Chairman Martin, requesting the services of Merritt Sherman 
for the purpose of participating in an advisory mission to the 
Pakistan Central Bank, Mr. Sherman is retiring from the Board's 
employ effective March 1, 1969, and it will not be necessary, 
therefore, to effect a leave of absence. We understand that 
Mr. Sherman has made arrangements directly with the Fund 
regarding his participation in the mission. 
The Board is retaining Mr. Sherman as a Consultant 
following his retirement; however, we would be pleased to 
cooperate by deferring any plans for utilizing him as a Con-
sultant for the time that the Fund wishes to have the use of 
his services. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
