FR 609 
Minutes for 
March 13, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Changes from draft minutes: 
Pages 4 and 5 - Editorial changes in paragraph beginning at bottom 
of page 4. 

834 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, March 13, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Byrn of the Office of the Secretary 
Other officers and staff of the research divisions 
also attended. 
Staff presented the usual weekly money market review, preceded 
by a briefing on current nonfinancial economic data. Copies of the 
statistical charts and tables prepared for the purpose of today's review 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
During the discussion it was suggested that the staff prepare 
an analysis of experience under the so-called lagged reserve account-
ing procedure that had been in effect since September 1968. 
Members of the research divisions who had attended for the money 
market review then withdrew and Messrs. Hexter, General Counsel, O'Connell, 

835 
3/13/70 
-2-
Deputy General Counsel, and Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation, entered along with other staff of their two 
divisions. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on March 9 and by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and 
Dallas on March 12, 1970, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
On March 12, 1970, the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis had 
established without change the principal rates on discounts and advances 
in its existing schedule, along with a rate of 7-1/2 per cent (rather 
than 7 per cent) on advances under the last paragraph of section 13 of 
the Federal Reserve Act. 
The rates established by the St. Louis Bank were approved unani-
mously effective March 16, 1970, with the understanding that advice 
would be sent to all Federal Reserve Banks. 
With the St. Louis action, all Reserve Banks had now established 
a rate of 7-1/2 per cent on advances under the last paragraph of section 13. 
Uses of policy information. Reference was made to a March 9 
telegram from the Boston Reserve Bank that, in addition to advising of 
the reestablishment of existing rates on discounts and advances, presented 
views of the directors with respect to monetary policy. Question was 

836 
3/13/70 
-2-
raised regarding practices of the Presidents of the respective Reserve 
Banks in dealing with monetary policy information at directors' meetings. 
Some members of the Board related experiences that led them to believe 
that the Presidents had adhered to the tradition of avoiding any dis-
closure of the policy posture of the Open Market Committee. However, 
one member expressed the view that recently some Presidents might have 
gone further in their comments to the directors than had customarily 
be en the case. It was noted also that there had been some sentiment 
at recent meetings of the Conference of Chairmen of the Federal Reserve 
Banks, particularly at the meeting last December, toward establishing 
a better two-way flow of communications. Chairman Burns pointed out 
that a "gray area" of considerable delicacy admittedly was involved 
and suggested that it might be desirable to hold a luncheon or after-
t - 
.1 
V 
. I J 
noon session following one of the forthcoming Open Market Committee 
meetings, with attendance limited to the Board members and Presidents, 
for informal discussion of the subject. There was general agreement 
that such a procedure would be appropriate. 
The Chairman then observed that a question had been raised with 
him by a Board member regarding the appropriateness of Governors or 
Presidents accepting invitations to participate in programs arranged 
under the sponsorship of private organizations. He suggested that this 
subject, in general terms, also might be discussed at a restricted 

837 
3/13/70 
-2-
session with the Presidents, after he had had an opportunity to explore 
the problem with the other Board members in executive session in the 
near future. 
There followed questions relating to the practice of imparting 
a limited amount of information concerning the stance of Federal Reserve 
policy to central bankers of other leading countries, particularly at 
the Basle meetings. Chairman Burns expressed the view that, in the 
absence of evidence that proprieties were not being observed, partici-
pation by Federal Reserve representatives in top-level central bank 
meetings such as those held at Basle required a certain reciprocity of 
expression, although of course in carefully developed language. He 
noted that withdrawal by the Federal Reserve from such exchanges would 
be likely to result in the transmittal of information through less respon-
sible channels. 
Discussion ensued with regard to traditions that had been estab-
lished over the years in relationships with other central banks and also 
in regard to transmitting certain types of information to officials of 
the U.S. Government such as the Secretary of the Treasury. Reference 
also was made to problems that might arise in communicating with members 
of the Congress. 
Governor Brimmer felt that questions of this kind, taken in 
combination, suggested the desirability of reviewing the rules of 

838 
3/13/70 
-2-
the Open Market Committee relating to availability of information, while 
Governor Robertson indicated that he had some reservations, which he would 
amplify at another time, about the extent of Federal Reserve participa-
tion in the Basle meetings. The prevailing view, however, was that 
communication with the heads of other leading central banks along lines 
described by the Chairman was not inappropriate, if conducted prudently 
and cautiously. 
Prepayment of interest. Question had been raised by the San 
Francisco Reserve Bank whether the prepayment by a member bank of interest 
at the rate of 5 per cent per annum on a two-year certificate of deposit 
violated Regulation Q, Payment of Interest on Deposits. The staff had 
concluded, for reasons stated in a memorandum dated March 9, 1970, that 
the prepayment plan did not violate the regulation. 
There was general acceptance of the staff conclusion, although 
it was agreed that the reply to the San Francisco Bank should advise 
cautioning the member bank not to mislead a potential depositor into 
believing that he could withdraw his deposit at any time before maturity 
as long as the interest he received was appropriately adjusted. 
It was noted that this case emphasized the need for clarifying, 
on an interagency basis, the conditions pertaining to withdrawal of 
deposits before maturity. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to the San Fran-
cisco Bank in the form attached as Item No. 1, with the understanding 

839 
3/13/70 
-2-
that the substance of the reply would be made available to all Reserve 
Banks. l~! 
Reports on housing bills. Unanimous approval was given to the 
transmittal to the Chairman of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee 
of reports on three pending housing bills. Copies of the letters are 
attached as Items 2,3, and 4. 
Subordinated notes. Governor Robertson pointed out in a memo-
randum of March 11, 1970, that the proposal announced by the Board on 
March 2 to amend Regulations D and Q to cover subordinated notes with 
maturities of less than five years or denominations of less than $20,000 
would exempt from the amendments any instrument issued before March 9, 
1970, that complied with the present requirements of the regulations. 
This meant that, if the proposed amendments were finally adopted, notes 
issued after March 9 that complied with the present regulations would 
become subject to reserve requirements and interest rate ceilings on 
the effective date of the amendments even though they were issued 
pursuant to a public offering made by a member bank before March 9. 
Several banks had raised strong objections to this feature of the pro-
posal. Governor Robertson saw some merit to these objections on grounds 
of equity and suggested that the Board might want to announce a change 
in the proposal that would exempt from the amendments notes issued 
prior to the effective date of the amendments and pursuant to a public 
offering made prior to March 9, 1970. 
1/ A copy of the interpretation based on this action is also attached 
under Item No. 1. 

840 
3/13/70 
-2-
In discussion it was brought out that the issuance of such an 
announcement would not be intended to prejudice in any way the decision 
finally reached by the Board on the proposed amendments. 
Unanimous approval then was given to the issuance of a press 
release in the form attached as Item No. 5, with the understanding that 
the information contained therein would be communicated promptly to the 
banks that had directed protests to the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

841 
B O A R D CDF G D V E R N • R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
3/13/70 
Rt^;. 
4v 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 13, 1970. 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
This refers to your letter dated February 2, 1970, concerning 
the status under Regulation Q of certificates of deposit being offered 
by Fidelity Bank, Beverly Hills, California. 
It is understood that the bank is offering to prepay interest 
at the rate of 5 per cent per annum on certificates of deposit in 
amounts less than $100,000 and with single maturities from two years 
to four years and eleven months. The present maximum rate of interest 
that may be paid by a member bank on such a deposit is 5-3/4 per cent 
per annum. In the event the deposit is paid before maturity in an 
emergency, the deposit contract authorizes the bank to recoup from the 
principal an amount sufficient to reduce the depositor's yield on his 
investment to no more than 5-3/4 per cent on the funds withdrawn for 
the amount of time such funds are on deposit. 
The Board notes that in the year of prepayment (that is, 
the f irst year of the arrangement) the depositor will receive a yield 
on his investment in excess of the maximum interest that a member 
bank may pay under Regulation Q for one year. Nevertheless, it is 
the Board's view that a member bank may pay a greater rate of interest 
than that permitted by the regulation over some portion of the deposit 
term, if, by paying a lesser rate over the remaining term, the total 
interest does not exceed the amount the bank could have paid on the 
deposit at the highest permissible rate. In order to comply with the 
regulation, the rate paid on the amount actually received by the bank 
(face amount of the certificate less prepaid interest) must not exceed 
the rate permitted by Regulation Q. 
The Board concludes that the member bank may prepay interest 
as proposed. In view of the form of contract, reserves should be main-
tained against the face amount of the certificate, without deduction 
for prepaid interest. 

842 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan 
-2-
The bank should be reminded of the provisions of § 217.6(f) 
of Regulation Q relating to the accuracy of advertising which provides 
that "No member bank shall make any advertisement, announcement or 
solicitation relating to the interest paid on deposits that is inaccu-
rate or misleading or that misrepresents its deposit contracts." In 
particular, the bank should be careful not to mislead the potential 
depositor into believing that he may withdraw his deposit at any time 
before maturity as long as the interest he receives is appropriately 
adjusted. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II— FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 217—INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
PART 204--RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
[Reg. Q; Dj 
§ 217.149 Prepayment of Interest on Deposits. 
(a) The Board of Governors has considered the status under 
Regulations Q and D of certificates of deposit offered by a member 
bank with interest paid at the tirce of issuance. 
(b) Under the plan considered by the Board, the bank offers 
to prepay interest at the rate of 5 per cent per annum on a certificate 
of deposit in an amount, less than $100,000 with a single maturity from 
two years to four years and eleven months. In the event the deposit 
is paid before maturity in accordance with § 217.4(d), relating to 
Payment in emergencies, the deposit contract authorizes the bank to 
recoup from the principal an amount sufficient to reduce the depositor's 
yield on his investment to no more than 5-3/4 per cent on the funds 
Withdrawn for the time such funds are on deposit (the current maximum 
rate on deposits of less than $100,000 with a maturity of at least two 
years) . 
(c) If interest were prepaid at the rate of 5-3/4 per cent 
Per annum, the bank would violate Regulation Q. In such a circumstance, 
the prepaid interest could be reinvested with the member bank and earn 
interest at the rate of 5-3/4 per cent. In such event, the aggregate 

841 
-2-
amount of the prepaid interest plus interest thereon would exceed 
the maximum amount the bank could have paid at maturity of the cer-
tificate with interest computed at the current maximum permissible 
rate on the type of deposit involved (5-3/4 per cent). 
(d) Under the plan offered by the bank, the depositor 
receives a yield on his investment in excess of the amount of interest 
that a member bank may pay under Regulation Q for one year on the 
type of deposit involved. However, this consideration is not deter-
minative in view of the maturity of the deposit. The significant 
consideration is whether the amount of prepaid interest plus interest 
thereon at the maximum rate that may be paid on the type of deposit 
involved exceeds the aggregate amount of interest that could have been 
paid on the deposit at maturity computed at the applicable maximum 
rate. Stated in another manner, the amount the depositor receives at 
maturity of the certificate may not exceed the amount he actually 
places with the bank at the time of issuance of the certificate (the 
face amount less the amount of prepaid interest) plus 5-3/4 per cent 
per annum on such amount for the life of the deposit. 
(e) Based upon these considerations, the Board concluded 
that the pi an offered by the member bank is consistent with the 
provisions of Regulation Q. In view of § 217.6(f), relating to 
accuracy of advertising, the bank should avoid, as with respect to 
any other time deposit, any statement that might mislead potential 
depositors into believing that they may withdraw their deposit at 
any time before maturity with an appropriate deduction to adjust 
the effective yield on the deposit. 

815 
-3-
(f) In view of the form of the contract, reserves should 
be maintained against the face amount of the certificate 
in accord-
ance with Part 204 (Regulation D), without deduction for prepaid 
interest. If the form of the contract were on a discount basis so 
that the amount of the bank's obligation to the depositor increases 
over the life of the deposit, reserve requirements would initially 
apply only to the amount of funds received for the certificate, just 
as in the case of a certificate sold at the face amount with interest 
paid at maturity. 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 371b.) 
S 204.113 Prepayment of Interest on Deposits. 
For the text of interpretation, see 5 217.149 of this 
subchapter. 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 461, 465.) 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 13, 1970. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

846 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
3/13/70 
March 16, 1970 
The Honorable John Sparkman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your request for a report on 
S. 3442, a bill to increase the availability of funds for the 
financing of urgently needed housing, to authorize the establishment 
of standards governing the amount of settlement costs allowable in 
the financing of Federally assisted housing, and for other purposes. 
The Board of Governors supports the proposed experimental 
dual-market system of setting contract interest rates on new FHA 
and VA mortgages, as authorized by Section 1 of the bill. The trial 
period lasting until January 1, 1972--during which contract interest 
rates could be established either by regulation, as at present, or 
by the market--will offer the opportunity for determining how far 
it is appropriate to move toward more flexible rates. Whatever 
greater flexibility can be achieved, of course, will allow standardized 
FHA and VA mortgages to compete more readily with conventional 
mortgages as well as with other capital market instruments. And 
it will broaden the potential scope of the secondary market for 
Government-underwritten mortgages. 
The Board also favors exploring ways and means of 
reducing and standardizing settlement costs on FHA and VA mortgages, 
as contemplated by Section 2 of the bill. 
Section 3 provides for a Special Advisory Commission on 
Housing, which would submit annual recommendations, including 
" . . . the fiscal and monetary policies, both long- and short-
range, which are necessary to achieve recommended levels of 
housing production . . . 
It should be noted, however, that 
since the Commission's report is to be filed by November 1, its 
recommendations as to fiscal and monetary policy may not be 
consistent with, or attainable within, the general framework of 
public economic policy as it ultimately evolves. 
Incidentally, 
the rate that the Commission could pay for consultants appears low. 

847 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
Sections 4 and 5 of S. 3442 would liberalize certain 
restrictions on the mortgage lending powers of Federal savings and 
associations and national banks, and would permit a Federal 
savings and loan association to act as a trustee for certain trusts 
with respect to mortgages, there is a pressing need to standardize 
as far as possible, the authority of all types of financial insti-
tutions to invest in these assets. 
Section 5 of S. 3442 would liberalize the authority of 
national banks to make real estate loans. For conventional mortgage 
i d a n o 
+- U
1 
„ 
j 
i 
i . . . 
, - 
o o 
oans, the loan-to-value limit would be raised from 80 to 90 per' 
cent, and the maximum maturity from 25 to 30 years; for loans on 
construction projects, the maximum maturity would be extended from 
c£ree years to five years. The Board continues to support this 
banks6 a S 3 m e a n S ° f S t i m u l a t i n g increased mortgage lending by 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Bufns 

848 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
ItemNo. 3 
3/13/70 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
' 
' 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
March 16, 1970 
The Honorable John Sparkman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your request for a report 
on S. 3503, a bill to reduce mortgage interest rates charged 
middle income families, and for other purposes. 
The bill would authorize advances by the Federal Home 
Loan Banks to mortgage lenders for relending to families with 
incomes of $10,000 or less. The Banks would borrow the funds 
from the Federal Reserve, which would be require'd to discount 
Federal Home Loan Bank obligations at a maximum interest rate 
of 6 per cent. While such borrowing is limited to $3 billion 
in any one year, the total amount authorized over the years is 
unlimited. 
The Board believes that any subsidies that are needed 
for housing should be included in the budget so that Congress 
may weigh them against other Federal outlays and reduce other 
outlays or increase revenues to cover their cost. S. 3503, in 
contrast, provides for a subsidy outside the budget. 
If the Federal Reserve were directed to increase its 
holdings of Federal Home Loan Bank obligations by up to $3 
billion a year, credit markets would have to absorb a correspond-
ing amount of Treasury obligations over and above what would 
otherwise be marketed. In order to keep control of the reserve 
base, the Federal Reserve would have to offset its loans on 
Federal Home Loan Bank obligations with sales of Treasury 
securities--or forego purchases of Treasury securities it would 
otherwise have made. Sales of $3 billion additional Treasury 
obligations in the capital markets would, of course, attract 
funds away from other uses, including credit that would other-
wise finance housing as well as other capital improvements. 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
849 
Moreover, the Board opposes tapping Federal Reserve 
credit for special-purpose lending, no matter how worthy, because 
it could frustrate the objectives of monetary policy. A $3 billion 
a year program to help middle-income families buy homes could soon 
lead to proposals for other types of special lending to state and 
local governments, small businesses, or others who find it 
particularly difficult to borrow under conditions of monetary 
restraint. To compel the Federal Reserve to meet credit needs 
of these magnitudes would lead at first to a weakened market 
position for Treasury securities--as the System made offsetting 
sales of Treasury issues--and ultimately to inflation, as it 
became impossible in practice to offset the expansion of Federal 
Reserve credit in that fashion. 
Accordingly, the Board recommends against enactment of 
S. 3503. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 

850 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
3/13/70 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
March 16, 1970 
The Honorable John Sparkman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your request for a report 
on S. 3508, a bill to create a Federal Mortgage Marketing Corpora-
tion, and for other purposes. 
The Board of Governors recognizes the need to enhance 
the attractiveness of residential mortgages to private investors. 
We think that much can be done to improve the characteristics of 
the mortgage instrument and the institutional practices associated 
with issuing, holding, and retiring mortgages. Greater standard-
ization of these practices, as well as of the instrument itself, 
is obviously a prerequisite to creating a more active secondary 
market for conventional residential mortgages. Such improvements, 
however, need not await the creation of an additional Federal 
facility to operate in the secondary mortgage market. 
Whether establishment of the Federal Mortgage Marketing 
Corporation, as proposed by S. 3508, would entail public benefits 
which would outweigh the costs is far from certain. To the degree 
that this new Federal agency dealt in Government underwritten 
residential mortgages, it would essentially duplicate the activities 
of another Federal agency--the Federal National Mortgage Association--
which is already operating in this area of the market. To the extent 
that the FMMC purchased conventional mortgages, it would accumulate 
assets that lack the protective features of Government underwritten 
loans. This would obviously raise questions about the liquidity of 
the mortgage portfolio that FMMC came to hold, and about its ability 
to finance itself by issuing debt in the private market. 
In these respects, the bill would set up no special 
statutory safeguards that might limit either the agency's risk 
exposure or its volume of borrowings. FMMC could acquire any 
mortgage on real estate, to cite the broad language of the bill, 
'••mm:-

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
"upon which there is located a structure or structures designed 
in whole or in part for residential use," and with no statutory 
limit as to the range of prices that might be paid for such 
assets offered by Federal Home Loan Bank members. Any loan 
restrictions on the airount, term, repayment provisions, number 
of families, or status as a first lien on real estate would be 
left to the optional regulation of the Federal Mortgage Marketing 
Corporation itself. Moreover, the amount of debt issued by this 
new Federal agency, according to Section 6 of the bill, would be 
limited only by whatever prohibitions or restrictions that the 
Corporation might choose to adopt. It should also be noted that 
unlike the case of the Federal Home Loan Bank System itself, 
neither the amount nor the terms of FMMC's borrowings would be 
subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Treasury—a 
provision that would assure closer coordination with broad Govern-
ment fiscal policy. 
Attracting funds into conventional mortgages through the 
FMMC could mean that funds might be siphoned away from support 
available for FHA and VA mortgages which finance programs charged 
with a special public interest, unless the total pool of available 
housing credit were expanded. The most feasible way to do that is 
to reduce the demands that the Federal Government makes on private 
capital markets. The Federal Reserve Board believes, therefore, 
that proposals such as S. 3508 which would increase rather than 
diminish the total credit demands of the Government and its 
agencies should be examined with caution. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 

3C MMk&k liilif^" 
Item No. 5 
3/13/70 
For immediate release. 
March 13, 1970. 
On March 2, 1970, the Board announced a proposal to amend 
its Regulations D and Q, relating to member bank reserve require-
ments and interest rate ceilings, in order to bring certain subordi-
nated obligations of member banks within the definition of deposits 
for purposes of those Regulations. 
(FEDERAL REGISTER for March 10, 
1970, 35 F.R. 4307). It was indicated that the proposed amendments 
would not affect "any instrument issued before March 9, 1970, that has 
an original maturity of more than two years, is unsecured, and states 
expressly that it is subordinated to the claims of depositors". 
In order to alleviate hardships, if any, that might be im-
posed upon some member banks that had made public offerings of subordi-
nated notes before March 9, 1970, and have not completed the sale of 
such notes, the Board has concluded that, if the proposed amendments 
sho uld be adopted, the language above quoted would be changed so that 
notes of the kind described would not be subject to the regulations if 
they are issued before the effective date of such amendments and pursuant 
to a public offering made before March 9, 1970. 
This modification in the proposed amendment will not extend 
the time for corr.ments beyond the original deadline of April 2, 1970. 
-0-
