MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 7, 1970 

2 2 9 7 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, August 7, 1970. 
The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
"i . 
v 
• 
The usual weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the purpose of the 
review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of 
the individual briefings. 
Members of the staff who had attended for the purpose of the 
weekly review then withdrew from the meeting. 
Messrs. Hexter, Assistant 
t o the Board; O'Connell, General Counsel; and Egertson, Assistant 
Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation, entered, along with 
1 r.f." * , , ; • .. 
n 
. 
, _: j , 
. .. 
, 
- 
. , 
other appropriate members of the staff. 
Discount rates. 
The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, 
- 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2298 
8/7/70 
-2-
Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San 
Francisco on August 6, 1970, of the rates on discounts and advances 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed consolidation of State Bank of 
Chilton, Chilton, Wisconsin, and The Commercial Bank, also of Chilton, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed consolidation of State 
Bank of Chilton and The Commercial Bank, both of Chilton, 
Wisconsin, would eliminate a significant amount of present 
and potential competition and would increase markedly the 
concentration of deposits in the relevant area. The overall 
effect on competition would be substantially adverse. 
Eximbank Discount Loan Corporation. 
Pursuant to the 
understanding at the meeting on August 6, 1970, there had been dis-
tributed a revised draft of letter to the Office of Management and 
Budget concerning the proposal of the Export-Import Bank to establish 
an Eximbank Discount Loan Corporation. 
The revised draft was discussed and a number of changes, 
Principally of an editorial nature, were suggested, following which 
unanimous approval was given to a letter to the Office of Management 
and Budget in the form attached as Item No. 1. 
Labor relations. Mr. O'Connell referred to rules and regulations 
recently promulgated by the System Labor Relations Panel which contained 

2 2 9 9 
8/7/70 
-3-
provisions relating to procedures to be followed in situations where 
negotiations between Federal Reserve Banks and labor union organiza-
tions appeared to have reached an impasse. 
It was desired to utilize 
such procedures in the near future in a situation involving the 
Pittsburgh Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. 
However, 
President Hickman had taken strong exception to the impasse rules, 
and it was believed that he would write to the Board requesting that 
the rules be rejected. 
There might also be letters from other Presi-
dents protesting the rules. 
It was understood that at the appropriate time, in the light 
°f developments, the Board's staff would bring the subject before the 
Board, with recommendations as to action to be taken. 
It was also 
understood that if a letter should be received from President Hickman, 
the staff would advise him that the matter would be brought to the 
Board's attention at the earliest opportunity. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

^300 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 1 
O F T H E 
. 
. 
* 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E 5Y5TEM 
8/7/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
C. 
2 D 5 5 I 
O F F I C E OF THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
*. 
-Al 
a
• 
August 7, 1970 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for Legislative 
Reference, 
Office of Management and Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
The Board of Governors has reviewed the proposal of 
the Export-Import Bank, transmitted by your memorandum of 
August 4, 1970, to establish an Eximbank Discount Loan Corpora-
tion. 
The Board is not persuaded that the creation of such a 
facility at this time would be desirable. 
The proposal would have the effect of giving banks 
that hold suitable export paper access, on favorable interest 
rate terms, to the supply of funds available in the market for 
U. S. Government agency securities. 
It is the view of the 
Board that this market, being not of unlimited size, should 
be reserved for uses of the highest national priority. 
The 
Board recognizes the importance of export expansion, but there 
are serious questions as to the degree of impact that refinancing 
°f export credit would have on the level of exports. 
The use of 
the discount facility to refinance outstanding export paper 
could result in diversion of agency market funds to low-priority 
domestic credits rather than commensurate expansion of export 
credits. 
Moreover, in the Board's opinion, there is no 
Persuasive empirical evidence that the U. S. balance of payments 
has been adversely affected to a significant extent by any lack 
°f adequate export financing facilities. 
Accordingly, the Board 
comes to the conclusion that discounting of export paper should 
not be financed through the agency market. 
The material submitted in support of the proposal 
alls short of giving useful indications of the extent to which 
nere would be a corresponding or greater increase in exports 
as the result of the liquidity and subsidy provided through the 
new facility. 

2301 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
-2-
Finally, the implications of the proposal must be 
recognized as being additional to those of other export assistance 
Proposals being considered within the Government, namely, the 
proposals to establish the Private Export Funding Corporation 
(PEFCO) and to create a class of Domestic International Sales 
Corporations (DISC). 
The latter two are more advanced in 
consideration, and it might be well to await a determination 
of their outcome before deciding whether to pursue the present 
Eximbank proposal. 
Sincerely, 
(signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
