MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 3 , 1969 

Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Thursday, July 3, 1969. 
The meeting was held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Micthell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
M r . Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
M r . Hersey, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
also attended. 
i : i < . • >;i 
. . \ 
.. 
>XC • 
' : 
'.' - ' ' - i ' Vi • •'..' ' 
I' 
Actions taken at this meeting were subject to ratification at 
the next meeting at which a quorum was present. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
of Farmers and Merchants National Bank, Winchester, Virginia, with 

7/3/69 
-2-
Apple City National Bank, also of Winchester, a transaction designed 
to facilitate the acquisition of Farmers and Merchants National Bank 
by F 6c M Corporation, Winchester, Virginia, a newly-formed holding 
company, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller, 
the conclusion stating that consummation of the proposed merger would 
have no adverse competitive effects. 
Arrangements for hearings. 
Tentative arrangements had been 
made for a hearing at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on 
August 12, 1969, on an application by Dacotah Bank Holding Co., Aberdeen, 
South Dakota, for a determination under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Hold-
ing Company Act with respect to the activities of two agricultural credit 
corporations and three insurance agencies. 
In this connection, the 
Board authorized the publication in the Federal Register of a notice 
of request and order for hearing. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
Tentative arrangements also had been made for a hearing at the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco on August 19, 1969, on an applica-
tion by Central Banking System, Inc., Oakland, California, for a 
determination under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
concerning insurance activities planned to be undertaken by a proposed 
nonbanking subsidiary. 
In this connection, the Board authorized the 
publication in the Federal Register of a notice of request and order 
for hearing. A copy is attached as Item N o . 2. 

2 1 9 3 
7/3/69 
-3-
Demand deposit ownership survey. 
In a memorandum dated July 1, 
1969, the Division of Research and Statistics had outlined plans for a 
revised survey of demand deposit ownership. 
It was noted that reserva-
tions had been expressed by some Reserve Bank Presidents, principally 
on grounds relating to the reporting burden that would be imposed on 
respondents. 
Governor Mitchell spoke favorably concerning the proposed 
series and expressed the view that the Presidents who had objected had 
not received adequate explanations from their research staffs. 
In the 
circumstances, he felt it was incumbent upon the Board to take a strong 
position in support of the project. 
The Vice Chairman noted the absence of a quorum and inquired 
about the urgency of the matter. 
In response, the staff noted that 
the next step would be to attempt to secure Budget Bureau approval, 
which presumably would involve the convening of an advisory panel, with 
the result that several months were likely to elapse before the series 
could be initiated. 
In the circumstances, there was agreement with a suggestion 
that the staff be authorized to undertake preliminary negotiations with 
the Bureau of the Budget, with the understanding, however, that the 
project would be brought back to the Board for further consideration 
«• V•> 
f . : * 1 f / 
/ v ' - •': 
. 
when additional members were present and that there would be no formal 
communication with the Reserve Banks pending such further consideration. 

2 1 9 4 
7/3/69 
-4-
Union election. A report was made to the Board on the result, 
adverse to the union, of an election that had been held among employees 
at the head office of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
It 
was noted that an election at the Seattle Branch was scheduled to be 
held next week. 
Survey of business capital spending. 
Mr. Partee reported on a 
meeting with representatives of the Department of Commerce, the Securities 
and Exchange Commission, and the Bureau of the Budget concerning a pro-
posal from a source within the Administration, as previously reported to 
the Board, that the Federal Reserve Banks conduct a survey of selected 
firms within their respective districts with regard to capital spending 
plans. He indicated that some changes had been decided upon in the 
format of the proposed survey and that the revised format was being 
pre-tested by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. 
There followed some discussion of the kinds of information 
sought to be obtained through the survey, after which it was understood 
that the 
matter would be brought back to the Board for further considera-
tion before the survey actually was conducted. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
'JZL 
Deputy Secretary, 

Item No 
7/3/69 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NOTICE OF REQUEST AND ORDER FOR HEARING 
Notice is hereby given that request has been made to the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to 
section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1843(c)(8)), and section 222.4(a) of the Board's Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.4(a)), by Dacotah Bank Holding Co., Aberdeen, South 
Dakota, a bank holding company, for determinations that the activities 
Citizens Agricultural Credit Corporation, F & M Agricultural Credit 
Corporation, Citizens Insurance Agency, Inc., Roslyn Insurance Agency, 
Inc., and Security Insurance Agency, Inc., are or are to be of the 
kind described in the aforementioned sections of the Act and the 
r egulation so as to make it unnecessary for the prohibitions of 
section 4 of the Act with respect to the acquisition or retention of 
shares in nonbanking organizations to apply in order to carry out the 
Purposes of the Act. 
Inasmuch as section 4(c)(8) of the Act requires that any 
determination pursuant thereto be made by the Board after due notice 
and hearing and on the basis of the record made at such hearing: 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, That pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of 
fche Bank Holding Company Act and in accordance with sections 222.4(a) 
tis 
:' > • 

2 1 ^ 6 
- 2 -
and 222.5(a) of the Board*s Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a), 222.5(a)), 
promulgated under the Bank Holding Company Act, a hearing with respect 
to this matter be held commencing on August 12, 1969, at 10:00 a.m. at 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 73 South Fifth Street, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota, before Philip J. LaMacchia (whose address is 
United States Civil Service Commission, 1900 E Street, N. W., Washing-
ton, D. C.), a hearing examiner selected by the Civil Service 
Commission, pursuant to section 3344 of Title 5 of the United States 
Code. The hearing will be conducted according to the Board's Rules 
of Practice for Formal Hearings (12 CFR Part 263). The right is 
reserved to the Board or the hearing examiner to designate any other 
date or place for such hearing or any part thereof which may be 
determined to be necessary or appropriate for the convenience of the 
parties. The Board*s Rules of Practice for Formal Hearings provide, 
in part, "Unless otherwise specifically provided by statute or by rule 
of the Board, a hearing shall ordinarily be private and shall be attended 
only by the parties, their representatives or counsel, representatives 
of the Board, witnesses while testifying, and other persons having an 
official interest in the proceedings: Provided, however, That, on 
written request by a party or a representative of the Board, or on the 
Board*s own motion, the Board, in its discretion and to the extent 
permitted by law, may permit other persons to attend or may order the 
% 
hearing to be public." 
Any person desiring to give testimony at the hearing should 
file with the Secretary of the Board, directly or through the Federal 

21<?7 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, on or before July 29, 1969, a written 
request containing a statement of the nature of the petitioner's interest 
in the proceeding, and a summary of the matters concerning which said 
petitioner wishes to give testimony. Such requests will be presented 
to the hearing examiner, and the persons submitting the requests will 
, 
r 
be notified, prior to the hearing, of his determination thereon. The 
application may be inspected at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
or at the Federal Reserve Building, 20th Street and Constitution 
Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 3rd day of July, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
$ 
h >Ultt i 
.V, 
• 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 
7/3/69 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NOTICE OF REQUEST AND ORDER FOR HEARING 
Notice is hereby given that request has been made to the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to 
section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1 843( C)(8)), and section 222.4(a) of the Board»s Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.4(a))* by Central Banking System, Inci, Oakland, California, 
a bank holding company, for a determination that the planned insurance 
activities of its proposed nonbanking subsidiary, a corporation to be 
formed by Applicant, are of the kind described in the aforementioned 
sections of the Act and the regulation so As to make it unnecessary for 
the prohibitions of section 4 of the Act with respect to the acquisition 
°
r retention of shares in nonbanking organizations to apply in order 
to carry out the purposes of the Act. 
Inasmuch as section 4(c)(8) of the Act requires that any 
^termination pursuant thereto be made by the Board after due notice 
hearing and on the basis of the record made at such hearings 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, That pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of 
t h e Bank Holding Company Act and in accordance with sections 222.4(a) 
a n d 222.5(a) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a), 222.5(a)), 

21 ° 9 
- 2 -
promulgated under the Bank Holding Company Act, a hearing with respect 
to this matter be held commencing on August 19, 1969, at 10:00 a.m. at 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 400 Sansome Street, San 
Francisco, California, before Philip J. Lallacchia (whose address is 
United States Civil Service Commission, 1900 E Street, N . W., 
Washington, D. C.) a hearing examiner selected by the Civil Service 
Commission, pursuant to section 3344 of Title 5 of the United States 
Code. The hearing will be conducted according to the Board's Rules of 
Practice for Formal Hearings (12 CFR Part 263). The right is reserved 
to the Board or the hearing examiner to designate any other date or 
Place for such hearing or any part thereof which may be determined to be 
necessary or appropriate for the convenience of the parties. The Board's 
Rules of Practice for Formal Hearings provide, in part, "Unless other-
wise specifically provided by statute or by rule of the Board, a hearing 
shall ordinarily be private and shall be attended only by the parties, 
their representatives or counsel, representatives of the Board, 
Witnesses while testifying, and other persons having an official interest 
in the proceeding: Provided, however, That, on written request by a 
Party or a representative of the Board, or on the Board's own motion, 
the Board, in its discretion and to the extent permitted by law, may 
Permit other persons to attend or may order the hearing to be public." 
Any person desiring to give testimony at the hearing should 
file with the Secretary of the Board, directly or through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, on or before August 5, 1969, a written 

2200 
- 2 -
• ' . 
t. 
request containing a statement of the nature of the petitioner's interest 
in the proceeding, and a summary of the matters concerning which said 
petitioner wishes to give testimony. Such requests will be presented 
to the hearing examiner, and the persons submitting the requests will 
be notified, prior to the hearing, of his determination thereon. The 
application may be inspected at the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco or at the Federal Reserve Building, 20th Street and 
Constitution Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C . 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 3rd day of July, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
