MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 28, 1970 

1 6 4 7 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, May 28, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 1/ 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Mr. Marinaccio of the Legal Division 
Messrs. McClintock and Ryan of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sloane of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York 
Messrs. Morrison and Krause of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Bank of Lansing. Alternative courses of action to curb 
certain banking practices engaged in by Bank of Lansing, Lansing, 
Michigan, as evidenced by the report of examination dated October 6, 
1969, and other material in the Board's files, had been discussed 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at points indicated in minutes. 

1 6 4 8 
5/28/70 
-2-
at the Board meeting on March 26, 1970. Pursuant to the under-
standing at that meeting, there had now been distributed a draft 
of letter to Bank of Lansing that would specify remedial actions 
to be undertaken by the bank. Hopefully this would lead to the 
issuance of a consent cease and desist order. However, in the 
absence of adequate assurance that the conditions would be met, a 
notice of charges would be issued, leading to a hearing under the 
Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 1966 and section 4 of 
the Federal Reserve Act. 
In memoranda dated May 18 and 19, 1970, respectively, the 
Legal Division discussed the contemplated procedure and the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation reviewed the reasons for the specified 
remedial actions. 
Comments by members of the Board reflected general agreement 
with the approach recommended by the staff. However, several 
questions were raised regarding the specific requirements for 
corrective action included in the draft letter. During an exchange 
of views, Governor Mitchell suggested that it would be preferable 
if no specific target were set with respect to an increase in the 
bank's capital, if the bank were required not to pay cash dividends 
until such time as the supervisory authorities were satisfied 
through the examination procedure that the bank's capital position 
was adequate in relation to its asset structure. He also suggested 

1 6 1 9 
5/28/70 
-3-
iriclusion in the letter of certain steps that the bank might be 
required to take to obtain the desired objective. In discussion 
of the approach recommended by Governor Mitchell, some reservations 
were expressed as to the feasibility of the steps suggested; however, 
the proposal to require that the payment of dividends be suspended 
was generally favored. Governor Robertson was of the view that 
since the problem was to correct the inadequacy of the bank's cap-
ital position, the letter should simply state that this should be 
done by whatever steps were necessary to accomplish the purpose 
within the desired time. 
Other remarks were directed to the action suggested with 
respect to relationships between COMAC Company and Bank of Lansing. 
It was the consensus that the bank should terminate all agreements 
in effect with the company and refrain from paying fees other than 
for services already rendered. There was a suggestion that the 
prohibition be extended to include seeking advice from the company 
as well. However, in view of the personnel interrelationship 
between Bank of Lansing and COMAC, the extent to which the two 
could in fact be divorced was questioned. The prohibition against 
extension of credit by the bank, either directly or indirectly, to 
partners, officers, or employees of COMAC was also considered, and 
there was support for a suggestion that the prohibition be modified 
so as to apply only to partners and senior officers. 

1650 
5/28/70 
-4-
Additiorial comments related to the remedial steps proposed 
in connection with the bank's capital position and investment program. 
There was some feeling that the specifics recommended appeared to 
be arbitrary and that the requirements might be couched in more 
general terms. The possibility of focusing on ranges rather than 
percentages was suggested, and there was some discussion of ways in 
which the pertinent paragraphs could be revised to meet that point. 
Following further discussion, there was agreement with 
Chairman Burns' suggestion that the letter be reworked by the staff 
in light of today's comments and transmitted in a form satisfactory 
to Governors Robertson, Mitchell, and Maisel. 
(Note: The letter was subsequently transmitted to Bank of 
Lansing under date of June 9, 1970.) 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting at this point, 
as did Reserve Bank personnel and members of the staff not con-
cerned with the remaining items on the agenda. The following 
entered: 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Messrs. Shay and Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Messrs. Dahl, Egertson, and Lyon, Assistant 
Directors, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Other appropriate staff members also entered. 

1651 
5/28/70 
-5-
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco 
on May 21, 1970, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
S. 3678. Pursuant to the understanding at the meeting on 
May 22, 1970, a revised draft of report to the Chairman of the 
Senate Committee on Banking and Currency had been distributed 
relating to S. 3678, which was designed to deter the improper use 
of secret foreign bank accounts, tax evasion, and other illegal 
activities. 
Following discussion during which a minor editorial change 
was agreed upon, the report was approved unanimously in the form 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Bank Holding Company Act. Following discussion, unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to the Chairman of the Senate Com-
mittee on Banking and Currency proposing an amendment to section 3(a) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act so as to require every bank that is 
a holding company and every bank that is a subsidiary of such a 
company to become and remain an insured bank as such term is defined 
in the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 2. 

1 6 5 2 
5/28/70 
-6-
New Hampshire Bankshares. Drafts of an order arid statement 
reflecting the Board's approval on May 6, 1970, of the application 
of New Hampshire Bankshares, Inc., Nashua, New Hampshire, to acquire 
shares of The Keene National Bank, Keene, had been distributed. 
A 
dissenting statement by Governor Robertson had also been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 3, 
along with the dissenting statment. 
First Virginia Bankshares. A memorandum from the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation dated May 22, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers, including a draft order, had been distributed in connection 
with an application of First Virginia Bankshares Corporation, 
Arlington, Virginia, for permission to acquire shares of First 
Atlantic Bank, Hampton, a proposed new bank. The recommendations 
were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, and the issuance 
of the order was authorized. A copy of the document, as issued, 
is attached as Item No. 4. 
The application made on behalf of First Atlantic Bank for 
membership in the Federal Reserve System was also approved. A copy 
of the letter of approval is attached as Item No. 5. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 

J L G 5 3 
5/28/70 
-7-
Dallas salary structure. In a memorandum dated May 18, 1970, 
the Division of Personnel Administration recommended approval of the 
request of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas for an upward revision 
of the employees' salary structure applicable to the head office and 
branches, effective June 1, 1970. The Reserve Bank also proposed a 
6 per cent across-the-board increase for employees and officers. 
Members of the Board were favorable to the salary structure 
revision, but there was reluctance to sanction an across-the-board 
salary increase, particularly for officers. It was understood that 
the sense of the Board's discussion would be conveyed to President 
Coldwell by Governor Mitchell. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the revision of the 
employees' salary structure. A copy of the letter sent to the 
Reserve Bank is attached as Item No. 6. 
Governor Brimmer then withdrew from the meeting and 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board, entered, along with certain 
other staff members who had been present earlier. 
S. 3823. In a memorandum dated May 26, 1970, Mr. Cardon 
discussed various aspects of S. 3823, a bill introduced by Senator 
Brooke that would amend the Bank Holding Company Act so as to cover 
one-bank holding companies and, among other points, broaden the 
definition of "company" to include partnerships and individuals. 
Attached was a proposed report on the bill to the Chairman of the 
Senate Committee on Banking and Currency. 

1654 
5/28/70 
-8-
After a discussion relating principally to chain banking, 
which resulted in modification of the draft reply in this respect, 
unanimous approval was given to a letter to Chairman Sparkman in 
the form attached as Item No. 7. 
GNMA mortgage-backed securities. Unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to the President of the Government National 
Mortgage Association responding to certain questions raised by the 
Association relating to its mortgage-backed securities program. A 
copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 8. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1 6 5 5 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m 
N o • 1 
W A S H I N G T O N 
5/28/70 
O F F I C E 
O F 
T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
June 2, 1970 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
You have requested a report from the Board on S. 3678, 
which is designed to deter the improper use of secret foreign 
bank accounts, tax evasion, and other illegal activities through 
new requirements, to be administered by the Secretary of the 
Treasury, for improved recordkeeping and reporting by banks and 
other financial institutions. The bill would also strengthen the 
Federal securities law to reduce evasion thereof through the. use 
of foreign financial agencies. 
When he introduced the bill on April 6, for himself, 
Senator Brooke, and Senator Williams of New Jersey, Senator 
Proxmire said, among other things, that "Our law-enforcement 
authorities need additional tools to trace the international flow 
of funds into and out of the United States without impairing the 
international mobility of capital or infringing upon the sovereign 
rights of foreign countries". 
The Board favors the objective of S. 3678 and, therefore, 
would urge favorable consideration by your Committee and by the 
Congress of legislation along the lines of Senator Proxmire's bill, 
keeping in mind the limitations relative to capital mobility and 
sovereignty expressed by him when he introduced the bill, as just 
indicated. Broad discretionary authority in the Secretary of the 
Treasury to issue regulations, including authority to classify and 
exempt persons and transactions, is, of course, essential to the 
appropriate and efficient implementation of Titles I and II of the 
bill containing its recordkeeping and reporting requirements. 
The Board has noted particularly the clarifying changes 
that would be made by Title III of the bill in Section 7 of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, pursuant to which the Board issues its 

1 6 5 6 
The Honorable John Sparkinan 
-2-
"margin" regulations covering security crcdit. These changes would 
help reduce circumvention of existing law (a) by extending the 
Board's regulatory authority specifically to borrowers, as well as 
lenders, and (b) by specifying that the Board's authority covers 
security credit to American borrowers regardless of who or where 
the lender may be. 
It clearly is inequitable for borrowers in this 
country to be able to obtain security credit through foreign 
facilities on terms not lawful here. The first change made by the 
bill in this respect would be helpful in treating this problem. 
The second would clarify the Board's authority to regulate other 
devices for evading its margin requirements, such as foreign com-
panies controlled by American lenders. The Board, however, wishes 
to emphasize again the importance, as indicated by Senator Proxmire, 
of not infringing upon the sovereign rights of foreign countries, 
and it is assumed that Title III does not envisage any efforts by 
the Board to attempt to regulate transactions that, under the 
customary principles of law, are outside the jurisdiction of the 
United States. We also wish to emphasize the importance of avoiding 
any discouragement of foreign investments in United States securities. 
Indeed, our balance of payments position is such that we should 
encourage the inflow of foreign capital. 
As Senator Proxmire also remarked, S. 3678 is similar to 
II.R. 15073 as passed by the House May 25, 1970. H.R. 15073, 
however, would add to Section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 a provision not contained in S. 3678. Under that provision, 
a borrower of security credit obtained on the basis of a material 
misrepresentation made or participated in by him as to the purpose 
of the credit would be subject to criminal liability, whether or not 
he acted with actual knowledge that the credit was in violation of 
the Board's regulations. Such a provision would be helpful in the 
enforcement of the regulations, since there can be situations in 
which a borrower furnishes false information about the purpose of 
the loan where it would not be possible to prove that he willfully 
or knowingly violated the provisions of the regulations. 
The 
Board, therefore, suggests that favorable consideration be given by 
your Committee to the provisions in this respect in H.R. 15073. 
Title IV of Senator Proxmire
!s bill would make certain 
changes in provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 which, 
apparently, would be implemented by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission rather than this Board. These provisions were described 
by Senator Proxmire when he introduced S. 3678 as designed to 
remove the veil of secrecy surrounding foreign securities trans-
actions and to enable foreign banks or brokers to disclose the 
identity of United States citizens without violating their country's 
secrecy laws. One of the changes in this connection is designed to 

1 6 5 7 
The Honorable John Sparkinan 
-2-
prevent United States broker-dealers from effecting transactions in 
United States securities on behalf of foreign banks or brokers 
unless the foreign bank or broker discloses the identity of the 
person for whom it is acting, or certifies that it is not acting 
for a United States citizen or resident. 
It would be undesirable 
if enactment of this provision gave rise to fears on the part of 
potential foreign investors in United States securities that their 
transactions might be disclosed. This could result in an adverse 
efi.eet on our balance of payments position. 
In addition, the 
Board
Ts experience under its margin regulations suggests that this 
feature of the bill might not be workable or effective. Our staff 
will be glad to work with your staff on these aspects of the 
matter. 
Finally, it seems clear that Titles I and II of the bill 
are directed to activities of private persons and commercial 
financial institutions. As a technical matter, however, there is 
language in Sections 123, 22.1-222, 231, and 241 of the bill that 
coulil be construed as applicable to the Federal Reserve Banks. 
While it is assumed that such a result is not intended, your 
Committee may wish to consider appropriate clarification, either 
in the bill or in the legislative history. 
Sincerely, 
(signed) J. L. Robertson 
J . L. Robertson 

1 6 5 8 
F E D E R A L 
RE5ER.VE 5YBTEM 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
W A G H i N G T Q N , • . C . 
2 D 5 5 I 
OF THE 
O F F I C E 
• F T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No. 2 
5/28/70 
June 1, 1970 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman 
Committee on Banking and Currency 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
The Board of Governors proposes that section 3 of the Bank 
Holding Company Act be amended to require every bank in a holding 
company to have its deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 
Specifically, the Board recommends the addition of the 
following sentence at the end of section 3(a): 
"Every bank that is a holding company and every 
bank that is a subsidiary of such a company shall 
become and remain an insured bank as such term is 
defined in section 3(h) of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(h))." 
Banks that become a part of a holding company, which in many 
cases are State-wide organizations (in some cases, region-wide) with 
considerable resources, should be subject to the basic concepts of 
Federal law applicable to banks, at least to the extent they apply to 
nonmcmber insured banks. 
The Congress has imposed upon banks that wish to have the 
privileges of membership in the Federal Reserve System a requirement 
that they have their deposits insured by the FDIC. 
In the Board's 
judgment, the Congress should also impose such a requirement as a 
condition to the privilege of expanding a banking organization throu 
a holding company whose existence is sanctioned by Federal law. 
Under present lav; the Board can act to assure that some 
of the basic concepts of Federal law applicable to insured banks apply 
to all holding company banks. For example, insured banks are subject 
to the provisions of section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act, which 
imposes limitations and restrictions on loans and investments by 

1 6 5 0 
The Honorable John Sparkinan 
-2-
meraber banks to their affiliates. The applicability of that section 
to loans by a subsidiary insured bank of a holding company to its 
parent or to other subsidiaries of the holding company was a major 
consideration in the 1966 repeal of the provision of the original 
Holding Company Act that prohibited such "upstream" or "cross-stream" 
loans or investments. 
In view of the clear Congressional policy reflected in the 
original Act and the 1966 amendments, the Board believes that it may 
properly condition its approval of an application under section 3 of 
the Act involving an uninsured bank to assure that the bank's trans-
actions with its affiliates in the holding company will be in 
accordance with the limitations and restrictions of section 23A. 
In the only case of the type that lias so far come before the Board, 
the board of directors of the uninsured bank voluntarily adopted a 
resolution along those lines. 
The Board also believes that by an appropriate exercise of 
its authority under section 5 of the Act to examine holding companies 
and their subsidiaries and to issue such orders as may be necessary 
to enable the Board to carry out the purposes of the Act it can 
adequately enforce such a condition or voluntary resolution. 
However adequate such procedures might be to assure the 
soundness of an uninsured bank in a holding company, they do not 
provide depositors in the bank with the same kind of assurance that 
depositors in insured banks have that repayment of their deposits is 
guaranteed to the extent provided by Federal law. The Board considers 
that depositors in holding company banks are entitled to that type 
of assurance. 
The Board asks that the proposed amendment be incorporated 
into the holding company legislation that is presently under consid-
eration by your Committee. 
Sincerely, 

1 
1660 
Item No. 3 
5/28/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
fi 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
NEW HAMPSHIRE BANKSHARES, INC.,
 
1 
Nashua, New Hampshire, 
' 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
i 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of New Hampshire 
Bankshares, 
Inc., Nashua, New Hampshire, for the Board's prior approval 
of the acquisition of up to 100 per cent of the voting shares of The 
Keene National Bank, Keene, New Hampshire. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller Recommended 
approval of the application. 
for approval of acquisition of up to 
100 per cent of the voting shares of 
The Ksene National Bank, Keene, 
New Hampshire. 

1661 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 31, 1970 (35 Federal Register 5375), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal, A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing 
comments and views has expired, and all those received have been considered 
by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that no shares may be acquired pursuant to this approval unless 
Applicant acquires more than 50 per cent of the outstanding voting shares 
of The Keene National Bank, and provided further that the action so approved 
shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following 
the date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of 
this Order, unless such time shall be extended by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 28» 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Voting against this action: Vice Chairman Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1 6 6 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
NEW HAMPSHIRE BANKSHARES, INC,, NASHUA, NEW HAMPSHIRE 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF ' 
THE KEENE NATIONAL BANK, KEENE, NEW HAMPSHIRE 
STATEMENT 
New Hampshire Bankshares, Inc., Nashua, New Hampshire 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of up to 100 per cent of the voting shares of The Keene 
National Bank, Keene, New Hampshire ("Bank"). 
Approval of the application as filed would permit Applicant to 
acquire any shares tendered pursuant to its offer to Bank's shareholders, 
without regard to the question of whether it thereby obtains operating 
control of Bank. Applicant presently has options to acquire approximately 
41 per cent of Bank's shares. It appears to the Board that the effects 
of Applicant's acquisition of a strong minority position would likely be 
different from those which would result if Applicant were to acquire at 
least a majority of Bank's shares. The general discussion herein assumes 
acquisition by Applicant of a majority of Bank's shares. The effects of 

1 G G 3 
AH 
i i 
acquisition of a lesser interest are discussed separately toward the 
conclusion of this Statement. 
Views and rjecommendatloti of: supervisory aulfooriiiy; * As 
reqiii^ed by Sfedtiort 3i[b) o£ thfc Adt, tlofcice of receipt of the application 
was given to the Comptroller of the Currency, and his views and recommen-
dation were requested. The Comptroller recommended' approval of the 
application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the county, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
• 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. - Applicant, 
the largest banking organization and the only bank holding company in 

1 6 6 4 
- 3 -
New Hampshire, has seven subsidiary banks. Its subsidiaries hold 
$137 million in deposits, equal to 17 per cent of commercial bank 
deposits in the S t a t e . A c q u i s i t i o n of Bank, which has $12 million 
in deposits, would increase Applicant's share of State deposits to 
19 per cent. Mutual savings banks are very active in New Hampshire, 
accounting for a larger amount of deposits than do commercial banks. 
Applicant presently controls 7.3 per cent of the deposits held by 
commercial and savings banks in the State, and the proposed acquisition 
would increase that control to 8 per cent. 
Bank is the smallest of three banks in Keene and the third 
largest of four banks located in Cheshire County. In addition, two 
mutual savings banks located in Keene, and two others in the County, 
exceed Bank in size. Bank's relative position has declined since 1960, 
when it was the county's largest commercial bank. It does not appear 
that consummation of the present proposal would have any undue effect on 
competing institutions. 
The closest of Applicant's present subsidiaries is located more 
than 30 miles from Keene and about 20 miles from Walpole, where Bank 
maintains a demand deposit receiving agency. Neither Bank nor any of 
Applicant's present subsidiaries derives significant business from the 
areas served by the other, and therefore no existing competition would 
be eliminated by the proposal. Further, in view of the distances involved, 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, adjusted to reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

1 6 6 5 
* I 
! 
the size of the banks, the presence of other banks in the intervening 
area, and branching restrictions of New Hampshire law, it does not 
appear that significant potential competition would be foreclosed. 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed ' 
transaction would not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any 
combination or conspiracy to monopolize the business of banking in any 
relevant area, and would not substantially lessen competition, tend to 
create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its present subsidiaries is 
generally satisfactory, and its management is considered competent. 
Applicant has indicated plans to retire within 18 months any debt which 
is incurred in connection with the proposed acquisition. Prospects of 
the group appear favorable. 
Bank is in satisfactory financial condition, and its management 
is judged to be satisfactory, though conservative. Prospects of Bank 
are considered favorable, and would likely be enhanced if Applicant were 
to acquire control. 
The Board concludes that considerations under the banking 
factors lend some weight toward approval of the proposed affiliation. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of the proposal would have no effect on customers served 
by Applicant's present subsidiaries. 

1666 
- 5 -
i 
There is no evidence that major banking needs of the community 
are going unserved. However, all banks in Keene have a relatively low 
lending limit and Bank's affiliation with Applicant would enable Bank 
to more readily meet larger loan demands. Applicant proposes to 
liberalize Bank's operating policies, and to thereby make Bank a 
more effective competitor within the community. Applicant further 
proposes to offer charge-free checking accounts, expand trust services, 
and provide data processing services. 
It is the Board's judgment that considerations relating to 
the convenience and needs of the community served by Bank provide weight 
in favor of approval of the application, assuming that Applicant acquires 
at least a majority interest in Bank. 
Acquisition of minority interest. - The Board's findings 
regarding the favorable weight attributable to the banking factors, and 
to the effect of the proposal on the convenience and needs of the 
communities involved, assume acquisition by Applicant of a controlling 
interest in Bank. However, it is possible that approval of the application 
without qualification might result in Applicant's acquisition of only a 
minority interest, particularly in view of opposition to the proposal 
by some officers, directors and shareholders of Bank. It is the Board's 
view that the effects of such an acquisition would not be in the interest 
of Bank or the public which it serves. Dissension among management would 
likely result, with consequent disruptions, and Applicant could not 
readily effect the improvements which it proposes in the quality and 

1 6 6 7 
- 6 -
scope of Bank's services. Based on these considerations, the banking 
and "convenience and needs" factors are regarded as weighing against 
approval of Applicant's acquisition of less than a majority of the 
shares of Bank. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved, but only on condition that Applicant acquires at 
least a majority of the shares of Bank. 
May 28, 1970. 

1668 
i 
t 
I : . . 
Dissenting Statement of Governor Robertson 
! 
The Board's action approving the present application 
authorizes acquisition by Applicant of a sound bank which is adequately 
serving the needs of its community, against the express wishes of many 
of the Bank's officers, directors, and shareholders. The condition 
which the Board attaches to its approval represents somewhat of an im-
provement on Applicant's proposal, since it assures that the acquisition 
will not be accomplished unless it is acceptable to at least a majority 
of Bank's shareholders. Even if such condition is met, however, it does 
not appear to me that the acquisition will serve any interest except 
that of Applicant. Internal conflicts are not any less likely to occur 
if Applicant acquires a bare majority of Bank's shares than would be 
the case if it were to acquire a strong minority position. In either 
case, shareholders will be split into two opposed camps, which will 
make it difficult for Bank to continue to function smoothly, thereby 
decreasing its effectiveness in serving the public. 
Applicant's proposal is essentially a "raid", by which it 
proposes to wrest control of Bank from those who have heretofore exer-
cised it. There is nothing in the present or past operations of Bank 
to suggest that a regulatory agency should encourage a change in its 
control. In such a case, I believe it to be a mistake for the Board 
to provide the "raider" with an administrative determination that its 
takeover would be in the public interest, which determination might 
be used to persuade reluctant shareholders of Bank to accept Applicant's 
proposal. 

-2-
1 6 6 9 
The Board's action casts it, albeit perhaps reluctantly, in 
» 
the role of an advocate for Applicant's proposal. Except under the 
most unusual circumstances, I believe the Board should avoid such a 
role by requiring that a proposal be at least generally acceptable to 
officers, directors, and shareholders of both of the parties directly 
involved. For these reasons, I would deny the present application. 
May 28, 1970. 

1 6 7 0 
Item No. 4 
5/28/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
FIRST VIRGINIA BANICSHARES CORPORATION,
 
1 
Arlington, Virginia 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 
' 
90 per cent or more of the voting
 
1 
shares of First Atlantic Bank, 
' 
Hampton, Virginia, a proposed 
' 
new bank. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), the 
application of First Virginia Bankshares Corporation, Arlington, Virginia 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for the Board's prior 
approval of the acquisition of 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
First Atlantic Bank, Hampton, Virginia, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking of the 
State of Virginia and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
recommended approval of the application. 

1 6 7 1 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the Federal 
Register on April 9, 1970 (35 Federal Register 5843), providing an opportunity 
for interested persons to submit comments and views with respect to the 
proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the United States 
Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing comments and 
views has expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of the 
proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such con-
sideration, the,Board finds that: 
Applicant is the sixth largest banking organization, and the fourth 
largest bank holding company, in Virginia, controlling 12 subsidiary banks 
which hold 6.4 per cent of total bank deposits in the State. 
(All banking 
data are as of June 30, 1969, adjusted to reflect holding company formations 
and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) 
Since Bank is a proposed 
new bank, consummation of the proposal would not increase concentration in any 
market. 
While two of Applicant's subsidiaries operate offices 14 and 17 miles 
distant, respectively, from Bank's proposed site, these offices are not 
readily accessible to the Newport News-Hampton area where B^Yik vill b6 
located, and Virginia law prohibits the subsidiaries of Applicant referred to, 
on the one hand, and Bank, on the other, from branching into the others' 
service areas. 

1 6 7 2 
o -
Applicant's entry should stimulate additional competition and lead 
to some deconcentration in the area. Consummation of the proposed acquisi-
tion would neither eliminate existing competition, foreclose potential 
competition, nor have adverse effects on the viability or competitive 
effectiveness of any competing bank. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect on competition 
in any relevant area, and would have a procompetitive effect in the Newport 
News-Hampton area. The banking factors, as applied to the facts of record, 
and considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served are consistent with approval of the application. It is the 
Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public 
interest, and that the application should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, provided 
that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order; and that First Atlantic 
Bank shall be opened for business not later than six months after the 

1 6 7 3 
- 4 -
date of this Order. The latter time periods may be extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 28, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

B O A R D • F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1 6 7 4 
Item No. 5 
5/28/70 
A D C P E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 28, 1970 
Board of Directors, 
First Atlantic Bank, 
Hampton, Virginia. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application of First Atlantic Bank, Hampton, Virginia, for stock in 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, effective if and when the bank 
opens for business under appropriate State authorization, subject to 
the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made 
in the general character of its business or in the scope 
of the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. 
At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $250,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$350,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

1 6 7 5 
First Atlantic Bank 
-2-
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member of 
the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to Commence Business 
has been issued. A certified copy of such resolution, together with 
advice of compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, should 
be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
Arrangements 
will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of 
Federal Reserve Bank stock, to acccpt the deposit of'the required reserve 
balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank 
stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
limited to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies 
to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
t.hc3t all of the requirements have been complied with and that the appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, 
the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

1 6 7 6 
B O A R D DP" G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 6 
5/28/70 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A O D R E S D 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R C S P D N D f 
N C t 
T U T H E 
D D A R D 
May 28, 1970 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
M r . Philip E. Coldwell, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
7 52? 2 
Dear M r . Coldwell: 
As requested in your letter of May 14, 1970, the Board 
of Governors approves the following minimum and maximum salaries 
for the respective grades of the employees' salary structure ap-
plicable to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas and the El Paso, 
Houston, and San Antonio Branches, effective June 1, 1970: 
Dallas, El Paso, Houston., and San Antonio 
Grade 
Minimum 
Maximum 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
$ 3,600 
$ 4,365 
3,720 
3,780 
4,160 
4,615 
5,120 
5,685 
6,325 
7,045 
7,850 
8,760 
9,780 
10,825 
12,050 
13,415 
"14,965 
4,875 
5,020 
5,615 
6,230 
6,910 
7,675 
8,540 
9,510 
10,595 
11,820 
13,200 
14,600 
16,265 
18,105 
20,200 

DOAHO or RDVERNDRE OF THE rCDfRAL REGCRVE SYSTEM 
1 6 7 7 
M r . Philip E . Coldwell 
- 2 -
The Board approves the payment of salaries to employees 
within the limits specified for the grades in which their respec-
tive positions are classified. All employees whose salaries are 
below the minimum of their grades as a result of this structure 
increase should be broughtwithin appropriate ranges by September 1, 1970. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

. " W o " .
 
1
6 
f M ^ M k ^ 
b o a r d 
o f g o v e r n o r s 
Item No. 7 
O F t h e 
, 
. 
LZ"- 
r r n r D A I n i r c r n w r c v q T F M 
D/Z5//U 
v v ' l ' K r " ' 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
3 Q 5 5 I 
• 
" 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
June I, 1970 
The Honorable John Sparkman, 
Chairman , 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your request for a report 
on S. 3823, a bill to amend the Bank Holding Company Act of 
1956, and for other purposes. 
The bill would amend the Act to cover one-bank holding 
companies and make a number of other changes. Briefly, these 
include broadening the definition of "company" to include 
partnerships and individuals; prohibiting banks from engaging 
in coercive tying practices; revising the standard governing 
the nonbanking activities in which bank holding companies 
may engage; repealing the present exemption for labor, 
agricultural, and horticultural organizations; and narrowing 
the definition of "bank" to exclude those that do not make 
commercial loans. 
The Board is, of course, strongly in favor of amending 
the Act to cover one-bank holding companies and partnerships, 
as Chairman Burns testified; and we have long favored repeal of 
the exemption for labor, agricultural, and horticultural organi-
zation f.. 
We believe that the need to cover one-bank holding compa-
nies is clear, and we hope it can be done this year. In proposing 
to amend the definition of "company" to cover individuals, S. 3823 
raises a question more controversial than the "one-bank" amendment. 
The Board does not have sufficient evidence of the need for an 
amendment covering individuals, or sufficient knowledge of its 
impact, to recommend its adoption at this time. 

The Honorable John Sparkraan 
- 2 -
In revising the standards governing nonbanking 
activities of bank holding companies, S. 3323 seeks to prevent 
possible abuses that may arise from combining banks and non-
banking business in holding company systems, rather than 
prohibiting the combination, as Congress did in the 1956 Act. 
This approach would be preferable to an outright prohibition 
if a practicable method of achieving it could be found. 
But 
we believe that to allow such combinations, while imposing 
restrictions on their operations to prevent abuses, is likely 
to prove impracticable, both from the standpoint of the 
businesses involved and the Government. 
In repealing the prohibition against holding companies 
engaging in unrelated activities, S. 3823 would substitute 
another prohibited relationship: 
if a holding company had a 
subsidiary engaged in an unrelated business, none of its 
customers or suppliers could do business with a subsidiary bank. 
In many situations, it would be virtually impossible for the 
holding company to make sure it was complying with this 
prohibition, or for the Board to enforce it. We are inclined 
to believe that the better course is the one Congress has 
already taken. Rather than permitting the affiliation and 
prohibiting customers of the affiliate from doing business 
with the bank, it is better to prohibit the affiliation. 
Section 4 permits e n t r y into related fields, where presumably 
there is a greater likelihood of public benefits flowing from 
such entry. That is, entry is permitted, or would be under 
the revisions proposed by the Board, where the benefits to the 
public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or 
gains in efficiency, outweigh the potential risks. 
Nor is authority for entry into unrelated fields a 
good substitute, in our judgment, for a grandfather clause. 
The 
June 30, 1968, grandfather clause in S. 1664 allows long-
established one-bank holding companies, most of which are small, 
to keep the unrelated businesses they already have. S. 3823 
would allow retention only for a small number of businesses 
(those with a limited number of customers, all of whom do their 
banking at an unaffiliated bank). Admittedly, there are problems 
with any grandfather clause, but the Board believes the grandfather 
clause in S. 1664 would be fairer and compliance would be easier 
to achieve than under the alternative approach provided in S. 3823. 

1 6 8 0 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-3-
In dealing directly with potential abuses, S. 3823 
would also prohibit banks from engaging in coercive tying 
practices. 
The Board understands that under present antitrust 
laws, such practices are prohibited where the bank has sufficient 
market power to force tie-ins on unwilling customers. 
Assistant 
Attorney General McLaren's testimony, as we understand it, was 
to the effect that one-bank holding company legislation is needed 
to deal with "voluntary tying", where there "is no illegal practice 
or conduct for a court to enjoin." 
The procedures for screening 
acquisitions, as outlined in the testimony of Mr. McLaren and 
Chairman Burns, would guard against creation of a holding-company 
structure with sufficient market power to induce voluntary tying. 
While the Board has no objection to provisions explicitly prohibi-
ting banks from engaging in coercive tying practices, we do not 
believe such provisions would materially alter existing law. 
Finally, S. 3823 would amend the definition of "bank" 
to exclude banks that make no commercial loans. To the best of 
our knowledge, this amendment would have very limited application 
at present, possibly affecting only one institution. Since there 
is less need for concern about preferential treatment in extending 
credit where no commercial loans are involved, and in view of 
the very limited application of this amendment, the Board would 
have no objection to its adoption. 
Sincerely, 

B O A R D D F 
GCJVERNDRS 
• F THE 
Item No. 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/28/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C C I K R C S P D N D E N H E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 1, 1970 
Mr. Woodward Kingman, President 
Government National Mortgage Association 
Department of Housing and Urban Development 
Washington, D. C. 20410 
Dear Mr. Kingman: 
This is in response to your letter of May 8, 1970, asking 
for the Board's views on certain questions relating to securities 
(.1) issued by a member bank, (2) based on and backed by a pool of 
mortgages insured by the Federal Housing Administration or the 
Farmers' Home Administration, or insured or guaranteed by the 
Veterans' Administration, and (3) guaranteed by the Government 
National Mortgage Association pursuant to section 306(g) of the 
National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1721). 
mortgage-backed pass-through program are of two types: 
(1) "straight 
pass-through" and (2) "modified pass-through". Under the straight 
pass-through arrangement, the issuer (the member bank) promises to 
pay the holder only his proportionate share of the proceeds of prin-
cipal and interest as collected on mortgages in the pool. Under the 
modified pass-through arrangement, the issuer promises to pay all 
instalments of principal and interest on the securities as they 
become due, irrespective of whether collections on the mortgages are 
sufficient for such payments. GNMA guarantees timely payment of 
principal and interest on the securities in accordance with the terms 
of the securities. 
The holder of a security has recourse against the issuer 
for failing to make payments on the securities to the extent that 
collections on the mortgages are available. However, the holder has 
no recourse against the issuer or any of its assets in the event the 
issuer does not pay when collections are insufficient to meet payments 
due on the securities, despite the promise of the issuer referred to 
in the preceding paragraph. The holder's recourse in that event is 
solely against GNMA. 
The Board understands that securities issued under the 

Mr. Woodward Kingman 
You first ask whether the securities are eligible as col-
lateral for advances by Reserve Banks to member banks. 
Securities 
that are fully guaranteed by GNMA are eligible for purchase by the 
Federal Reserve and, therefore, are eligible as collateral for 
advance by Reserve Banks. 
(12 CFR 201.108; 1968 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin 1012.) All payments of principal and interest on the 
modified pass-through securities are so guaranteed and, therefore, 
those securities are eligible for Federal Reserve purchase and 
advances. However, the guarantee applicable to the straight 
pass-through securities only assures the holder that collections on 
the mortgages will be remitted in accordance with the terms of the 
security and does not guarantee full payment of principal and 
interest on the security. Therefore, the latter securities are not 
eligible for advances by Reserve Banks at the basic rate, although 
they may serve as collateral for advances under section 10(b) of 
the Federal Reserve Act at an interest rate 1/2 per cent higher 
than the basic discount rate. 
Second, you ask whether a member bank that issues the 
securities will have a deposit liability subject to Regulation Q 
as a result of its promises as to payments on the securities. 
Section 217.1(f) requires that, subject to specified exceptions, 
a member bank shall treat as a deposit liability any obligation 
undertaken by it principally as a means of obtaining funds to bp 
used in its banking business. 
Based on the Board's understanding 
of the nature of the bank's promises and the holder's lack of 
recourse against the bank, as set forth above and confirmed by 
Mr. Frum of your staff in a meeting with Messrs. Hexter and Sanders 
of the Board's staff, a bank that issues mortgage-backed securities 
of the pass-through type does not have an obligation with respect 
to such securities within the coverage of section 217.1(f) of' 
Regulation Q (or of section 204.1(f) of Regulation D, relating to 
member bank reserve requirements). The holder has no right to 
require the bank to make payment on the securities out of its own 
funds, nor does the operation of the pool in effect result in the 
holder having that right. Accordingly, the member bank's promises 
included in the mortgage-backed securities issued by it and guaran-
teed by GNMA do not give rise to a deposit liability subject to 
Regulation Q.
 
J 
Third, you ask whether a member State bank that issues 
the securities must include on its books any indication of a 
•^ability with respect to them. Again, in view of the nature of 
the bank s promises and the holder's remedies, a member State bank 

1 6 & 3 
Mr. Woodward Kingman 
-3-
need not include in its statement of condition any indication of 
a liability with respect to the securities, although it might wish 
to make a footnote explanation of its participation in the securi-
ties program and its practices as to payments on the securities 
issued by it. 
Finally, you ask whether the foregoing answers would be 
the same for subsidiaries of member banks. Under the Board's 
interpretations, a member bank may perform, through a wholly-owned 
subsidiary, functions the bank is empowered to perform directly. 
Such a subsidiary is subject to the same restrictions as the parent 
and is treated by the Board the same as the bank. 
(12 CFR 240.141; 
.1968 Bullet! n 681.) Therefore, mortgage-backed securities issued 
by a wholly-owned subsidiary of a member bank are the equivalent of 
securities issued by the member bank itself, and the foregoing 
answers apply to securities issued by a member bank directly or 
indirectly through a wholly-owned subsidiary. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
