MINUTES 
Board of Govenrors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 7, 1972 

614 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, March 7, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 11:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott and Miss Key, Technical Assistants, 
Office of the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
of The Commercial Savings Bank, Adrian, Michigan, to issue capital notes. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 

615 
3/7/72 
-2-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Republic 
International Company, Dallas, Texas, to continue to hold the shares 
of Republic International Dallas do Brasil Servicos Financeiros Limitada, 
Sao Paulo, Brazil, and to invest up to $100,000 in that corporation. A 
copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
As recommended by Governor Brimmer in a memorandum dated March 2, 
1972, (copy attached as Item No. 3), the Board unanimously approved 
four standard paragraphs for use in Board letters authorizing foreign 
lending and investment transactions. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order, with a revision 
suggested during discussion, reflecting approval on February 14, 1972, 
of the application of The Bank of New York Company, Inc., New York, New 
York, to acquire shares of the successor to Valley National Bank of Long 
Island, Valley Stream, New York. Copies of the order and a dissenting 
statement by Governors Robertson and Brimmer are attached under Item No. 4. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Harris Trust and Savings Bank. The Board approved, Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer dissenting, the application of Harris Trust and 
Savings Bank, Chicago, Illinois, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 5. 
Exchange National Bank of Chicago. In a memorandum dated February 25, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the application of Exchange National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, to 
establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas. Attached to the memorandum was a 

616 
3/7/72 
-3-
draft letter reflecting approval, but noting the bank's plans to augment 
its relatively low capital later this year. 
During discussion it was agreed that the letter should be revised 
to include a statement that the application had been approved on the as-
sumption that the bank would implement its plans to add to its capital. 
The application was thereupon approved, Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer dissenting. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached 
as Item No. 6. 
Family Finance Corporation. On February 17, 1972, the Board ap-
proved the application of Family Finance Corporation, Wilmington, Delaware, 
pursuant to section 4(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act, for an exemption 
from the prohibitions of section 4 relating to nonbanking activities and 
acquisitions. An order reflecting that decision had been distributed with 
a memorandum from the Legal Division dated February 28, 1972. Subsequently, 
the Board had been notified that the applicant had executed an agreement 
whereby it would dispose of its interest in North Shore Bank and Banking 
Company, Lynn, Massachusetts. 
At today's meeting Mr. O'Connell, after outlining several alter-
native courses of action open to the Board, recommended that the proposed 
order be held in abeyance until June 30, 1972, pending receipt of notice 
that Family Finance Corporation had divested its interest in the bank. The 
Board unanimously approved the recommendation. A copy of the letter sent 
to the applicant is attached as Item No. 7. 

617 
3/7/72 
Board policy actions. With a memorandum dated February 23, 1972, 
the Office of the Secretary submitted entries proposed for inclusion in 
the record of Board policy actions to be published in the Annual Report 
for 1971. Included were entries that would fall within the general pattern 
of policy actions submitted in other recent years, such as amendments to 
the Board's regulations, discount rate actions, and amendments to the 
Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program guidelines. In addition, be-
cause of the significance of the actions, it was suggested that consider-
ation be given to inclusion of certain other types of entries relating 
to continuation or reaffirmation of existing policy, interpretations of 
statutes or Board regulations, and operating procedures. A memorandum 
dated March 3, 1972, from Governor Robertson suggested revisions of three 
of the proposed policy record entries. 
Following discussion during which it was agreed that the revisions 
suggested by Governor Robertson should be incorporated into the policy 
record entries, the Board unanimously approved both categories of entries 
for inclusion in the Annual Report. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
6 1 8 
Item No. 5 
3/7/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 7, 1972 
Board of Directors 
The Commercial Savings Bank 
Adrian, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation 0 and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $1,000,000 
in subordinated capital notes by The Commercial Savings Bank, 
Adrian, Michigan, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve 
Sank of Chicago. Approval is granted with the understanding that 
the sale of these capital debentures will be consummated within 
six-months from the date of this letter. It is further understood 
that any advertising with respect to the obligations will, in 
addition to being in compliance with the provisions of section 217.6 
of Regulation Q, clearly distinguish the nature of the obligation 
from a deposit, including by setting forth in bold face type that 
the obligation is subordinated to the claims of depositors and not 
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
» 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

otco^.. 
B O A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
2055! 
7 
Item No. 5 
3/7/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 7, 1972 
Republic International Company 
Dallas, Texas 75222 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 2, 1972, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to continue to hold 
all of the shares of Republic International Dallas do Brasil Servicos 
Financeiros Limitada ("Limitada"), Sao Paulo, Brazil, acquired without 
the prior consent of the Board, and to invest up to the equivalent of 
$100,000 in Limitada, provided such investment is made within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
This consent is granted on the condition that Limitada acts 
as the Republic National Bank of Dallas1 representative office and 
confines its activities to those that are normal for a representative 
office of a United States bank in Brazil. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to Republic National Bank of Dallas and its 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

BOARD • F GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
U
^
Y 
F E D E R A L RES ERVE S Y S T E M 
Item No 
3 
Ahce 
C o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
p a t e UIQS, 1972 
° 
Board_of Governors ^ 
Subject: VFCR Conditions to Board 
Andrew F. Brimmer j \ J 
/ \ »V 
1 
Authorizations for Foreign Investments 
7v 
by Banks 
1 
Following the Board's deliberation at the end of January 
about the relationship between banks' observance of the Voluntary 
Foreign Credit Restraint (VFCR) Guidelines and banks' foreign lending 
and investment, I had the staff prepare standard language that would" 
be used in Board letters authorizing foreign banking actions. In 
some .teases, language used' in earlier letters has been tightened in 
order to make clearer the need for banks to be in conformity with 
the Guidelines when they exercise the authority granted by the Board. 
I have planned to point out to the Board the revised 
language when it next reviewed a proposed letter of authorization to 
a bank that was not in conformity with the Guidelines -- that being 
the situation in which the language is most important. 
Fortunately, 
banks -- at least those applying for Board authorizations -- have 
been adhering 
properly to the Guidelines. Although lacking such 
an unfortunate but pertinent occasion, I set forth, below, the standard 
VFCR paragraphs that would be used in letters notifying Board approval, 
directly or by me under delegated authority, of applications for 
authorizations to foreign lending and investment transactions. As 
special situations require, variations, of course, would be made from 
the established form. 
Standard Paragraphs 
(i) The foregoing consent is given on condition that 
the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to 
(ii) The Board has noted that as of 
the foreign loans and investments of 
~~ 
exceeded the 
guideline ceiling applicable under the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Program. The foregoing consent is granted with the understanding that 
those foreign loans and investments will be reduced promptly so as to 
eliminate any excess over the guideline ceiling and on condition that 
the investment will be made only when there is adequate leeway under 
the guideline ceiling. 
(iii) The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the acquisition will be made with the resources of 
-.Zg^., your bank's foreign hranrh7 and will not involve any transfer 
of funds, either directly or indirectly, from the United States. 

621 
To: Board of Governors 
- 2 -
(iv) Your attention is directed to the fact that 
will have no ceiling of 
its own under the Foreign Credit Restraint Program and the foregoing 
approval is given on condition that any foreign loans and investments 
of the Corporation will be made within the Guidelines as they apply 
to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
and its affiliates. 

Item No. 4 6 2 2 
3/7/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK COMPANY, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
The Bank of New York Company, Inc., New York, New York, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
the successor to Valley National Bank of Long Island, Valley Stream, 
New York ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
a H comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
°f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the seventh largest bank holding company and the 
tenth largest banking organization in New York, has seven subsidiary 
banks with total deposits of $2.5 billion, representing approximately 
2 7 
per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of June 30, 1971, 
adjusted to reflect holding company formations approved by the Board 
through October 29, 1971.) Acquisition of Bank ($158.7 million in 
deposits) would increase Applicant's share of deposits in the State 
bY less than 0.1 per cent. 

623 
- 2 -
Bank is the third largest of eight banks headquartered in 
Nassau County and operates ten offices in that area. Bank also 
operates twelve offices in Suffolk County which is part of the 
Metropolitan New York banking market. Bank holds $84 million in 
deposits in the New York banking market where it is the 34th largest 
o f 74 banking organizations, controlling 0.1 per cent of market 
deposits.^ 
Applicant's nearest banking subsidiary is 16 miles from 
the closest branch of Bank. Neither Applicant's subsidiary banks, 
n o r B a n k derive a significant amount of business from each other's 
service area. Accordingly, consummation of this proposal would not 
adversely affect existing competition. 
Some potential competition between Applicant and Bank might 
be foreclosed upon consummation of the proposal, since Applicant could 
enter Bank's service area by expanding de novo or through acquisition 
o f a smaller bank. De novo entry seems undesirable since State law 
limits a de novo expansion bank to two branches per year (beginning 
° n e y e a r f r o m the date of charter) until 1976 when State-wide branching 
becomes effective. It also appears unlikely that acquisition of a 
smaller bank would be attractive to Applicant. Three of the State's 
largest banking organizations are already represented in Bankfs 
service areas and Applicant has not attained a significant competitive 
1/ Market data are as of June 30, 1970. 

624 
- 2 -
Position with respect to these larger banking organizations in other 
banking districts in the State. Applicant seeks to acquire Bank in 
order to rapidly become an effective competitor of the larger banking 
organizations in Bank's service areas. Although consummation of this 
Proposal may have a slightly adverse effect on potential competition, 
it will be offset by the increased competition among the large banking 
organizations present in Bank*s service areas. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its 
subsidiary banks and Bank are satisfactory and consistent with approval. 
While it appears that the communities involved in this proposal presently 
have reasonable access to alternative sources of banking services, 
Applicant's entry will afford an additional competing source of such 
services. Through Bank Applicant proposes to offer lower rates on 
certain consumer loans, data processing facilities for customers and 
expanded trust services. Considerations related to convenience and 
needs, therefore, lend weight toward approval. It is the Board's 
Judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest 
a n d t h a t the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
t* Vi 
e reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
o r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 

13 
- 2 -
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— March 7, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
V o t i n 8 for this action: Governors Mitchell, paane, Maisel, and 
Sheehan. Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

626 
DISSENTING STATEMENT 
OF 
GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
We would deny this application because its anticompetitive 
effects are not affirmatively outweighed by other public interest 
considerations. 
Applicant appears to be a likely entrant into the Nassau-
Suffolk County area, and its entry could be accomplished In a more 
competitive manner. Applicant could enter de novo or through 
acquisition of one of the fourteen banks in the area smaller than 
Valley National Bank. Approval of this application would result in 
New York City-based holding companies controlling ten of the fourteen 
a r e a banks with deposits over $150 million, and only three independent 
banks of this deposit size would remain in the area. As we have 
indicated previously, acquisition of a major bank in this area by a 
major New York City-based holding company eliminates such bank as a 
vchicle for entry by a newer and smaller New York holding company 
(e.g., In the Matter of the Application of Chemical New York Corporation 
to acquire Eastern National Bank of Long Island). We also pointed out 
i n ^ a t case that de novo entry to the area was feasible for large 
New York holding companies as the two largest New York City-based 
holding companies had recently employed that method. Therefore, 
approval of this application will have serious adverse effects on 
Potential competition. 
The Bank Holding Company Act requires the Board to deny 
holding company acquisitions that are anticompetitive in nature 

627 
- 2 -
unXess there are positive benefits to the public that outweigh the 
adverse factor. 
Applicant proposes to make additional services available 
through Bank. However, the record indicates that the banking needs 
the communities involved are already being adequately served by 
t h e banking institutions in the area. Moreover, the proposed 
benefits could be provided in a more competitive fashion. Therefore, 
che benefits 
advanced by Applicant do not overcome the anticompetitive 
effects of the acquisition. 
We would deny the application. 
**arch 7, 1972 

..^OfGOvV-
3 . 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
628 
Item No. 5 
3/7/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 9, 1972 
Harris Trust and Savings Bank 
111 West Monroe Street 
Chicago, Illinois 60690 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Chicago, Illinois, 
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and main-
tain such branch subject to the provisions of such Sections and of 
Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
will be used for developing new international business and not as a 
means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
Public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping may, 
at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the fore-
going permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of chese 
types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified, 
<2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against deposits m 
this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the 
exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Section 213.7(b), and (3) the 
further condition that adequate information covering the branch s op-
erations will be maintained at your head office and will be available to 
the Board and its accredited representatives. The Board should oe promptly 
informed of any modification in the branch's methods of operation, including 
changes in any contract under which services are supplied to the branch. 

629 
- 2 -
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before March 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby shall be 
deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of the 
branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitations 
on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve require-
ments of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions is to allow 
foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad with foreign 
banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and continues to be the 
Policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits by United States 
residents at foreign branches of United States banks unless such deposits 
have been placed to serve a definite, necessary purpose in connection with 
foreign or international transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, advances, 
otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes of the 
foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern with 
minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of payments, 
the above consent is given with the understanding that in the conduct of 
the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on resources ob-
tained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any 
investment required will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
i 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

. ^ A T R E S ^ -
• • • • • • 
B O A R D 
O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F THE 
Item NoiSfcii? 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
3 / 7 / 7 2 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A O O R C S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
I ^ V ' . * 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 7, 1972 
Exchange National Bank of Chicago 
LaSalle and Adams Streets 
Chicago, Illinois 60690 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Exchange National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to 
establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and maintain such 
branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In passing upon your application for this branch, the Board 
considered the bank's relatively low capital position and the letter 
dated February 17, 1972, from Executive Vice President and Director 
^ippe stating that there are plans to augment the bank's capital by 
between $7,000,000 and $10,000,000 later this year and that a portion 
of the additional funds will be in the form of equity capital. The 
foregoing permission was granted on the assumption that those plans 
vill be implemented. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
VTill be used for developing new international business and not as a 
weans of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
^ y , at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the fore-
going permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of these 
fcypes of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified 
(2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against deposits in 
this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the 
exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Section 213.7(b), and (3) the fur-
ther condition that adequate information covering the branch's operations 
vill be maintained at your head office and will be available to the Board 

Exchange National Bank 
of Chicago 
and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed 
of any modification in the branch's methods of operation, including changes 
in any contract under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for business 
°n or before March 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby shall be deemed to 
have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will automatically 
terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is opened for business, furnishing 
information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board should also be 
promptly informed of any future change in location of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitations 
°n rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve require-
ments of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions is to allow 
foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad with foreign banks. 
these circumstances, it has long been and continues to be the policy of 
the Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits by United States residents 
at foreign branches of United States banks unless such deposits have been 
Placed to serve a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign 
° r international transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, advances, 
° r otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes of the 
foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern with min-
imizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of payments, the 
above consent is given with the understanding that in the conduct of the 
branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained 
outside the United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any in-
vestment required will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
631 
- 2 -
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
/r» «ttj 
6 
Item No. 7 
3/7/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
D F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 9, 1972 
Mr.vG. Wellington Smith 
Assistant Secretary and 
Associate Counsel 
Family Finance Corporation 
0. Box 2210 
Miami, Florida 
33101 
°ear Mr. Smith: 
I am responding to your letter of February 28, 1972, 
in which you state that Family Finance Corporation has agreed to 
sell the North Shore Bank and Banking Company, Lynn, Massachusetts, 
to Century Bancorp, Inc., Somerville, Massachusetts, and expects 
to consummate the transaction in May, 1972. 
The Board of Governors has considered this information 
in connection with Family Finance Corporation's request for an 
exemption under section 4(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Since divestiture of the North Shore Bank and Banking Company 
would make a Board determination under section 4(d) of the Act 
unnecessary, the Board has decided that a temporary stay of 
action on your section 4(d) application is appropriate. Accord 
ingly, no action will be taken at this time on your request for 
an exemption. 
Please advise the Board of consummation of your plans 
for divestiture of the bank, at your earliest convenience. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
