Minutes for March 27, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy 
actions required to be kept under the provisions of section 
10 of the Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in 
this set of minutes commencing on the page and dealing with 
the subject referred to below: 
Page 16 Revision of foreign credit restraint 
program guidelines. 
Should you have any question with regard to the 
minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's 
Office. Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at 
the meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate only that 
you have seen the minutes. 
Governor Sherrill 
U s 2 

10 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 27, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:10 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mrs. Opper of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sullivan of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston 
Chai rman Randall and Miss Mah of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation 
Massachusetts mutual savings banks. Chairman Randall referred 
t o
 the problem of the interest rate ceilings as it related to the 
e i
ght Federally-insured mutual savings banks in the State of Massa-
g e ? 
fIt ; ; 
... w . 
a 
,,. 
. 
chusetts, which accounted for approximately 22 per cent of the deposit 
base. Since the passage of the 1966 interest rate ceiling legislation 
said, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation had tried through a 

imz 
3/27/69 
-2-
public relations approach to keep the situation in hand. In 1966 it 
met with the mutuals in Massachusetts and asked them, as a considera-
tion of national policy, to keep in line. They did for a while. But 
in 1968 the non-Federally-insured mutuals moved their interest rate 
structure upward and the problem began to be rather acute. Now a 
mutual was announcing 5-1/2 per cent effective the first of April, and 
in some places special notice accounts were running at 5-5/8 per cent, 
whereas the eight insured mutuals were of course limited to the 5 per 
cent ceiling. He was thinking of proposing to the Board of Directors 
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation this afternoon that, 
rather than change the 5 per cent ceiling with all the attendant pub-
licity, the eight insured mutuals be notified that they were being put 
°n a standby basis. They would be requested to follow certain lines 
°f conduct, to which they had already agreed informally. First, they 
would be asked to limit their advertising as much as possible to the 
local market. Second, they would be asked to limit their new accounts 
t o
 the local market and not to solicit business in other States. 
Third, they would be asked not to exceed the rates being paid in their 
Particular area. The FDIC's approach would be to do this as quietly 
a s
 possible, hopefully to keep the pot from boiling too much in the 
short run. In the longer run the Home Loan Bank Board and the FDIC 
Planned to push for legislation that would bring all institutions 
w
ithin the purview of the interest rate ceilings. They had received 

1073 
3/27/69 
-16-
some encouragement on that score from the Council of Economic Advisers 
and the Budget Bureau. 
Chairman Randall went on to say that the Home Loan Bank Board 
also had a problem. They had had some 170 cooperative banks and 
savings and loans in the State as members of the Home Loan Bank System. 
In the past year or so they had lost some 40 members, and currently 
some 22 institutions in Massachusetts were violating the regulations, 
with no effort being made to stop the violations. 
Chairman Randall said the FDIC had explored every avenue it 
could think of to resolve the mutual savings bank problem. He had 
been to Massachusetts several times and had called on the boards of 
trustees of the mutuals. He now felt it was necessary to take action 
°f the kind he had described or to provide an orderly method for the 
insured mutuals to withdraw from deposit insurance. 
Mr. Partee commented that, even with limitations on advertising 
a
nd some other understandings, chances were that the proposed action 
w
ould escalate rates in Massachusetts. There had been a rate war of 
sorts during the past year as the uninsured mutuals raised their rates, 
Particularly on special notice accounts. The increases, he understood, 
had been mostly to 5-1/4 per cent, with a relatively few banks going 
t o
 5-1/2 per cent. 
Chairman Randall reported rather strong indications of increases 
prospect for the next quarter. In the past three weeks, he said, 
several announcements had been made to such effect. 

5 
3/27/69 
-16-
Mr. Partee went on to say that over the past year the uninsured 
mutuals appeared to have done somewhat better than the insured mutuals, 
although not markedly so, while commercial bank inflows had fallen off 
sharply. The real question was whether putting the eight mutuals on 
a standby basis would result in the smallest moves possible or would 
simply heat up the situation. President Morris of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston seemed inclined to think that perhaps what was called 
for was a 5-1/4 per cent rate limit for the eight insured mutuals on 
special notice accounts. 
Chai rman Randall observed that in Massachusetts many of the 
commercial banks were owned or controlled by the mutuals, so there 
was not the same degree of competition as elsewhere between the com-
mercial banks and the mutuals. He also said that if the limit on 
special notice accounts could have been moved to 5-1/4 per cent eight 
o r
 ten months ago, the situation might have adjusted. At present, in 
v
iew of the number of announcements of rate increases that had come 
o u
t in the past few weeks, he doubted whether such a move would provide 
effective solution. 
Mr. Sullivan reviewed the structure of accounts at mutual 
S a
vings banks and said that on regular savings accounts only six 
mutuals apparently were now paying over 5 per cent, with most still 
under the interest rate ceiling. Of the eight insured mutuals, five 
W e
re still paying under the maximum on regular savings deposits. As 

1075 
3/27/69 
-16-
to special notice accounts, only six mutuals were offering above 
5-1/4 per cent through the end of February. It appeared that the 
uninsured mutuals had typically gone to 5-1/4 per cent. The situation 
could be changing fast; at this point, however, the banks at 5-1/2 or 
5-5/8 per cent were still very limited. 
There followed reference by Chairman Randall to a specific 
competitive situation in Holyoke and reference to the positions of 
various institutions in the Boston area. In response to a question, 
Mr. Randall said that the re were no other uninsured mutuals in the 
United States and that the uninsured savings and loans across the 
country were not concentrated, so the situation in Massachusetts was 
unique. He also said that he had discussed recently with New York 
mutual savings bankers the effect of placing the eight insured Massa-
chusetts mutuals on a standby basis and that they foresaw no particular 
problem from their standpoint under the terms that he (Chairman Randall) 
had mentioned. 
Governor Mitchell reported that he had just talked with Mr. 
Greenebaum of the Home Loan Bank Board, whose first choice would be 
wait until May. If the FDIC made a move, however, the Bank Board 
m
ight be forced to do something immediately, and that could bring quite 
a
 reaction from the California savings and loan associations particu-
larly- 
As he (Governor Mitchell) had said, Mr. Greenebaum's preference 
a
Pparentlv would be to wait until the end of April before taking any 

1076 
3/27/69 
-16-
action. Then, if the attrition proved to be severe, they might do 
something and face the music. Governor Mitchell also said that 
President Morris had been in contact with the major commercial banks 
in the Boston area and had received mixed reactions. 
Chairman Randall noted that he did not think the cooperative 
banks in Massachusetts represented the same type of aggressive, viable 
institutions as the mutuals in that area. 
After further comments on aspects of the Massachusetts situa-
tion, Governor Brimmer said that it was his view that the FDIC would 
do best to stand still at this time and do nothing. It was a bad time 
to initiate any rate changes, and this would be the first occasion on 
which interest rate ceilings had been put on a standby basis. Addi-
tionally, the new Chairman of the Home Loan Bank Board was just getting 
settled in office. It was not clear at this point, Governor Brimmer 
continued, where the whole rate structure was likely to settle even-
tually. He could foresee some difficult overall problems on rates, 
a
nd he would not want to start a movement toward raising the ceilings 
generally. Pressure would develop, he believed, that might end up by 
giving the banks some leeway under the Regulation Q ceilings, and he 
w
ould not want to do that just now. He could imagine that before too 
it might be desirable to create another segment of rates between 
those for negotiable CD's and those for consumer CD's, in addition to 
the passbook rate, thus providing another product that banks could 

8 
3/27/69 
-16-
price at the margin. However, despite his general view, which was 
against any move at this time, it might be that the eight Massachusetts 
mutuals created such an emergency that it would be necessary to deal 
with that problem promptly. 
Chairman Randall replied that he had not selected the time. 
He had been coming to the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation 
with this problem for at least 18 months, but the answer had always 
been just to try to squeeze through. At this point he thought the 
FDIC was forced either to take some action, as quietly as possible, 
or to release the eight mutuals from deposit coverage. The effect 
would be the same in the market place. 
Governor Brimmer remarked that the Board had not tried to 
tailor interest rate ceilings to local situations, and Chairman 
Randall replied that the FDIC had not done that either. However, it 
had not before faced an acute problem of this kind. For two sessions 
°f the Congress it had tried to get legislation passed that would 
expand the coverage of the interest rate ceilings, but it had not been 
successful. He granted that the present time was not good for taking 
a c
tion, but the situation had come unglued. 
Governor Mitchell reported that Governor Robertson had received 
last night a telegram from President Morris indicating that the Presi-
d e
nt of the Federal Home Loan Bank in Boston felt that a ceiling of 
' P
e
r cent would be excessive and would have the effect of pushing 
U
P the whole rate structure. 

1078 
3/27/69 
-16-
Chairman Randall commented that if the eight insured mutuals 
were given a higher ceiling, he believed there would be an automatic 
escalation of rates. Therefore, he preferred to place them on a 
standby basis. 
Governor Mitchell observed that he did not think the ceiling 
approach was too useful and that he would be willing to see it breached, 
but he agreed that this was a bad time. He suggested the possibility 
of negotiating institution by institution according to particular needs 
if the standby basis were used. 
Chairman Randall said that he had a meeting scheduled in the 
near future with all of the banks to pursue that kind of approach. 
Governor Mitchell then commented that if the FDIC made a move 
there was a fairly good chance that the fat would be in the fire for 
moves all over the country. Chairman Randall suggested that it might 
be possible to get legislation passed in that kind of emergency, but 
Governor Mitchell doubted the advisability of going to Congress and 
asking for an expansion of the ceiling legislation on an emergency 
basis. He again suggested that it might be possible to deal with the 
Massachusetts situation on a case-by-case basis. 
Chairman Randall repeated that he had a directors' meeting 
S c
heduled for this afternoon. He had delayed taking action for almost 
t W o
 years and the situation had gotten worse. Yet he recognized the 
c
°mments that had been made about the timing. He thought something 

1079 
3/27/69 
-16-
could be done on a case-by-case basis; in essence, that was what he 
was trying to do--not to change the FDIC's regulation but to let the 
eight banks do just what they needed to protect themselves. His 
desire was to create as little impact as possible between now and the 
time when the interest rate ceiling legislation was up again. For 
the present, he thought he could keep any action limited to the special 
notice accounts. In essence, he would give relief to a few institutions 
to allow them to protect themselves in their own areas. It was his 
understanding that relief could be given to individual institutions 
without amending the regulation, thus avoiding publicity. 
Question was raised whether such a course could be followed 
under the existing legislation. After some discussion of that point, 
Chairman Randall said it was his understanding that relief could be 
granted to individual institutions without publishing an amendment to 
the regulation. However, he would review the matter with his counsel. 
In answer to a question by Governor Sherrill, Mr. Randall 
said the eight mutuals in question had not been keeping pace with the 
growth of the other 170 mutuals, especially in special notice accounts. 
On passbook accounts, most of them had done reasonably well. It was 
n
ecessary to study the situation of each individual bank. As a 
general statement, however, in the past six months a marked deteriora-
tion had been noticed in the ability of seven of the eight mutuals to 
keep pace with their competitors. Mr. Partee presented statistics 

1 0 8 0 
3/27/69 
-16-
indicating that in 1968 and in the first two months of 1969 the eight 
mutuals as a group had been doing poorer than the other mutuals, but 
that the difference was not great. Chairman Randall said he had not 
meant to infer that any of them were on the verge of collapse. 
After further discussion of deposit trends at various insti-
tutions and the classes of rates being advertised, together with moves 
and countermoves that might be in prospect, Governor Sherrill said he 
regarded this as a critical time to be changing ceiling rates. He 
doubted whether any changes could be contained within narrow boundaries. 
He would prefer to see action deferred at least until after the April 
dividend-crediting period in order to determine what pattern was by 
then emerging. 
Chairman Martin commented that it appeared from the discussion 
that most of the members of the Board would hope that the FDIC could 
wait a little longer. The Board was sympathetic to the FDIC's problem, 
hut Chairman Randall could see the drift of the Board's thinking. 
Chairman Randall replied that he would report accordingly to 
his Board of Directors this afternoon. He could not foretell the 
olJ
tcome. If they felt forced to move, the move would be made as 
Quietly as possible. He would not want to create a wave of reactions, 
ar
*d to that extent he thought there was a common understanding. 
Chairman Randall and Miss Mah then withdrew and the meeting 
c
°ntinued with the following staff present: 

1081 
3/27/69 
-16-
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Winkler of the Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Noble of the Legal Division 
Miss Stockwell and Mr. Wiles of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International Finance 
Messrs. Burton, Olin, and Schober of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Rhode Island Hospital Trust 
Company, Providence, Rhode Island, with Rhode Island Hospital Trust 
National Bank, Providence, Rhode Island, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion stating 
that consummation of the proposed merger would have no adverse competi-
tive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
m e r
g e r of The First National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, with 

mm 
3/27/69 
-12-
First Chicago Bank, National Association, Chicago, Illinois, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Cur-
rency, the conclusion stating that consummation of the proposed merger 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Iowa National Bank of Cedar Rapids, Cedar Rapids, Iowa, with 
The Merchants National Bank of Cedar Rapids, Cedar Rapids, Iowa, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency, the conclusion stating that consummation of the proposed 
merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
consolidation of The Harrisburg National Bank and Trust Company, 
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, with The Conestoga National Bank, Lancaster, 
Pennsylvania, and The First National Bank of York, York, Pennsylvania, 
w
as approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency, the conclusion reading as follows: 
The proposed consolidation of The Harrisburg 
National Bank and Trust Company, The Conestoga National 
Bank, Lancaster, and The First National Bank of York 
would eliminate a moderate amount of competition exist-
ing between them and the potential for more competition 
in view of the fact that each of the banks could pene-
trate further in the other's market through de novo 
branching. Within the relevant market there would remain 
a significant number of banking alternatives, however, 
and overall, the effect of the proposal on competition 
would be slightly adverse. 

mm 
3/27/69 
-13-
Application of Southeast Bancorporation (Items 1 and 2). 
There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's action on February 24, 1969, approving the application of 
Southeast Bancorporation, Inc., Miami, Florida, to acquire 80 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of Everglades Bank and Trust Company, 
Fort Lauderdale, Florida. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 1 and 2. 
Application of First National Bank of Fort Worth (Items 3 
and 4). There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement 
reflecting the Board's action on February 26, 1969, approving the 
application of The First National Bank of Fort Worth, Fort Worth, 
Texas, to acquire 24.9 per cent of the voting shares of Great South-
west National Bank of Arlington, Arlington, Texas, a proposed new 
bank. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 3 and 4. 
Truth in lending (Item No. 5). There had been distributed 
a
 draft of proposed guidelines for the exemption of State-regulated 
credit disclosures from Federal truth in lending requirements. If 
adopted in final form, the guidelines would become a supplement to 
t
he Board's Regulation Z, Truth in Lending. The supplement would set 
forth the procedures and criteria under which any State might apply 
f°r exemption of classes of credit transactions. 

3/27/69 
-14-
Mr. Solomon commented that it would be desirable to issue 
the proposed guidelines as soon as possible in order that comments 
might be obtained and the supplement issued before July 1, 1969. He 
noted that Governor Robertson was particularly anxious to move forward 
Undoubtedly the guidelines could be improved with further work, but 
that was one purpose of obtaining comments. 
Governor Mitchell stated that in talking with various 
groups concerning the matter he had received questions about the inter 
pretation of "adequate provision for enforcement." This was not 
spelled out in the proposed guidelines, so the States would be left 
in doubt. He expressed the view that it would be helpful if the 
language of the guidelines could be made as specific as possible. 
Governor Brimmer commented that he had not had a chance 
to study the guidelines. However, if the other Board members were 
prepared to go ahead with the publication of the guidelines for com-
ment, he would not object. 
Governor She rrill stated that in his opinion the guide-
lines were quite straightforward. He believed the Board would learn 
from the comments received whether they were understandable to others. 
Chairman Martin then suggested that Governor Mitchell's 
comment be taken under advisement by the staff, with a view to deter-
m
ining prior to publication whether greater specificity could be 
a
chieved, and there was agreement with his suggestion. 

1085 
3/27/69 
-16-
Unanimous approval then was given to the publication of 
the proposed guidelines, with approximately 30 days to be allowed for 
the submission of comments. A copy of the pertinent press release, 
as issued, is attached as Item No. 5. 
Conference of Central Bank Governors. Mr. Nettles, Special 
Assistant to the Chairman for the purpose of the forthcoming Conference 
of Central Bank Governors of the Western Hemisphere, to be held in 
Williamsburg, Virginia, beginning April 26, 1969, entered the room at 
this point and reported briefly on arrangements being made for the 
Conference. His particular question had to do with the role of the 
Board members in relation to the Conference. He noted that it had 
been the custom to limit each country's delegation to two members--the 
head of the central bank and one other official. Anyone else was 
listed as an adviser. In his opinion, however, it would be inappro-
priate to list members of the Board as advisers. He proposed that 
Chairman Martin and Governor Mitchell be listed as the official 
delegates and that the other members of the Board be free to attend 
the Conference and related activities as their schedules might permit, 
without listing as advisers. 
It was agreed that this would be appropriate. Chairman 
^ r t i n expressed the view that, while it would be in order for any 
Board member whose schedule would permit to attend parts of the meet-
^gj there should clearly be no obligation to do so. This expression 

1086 
3/27/69 
-16-
followed comments by Governor Brimmer in which he noted that there 
seemed to be little reason for Board members to devote time to the 
Conference unless they had a specific role to play. 
Foreign credit restraint guidelines (Items 6 and 7). 
Governor Brimmer reported that according to information he had just 
received regarding plans of the Administration, the Board should be 
prepared to release shortly the revised foreign credit restraint guide-
lines on which general agreement had previously been reached. Governor 
Brimmer then turned to Mr. Solomon, who commented that Under Secretary 
of the Treasury Volcker had been in Europe d iscussing the situation 
with various financial officials and had sent back a report which 
in effect recommended that the Government go ahead with its plan to 
announce some relaxation of the overall balance of payments program. 
It was Mr. Solomon's understanding that the Secretary of the Treasury 
would be submitting a memorandum to the President today recommending 
that the President announce the relaxation tomorrow afternoon after 
the market had closed, and it was felt that the Board might wish to 
announce its revised guidelines at the same time. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he would like to follow such 
a
 procedure. He commented that the proposed Board press release, 
distributed under date of March 21, 1969, was simply a description 
°f what was being done, with reasons. The release was phrased in such 
a
 way as to indicate that the change in the program was modest rather 
than sharp and substantial. 

W87 
3/27/69 
-17-
Unanimous approval then was given to the issuance of the 
revised Board guidelines coincident with the President's announcement. 
Governor Mitchell commented, in this connection, that the Board members 
were aware of his reservations regarding the continued usefulness of 
the foreign credit restraint program and that he personally would have 
preferred further relaxation. 
Secretary's Note: The President's 
announcement was deferred due to the 
death of former President Eisenhower. 
The announcement was made on April 4, 
1969, at which time the Board's state-
ment was also released. Copies of the 
Board's statement and of the revised 
guidelines are attached as Items 6 
and 7, respectively. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1088 
Item No. 1 
3/27/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
SOUTHEAST BANCORPORATION, INC., 
M i
ami, Florida, 
approval of acquisition of 80 per 
£
er
*t or more of the voting shares of 
J
Ve
rglades Bank and Trust Company, 
F o
*t Lauderdale, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
8 e c
tion 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
f 1 o 
U
»S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regu-
l a t
io n Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Southeast Bancorporation, 
n c ,
» Miami, Florida, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
Ptior 
aha 
approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
r
es of Everglades Bank and Trust Company, Fort Lauderdale, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
e
 Florida Commissioner of Banking of the application and requested 
kl. v
iews and recommendation. The Commissioner advised the Board of 
a c
tion approving the same proposal under provisions of State law. 

- 2 -
1089 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 13, 1968 (33 Federal Register 18534), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
a
Pplication was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the application so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
°
r
 (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
S u
ch period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
^
e
8erve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 27th day of March, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Maisel and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1090 
Item No. 2 
3/27/69 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
SOUTHEAST BANCORPORATION, INC., MIAMI, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
EVERGLADES BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, FORT LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
a 
Southeast Bancorporation, Inc., Miami, Florida ("Applicant"), 
te
gistered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
P U r S u a n t
 ^ section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company of 1956 
(12 
U
«S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
e n t
 or more of the voting shares of Everglades Bank and Trust Company, 
°
rt L a
uderdale, Florida ("Everglades Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
Quired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Florida 
CoittQj • 
sioner of Banking of receipt of the application and requested his 
a
nd recommendation thereon. The Commissioner advised the Board 
of his 
Q
ction approving the same proposal under provisions of State law, 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that th 
e
 Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
^riopoi 
y or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
z e
 
to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
P a r
t of 
the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acqui-
8 l t
*o n 
t h 
n c
 effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 

- 2 -
1091 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly* 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
a r e
 clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
tbe transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
t o
 be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consider-
ation the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
tll
e bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transactloi>. - Applicant, the 
Se
cond largest banking organization in Florida, has four subsidiary 
b
 
X / 
3
 
which, in the aggregate, hold $592 million in deposits, an amount 
ec
lual to six per cent of the total deposits held by all banks located 
t h
e State." Acquisition of Everglades Bank, which has $19.3 million 
i n
 ^posits, would increase Applicant's share of State deposits by 
Per cent. 
Everglades Bank ranks seventeenth in deposit size among 31 banks 
Broward County, and competes principally with four larger banks located 
downtown Fort Lauderdale. Although Applicant would be the only bank 
h
°ldir 
t h e
 bank 
n
8
 c
ompany to have a subsidiary bank in Broward County, several of 
8
 in that area are affiliated with other banks in the county by 
w ^ l u d e s First City Bank of Tampa, acquisition of which by Applicant 
a
Pproved by the Board in November 1968. 
banking data are as of June 29, 1968, unless otherwise noted. 

1GS2 
-3-
reason of common stockholders; considering each such affiliated group 
as a single banking organization, Everglades Bank is the fourteenth 
largest of 19 banking organizations in the county. 
Of Applicant's present subsidiaries, one is located in 
Tampa (Hillsborough County), 250 miles northwest of Fort Lauderdale, 
and does not compete to any extent with Broward County banks. The 
other three subsidiary banks are located 26-28 miles from Everglades 
Bank in Dade County, which is adjacent to, and south of, Broward County. 
A number of banks larger than the subject bank are located in the area 
intervening its location and the location of the present subsidiaries, 
and Everglades Bank does not compete to any significant extent in 
Dade County. Of the Dade County subsidiaries, only Applicant's lead 
hank, First National Bank of Miami, draws an amount of business from 
B
rov/a;;d County which is competitively significant. Analysis of the 
business of First National Bank of Miami which originates in Broward 
County, however, indicates that the bulk of its loan business from that 
a
rea results from a small number of loans in excess of the legal lending 
limits of Everglades Bank, and that a large percentage of its deposits 
from that area are related to those loan transactions. It does not 
a
ppear, therefore, that significant competition between Everglades Bank 
anc
* present subsidiaries of Applicant would be eliminated by consum-
ption of Applicant's proposal. Further, in view of a State prohibition 
a
8ainst branching, the same locational factors which have limited such 
C o
*Petition in the past are likely to prevent the development of signifi-
C a n t
 future competition between Everglades Bank and the present subsidiaries. 

10 
-4-
Summarizing the competitive effects of the proposed trans-
ition, it does not appear that consummation of Applicant's proposal 
w
ould result in a significant increase in banking concentration in any 
a r
ea, and no significant present or potential competition would be 
e
Uminated. Finally, in view of the size of Everglades Bank relative 
t o
 that of other banks and banking organizations in Broward County, 
*t does not appear that there would be any adverse effect upon the 
v
lability or competitive effectiveness of any competing bank. 
In light of the foregoing, the Board concludes that consum-
Nation of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly or be 
' 
. 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize 
< • : 
th 
u 
6
 business of banking in any area, and would not restrain trade, sub-
8 t a
ntially lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly in any 
8 e c
U o n of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
The f< 
r
i.nancial condition and management of Applicant are satisfactory, 
*ts prospects are favorable. Applicant has indicated its intention 
l e n g t h e n the capital of two of its subsidiary banks, and, in the 
Ught 
those plans, the financial condition of the subsidiary banks is 
ala 
regarded as satisfactory. All of the subsidiary banks have competent 
a
Sement, and their prospects appear favorable. 
Applicant proposes, in the event its application is approved, 
to 
urease the presently marginal capital of Everglades Bank. The 

1094 
-21-
bank would also benefit from the additional management strength which 
Applicant could provide. Its prospects, which, in the light of 
reasonably satisfactory growth in the past, are considered favorable 
any event, would be improved by its affiliation with Applicant and 
a a
 a result of improvements which Applicant contemplates making in 
physical facilities. 
Considerations under the banking factors provide some weight 
i n f a
vor of approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities Involved. -
Consummation of the proposal would not affect the convenience or needs 
customers located in the communities served by Applicant's present 
8 u b
sidiaries. 
It appears that the banking needs of the Fort Lauderdale and 
®
r
°vard County areas are presently being adequately served by the banks 
*°
c
ated there. However, Everglades Bank is located in the southern 
of Fort Lauderdale, about 17 blocks south of the downtown area 
n
 ^htch its four closest competitors are located, and the convenience 
of 
u
stomers in that immediate area would be served by the improved 
e
*panded service offering which Applicant would provide. Everglades 
c u
trently pays a lower rate of interest on savings deposits than 
at
*y bu t 
event its application is approved, to raise such rate to a 
one other bank in Broward County; it is Applicant's intention, 
lr
> the 
°
m
PetitiVe level. In addition, it is contemplated that the bank, which 
C U r
* e n n 
l c l
y depends on the part-time services of a local attorney for 

1 0 ^ 3 5 
I 
• 
. 
-6-
fiduciary decisions, will have dri active ttUst department staffed by 
a
 full-time trust officer and assisted by investment and other technical 
advice. Also of some significance, in view of the proximity of Everglades 
Bank to Port Everglades, is the contemplated establishment of an inter-
national banking department of the bank. 
Considerations relating to community convenience and needs 
support approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
c
°ntainad in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
Action 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the application 
8h
ould be approved. 
H a
*ch 27, 1969. 

10 <>6 
Item No. 3 
3/27/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF FORT WORTH,
 
1 
Fort Worth, Texas,
 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 24.9 per 
c
^nt of the voting shares of Great
 
1 
Southwest National Bank of Arlington,
 
1 
Arlington, Texas, a proposed new bank.
 
1 
. . . 
. - . - - 1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o
 section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
R e
Gulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by The First 
N a
tional Bank of Fort Worth, Fort Worth, Texas, a registered bank 
k°l<Urig company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
24,9 per cent of the voting shares of Great Southwest National 
®
a
nk of Arlington, Arlington, Texas, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and 
*
e
<iuested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
a
PProval of the application. 

-2-
105)7 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 28, 1968 (33 Federal Register 19967), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has 
expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
°f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
b
7 the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, pursuant to delegated authority, 
and that Great Southwest National Bank of Arlington shall be open for 
business not later than six months after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 27th day of March, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and Governor Brimmer. 
(Sianed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

10 
Item No. 
3/27/69 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF FORT WORTH, FORT WORTH, TEXAS, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
GREAT SOUTHWEST NATIONAL BANK OF ARLINGTON, ARLINGTON, TEXAS 
STATEMENT 
The First National Bank of Fort Worth, Fort Worth, Texas 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to 
the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior 
approval of the acquisition of 24.9 per cent of the voting shares 
Great Southwest National Bank of Arlington, Arlington, Texas 
("Great Southwest"), a proposed new bank. 
Applicant is a bank holding company by virtue of 
section 2(g)(2) of the Act, pursuant to which shares held by three 
c
°rporations, all of the stock of which is held by trustees for the 
benefit of Applicant's shareholders or employees, are deemed to be 
c
°ntrolled by Applicant. Through these corporations, Applicant con-
sols o v e r 25 p e r c e n t 0 f the voting shares of three banks in Fort 
Texas, and 24.9 per cent of the voting shares of another Fort 
IJ
°
rt
h bank.—^ The proposed acquisition would also be made by one of 
t h c
s e corporations. 
These four banks are hereinafter jointly referred to as "the related 
o a
nks", 

- 2 -
1099 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
of the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
and recommendation thereon. The Comptroller replied that preliminary 
approval had been given by his office to the organization of Great 
Southwest with the thought that the subject application should be 
approved. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
a c
quisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
o r
 which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
fc
he Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
i t i o n are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
e
ffect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. In each case the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant, 
2 j 
w h
*ch holds $349 million in deposits,"* and the related banks, with 
2 / Al.1 banking data are as of June 29, 1968, unless otherwise noted. 

- 2 -
1100 
aggregate deposits of about $50 million, are all located in Fort Worthj 
Texas. Applicant is the second largest banl: in Fort Worth, and the 
seventh largest banking organization in the State of Texas. 
The proposed site of Great Southwest is the Great Southwest 
Industrial District, a large and rapidly growing distribution center 
located within the city limits of Arlington, Texas, about four miles 
from downtown Arlington and about five miles from downtown Grand Prairie, 
Texas. The site is located about 18 miles east of Fort Worth, and about 
the same distance \*est of Dallas. There are three banks In each of the 
cities of Arlington and Grand Prairie, the former ranging in deposit 
size from $5 million to about $35 million, and the latter holding 
deposits of $5 million to $16 million. Applicant estimates that Great 
Southwest will have about $5 million in deposits after three years of 
operation. 
A large number of the employees at the Great Southwest 
industrial District reside in Dallas or Fort Worth, and a number of 
t h
e residents of Arlington and Grand Prairie are employed in Dallas 
°
r
 Fort Worth. To some extent, therefore, Applicant and the related 
^
a
nks are alternative sources of banking services for customers which 
Great Southwest would seek to serve. However, in view of the fact 
^ a t Great Southwest is a proposed new bank, the establishment of 
^Ich is contingent upon approval of the present application, no 
listing or potential competition would be eliminated by consummation 
°f th 
U[
»e proposal. Further, it does not appear that the viability or 
^Petitive effectiveness of any competing bank would be adversely 
Effected. 

- 2 -
1101 
In the light of these facts, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monop-
oly or be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt 
to monopolize the business of banking in any area. It does not 
appear that the effect of the transaction would be to restrain trade, 
to substantially lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly 
in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition, management, and prospects of Applicant and 
the related banks are regarded as satisfactory. 
Great Southwest is a proposed new bank, organization of which 
has received the preliminary approval of the Comptroller of the Currency. 
l t s
 Proposed capital appears adequate, its proposed management appears 
competent, and its prospects appear favorable. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are regarded 
a s
 consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Banking 
S e
rvices adequate to meet the needs of customers in the Southwest 
industrial District are presently being provided by banks in Arlington 
a n d
 Grand Prairie, and to some extent by banks in Dallas and Fort Worth. 
It i 
1 3
 likely that larger companies in the area will continue to bank 
W l t
h the large banks in Dallas and Fort Worth. The location of a bank 
t t h
i n the Industrial District, however, would be a convenience to 
ein
Ployees and smaller firms within the area. 

Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
community which Great Southwest would serve provide some weight in 
favor of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
March 27, 1969. 

Item No. 5 
3/27/69 
For immediate relase. 
March 27, 1969. 
Proposed guidelines for the exemption of State-regulated 
credit disclosures from Federal Truth in Lending requirements were 
issued for comment today by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System. Comments on the proposal should be submitted to the 
Board by April 30 either directly or through the 12 Federal Reserve 
Banks. 
When adopted in final form, the guidelines will become 
Supplement II to the Board's Truth in Lending Regulation Z which vas 
Published in the Federal Register on February 11. The proposed 
supplement sets forth the procedures and criteria under which any 
State may apply for exemption of classes of credit transactions from 
Federal Truth in Lending requirements. 
The Federal law, which goes into effect on July 1, provides 
in Section 123 that the Board shall exempt from Federal Truth in 
Lending requirements "any class of credit transactions within any 
State if it determines that under the law of that State that class 
transactions is subject to requirements substantially similar to 
those imposed" by the Federal law, and there is "adequate provision 
f
°r enforcement." 
An exemption may only be granted with respect to the dis-
closure and rescission provisions of the law. Under the law, adver-
tising of credit must remain subject to Federal jurisdiction. 
A copy of the proposal is attached. 
-0-
A t
tachment 

F
E
D
E
R
A
L 
R
E
S
E
R
V
E 
press 
r e l e a s e 
For immediate release 
Item No. 6 
3/27/69 
April 4, 1969 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
issued revised 1969 guidelines, effective immediately, covering foreign 
credits and investments by U. S. banks and other financial institutions. 
The revisions represent a modification of earlier announced guidelines, 
and are designed to permit additional flexibility to finance U. S. ex-
Ports and to resolve some serious equity problems. 
The Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program (VFCR) is one of 
several elements in the government's over-all program to strengthen the 
S. balance of payments position. 
Under the revised guidelines, a bank will either retain its 
Present ceiling on foreign lending or adopt a new ceiling equal to 1-1/2 
P
e
r cent of its total assets as of December 31, 1968. This formula will 
Permit a modest increase of $400 million in the foreign lending ceilings 
f o r
 banks which stood at $9.7 billion at the end of last year. 
For nonbank financial institutions--such as insurance companies, 
m u t
ual funds, finance companies and bank trust departments--the ceiling on 
fo 
Th 
r e
ign assets will be restored to 100 per cent of the end-of-1967 base. 
e
 ceiling had earlier been continued at 95 per cent of that base for the 
C U r
rent year. This modification--designed primarily to simplify adminis-
t r a
tion of the program--will increase the ceiling for nonbank financial 
i n s t
itutions by an estimated $40 million during 1969. At the end of last 
investments by nonbank financial institutions covered by the guide-
U t l e s
 Counted to $1.4 billion. 

1105 
- 2 -
Governor Andrew F. Brimmer, who administers the program 
in behalf of the Board of Governors, said the banks had an unused 
leeway of $475 million at the end of 1968. Thus the revision would 
potentially allow banks to increase their existing level of credits 
to foreigners by about $875 million. It is expected that 
the full potential will not be used, and a substantial leeway will 
continue to be maintained. Furthermore, the potential increase will 
be lessened slightly as bank ceilings continue to be progressively 
reduced by the amount of repayments of term loans to residents of 
developed countries of continental Western Europe. 
The program has been in force since February 1965 and 
was last revised in December of last year when guidelines for 1969 
were issued. In considering the program at that time, the Board 
concluded that the balance of payments prospects for 1969 did not 
Permit any basic change in VFCR. Yet, in view of the need to im-
prove the trade balance, the Board said it planned to re-examine 
the program early in 1969 to determine whether additional flexi-
bility for financing U.S. exports might be provided in the guide-
lines. 
As part of that review, Governor Brimmer has held a 
S e
*ies of seven regional meetings throughout the country at the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, 
Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco. Representatives of other 
F e
deral Reserve Banks and of the reporting corrmercial banks and 
°
t h e r
 financial institutions participated in these meetings. 

1106 
- 3 -
Governor Brimmer said it became apparent as the regional 
meetings progressed that some additional flexibility in the guide-
lines was needed to finance U.S. exports and to reduce inequities 
among banks of different size inherent in the VFCR program. The 
financing of U.S. exports under the VFCR refers to credits extended 
by the banks to foreigners to finance purchases from the United 
States. The program does not affect credits to American producers 
and exporters to finance U.S. exports. 
Under che guidelines issued last December 23, the 1969 
ceiling on foreign credit extensions by banks remained at the level 
specified in the guidelines, as adjusted, of one year earlier. For 
about one-half of the approximately 160 reporting banks (accounting 
for more than 90 per cent of the aggregate ceiling), this was essen-
tially 103 per cent of the 1964 base. For the remainder of the re-
Porting banks, the ceiling was the 1967 ceiling plus one-third of 
the difference between that amount and 2 per cent of total assets 
as of December 31, 1966. 
A copy of the newly revised guidelines is attached. They 
w
ill be made available to financial institutions through the Federal 
R e
serve Banks. 
Attachment. 

1107 
Item No. 7 
3/27/69 
REVISED GUIDELINES 
Banks and Nonbank Financial Institutions 
I. General Purpose 
In order to help to strengthen the U.S. balance of payments, U.S. 
financial institutions are asked to continue to restrain their foreign 
loans and investments. 
II. Banks 
A. Ceiling Restraints 
1. Basic Restraint 
A bank should not hold claims on foreigners (defined in 
G-2 below) at any time in excess of its ceiling, as determined 
in 2 below, except for .temporary overages as the result of the 
extension of export credit. 
2. Ceiling 
The foreign lending guideline amount (hereafter, "ceiling') 
for a bank that has been reporting under previous Federal Reserve 
foreign credit restraint guidelines is the larger of: 
a. the ceiling it was expected to observe on December 31, 
1968 under the guidelines in existence oh thbt-dat6; -
or 
b. 1-1/2 per cent of its total assets as of December 31, 

- 2 -
1108 
Special Ceiling 
a. A bank that, on December 31, 1968, had outstanding claims 
on foreigners of less than $500,000 and that has no special 
ceiling under previous guidelines may discuss with the 
Federal Reserve Bank in its District 
the possibility of adopting a special 
ceiling adequate to permit the bank to meet reasonable 
credit demand s of existing customers or other reasonable 
credit demands originating in its normal trade area. 
b. In discussing the ceiling of such a bank, the Federal 
Reserve Bank will take into account the bank's previous 
experience with foreign transactions, including ac-
ceptance of foreign deposits or handling foreign 
collections, and other circumstances concerning pros-
pects for the bank's engaging in foreign transactions. 
Priority Credits 
a. Within its ceiling, and as among all types of credit to 
foreigners, a bank should give first priority to credits 
to finance exports of U.S. goods (hereafter "export credits") 
and second priority to credits to developing countries. 
b. Export credits that result in sales taking place on credit 
rather than, in the absence of such-credits, on-the basis 
of cash are not to be considered as priority credits. 

- 2 -
1109 
Western Europe 
a
* 
Term loans. Banks should not make new term loans (loans 
with maturities of over one year) to residents of developed 
countries of continental Western Europe, except to finance 
U.S. exports. A bank's ceiling should be reduced each 
month by the dollar amount of any repayments it receives 
on term loans to such residents outstanding on December 
31, 1967. 
b. Short-term credits. Banks should hold the amount of short-
term credits (credits with original maturities of one year 
or less) to residents of these countries to not more than 
60 per cent of the amounts of such credits outstanding on 
December 31, 1967.. 
Equity Investments 
Equity investments, including those in developed countries 
of continental Western Europe, may be made within a bank's 
ceiling, subject to requirements of the Board of Governors. 
Sale of Foreign Assets 
Any bank that sells a claim on a foreigner that is subject to 
these restraints, without recourse,(a) to a U.S. resident other 
than a financial institution participating* in the. Federal 
Reserve credit restraint program or other than a direct investor 
subject- to th-e controls administered by the Department of Commerce 
or (b) to the Export-Import Bank should reduce its ceiling by an 
equivalent amount. 

1110 
8. Total Assets 
For the purpose of calculating a ceiling under A-2-b above, 
total assets are those shown in the Official Report of 
Condition, submitted to the relevant supervisory agency, 
as of December 31, 1968, 
B, Exclusions 
1, Canada 
These guidelines are not to restrain the extension of credit 
to residents of Canada, For the purpose of determing the 
aggregate amount of a bank's outstanding claims on foreigners, 
any net increases in claims on residents of Canada after 
February 29, 1968 should be deducted from total claims on 
foreigners, and any net reductions in claims on residents 
of Canada after February 29, 1968 should be added to total 
claims on foreigners. 
2. Certain Guaranteed and Insured Loans 
Loans to finance U.S. exports that either are guaranteed, or 
participated in, by the Export-Import Bank, or guaranteed by 
the Department of Defense, or are insured by the Foreign Credit 
Insurance Association are exempt from these credit restraints. 
C, Temporary Overages 
1. A bank would not be considered as acting inconsistently with 
the purpose of the guidelines If it temporarily exceeded its 
ceiling as the result of the extension of an export credit. 

i l l ! 
2. Such a bank should, however, refrain from making new exten-
sions of nonpriority credits so as to reduce its claims on 
foreigners to an amount within the ceiling as quickly as 
possible. It should also take every opportunity to withdraw 
or reduce commitments, including credit lines, that are not 
of a firm nature and to assure that drawings under credit 
lines are kept to normal levels and usage. At time of renewal, 
each credit line should be reviewed for consistency with the 
program. 
3. A bank whose foreign credits are in excess of the ceiling will 
be invited periodically to discuss with the appropriate Federal 
Reserve Bank the steps it has taken and proposes to take to 
reduce its credits to a level within the ceiling. 
Applicability to Financial Institutions 
1. General 
The guidelines are applicable to all U.S. banks (exclusive 
of the trust departments of commercial banks, which should follow 
the guidelines for nonbank financial institutions) and to 
"Edge Act" and "Agreement" Corporations. 
2. Edge Act and Agreement Corporations 
a. Edge Act or Agreement Corporations that, under previous 
guidelines, adopted a ceiling separate from those of 
their parent banks may continue to be guided by a separate 

1112 
- 3 -
ceiling or may combine their foreign loans and invest-
ments with those of their parent banks, 
b. No special ceilings are provided for Edge Act or Agree-
ment Corporations established after March 3, 1965. An 
Edge Act or Agreement Corporation which has been estab-
lished after March 3, 1965, as a subsidiary of one bank 
should share the ceiling of the respective parent bank. 
An Edge Act or Agreement Corporation which has been 
formed after March 3, 1965, and is a subsidiary of two 
or more banks (not associated in a bank holding company) 
may be assigned a share or shares of the ceilings of its 
parent banks. Any contemplated reallocations of ceilings 
to the Edge Act or Agreement Corporation should be dis-
cussed with the Federal Reserve Bank of the District in 
which the bank desiring to make the transfer is located. 
3. Bank Holding Companies 
a. A registered bank holding company will be treated as a 
bank for the purpose of these guidelines. 

111.3 
-7-
b. Banks and Edge Act or Agreement Corporations which are 
owned by a registered bank holding company may consolidate 
the ceilings of one or more banks in the group. 
4. Foreign Branches of U.S. Banks 
a. The guidelines are not designed to restrict the extension 
of foreign credits by foreign branches of U.S. banks if 
the funds utilized are derived from foreign sources and 
do not add to the outflow of capital from the United States. 
b. Total claims of a bank's domestic offices on its foreign 
branches (including permanent capital invested in, as well 
as balances due from, such branches) represent bank credit 
to foreigners for the purposes of the program. 
Conformity with Objectives of Guidelines 
I 
Department of Commerce Program and Nonbank Financial Institutions 
Guidelines 
Banks should avoid making loans that would directly or in-
directly enable borrowers to use funds abroad in a manner 
inconsistent with the Department of Commerce program or with 
the guidelines for nonbank financial institutions. 
2. Substitute Loans 
Banks should not extend to U.S. subsidiaries and to branches 
of foreign companies loans that otherwise might have been made 

1114 
-10-
by the banks to the foreign parent or other affiliate of the 
company or that normally would have been obtained abroad. 
3. Management of Liquid Assets 
A bank should not place its own funds abroad (other than in 
Canada) for short-term investment purposes, whether such 
investments are payable in foreign currencies or in U.S. 
dollars. Banks need not, however, reduce necessary working 
balances held with foreign correspondents. 
4. Transactions for Customers 
While recognizing that it must follow a customer's instruction, 
a bank should discourage customers from placing liquid funds 
outside the United States, except in Canada. A bank should 
not place with a customer foreign obligations that, in the 
absence of the guidelines, it would have acquired or held 
for its own account. 
5. U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks 
Branches and agencies of foreign banks located in the United 
States are requested to act in accordance with the spirit of 
these guidelines. 
Reporting 
Each bank that is eligible for a ceiling under these guidelines 
should file a Monthly Report on Foreign Claims (Form FR 391/69.1) 
with the Federal Reserve Bank in the District in which the bank 
is located. (Forms are available at the Federal Reserve Banks.) 

1115 
-21-
G. Definitions 
1. "Foreigners" include: individuals, partnerships, and corpo-
rations domiciled outside the United States, irrespective of 
citizenship, except their agencies or branches located within 
the United States; branches, subsidiaries, and affiliates of 
U.S. banks and other U.S. corporations that are located in 
foreign countries; and any government of a foreign country or 
official agency thereof and any official international or 
regional institution created by treaty, irrespective of location. 
2. "Claims on foreigners" are claims on foreigners held for a 
bank's own account. They include: foreign long-term securities; 
foreign customers' liability for acceptances executed, whether 
or not the acceptances are held by the reporting banks; de-
ferred payment letters of credit described in the Treasury 
Department's Supplementary Reporting Instruction No. 1, 
Treasury Foreign Exchange Reports, Banking Forms, dated Hay 10, 
1968; participations purchased in loans to foreigners (except 
loans guaranteed or particpated in by the Export-Import Bank or 
guaranteed by the Department of Defense, or insured by the 
Foreign Credit Insurance Association); loans to financial sub-
sidiaries incorporated in the United States, 50 per cent or 
more of which is owned by foreigners; and foreign assets 
sold, with recourse, to U.S. residents other than financial 
institutions participating in the Federal Reserve credit re-

1116 
-10-
st rain t program or direct investors subject to the controls ednin-
ietered by the Commerce Department, "Claims on foreigners" exclude: 
contingent claims; unutilized credits; claims held for account 
of customers; acceptances executed by other U.S. banks; loans 
to finance U.S. exports guaranteed or participated in by the 
Export-Import Bank or guaranteed by the Department of Defense 
or insured by the Foreign Credit Insurance Association; and,in 
the manner determined in B-l above, claims on residents of Canada, 
3. "Credits to finance exports of U.S. goods" and "export credits" 
are transactions that are identifiable through documents avail-
able to the bank. 
A. Developing countries ere all countries other than: Abu Dhabi, 
Australia, Austria, the Bahamas, Bahrain, Belgium, Bermuda, 
Canada, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal Republic), Hong Kong, 
Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Kuwait-Saudi Arabia 
Neutral Zone, Libya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Qatar, Republic 
of South Africa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sweden, 
Switzerland, and the United Kingdom; and other than: Albania, 
Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, 
Estonia, Hungray, Communist-controlled Korea, Latvia, Lithuania, 
Outer Mongolia, Poland (including any area under its provisional 
administration), Rumania, Soviet Zone of Germany and the Soviet 

1117 
- l i -
sector of Berlin, Tibet, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics 
and the Kurile Islands, Southern Sakhalin, and areas in 
East Prussia that are under the provisional administration 
of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and Communist-
controlled Vietnam. 

1118 
-21-
III. Nonbank Financial Institutions 
A. Types of Institutions Covered 
The group of institutions covered by the nonbank guidelines 
includes: trust companies; trust departments of commercial 
banks; mutual savings banks; insurance companies; investment 
companies; finance companies; employee retirement and pension 
funds; college endowment funds; charitable foundations; and 
the U.S. branches of foreign insurance companies and of other 
foreign nonbank financial corporations. Investment underwriting 
firms, securities brokers and dealers, and investment counseling 
firms also are covered with respect to foreign financial assets 
held for their own account and are requested to inform their 
customers of the program in those cases where it appears appli-
cable. Businesses whose principal activity is the leasing of 
property and equipment, and which are not owned or controlled 
by a financial institution, are not defined as financial insti-
tutions, 
B. Ceiling and Priorities 
Each institution is requested to limit its aggregate holdings 
of foreign assets covered by the program to no more than 100 
per cent of the adjusted amount of such assets held on 
December 31, 1967. 
Institutions generally are expected to hold no foreign deposits 
or money market instruments (other than Canadian). However, an 

-21-
1119 
institution may maintain such minimum working balances abroad 
as are needed for the efficient conduct of its foreign business 
activities. 
Among other foreign assets that are subject to the guideline 
ceiling, institutions are asked to give first priority to 
credits that represent the bona fide financing of U.S. exports, 
and second priority to credits to developing countries. 
In addition, institutions are requested not to increase the 
total of their investments in the developed countries of 
continental Western Europe beyond the amount held on December 31, 
1968, except for new credits that are judged to be essential to 
the financing of U.S. exports. This means that reductions 
through amortizations, maturities or sales may be offset by new 
acquisitions in these countries. However, institutions are 
expected to refrain from offsetting proceeds of sales to other 
Americans by new acquisitions from foreigners. 
Institutions may invest in noncovered foreign assets generally 
as desired. However, they are requested to refrain from making 
any loans and investments, noncovered as well as covered, which 
appear to be inconsistent with other aspects of the President's 
balance of payments program. Among these are the following: 
1. Noncovered credits under this program that substitute 
directly for loans that commercial banks would have made in 
the absence of that part of the program applicable to them; 
2. Noncovered credits to developing country subsidiaries of 
U.S. corporations that would not have been permitted under 

-21-
1120 
the Department of Commerce program if made by the U.S. 
parent directly. 
3. Credits to U.S. corporate borrowers that would enable them 
to make new foreign loans and investments inconsistent with 
the Department of Commerce program. 
4. Credits to U.S. subsidiaries and branches of foreign com-
panies that otherwise would have been made to the foreign 
parent, or that would substitute for funds normally obtained 
from foreign sources. 
Covered Assets 
Covered foreign financial assets, subject to the guideline 
ceiling, include the following types of investments, except for 
"free delivery" items received after December 31, 1967: 
1. Liquid funds in all foreign countries other than Canada. 
This category comprises foreign bank deposits, including 
deposits in foreign branches of U.S. banks, and liquid 
money market claims on foreign obligors, generally defined 
to include marketable negotiable instruments maturing in 1 
year or less. 
2. All other claims on non-Canadian foreign obligors written, 
at date of acquisition, to mature in 10 years or less. 
This category includes bonds, notes, mortgages, loans, and 
other credits. Excluded are bonds and notes of international 
institutions of which the United States is a member, and 

52 
-21-
loans guaranteed or participated in by the Export-Import 
Bank or the Department of Defense or insured by the 
Foreign Credit Insurance Association, regardless of maturity 
Net financial investment in foreign branches, subsidiaries 
and affiliates, located in developed countries other than 
Canada and J a p a n . S u c h financial investment includes 
payments into equity and other capital accounts of, and 
net loans and advances to, any foreign businesses in which 
the U.S. institution has an ownership interest of 10 per 
cent or more. Excluded are earnings of a foreign affiliate 
if they are directly retained in the capital accounts of 
the foreign business. 
Long-term credits of foreign obligors domiciled in developed 
countries other than Canada and Japan,!/ Included in this 
category are bonds, notes, mortgages, loans, and other 
credits maturing more than 10 years after date of acquisi-
tion. Excluded are bonds of international institutions of 
which the United States is a member. 
Equity securities of foreign corporations domiciled in 
developed countries other than Canada and Japan, except 
those acquired after September 30, 1965, in U.S. markets 
from American investors.—^ The test of whether an equity 
security is covered will depend on the institution's 

1122 
-21-
obligation to pay the Interest Equalization Tax on 
acquisition. Exclusion from covered assets under this 
program normally will be indicated when, in acquiring an 
equity security that otherwise would be covered, the pur-
chasing institution receives a certificate of prior American 
ownership, or brokerage confirmation thereof, 
D. Base-Date Holdings 
Base-date holdings for any reporting date in 1969 are defined 
as: 
1. Total holdings of covered foreign assets as of December 31, 
1967; 
2. Minus, equity securities of companies domiciled in developed 
countries (except Canada and Japan), that are included in 
(1) but had been sold to American investors prior to the 
current quarter; 
3. Plus, or minus, the difference between sales proceeds and 
"carrying" value of covered equities sold prior to the 
current quarter to other than American investors or in 
other than U.S. markets. On each reporting date in 1969, 
"carrying" value should be the value reflected in the insti-
tution's report (on Form FR 392R-68) for December 31, 1967, 
in the case of equities held on that date, and it should 
be cost in the case of equities purchased after that date, 
"Adjusted" base-date holdings, to which the 100 per cent ceiling 
applies, are equal to "base-date" holdings as defined above adjusted 

-17-
for sales during the current quarter of included covered 
equities in accordance with the procedures specified in (2) 
and (3) of the preceding paragraph. 
Noncovered Assets 
Foreign financial assets not covered by the guidelines are 
still reportable on the quarterly statistical reports to the 
Federal Reserve Banks, Such noncovered foreign investments 
include the following: 
1. All financial assets in, or claims on residents of, the 
Dominion of Canada. 
2. Bonds and notes of international institutions of which the 
United States is a member, regardless of maturity. 
3. Long-term investments in all developing countries and in 
Japan, including credit instruments with final maturities 
of more than 10 years at date of acquisition, direct 
investment in subsidiaries and affiliates, and all equity 
securities issued by firms domiciled in these countries. 
4. Equity securities of firms in developed countries other 
than Canada and Japan that have been acquired in U.S. 
markets from American investors (see Point 5 above). 
Foreign assets of types covered by the program and acquired as 
"free delivery" items--that Is, as new gifts or, in the case of 
trust companies or trust departments of commercial banks, in 
new accounts deposited with the institution--are not defined as 

-21-
55 
covered assets, if they were acquired after December 31, 1967. 
Such assets should be reported as a memorandum item, as should 
all loans held that are guaranteed or participated in by the 
Export-Import Bank or the Department of Defense, or insured by 
the Foreign Credit Insurance Association. 
Credits to Certain U.S. Corporations 
Any loan or investment acquired by a nonbank financial insti-
tution after June 30, 1968, that involves the advance of funds 
to a domestic corporation which is simply a financing conduit 
(commonly known as a "Delaware sub"), and which in turn will 
transmit the funds to a foreign business, should be reported 
as a foreign asset if one or more foreigners own a majority of 
the "Delaware" corporation. The amounts of such foreign loans 
or investments should be classified according to the country 
where the funds are actually to be used, not according to the 
residence of the owners of the "Delaware" corporation. 
In the event that U.S. residents hold a majority ownership 
interest in the "Delaware" corporation, no part of a loan or 
investment in such a corporation is to be regarded as a foreign 
asset of the institution. 
Leasing of Physical Hoods 
The foreign leasing activities of firms which engage primarily 
in the leasing of physical assets (e.g., computers, real prop-
erty, ships, aircraft), and which are not owned or controlled 
by a U.S. financial institution, are not reportable under the 
nonbank program. However, such activities are reportable when 

1125 
-21-
they are undertaken by nonbank financial institutions. These 
institutions should report the book value of any physical 
assets leased to foreigners on the appropriate line of the 
quarterly form they file with their Federal Reserve Bank. 
H. Investment in Certain Foreign Insurance Ventures 
Net investment in foreign insurance ventures should be reported 
as such wherever possible. In the case of any such ventures in 
vhich there is no segregated net investment, the U.S. insurance 
company may exclude from its foreign assets investments within 
the foreign country involved, in amounts up to 110 per cent of 
reserves accumulated on insurance sold to residents of that 
country, or (if it is larger) the minimum deposit of cash or 
securities required as a condition of doing insurance business 
within that country. 
I. Long-Term Credits to Developlng-Country Businesses 
Institutions are requested to discuss with their Federal Reserve 
Bank in advance any future long-term loans or direct security 
placements that would involve extensions of credit of $500,000 
or more to private business borrowers located in the developing 
countries. 
J. Reporting Requirement 
Each nonbank financial institution holding, on any quarterly 
reporting date, covered assets of $500,000 or more, or total 
foreign financial assets of $5 million or more, is requested to 

1126 
-21-
file a statistical report covering its total holdings on that 
date with the Federal Reserve Bank of the Federal Reserve 
district in which its principal office is located. The reports 
are due within 20 days following the close of each calendar 
quarter, and forms may be obtained by contacting the Federal 
Reserve Bank. 
Institutions with holdings below these levels, although not 
requested to file formal reports, are also expected to abide 
by the provisions of the program. 
Covered Assets in Excess of Ceiling 
Some institutions increased, rather than reduced, their holdings 
of covered assets in 1968. In most such instances, there may 
have been special circumstances--such as inability to reduce 
existing investments by enough to offset new investments made 
to honor long-standing firm commitments or to accommodate 
requests for bona fide and essential financing of U.S. exports. 
Nevertheless, every institution whose December 31, 1968, hold-
ings of covered assets exceeded its adjusted base-date holdings 
should review its situation with its Federal Reserve Bank with 
a view to working out an individually tailored program for 
eliminating the excess during 1969. 
In view of the balance of payments objectives of the program, 
it is noted that covered investments of nonbank financial insti-
tutions may be permitted to exceed the guideline ceiling to the 

1127 
-21-
extent that the funds for such investment are borrowed abroad 
for investment in the same country or in countries that are 
subject to the same or more liberal guideline limitations. 
Thus, funds borrowed in the developed countries of continental 
Western Europe may be used to finance investments in these 
countries and elsewhere, and funds borrowed in other developed 
countries (except Canada and Japan) may be used to finance 
investment in covered foreign assets anywhere but in the 
developed countries of continental Western Europe. Any insti-
tution desiring to offset foreign borrowing against foreign 
investment, however, should discuss its plans with the Federal 
Reserve Bank before entering into such an arrangement. 
Note.--Developed countries other than Canada and Japan: 
continental 
Western Europe--Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal 
Republic), Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, 
Norway, Portugal, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland; other 
developed countries are: Abu Dhabi, Australia, the Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bermuda, Hong Kong, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Kuwait, Kuwait-Saudi Arabia 
Neutral Zone, Libya, New Zealand, Qatar, Republic of South Africa, 
Saudi Arabia, and the United Kingdom. Also to be considered "developed" 
are the following countries: Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic 
of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Estonia, Hungary, Communist-controlled 
Korea, Latvia, Lithuania, Outer Mongolia, Poland (including any area 
under its provisional administration), Rumania, Soviet Zone of Germany 
and the Soviet sector of Berlin, Tibet, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics and the Kurile Islands, Southern Sakhalin, and areas in East 
Prussia which are under the provisional administration of the Union of 
Soviet Socialist Republics, and Communist-controlled Vietnam. 
