MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 19, 1969 

G12 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, February 19, 1969. The Board met in the 
Board Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 1/ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Retirement System—Board member participation. 
Reference 
w
as made to a memorandum from Mr. Sherman dated February 5, 1969, 
regarding the arrangements under which Governor Mitchell retired 
in 1961 under the Bank Plan of the Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks, at which time he assumed his duties as a member of 
Board of Governors and enrolled in the Civil Service Retirement 
Disability Fund. In retiring from the Bank Plan, he elected a 
deferred annuity option with certain conversion privileges to be 
e
*ercised upon attainment of age 65. Governor Mitchell's present 
t e
rm as a member of the Board would run until January 31, 1976. 
However, he would reach age 65 later during the current month, and 
reasons cited in the memorandum he had raised the question whether 
Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

2/19/69 
-2-
the Board would object to his transferring from the Civil Service 
Retirement System to the Board Plan if such a transfer could be effected 
on a basis satisfactory to him and consistent with the Rules and Regu-
lations of the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks. 
In considering the question presented on behalf of Governor 
Mitchell, it was noted that his transfer to the Board Plan would differ 
in certain material respects from that effected by Governor Daane in 
April 1968. 
Specifically, because he would reach age 65 later this 
month, Governor Mitchell would be required under the Rules and Regulations 
°f the Retirement System to obtain from the Board an annual request to the 
Retirement System that he continue in service, for a total of not more 
than five years following attainment of age 65. As an alternative to 
making such annual requests of the Retirement System, the Board might 
• -W 
i 
seek a waiver of the provision in section 3(1) of the Rules and Regulations 
for a period of five years or until Governor Mitchell ceased to serve as 
a
 member of the Board, no later than January 31, 1976. 
(Governor Mitchell 
had indicated that in his view an annual request in the case of a Board 
member serving under Presidential appointment would not be appropriate and 
that it would not be acceptable to him.) 
Any extension of more than five 
Vears beyond age 65 would also involve an amendment to the Retirement 
System provision fixing 70 as a maximum age for any Federal Reserve 

617 
2/19/69 
-3-
In response to a question concerning the age limitation applicable 
to Reserve Bank Presidents, reference was made to the Board's letter of 
January 6, 1966, 
to the Chairmen of all Federal Reserve Banks. 
In that 
letter the Board expressed the belief that in the absence of exceptional 
circumstances the principle of retirement upon attainment of age 65 
should be extended to Presidents and First Vice Presidents. 
Previously 
the Board's general view had been that the statutory terms provided in 
the Federal Reserve Act should govern the date for retirement of Presidents 
First Vice Presidents unless some other arrangement was made at the 
time of the Board's approval of the appointment. 
It was also noted that in the case of members of the Board of 
Governors who were members of the Civil Service Retirement System a 
differe 
nt situation existed. That is, a Board member could serve until 
the end of the term for which he had been appointed unless he reached 
a
8e 70 and in addition had completed 15 years or more of creditable 
s e
rvice in the Civil Service Retirement System, in which event he was 
s';h ,J> .... 
• 
., . 
.. 
. .,->,.•,,... 
subject to the mandatory retirement provision of section 8335 of Title 5 
o f
 the U.S. Code. 
JPi'Oicf;,,^ : 
n.j W 
, 
d u 
^ 
. uuor. 
Following a discussion of the differences between Governor 
Mitchell's situation and that of Governor Daane, there was unanimous 
. . . 
a
8reement on the part of the members of the Board present that the Board 
s
hould not request the Retirement System to waive the provision in the 
^
u
les and Regulations specifying that a member may be retained in service 

€15 
2/19/69 
-4-
only on a year-to-year basis for a maximum of five years following 
:
 ' * 
! 
s 
attainment of age 65, nor would it look favorably on making an annual 
request for extension of service by a member of the Board in view of 
the nature of a Presidential appointment. The Board also unanimously 
agreed that it would not seek in any way to have the maximum age 
limitation for service under the Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks extended beyond age 70. 
Z 0 C i, « 
. 
The foregoing decision reflected a unanimous view that (1) no 
special benefits should be asked for any Board member under the 
Retirement System, (2) there should be no provision for extension past 
a
8e 70 of service by an officer or employee under the Rules and Regu-
Nations of the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks, and 
(3) if 
the Board or any Reserve Bank desired to retain a member of its 
O r
ganization belonging to either the Bank Plan or the Board Plan past 
the normal retirement age of 65, that should be done in accordance 
w
ith the provision in section 3(1) of the Rules and Regulations requiring 
that such extension be requested one year at a time. The view was also 
.. to 
... , 
e x
Pressed that in the case of a Board member serving under a Presidential 
jr>«. ; 
, 
•, 
, 
| 
, 
. 
. 
. i 
a
Ppointment it would not be appropriate for the Board to pass upon the 
U a U t 
. 
• 
, , . 
. . . 
question from time to time as to whether the member should in fact continue 
0
 serve under such appointment. 
% 
.. . v, 
. . . 
There was also further reference to the applicability of section 8335 
Title 5 of the U.S. Code providing that an employee who is a member of 

2/19/69 
-5-
the Civil Service Retirement System and who becomes 70 years of age 
and has completed 15 years of creditable service shall be automatically 
separated from service unless extended by the President by executive 
order. 
Some Board members felt that members of the Board should comply 
with the spirit of that provision of the law, which would mean that if 
a member of the Board had become a member of the Board Plan of the 
Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks he should be automatically 
retired wh 
en he had acquired 15 years or more of creditable service under 
the Board Plan and had attained age 70. 
In the course of the discussion, question was raised as to 
w h
y the Rules and Regulations of the Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks should not be amended to permit a member who so desired 
to defer his annuity to any date he might elect up to age 70, whether 
he retired or continued beyond age 65 as an employee in extended service, 
was noted that no service credit in the Bank Plan of the Federal 
eserve Retirement System could be obtained for any employment beyond 
a
8e 65 and that instances in which an employee or retiree might wish 
, > » 
. 
k'V ' • • i 
- 
. 5 • 
0
 defer the start of his annuity past age 65 would no doubt be rare, 
^t was also felt that both for administrative purposes and in the 
^ 8 h t of Treasury Department regulations, consideration should not be 
8 i v
e n to deferring the start of annuities beyond attainment of age 70 
ky the member. 
However, there appeared to be no disadvantage to the 
^
e t
irement System in permitting a deferred annuity to become payable 

617 
2/19/69 
-6-
at an age up to a maximum of 70, rather than the present normal 
retirement age of 65. On the contrary, the view was expressed that 
a provision along those lines would increase the flexibility of the 
Retirement System without adding appreciably, if at all, to its 
costs. Such an option would offer a partial solution to the problems 
visualized by Governor Mitchell, who for various reasons wished to 
. _ 
,, v, 
; 
,,vt 
. 
. s 
delay receipt of his annuity under the Bank Plan until he ceased to 
be a member of the Board. 
- > .. 
.. v.; Kt .1 ' 
• , 
After discussion, there was unanimous agreement on the part 
the members of the Board that Governor Maisel, as the Board's 
representative on the Board of Trustees of the Retirement System, 
should cause the Retirement System to look into an amendment of the 
Rules and Regulations that would permit any member of the Retirement 
S
ystem who might select a deferred annuity to have the payment of that 
annuity commence not later than age 70. 
Governor Mitchell joined the meeting at this point and the 
following staff members also entered: 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 

2/19/69 
-7-
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard and Miss Ormsby of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Doyle of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Lawrence and Ducy of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Kline of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
'^•Hv-r:: 
f 
, V-v; r •.:• vr.-. ; ' ? \ : •:Y: f. i -i. : 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
I o \-o 
j • » 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Johnson County National 
*..•« ;>tt. 
^ •* j,\
 
1
 !.!%?, 
0 
i 
.. 
I t: - i.. ' -.v. o 
®
a
nk and Trust Company, Prairie Village, Kansas, with Johnson County 
' 
V 
^nk. \ Tr*'- f 
. ' \:. > • • i ;. 
r 
:' i * : , 
Sank, National Association, Prairie Village, Kansas, was approved 
• can*.. 
usly for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
c
°nclusion stating that consummation of the proposed merger (which was 
Merely a transaction to facilitate acquisition of The Johnson County 
^
a t
ional Bank and Trust Company by Johnson County Bankshares, Inc., 
- 
• , 
i > 
Michigan 
a
 newly-formed holding company) would have no adverse competitive 
e f
fects. 

2/19/69 
-8-
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Milam National Bank, Houston, Texas, with Houston National 
Bank, Houston, Texas, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion stating that consummation 
of the proposed merger (which was merely a transaction to facilitate 
the acquisition of Houston National Bank by Houston National Company, a 
newly-formed holding company) would have no adverse competitive effects 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Crocker-Citizens National Bank, San Francisco, California, 
with Crocker Bank, National Association, San Francisco, California, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency, the conclusion stating that consummation of the proposed 
m e
rger (which was merely a transaction to facilitate the acquisition 
°f Crocker-Citizens National Bank by Crocker National Corporation, a 
newly-formed holding company) would have no adverse competitive effects 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
m e
rger of The Bank of Gibsonville, Gibsonville, North Carolina, into 
First-Citizens Bank & Trust Company, Smithfield, North Carolina, was 
p r o v e d unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, the conclusion stating that the proposed merger would 
* 
VJ. , 
. 
. • . 
i • . 
•. 
'• '- 
'<{.,< I '•> 
Jy 
»• t. ,'.. . ; . 4 
, ..I T 
... .*; i 
11 i t ! 
I 
S l i t f. , 
ft • f i. «.. t 
have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
m e
rger of The Union State Bank of Laingsburg, Laingsburg, Michigan, 

617 
2/19/69 
-9-
into Clinton National Bank and Trust Company, St. Johns, Michigan, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, 
the conclusion reading as follows: 
The proposed merger of The Union State Bank of 
Laingsburg and Citizens National Bank and Trust Company, 
St. Johns, would eliminate a small amount of competition 
which exists between them. Overall, the effect of the 
proposal on competition would be slightly adverse. 
Policy record entries. With a memorandum dated February 17, 
1969, Mr. Broida had submitted for final review entries covering 
Policy actions taken by the Federal Open Market Committee at its meetings 
°n November 26 and December 17, 1968. The entries had been approved by 
the Board on January 30, 1969, and the material now submitted reflected 
°ne additional change that had been proposed in the record relating to 
the December 17 meeting. 
The Board authorized release of the policy record entries on 
February 24, 1969. 
Nassau branches. There had been made available a draft of 
P
r
ess statement in which would be announced the Board's approval (on 
February 18, 1969), by majority vote, of the applications of 14 institu-
tions for permission to establish branch facilities in Nassau, Bahamas. 
However, dissenting statements by Governors Robertson and Brimmer, which 
W e
r e to be included in the press statement, had not as yet been completed. 
since there were suggestions for certain 
of the statement citing reasons for the 
On that account, and 
m
°
d
ifications in the portion 

2/19/69 
-10-
af firmative action on the applications, it was agreed to bring the 
matter back for final authorization tomorrow. 
Bank holding company legislation. Today's further discussion 
of i ssues involved in proposed one-bank holding company legislation was 
y \ «.. ; r.v - . 
j 
. [ , 
- 
• • • 
conducted against the background of a variety of materials that had 
: t ; . . . • . . r . . 
... - ; 
; 
now become available to the Board. These included a new paper from the 
Treasury with regard to the legislative proposal being prepared within 
that 
Department as well as papers from Board members and Board staff 
dealing mainly with the effort to evolve a statement of principles 
°n which the Board members could agree with respect to amendments to the 
Bank Holding Company Act. 
The discussion was directed primarily to the proposed statement 
Principles, and a number of questions were raised, and suggestions 
made, by Board members, particularly Governor Robertson. In respect to 
S - C C v i ; ... 
?,vj nub^iihiiC! fo" 
l-'V^V 
V • 
' l" • 
number of the matters brought up by Governor Robertson, it appeared 
y , 
that through redrafting a reconcilement could be achieved that would be 
satisfa 
ctory to the Board as a whole. As pointed out by the Chairman, 
however, in addition to an apparent conflict of opinion with respect to 
n e
 acceptability of a grandfather clause in one-bank holding company 
^•
e
gislation, two major issues remained to be resolved. One issue 
r e
lated to the extent to which it was conceived that a broadening of 
a c
tivities should be permitted within a bank holding company framework, 
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
. 
! 
: 
. . . . . 
. . . 
., 
. 
; 

2/19/69 
-11-
either pursuant to statutory provisions or implementing regulations. 
The second issue related to whether, and if so in what terms, recognition 
should be given in the statement of principles to fragmentation of 
administrative responsibility among the Federal banking agencies as an 
alternative—though certainly from the Board's viewpoint a less attractive 
alternative—to concentration of authority in a single agency. 
Whether 
language could be devised to encompass satisfactorily the views of all 
members of the Board on those two issues was not entirely clear. 
Nevertheless, at the Chairman's suggestion it was understood 
that further redrafting of the statement would be undertaken with a 
view to reaching a decision by tomorrow, if possible, on a document that 
c
ould be sent to the Treasury and other interested parties and released 
to the press. 
Regulation D. 
In a memorandum of February 18, 1969, Mr. Hackley 
recommended that there be published for comment amendments to Regulation D, 
Reserves of Member Banks, designed to preclude what appeared to be 
unwarranted reductions in reserve requirements that were being achieved 
by some banks through the use of certain accounting procedures in the 
transfer of Eurodollars. Attention had been drawn to the alleged practices 
letters from an officer of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with 
ICf, .i'V.< sa'T. . i:
:
> •h 'M.'u 
the suggestion that corrective action be taken. 
In another memorandum of the same date the Office of the 
iut- 
• 
; , 
• col 
i c..'i 
r, f u-t 
! 
q c
retary endorsed the proposal but noted that the amendments, while 

2/19/69 
-12-
relatively modest in their potential real impact, might have psychological 
repercussions of a policy nature. Therefore, their announcement and 
implementation should be timed with such a possibility in mind. 
During a discussion of the matter Governor Robertson expressed 
a degree of uneasiness as to whether there existed a full understanding 
of the alleged practices and their implications; he suggested, as an 
alternative to immediate publication of the proposed amendments for 
comment, further exploratory conversations with the banks believed to 
he principally involved. Governor Daane likewise expressed some appre-
hension about the proposal, mainly because of the sensitive state of 
had 
• ' ; 
i\ ..'..!••:;. .• .1 
r^ce-it ertp t • tfuroo'i, iollo^in^ " 
the Eurodollar market and because he felt that the Board's action, 
' - . 
Si) ' 
,; :. 
... • ' 
(', 1 .' Lv.i i rd } 
i'i•.l&.'d :' ' . •' ' 
i 
•' 
A ' 
' • 
- ' 
' 
although intended to be relatively limited in scope, might be interpreted 
•} if 
'".it/ i of t. h ii VvQ^arilzat 
Ion 
i\>c 
as indicating more broadly an attitude on the part of the Federal Reserve 
toward the Eurodollar market. 
Other members of the Board were inclined to view the situation 
a s
 one in which exploratory discussions probably had gone as far as 
c
ould be considered proper in the circumstances. 
In their opinion 
Publication of the proposed amendments for comment appeared to be the 
m
°st satisfactory way in which to ascertain whether there were reasons 
^hy such amendments should not be adopted. 
Accordingly, Governors Robertson and Daane having made known 
their reservations, publication of the proposed amendments for comment 
V a s
 authorized, with the understanding, however, that the Secretary and 

2/19/69 
-13-
other appropriate members of the staff would have latitude, after 
conferring further with the Manager and Special Manager of the System 
Open Market Account, to determine a time that would seem propitious for 
such publication. 
Some of the staff members listed earlier in these minutes as 
having been present had prior to this stage already left the meeting, 
and from this point forward the meeting continued with a further restriction 
on staff attendance. 
Reports on meetings abroad. Governor Daane reported on interna-
tional financial matters that had been discussed at meetings in which he 
had participated during his recent trip to Europe, following which 
Mr. Solomon (Adviser to the Board) summarized a meeting he had attended 
of Working Party 3 of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and 
Development. 
< i 
The meeting then adjourned. 
