MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 23, 1970 

3 2 3 4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, November 23, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Metzger and Miss Ryon of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Weekly review. The weekly economic and financial review was 
presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the 
review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of 
the individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then commented on the status of pertinent legislative 
matters. 
1./ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

3 2 3 5 
11/23/70 
-2-
After discussion based on the reports that had been presented, 
members of the staff who had attended for the purpose of the weekly 
review left the room and other staff members, including Messrs. O'Connell, 
General Counsel, Sanders, Assistant General Counsel, Solomon, Director, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation, and Lyon, Assistant Director 
of that Division, entered. 
Discount window procedures. On October 1, 1970, the Board 
had considered but deferred action with respect to the following 
recommendations made by the Conference of Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks: 
1. That, after appropriate amendments to Regulation A, 
Advances and Discounts by Federal Reserve Banks, the 
Reserve Banks (a) use a uniform lending agreement 
substantially in the form prepared by an Ad Hoc Sub-
committee of Counsel on Discounts and Credits, and 
(b) include in their circulars relating to discounts 
and credits provisions substantially in the form of 
uniform provisions prepared by the Ad Hoc Subcommittee; 
2. That the Reserve Banks collect interest on 
advances at the time of repayment instead of computing 
and charging interest on a discount basis, and that all 
discount rate changes be made immediately applicable to 
outstanding loans. 
The Board had directed that the Reserve Banks be alerted 
informally to the likelihood that the foregoing proposals would be 
adopted shortly, probably in mid-November, and in the course of a 
telephone conference call with Reserve Bank discount officers on 
October 8 it was agreed that in order to provide sufficient lead 
time all of the proposals should be made effective February 4, 1971. 

3Z3S 
11/23/70 
-3-
With a memorandum dated November 6, 1970, Mr. Hackley submitted 
(1) a draft of Federal Register notice of the adoption of amendments 
to Regulation A to eliminate language implying the need for (a) sub-
mission of a formal written application and (b) execution of a 
promissory note in connection with each Reserve Bank advance, and (2) a 
draft of letter to the Reserve Banks advising of the Board's approval 
of the recommendations of the Presidents' Conference, with the under-
standing that the new procedures and practices would become effective 
February 4, 1971. 
In commenting on the matter, Mr. Hackley said it had now been 
suggested that if the Board approved the proposals, a brief press 
release be issued. A draft of such a release was distributed. 
While no objection was indicated, Governor Maisel expressed 
some apprehension that the announcement might be interpreted negatively 
in terms of the prospect for action on the revision of Regulation A 
that had been proposed as a result of the fundamental reappraisal of 
the discount mechanism. 
Governor Mitchell suggested including a 
disclaimer in the press statement, and there was general agreement with 
his suggestion. 
With that understanding, the recommendations referred to in 
Mr. Hackley's memorandum were approved unanimously, the amendments to 
Regulation A being effective immediately. 
Copies of the press release 
in the form in which it was issued, the amendments to Regulation A in 

3237 
11/23/70 
-4-
the form in which they were published in the Federal Register, and 
the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Banks are attached as Items 1, 
2, and 3, respectively. 
Holding company legislation. 
In a letter dated November 19, 
1970, Chairman Patman of the House Banking and Currency Committee noted 
that the House and Senate conferees on H.R. 6778, the bank holding 
company bill, had been meeting for two days to attempt to resolve 
differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. 
According 
to the letter, a majority of the House conferees had proposed, in return 
for dropping the so-called laundry list in the House version, that the 
conference adopt as the standard by which the Federal Reserve Board 
would make determinations in section 4(c)(8) applications the language 
of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 with certain modifications, 
including deletion of the "financial, fiduciary, and insurance" language. 
Mr. Patman also stated that a majority of the House conferees 
would not compromise further than the proposal outlined in the letter in 
connection with the bank-related activities issue. Therefore, he 
requested that the Board advise whether it would prefer to have the one-
bank loophole in the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 removed while 
retaining essentially the standard on section 4(c)(8) applications con-
tained in the 1956 Act or whether it would prefer that no bank holding 
company legislation be enacted during this session of the Congress. 

3238 
11/23/70 
-5-
The compromise to which Chairman Patman referred in his letter 
would amend section 4(c)(8) to read as follows: 
(8) shares of any company the activities of which 
the Board after due notice and opportunity for hearing, 
has determined to be so closely related to the business 
of banking or of managing or controlling banks as to be 
a proper incident thereto and can reasonably be expected 
to produce benefits to the public, such as greater con-
venience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency, 
that outweigh possible adverse effects such as undue 
concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competi-
tion, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices. 
In orders and regulations under this subsection, the 
Board may differentiate between activities commenced 
de novo and activities commenced by the acquisition, in 
whole or in part, of a going concern. 
Before the Board for consideration was a draft of reply to 
Chairman Patman that at the outset referred to the way in which the 
Board had recommended that section 4(c)(8) be revised and outlined 
the process that would be involved in obtaining Board approval for a 
bank holding company to establish a subsidiary to engage in an activity 
determined to be permissible under the standard embodied in such 
language. 
The draft went on to state that the Board believed the same 
results could be achieved under the language enclosed with Mr. Patman's 
letter if changes were made to solve two problems. First, under the 
existing section 4(c)(8) the Board had interpreted the statute as 
requiring a "direct and significant connection" between the activities 
of the proposed subsidiary and those of the subsidiary banks of the 
holding company. 
The Board believed it was desirable to permit entry 

11/23/70 
-6-
by nonbank subsidiaries into markets distinct from those served by 
the subsidiary banks of the holding company, and that was one of the 
reasons it had recommended that "closely related" be changed to 
"functionally related" in the statute. 
It had wanted to avoid per-
petuating the concept that a nonbank subsidiary's business must be 
related to the business of an affiliated bank. 
If the conferees 
preferred to keep "closely related" in the language of the statute, 
the Board's objective would be served by changing the words "the 
business of banking or of managing or controlling banks" to read 
"banking or managing or controlling banks." The Board had in mind 
indicating that a nonbank subsidiary's activities should be related 
to banking (or managing or controlling banks) generally, rather than 
to the specific business carried on by the subsidiary banks of the 
particular holding company involved. 
As a second point, the draft reply expressed the view that the 
la nguage of the statute should make clear that there were two tests 
•. , j 
. , 
to be satisfied in deciding whether nonbank subsidiaries of bank 
holding companies should be allowed to engage in a particular activity: 
(1) whether the activity was closely related to banking, and (2) whether 
it was a proper incident to banking; and that in applying the second 
test the Board was to weigh the possible benefits to the public 
against the risk of adverse consequences. 
The Board believed that 
the language proposed by the House conferees might be misconstrued 

11/23/70 
-7-
to apply three tests: 
(1) whether the activity was closely related; 
(2) whether it was a proper incident to banking; and (3) whether the 
benefits outweighed the risks. To avoid such a possibility, the 
Board suggested the following revision: 
(8) shares of any company the activities of which the 
Board after due notice and opportunity for hearing has 
determined are closely related to banking or managing 
or controlling banks and are a proper incident thereto. 
In determining whether a particular activity is a pro-
per incident to banking or managing or controlling 
banks the Board shall consider whether its performance 
by an affiliate of a holding company can reasonably be 
expected to produce benefits to the public, such as 
greater convenience, increased competition, or gains 
in efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse effects 
such as undue concentration of resources, decreased 
or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, or 
unsound banking practices. 
In orders and regulations 
under this subsection, the Board may differentiate 
between activities commenced de novo and activities 
commenced by the acquisition, in whole or in part, 
of a going concern. 
The draft reply concluded with an expression of view that the 
modifications suggested were in harmony with the proposal Mr. Patman 
had submitted; also, that the Board continued to feel it was important 
to enact one-bank holding company legislation this year rather than to 
start the process over again next year, with all of the uncertainties 
and complications that might be invited. 
As the Board's discussion began, Governor Robertson said that 
he could not approve the proposed reply. 
If the majority of the Board 
did want to send such a letter, he felt that the letter should specify 

3 2 4 1 
11/23/70 
-8-
the authority that the majority believed the law should provide, which 
as he understood it would be authority to allow bank holding companies 
to have, anywhere in the United States, nonbank subsidiaries engaged 
in any business determined to be closely related to banking. 
For his 
own part, he would say simply that it was important to have one-bank 
holding company legislation, but that the majority of the Board believed 
bank holding companies should be permitted to go into businesses closely 
related to banking anywhere in the United States. 
He added, in reply 
to a question, that if the Board went as far as proposed in the draft 
reply, and if the Board's suggestion was not accepted, he did not think 
the Board could construe the law differently from the way in which 
Mr. Patman apparently interpreted it because the correspondence would 
be part of the legislative history. 
Governor Maisel agreed that if the proposed reply were sent 
and the pending legislation were enacted in a form embodying the 
language Mr. Patman had submitted, the Board might well be restricted 
in its interpretation and administration of the new statute. 
He suggested 
modifications in the language of the draft reply that he thought would 
improve the situation. 
They would specify how the Board would interpret 
its authority under the language Mr. Patman had submitted and indicate 
that certain changes, as set forth in the reply, would make the matter 
clearer. 

11/23/70 
-9-
There followed di scussion of the proposed reply against the 
background of the risk that had been mentioned, and Governor Sherrill 
said he thought it was essential, as Governor Maisel had brought out, 
that the Board not get into the position of seeming to endorse the 
language of the House conferees in the way Mr. Patman appeared to 
interpret it. He added that he would rather have no legislation than 
to have the Board's position frozen; the Board should write its reply 
in whatever way was necessary to indicate that it could not accept 
such an interpretation. 
Governor Maisel agreed. 
In a further discussion during which possible revisions in 
pertinent parts of the proposed reply were suggested, other members 
of the Board concurred in the view that the record should not be per-
mitted to stand in such fashion as to make it appear that the Board 
endorsed the House conferees1 version of section 4(c)(8), with 
Mr. Patman's interpretation placed upon it. Eventually there developed 
to be a general measure of agreement around a blending of several 
suggestions for changes in the language of the letter, the net effect 
of which was to say that the Board could accept the language of the 
House conferees because it could be interpreted in a certain way, and 
later to say that in the Board's judgment the modification suggested 
in the reply would serve to clarify the situation and would be in 
harmony with the language submitted with Mr. Patman's letter. 

3253 
11/23/70 
-10-
Certain other suggestions of a less critical nature were also 
agreed upon, and the Chairman then inquired whether the Board members 
would be reasonably satisfied with a reply along such lines. All 
members except Governor Robertson expressed their satisfaction. 
Governor 
Robertson said he would rather have legislation of the type referred to 
in Mr. Patman's letter than no legislation at all, and he would want to 
make that view known. Further, as he had stated earlier, he did not 
believe that bank holding companies should be permitted to establish 
nonbank subsidiaries in markets distinct from those of the company's 
subsidiary banks. 
There followed discussion of the most appropriate manner of 
dealing with Mr. Patman's question whether the Board would prefer having 
the one-bank loophole to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 removed 
while retaining essentially the standard on section 4(c)(8) applications 
contained in the 1956 Act, or whether it wDuld prefer that no legislation 
be enacted during this Congress. 
It was brought out that the difficulty 
of dealing with the question was compounded by the fact that Mr. Patman 
had not asked the Board to express its preference as between language 
favored by the Senate and by the House conferees, but instead had sub-
mitted only the language proposed by the House conferees. 
Agreement was finally reached on a statement that "The Board 
continues to feel it is highly important to enact one-bank holding 

3244 
11/23/70 
-11-
company legislation this year, rather than start the process over again 
next year, with all the uncertainties and complications that might be 
invited." However, several Board members, in agreeing to that statement, 
wanted it made clear in the record of this meeting that their agreement 
should not be understood to mean that they would favor legislation 
incorporating the version of section 4(c)(8) included with Chairman 
Patman's letter except if such language was interpreted in the manner 
specified in the Board's reply. 
Governor Robertson's position was that he agreed only with the 
statement in the proposed reply about the importance of enacting one-
bank holding company legislation this year. 
In the circumstances, 
consideration was given to how Governor Robertson's position might best 
be communicated. 
It was finally agreed, unanimously, that the Board's 
reply to Mr. Patman should conclude with a sentence indicating that one 
member of the Board, Governor Robertson, would "support the language 
attached to your letter without change." 
Accordingly, approval was given to a letter to Chairman Patman 
in the form attached as Item No. 4, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance, including Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices. 
>' 
i i •) ' '< •"•«. 
Director appointments. 
The following actions were taken with 
respect to the appointment of a Class C director at a Federal Reserve 

3245 
11/23/70 
-12-
Bank and the appointment of directors at certain Federal Reserve Bank 
branches, with the understanding that advice of the appointments would 
be sent to the respective appointees at an appropriate time, should 
they prove to be available for service, and that public announcement 
would be made near the end of the year in accordance with the usual 
practice: 
It was agreed to ascertain through the Chairman of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago whether John W. Baird, 
President, Baird & Warner, Chicago, Illinois, would accept 
appointment, if tendered, as a Class C director of the 
Bank for the three-year term beginning January 1, 1971, 
with the understanding that if it were found that 
Mr. Baird would accept, the appointment would be made. 
It was agreed to ascertain through the Chairman of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland whether Robert E. 
Kirby, President, Industry and Defense Products, 
Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, would accept appointment, if tendered, 
as a director of the Pittsburgh Branch for the three-
year term beginning January 1, 1971, with the under-
standing that if it were found that Mr. Kirby would 
accept, the appointment would be made. 
It was agreed to ascertain through the Chairman of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta whether David Mathews, 
President, University of Alabama, University, Alabama, 
would accept appointment as a director of the Birming-
ham Branch and whether James W. Long, Farmer, Spring-
field, Tennessee, would accept appointment as a 
director of the Nashville Branch, each for a three-
year term beginning January 1, 1971, with the under-
standing that if it were found that they would accept, 
the appointments would be made. 
(Note: 
It having been ascertained that acceptances 
would be forthcoming, appointment telegrams were 
sent to the persons listed above.) 

3246 
11/23/70 
-13-
Parsons Group banks. Governor Robertson reported that some 
action would have to be taken within the next few weeks with respect 
to the Birmingham-Bloomfield Bank, Birmingham, Michigan, a nonmember 
insured bank of the so-called Parsons Group, but that there were 
differences of opinion within the Board of Directors of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation concerning the most appropriate solution. 
In brief, the options appeared to be (1) to bring about a merger of 
the institution with a large Detroit bank, (2) to set up a new bank 
to assume deposits and take over acceptable assets of the present bank, 
or (3) to put together a package of assistance to the present bank that 
would enable it to continue in business. 
Although details as to what would be involved in the third 
alternative were not available, several members of the Board indicated 
that, based on what was known, they would not be inclined to favor it, 
particularly since it was understood that such a program might involve 
a credit commitment on the part of the Federal Reserve for an indeterminate 
period of time. c. 
Turning to Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, Governor 
Robertson reported that the situation was virtually unchanged and that an 
ultimate solution had not yet appeared. 
However, the situation was not 
such as to necessitate making fundamental decisions immediately. 
Governor Robertson then reported having been advised by 
President Mayo of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago that the directors 

. ViV 
3247 
f 
11/23/70 
-14-
of the Reserve Bank and the Detroit Branch, who were to meet jointly 
on the ninth of December, had expressed interest in having a representa-
tive of the Board of Governors discuss the Bank of the Commonwealth 
problem with them in view of the member bank's continued reliance on 
the discount window. 
Although members of the Board expressed confidence that 
Governor Robertson could hold a discussion with the directors within 
appropriate confines, certain risks that might be involved in under-
taking such a discussion were noted. Accordingly, it was understood 
that Governor Robertson would talk with President Mayo again and 
spell out the nature of the problems that were felt to be involved 
before reaching a decision on whether to meet with the directors. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Holland withdrew from the 
meeting at this point. 
Chairman Burns, who had met with the President on Friday, 
November 20, concerning economic and financial developments and economic 
y \ . 
f 
. 
; i. ' •'. "U: . 
i i • ' 
policies relevant thereto, summarized that meeting for the benefit of the 
other members of the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
<7$ySecretary 

O'a.nY'1,. 
•f^UKt^;.' 
f 5 ? 6 S i - 
r e l e d s e 
For immediate release 
Item No. 1 
11/23/70 
December 1, 1970 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today its approval of several changes in procedures under which member 
banks borrow funds from the System. 
These changes, to be put into effect early next year, are 
of a technical and procedural nature and are designed to simplify and 
update present practices. 
They reflect no change in the Federal Reserve's 
general credit and monetary policies and are not related to the funda-
mental reappraisal of the discount mechanism which the System still has 
under consideration. 
The changes will: 
1. Eliminate regulatory language that implies that a formal 
written application must be submitted and a promissory note must be 
executed in connection with each borrowing by a member bank from a 
Federal Reserve Bank. Attached is a copy of an amendment to Regulation A 
(Advances and Discounts by Federal Reserve Banks) to effect this change. 
2. Permit the use of "continuing lending agreements" as a 
substitute for the formal application and promissory note. A member 
bank would be obliged unconditionally to repay all advances made pursuant 
to the agreement without the necessity of filing the written application 
and promissory note in eacli case. 
3. Permit the Reserve Banks to collect interest on borrowings 
by member banks at the time of repayment--the accrual method--instead of 
deducting interest at the time the borrowing is made. 
4. Make any change in the discount rate applicable to all 
outstanding borrowings. 
-0-

32 M) 
Item No. 2 
11/23/70 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
/ ' ' 
• 
... 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. A] 
PART 201--ADVANCES AND DISCOUNTS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Elimination of References to Notes and Applications 
1. Effective immediately, Part 201 is amended in 
the following respects: 
Paragraph (c) of £ 201.2 is amended to read as follows: 
"(c) Advances on other security under section 10(b) of the 
jjgtigral. Reserve Act. Any Federal Reserve Bank may make advances, under 
authority of section 10(b) of the Federal Reserve Act, tc any of its 
Member banks if secured to the satisfaction of such Federal Reserve 
Bank regardless of whether the collateral offered as security conforms 
t o eligibility requirements under other provisions of this Part. 
The 
r ate on advances made under the provisions of this paragraph shall in 
n o event be less than one-half of 1 per cent per annum higher than the 
highest rate applicable to discounts for member banks under the provisions 
sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act in effect at such 
Federal Reserve Bank. 
Such an advance must be repayable either (1) on 
a <lef ini te date not more than four months after the date of such advance, 
or ( 2) at the option of the Reserve Bank on or before a definite date 
riot rcore than four months after the date of such advance." 

3 ^ 5 0 
-2-
. 
I 
Paragraph (a) of § 201.4 is amended to read as follows; 
"( a) Representations by member banks. A member bank requesting 
Reserve Bank credit shall be deemed to represent and guarantee (1) that 
is not acting as the medium or agent of a nonmember bank in receiving 
c~edit from a Reserve Bank except in accordance with the provisions of 
^ i s Part, and (2) that, except as to credit granted under 5 201.2(c), 
a s long as the credit is outstanding no obligor on paper tendered as 
collateral or for discount will be indebted to it in. an amount exceeding 
/ 
the limitations in section 5200 of the Revised Statutes, which for this 
Purpose shall be deemed to apply to State member as well as national 
banks." 
2a. The purpose of these amendments is to facilitate a 
simplification of procedures with respect to extensions of Reserve 
Bank credit by elimination of regulatory language that implies that 
a formal written application must be submitted by a member bank in 
c°nnection with each borrowing from a Reserve Bank and that a promis-
note must be executed in connection with each such borrowing. 
Th 
lG amendments are essentially of a procedural and technical nature 
and reflect no change in the Federal Reserve System's general credit 
monetary policies. 
b. These amendments were adopted by the Board without 
following the procedures prescribed in section 553 of Title 5, United 
Statec Code, relating to notice, public participation, and deferred 
Cf f o * • 
receive date, since notice and public participation would have been 

unnecessary and would have served no useful purpose and since the 
amendments relieve restrictions in present regulations of the Board. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 23, 1970, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
[SEAL] 

3 2 5 2 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 3 
11/23/70 
Z-7243 (On office 
copies only) 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
November 25, 1970. 
The Board has considered and concurs in the action taken by 
Conference of Presidents at its meeting on June 22, 1970, recom-
mending that, after appropriate amendments to Regulation A, the Federal 
eserve Banks (a) use a uniform lending agreement substantially in the 
orm submitted by the Ad Hoc Subcommittee of Counsel on Discounts and 
Credits with its Report of Hay 20, 1970, and (b) include in their cir-
^jjlars relating to discounts and credits provisions substantially in 
ae form of the provisions of the draft of a circular also submitted 
y the Ad Hoc Subcommittee with its Report. 
In the light of comments, 
h e Ad Hoc Subcommittee of Counsel has suggested a minor change in 
Paragraph 2 of the proposed lending agreement and minor changes in 
le footnote on page 2, the third sentence of paragraph 3(a), and the 
Th 
l i n e 
P a r agraph 4(c) of the draft of uniform circular provisions, 
ese changes are incorporated in the enclosed copies of revised drafts 
the two documents. 
R 
In order to facilitate adoption of the new procedure; the 
°ard has adopted amendments to Regulation A that would eliminate 
hK 
t 0 aPPll c a tl° n forms and promissory notes. A copy of 
ese amendments in the form sent to the Federal Register is enclosed, 
ease have the amendments printed in the usual slip-sheet form for 
lstribution in your District after December 1, 1970. 
t. 
The Board has again considered and now approves recommenda-
, ° n s made by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting on June 23, 
( a ) that all Reserve Banks accrue interest on advances and collect 
^ c h interest at the time of repayment instead of computing and charging 
all r G S t o n a discount basis at the time of the advance, and (b) that 
^ 
discount rate changes be made immediately applicable to outstanding 
a n s* 
These recommendations would be effectuated by inclusion in the 

3253 
- 2 -
uniform circulars of the Reserve Banks of a paragraph substantially 
like paragraph 5 of the enclosed revised draft of uniform circular 
provisions. 
It would seem desirable that the effective date for adoption 
of use of a continuing lending agreement in lieu of formal applications 
and promissory notes be deferred for a reasonable period in order to 
allow adequate time not only for printing but for the staffs of the 
Reserve Banks to familiarize themselves with the new procedures and 
to acquaint member banks with such procedures. 
The Board believes 
that February 4, 1971, might be an appropriate date for uniform in-
auguration of the new procedures at all Reserve Banks. The revised 
circulars and bulletins of the Reserve Banks, although issued in ad-
vance, might also be made effective as of that date. 
Similarly, it 
v'ould seem appropriate to make the change in practice with respect 
to interest on advances applicable to advances made after February 4, 
1971. 
Enclosed is a copy of a press statement regarding this 
Matter that the Board plans to release on December 1, 1970. 
It is 
assumed that the Reserve Banks will inform member banks of the changes 
procedure and practice well in advance of their effective date. 
Very truly yours, 
^ 
/ 
' 
Kenneth A. Kcnyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Encl osures 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
•

3254 
REVISED DRAFT 
11/6/70 
Federal Reserve Bank of 
No. 
AGREEMENT 
REGARDING ADVANCES BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF 
1. The undersigned member bank (hereafter called "the member 
bank") promises to pay to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
(hereafter called "the Reserve Bank") the amount of each advance made 
Pursuant to this Agreement by the Reserve Bank to the member bank at 
the maturity date thereof, as such amount and maturity date are speci-
fied j.n an advice of credit prepared and transmitted by the Reserve 
Bank to the member bank at the time of such advance, subject to all 
Provisions of this Agreement and to all applicable terms and conditions 
set forth in the Reserve Bank's Operating Circulars, Regulation A of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal 
Reserve Act. The member bank further promises to pay interest on each 
Such advance at the rate and in the manner provided in the Reserve 
Bank's Operating Circulars and Supplements thereto. 
2. The member bank authorizes the Reserve Bank to charge 
fche member bank's reserve account with the amount of each advance and 
interest thereon at or after its maturity. 
3. As security for the payment of each advance when due, 
the member bank pledges to the Reserve Bank the collateral agreed upon 

3255 
-2-
by the member bank and the Reserve Bank. Such collateral is also 
pledged by the member bank as security for all other liabilities of 
such bank due or to become due to the Reserve Bank or which may be 
acquired by the Reserve Bank, 
4. As further security for the payment of each advance, 
the Reserve Bank shall have a lien upon, or security interest in, all 
property (tangible and intangible) of the member bank in the possession 
or under the control of the Reserve Bank, including but not limited to 
items in process of collection and the proceeds thereof and any balance 
to the credit of the member bank with the Reserve Bank. 
5. Upon the request of the Reserve Bank, the member bank 
will substitute collateral or pledge such additional collateral as 
the Reserve Bank may deem necessary for its protection. 
6 C 
In the event of nonpayment of any advance when due or 
upon failure of the member bank to comply with a request by the Reserve 
Bank for substitute or additional collateral, the Reserve Bank shall 
have fill the rights of a secured creditor, including the right to sell 
all or any part of the collateral at public or private sale without 
demand upon or notice to the member bank (except such notice as may 
ho required by applicable statute and may not be waived) and to become 
the purchaser of the whole or any part of such collateral, free from 
any equity of redemption and from all other claims to the extent per-
mitted by applicable statute. After deduction of all expenses, the 
Proceeds of such collateral may be applied by the Reserve Bank to the 

3256 
-3-
payment of such advance and of all other liabilities of the member 
bank to the Reserve Bank, and any surplus then remaining shall be 
paid to the member bank. 
7. Any advance made pursuant to this Agreement shall become 
immediately due and payable, without demand or notice, upon (a) the 
failure of the member bank to perform any agreement hereunder or to 
pay any liability of the member bank to the Reserve Bank when due; 
or (b) the insolvency of, or the appointment of a receiver for, the 
member bank; or (c) the suspension or closing of the member bank, or 
the taking possession of its business, by any governmental authority. 
8. Upon the happening of any event described in paragraph 7 
of this Agreement, the Reserve Bank shall have the right to set off 
against the amount of any advance any indebtedness of the Reserve 
Bank to the member bank, whether or not due. 
(Name of member bank) 
(Address) 
Date: 
By 
(Authorized officer) 

8257 
REVISED DRAFT 
11/6/70 
Federal Reserve Bank of 
Operating Circular No. 
(Revised 
, 1970) 
ADVANCES AND DISCOUNTS 
To iiember Banks in the 
Federal Reserve District: 
This Circular sets forth the general terras and conditions 
under which we may extend credit accommodations to member banks and 
the procedures to be followed in connection with extensions of such 
accommodations. All references in this Circular to us apply equally 
to each of our branches, and it is suggested that member banks located 
in a territory served by a branch request credit accommodations from 
the branch. 
[This sentence would of course be omitted by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Boston and Philadelphia and might require modifica-
tion in the case of some other Reserve Banks.] 
.^inds of credit; accommodations 
1. Under provisions of the Federal Reserve Act (hereafter 
called "the Act"), and subject to Regulation A of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System (12 C.F.R. Part 201) and in the light of 
the general principles set forth in the foreword to that Regulation, we 
a^e authorised to make credit available to member banks by the following 
^eans: 

3258 
-2-
(a) We may make advances to a member bank, pursuant to 
section 13 of the Act, for periods not exceeding 90 days," on the 
security of obligations of, or fully guaranteed by, the United States 
or any agency of the United States. 
(b) We may make advances to a member bank, pursuant to 
section 13 of the Act, for periods not exceeding 90 days," on the 
security of any paper eligible for discount or for purchase by the 
Reserve Banks under provisions of the Federal Reserve Act. 
(c) We may make advances to a member bank, pursuant to 
section 10(b) of the Act, for periods not to exceed four months, 
secured to our satisfaction, whether or not the collateral meets the 
requirements of paragraphs (a) or (b) above. 
However, the rate on 
such advances must be at least one-half of 1 per cent higher than 
the highest rate applicable to discounts of or advances on eligible 
paper. 
(d) We may discount customers' paper of a member bank, 
Pursuant to sections 13 and 13a of the Act, that meets the "eligi-
bility" requirements set forth in section 201.3 of Regulation A. 
£ontinuinr> lending agreement 
2. 
In general, we will make advances to a member bank pursuant 
to a continuing lending agreement (our Form 
) to be executed by a 
— - — 
i 
It is expected, however, that advances normally will be for snorter 
Periods commensurate with the period of time Federal Reserve credit is 
actually needed. 
m:> 

3259 
-3-
duly authorized officer of the member bank; and particular advances 
pursuant to such agreement will be evidenced by an advice of credit, 
transmitted to the member bank at the time of the particular advance, 
specifying the amount and maturity of the advance. However, we reserve 
the right in any case to require the execution by a member bank of a 
promissory note with respect to a particular advance. 
Granting of credit accommodations 
3. 
(a) In general, we do not require that a request for 
an advance be accompanied by a written application, and any such re-
quest may be made by letter, wire, or telephone by an authorized 
offic er of a member bank. However, we reserve the right to require 
the submission of a written application. 
Each request for an advance 
must specify the amount and maturity of the requested advance, the 
collateral offered as security, and in the event such collateral is 
not already held by us, the manner in which such collateral will be 
placed in our possession or under our control. Any member bank 
desiring to discount paper with us, as indicated in paragraph 1(d) 
above, should consult us regarding the procedure to be followed. 
(b) If a request for credit is received by us before 
p.m. and the request is approved, the borrowing member bank will 
he given immediate credit in its reserve account unless the member 
bank requests that credit be given on a subsequent day. 
[The time 
reference may need to be varied in districts with branches in dif-
ferent time zones.] 

3260 
-4-
Collateral security 
4. 
(a) Collateral offered as security for any advance, in 
addition to meeting requirements of the continuing lending agreement, 
must be acceptable to us; must be endorsed or assigned by the member 
bank (except in the case of bearer paper); and must be in such form, 
or accompanied by such documents, that it may be readily transferred 
to us without further action by the member bank. 
(b) Under certain conditions, collateral offered as 
security for an advance by us may be held by another member bank or 
Federal Reserve Bank in lieu of actual delivery of the collateral 
to us. 
Information with respect to such arrangements will be furnished 
on request. 
(o) If a member bank that has pledged or discounted paper 
with us or has otherwise transferred collateral to us, receives any 
funds in payment for such paper or other collateral so pledged, dis-
counted, or transferred, the member bank must immediately remit the 
funds to us. and until so remitted the payment will be considered as 
having been received in trust for us. 
(d) In accordance with Subpart 0 of Treasury Department 
Circular No. 300, this Bank, as fiscal agent of the United States, 
maintains as "book-entry Treasury securities" transferable Treasury 
securities deposited as collateral for advances by this Bank. 
Trans-
ferable Treasury securities now on deposit or hereafter deposited for 
such purpose will be converted into book-entry form and deposited in 

3261 
-5-
a book-entry collateral account in accordance with the provisions of 
our current Operating Circular Mo. 
, "Book-Entry Treasury Securi-
ties:i, and in such event such securities will be handled pursuant to 
the terms and conditions of that circular, notwithstanding any incon-
sistent provisions herein. 
Rates 
5. 
Interest on an advance will be payable to us at the 
time of repayment of the advance at the applicable rate indicated 
in the Supplement to this Circular at the time the advance was made, 
except that, if the rate is changed while the advance is outstanding, 
the new rate shall apply for the period after the date of such change. 
Interest will be computed on a basis of 365 days to the year. 
Statements arA reports 
6. 
In connection with any advance or discount, we reserve 
the right to require a current condition report of the borrowing mem-
ber bank, a recent balance sheet and profit-and-loss statement of any 
obligor on paper offered as collateral for an advance or for discount, 
and such other reports and statements as we may deem desirable. 
Authorization of officers to borrow 
7. A certified copy of a resolution adopted by a member 
bank's board of directors authorizing designated officers to execute 
agreements with us and to borrow on its behalf from us must be on file 
with us in order for any member bank to obtain credit accommodations. 
0 ur Form 
should be used for this purpose. 

-6-
3262 
Agreement to this Circular 
8. Each member bank applying to us for an advance or discount 
shall be deemed by such action to have agreed to all of the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Circular and in Regulation A of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
Right to amend 
9. We reserve the right to withdraw, add to, or amend any 
of the provisions of this Circular at any time. 
President. 

3263 
i 
Item No. 4 
11/23/70 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E 9 0 A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
November 23, 1970 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking and Currency 
House of Representatives 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in reply to your letter of November 19, 1970, regarding 
H. R. 6778, the bank holding company bill. 
The Board has recommended, and continues to recommend, that sec-
tion 4(c)(8) be revised to enable bank holding companies to engage, 
through nonbank subsidiaries, in any activity that is "functionally 
related to banking in such a way that its performance by an affiliate 
of a bank holding company can reasonably be expected to produce 
benefits to the public... that outweight possible adverse effects..." 
Once a particular activity is determined to be permissible under 
this standard, Board approval would be required before a holding 
company could establish a subsidiary to engage in the activity. 
Ihis screening process would identify the kinds of services related 
to banking that bank holding company systems are likely to be able 
to offer the public conveniently and efficiently, and would establish 
conditions under which entry into the authorized lines of business 
should enliven competition rather than diminish it. 
These results could be reached by interpretation under the draft 
paragraph enclosed with your letter. However, less uncertainty 
and perhaps less need for future statutory revisions would be 
experienced if changes are made to solve two problems discussed 
in the next two paragraphs. 
First, in the limited area in which applications have been approved 
under the existing section 4(c)(8), the Board has in the past 
interpreted the statute as requiring a "direct and significant 
connection" between the activities of the proposed subsidiary and 
those of the subsidiary banks of the holding company. 
But we do 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
- 2 -
3264 
not believe it is desirable to unduly restrict entry by nonbank 
subsidiaries into markets that are distinct from those served by 
the subsidiary banks of the holding company. This position may 
lessen risks of tie-ins and is consistent with Governmental policies 
to promote competition. This was one of the reasons we recommended 
that "closely related" be changed to read "functionally related" in 
the statute; we wanted to avoid perpetuating the concept that a 
nonbank subsidiary's business must be related to the business of 
an affiliated bank. If the conferees prefer to keep "closely 
related" in the language of the statute, our objective would be 
served by changing the words "the business of banking or of managing 
or controlling banks" to read "banking or managing or controlling 
banks." We have in mind' indicating that a nonbank subsidiary's 
activities should be related to banking (or managing or controlling 
banks) generally, rather than to the specific business carried 
on by the subsidiary banks of the particular holding company 
involved. 
Second, we think the language of the statute should make clear 
that there are two tests to be satisfied in deciding whether nonbank 
subsidiaries of bank holding companies should be allowed to engage 
in a particular activity: 
(1) whether the activity is closely related 
to banking, and (2) whether it is a proper incident to banking, 
and that in applying the second test, the Board is to weigh the 
possible benefits to the public against the risks of adverse 
consequences. We believe that the language proposed by the 
House conferees might be misconstrued to apply three tests: 
(1) whether the activity is closely related, (2) whether it is a 
proper incident to banking, and (3) whether the benefits outweigh 
the risks. To avoid such a possibility, we suggest the following 
revision (which also incorporates the changes discussed above). 
Language in brackets would be omitted, language in italics would 
be inserted. 
"(8) shares of any company the activities of which 
the Board after due notice and opportunity for hearing 
has determined [to be so] are closely related to [the 
business of] banking or [of] managing or controlling 
banks [as to be] and are a proper incident thereto . 
[and] In determining whether a particular activity is 
a proper incident to banking or managing or controlling 
banks the Board shall consider whether its performance 
by an affiliate of a holding company can reasonably be 
expected to produce benefits to the public, such as 
greater convenience, increased competition, or gains 
in efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse effects . 
such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-3-
3 2 6 5 
unfair 
competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound 
banking practices. 
In orders and regulations under this 
subsection, the Board may differentiate between 
activities commenced de novo and activities commenced 
by the acquisition, in whole or in part, of a going 
concern." 
I have offered these comments in the hope that the conferees are 
prepared to consider suggestions designed to help accomplish 
objectives with which we believe you agree. 
In the Board's 
judgment, the modifications we suggest serve to clarify and 
are in harmony with the language attached to your letter. 
The Board continues to feel it is highly important to enact one-bank 
holding company legislation this year, rather than start the process 
over again next year, with all the uncertainties and complications 
that might be invited. One member of the Board, Governor Robertson, 
would support the language attached to your letter without change. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
