Minutes for March 1, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

777 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, March 1, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Reynolds, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Thompson, Economist, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Pounds tone, Review Examiner, Division of 
Examinations 
Branch application (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval was given 
to a letter to Mellon National Bank and Trust Company, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, approving the establishment of a branch in London, England. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 

778 
3/1/67 
-12-
Governor Brimmer noted that Mellon seemed to be over its ceiling 
under the voluntary foreign credit restraint program and asked if it 
might be assumed that the bank could fit in the investment relative to 
establishing the London branch. Mr. Sammons said the matter had been 
discussed with Mellon. Funds would not be needed in any significant 
amount for a few months, and Mellon felt that it could handle the item 
within the terms of the guidelines. 
Competitive factor reports. After discussion, unanimous approval 
was given to the transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency of a 
report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of 
First Bank and Trust Company of Needham, Needham, Massachusetts, into 
South Shore National Bank, Quincy, Massachusetts, in a form in which 
the conclusion read as follows: 
The proposed merger of First Bank and Trust Company 
of Needham into South Shore National Bank, Quincy, would 
eliminate existing and potential competition and increase 
the already high concentration of banking resources in 
Norfolk County. The overall effect of the proposed merger 
on competition would be adverse. 
Unanimous approval was given to the transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation of a report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed acquisition of assets and assumption of liabil-
ities of Brandywine-Mechanics Savings and Loan Association, Wilmington, 
Delaware, by Wilmington Savings Fund Society, also of Wilmington, in a 
form in which the conclusion read as follows: 

3/1/67 
-3-
The proposed acquisition of Brandywine-Mechanics 
Savings and Loan Association, Wilmington, by Wilmington 
Savings Fund Society would not eliminate any significant 
existing or potential competition between the two institu-
tions, and the overall effect on competition would not be 
adverse. 
Study of bank credit cards (Item No. 2). There had been dis-
tributed a draft of announcement concerning the study being undertaken 
by the System of developments in the bank credit card field. 
Governor Brimmer said it was now felt that it would be desirable 
to make a public announcement of this activity. Several Federal Reserve 
Banks that were going to interview bankers in their respective communi-
ties would like to go into the field shortly. In addition, one Reserve 
Bank had already sent out letters in its own district. While this had 
not attracted attention in the press, it was believed that it would be 
desirable for the Board to issue a statement at this time as to the 
nature of the study and why it was being undertaken. That view was 
shared by Vice President Craven of the San Francisco Reserve Bank, who 
was heading up the System task group, and his comments on the form of 
press release had been taken into consideration. 
Governor Brimmer also said that this morning Mr. Solomon of the 
Division of Examinations had suggested that the press release might 
include a reference to bank supervision and bank soundness. His 
(Governor Brimmer's) immediate reaction had been that such a reference 
might create undue alarm, and Mr. Young shared that concern. On the 

780 
3/1/67 
-12-
other hand, Governor Brimmer said, he would want to present an accurate 
statement on why the study was being made. 
Mr. Young suggested indicating in the press release that the 
study would, among other things, assess the implications of bank activi-
ties in this area for bank competition, bank supervision, and the bank-
ing structure. There was general agreement with the appropriateness 
of such a reference. 
Mr. Fauver noted that readers of the press release might ask 
why the study was limited to bank credit card and check credit plans. 
A variety of credit card plans would not fall within the scope of such 
a study even though they had effects on consumer credit developments, 
in which the press release would state that the Board had a continuing 
interest. 
Governor Brimmer replied that it had been tentatively agreed 
that, while the System task group might look at various credit card 
plans along the way, initially it would start with the bank credit 
card and check credit plans. The proposed announcement was designed 
with that thought in mind. 
Mr. Fauver inquired whether it would be appropriate to respond 
to questions by saying that other credit card areas would be explored 
later, and Governor Brimmer suggested saying that although considera-
tion would be given to going into those areas later, the first phase 
of the study would be limited to the banking side. 

781 
3/1/67 
-12-
Mr. Shay noted that the proposed press release suggested that 
the Federal Reserve had a continuing interest in consumer credit devel-
opments and that the emergence of credit card plans might have a sig-
nificant impact on developments in the consumer credit area, both in 
extending the scope of expenditures made on credit and in affecting the 
pattern of consumer spending and savings. Therefore, the press release 
might have an importance attached to it that the System would not desire. 
As would be recalled, it had been rather difficult in testifying on 
proposed "truth-in-lending" legislation to establish that the Federal 
Reserve's activity in the consumer credit area was now limited mainly 
to the gathering of statistics. To the extent that the press release 
suggested a broad, active interest, the Board might be playing into the 
hands of those who continued to attribute to the Federal Reserve more 
knowledge in the consumer credit area than it actually had. Under the 
current bills, the Board was still named as the administering agency 
for the "truth-in-lending" legislation. His inclination, Mr. Shay said, 
would be to make some deletions from the draft press release so as to 
narrow it more specifically to an interest in recent developments in 
the bank credit card and check credit field. 
Governor Robertson, on the other hand, suggested changes in the 
draft press release to indicate an interest not only in bank credit cards 
and check credit but in credit card plans generally and to indicate that 
the study would assess the implications of all activities in that general 

782 
3/1/67 
-12-
area. The System then would be free to go into the nonbank field at 
some stage, he said, even though in actual practice the study covered 
the banking field first. 
Governor Brimmer observed that the comments of Mr. Shay and 
Governor Robertson went to the core of the problem. He personally was 
inclined against making deletions of the kind Mr. Shay was suggesting. 
It was up to the Board, of course, to decide to what extent it wished 
» 
to have information about the components of consumer credit, but he was 
disturbed that at present the Board appeared to know so little. 
As he looked at the present study, Governor Brimmer said, the 
System was undertaking to learn first of all about the spread of bank 
credit card and check credit plans. Along the line, however, the study 
might be broadened. He had tried to steer a course, in launching the 
study, toward showing an initial interest in the credit card device as 
it related to banks, but the study could be broadened to the extent 
desired with the accumulation of experience. He would not want to go 
as far in the press release as to imply that the System was not con-
cerned about the credit card field generally. 
Chairman Martin inquired whether Governor Brimmer would favor 
broadening the statement to the extent suggested by Governor Robertson, 
and Governor Brimmer replied that at this particular time he would be 
somewhat reluctant. However, he would rather move in that direction 
than in the direction suggested by Mr. Shay. 

783 
3/1/67 
-12-
Governor Mitchell suggested that the major immediate concern 
was with obtaining information on the rapid development of bank credit 
cards and its implications. To that extent he tended to agree with 
Governor Brimmer. However, he saw no harm in saying that the System 
was also interested in consumer credit developments generally. 
Mr. Hackley pointed out that Mr. Shay's concern focused on the 
fact that a statement issued in broad language might give impetus to 
the argument that any regulation of consumer credit generally should be 
centered in the Board as the administering agency, either under the 
"truth-in-lending" bills or any further proposals for the regulation of 
consumer credit. 
Mr. Solomon suggested that the press release might indicate 
that the study was being undertaken as one phase of the System's con-
tinuing interest in credit developments, rather than consumer credit 
developments, and several members of the Board agreed, including 
Governor Brimmer. 
Governor Shepardson observed that the Board had taken a position 
over the past several years of not wanting to be involved in the regula-
tion of consumer credit. In terms of the "truth-in-lending" bills, the 
Board had taken the position that trade practices were involved and 
administrative responsibility should preferably be assigned to an agency 
such as the Federal Trade Commission. He would not argue against under-
taking a study such as now being initiated, but if the Board undertook 

784 
3/1/67 
-12-
such studies it was more and more likely to get into the position of 
being assigned regulatory responsibilities in the consumer credit area. 
The Board should recognize that fact and decide whether it was going 
to continue its posture of opposition. 
Chairman Martin said he was not certain of the answer. He 
referred to various occasions on which he had been asked by members of 
the Congress and by bankers about the extent to which the Board was 
informed concerning the activities of loan sharks. At present the 
Board knew little concerning such activities. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the present study 
would be useful because the bank credit card was a new kind of instru-
ment so far as the banking system was concerned. The fact that the 
credit cards of a large bank might be acceptable any place in the 
United States could mean that it would be necessary to regulate their 
use in some way. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that, regardless of the 
consequences, the Board should have the information that would be 
developed from the present study. Since the whole credit card field 
could not be covered at once, it seemed appropriate to begin with the 
bank credit card and check credit field, and then to go into other 
credit card areas later as information was determined to be needed. 
This left the question whether it was desirable to announce the begin-
ning phase of the study, and in his view it was desirable to make an 
announcement in order to eliminate rumors. 

785 
3/1/67 
-12-
Governor Brimmer commented that he and Governor Robertson 
seemed to come out at the same point. 
Chairman Martin turned to the question whether the System had, 
or should have, substantial information about the activities of small 
loan companies, and Governor Robertson replied that when the present 
study was completed the Board should have some general view about what 
was going on throughout the United States. However, it would not have 
specific information. 
Mr. Young pointed out that there had been quite a few private 
studies concerning the small loan business. There was a lot of informa-
tion generally available on the regulatory processes of the States and 
on the operations of such companies. 
Governor Brimmer said he had worked with Mr. Leavitt to see 
what could be pulled together and that he had accumulated a small file. 
It seemed obvious to him that the Board should not try to undertake a 
study of small loan companies at this particular time. As a by-product 
of the current study, something might be learned about loan shark prac-
tices, but he would not want at this juncture to include such a study 
as part of the undertaking. He did have some interest in the area, 
however. To the extent that staff time was available, he would hope 
to pursue the matter and make a report to the Board. 
Mr. Molony inquired when it was expected that the current study 
would be finished and whether the results would be published. 

786 
3/1/67 
-12-
Governor Brimmer replied that he would look forward to some 
form of publication of the results. He contemplated that the first 
phase of the study would involve collecting and analyzing information. 
He would not want to publish that material, but he was hopeful that as 
a by-product it might be possible to initiate a statistical series of 
some kind. He had not tried to set down a time schedule for the study 
and did not think it would be wise to do so. Certainly, however, it 
would be next year before meaningful data had been developed. 
Mr. Molony suggested that any inquirers might be told that it 
was anticipated that the results of the study would be published in 
aggregate form following the completion of the study. Governor Brimmer 
and Mr. Young indicated that they felt such a reply would be appropriate. 
Unanimous approval then was given to the issuance of a press 
release in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
System film. Governor Mitchell advised that he had a meeting 
scheduled with two representatives of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia (who would appear on behalf of the Presidents' Conference 
Committee on Bank and Public Relations) about a suggested treatment for 
the proposed new film on the Federal Reserve System. He described the 
ideas that had been developed by those parties and said he would have 
to react to them. As he saw it, probably there would not be a lot of 
harm in them, but not much good either. Much would depend on how the 
suggested film treatment was handled. 

787 
3/1/67 
-12-
Governor Robertson expressed the view that it would be par-
ticularly inappropriate for the System to present a film that might 
be regarded as propaganda. Governor Maisel commented that the film 
treatment, as described by Governor Mitchell, dealt largely with histor-
ical perspective, which would not seem particularly useful. Governor 
Brimmer made the observation that the film treatment seemed to take 
little account of significant System developments in the past 15 years. 
Chairman Martin observed that it was difficult for the System to pre-
pare a film without seeming to take the position of trying to sell its 
product, which was undesirable. 
Governor Mitchell then commented that one possibility might be 
to try to develop an instructive film dealing with ideas rather than 
personalities. If he raised objections to the currently proposed treat-
ment, he supposed the Philadelphia Bank representatives might ask about 
the possibility of developing an historical film dealing with the period 
up to the accord of 1951. The question was whether that would have 
merit and be worth the cost. Another possibility, he noted, would be 
to stop with the Banking Act of 1935. 
Mr. Molony referred to the staff chart show on post-war monetary 
policy that was being prepared for an American Bankers Association sympo-
sium early in April and suggested that it might provide the framework 
for a film treatment. Mr. Brill expressed doubt whether such a film 
would have wide audience appeal, but it was generally agreed that the 
idea might be worth exploring. 

788 
3/1/67 
-12-
Governor Maisel suggested the possibility of starting with the 
financial and economic crises of the past and explaining how the opera-
tions of the System made a repetition of such crises less likely. In 
other words, such a film would be centered around lessons learned from 
experiences of the past. 
In reply to a question by Governor Brimmer, Governor Mitchell 
said that the System films customarily were aimed at less sophisticated 
audiences. They were not designed to provide too much instruction in 
central banking. A treatment such as Governor Maisel had suggested 
might lend itself to describing how some of the things now being done 
by the System had corrected past abuses. 
After further discussion, during which some additional tenta-
tive ideas were presented and members of the Board referred to pitfalls 
that it would be desirable to avoid in preparing a System film, Gover-
nor Mitchell indicated that he appreciated having the benefit of the 
comments at this meeting and that he would bear them in mind in his 
discussion with the Reserve Bank representatives. 
In this connection Chairman Martin suggested that the latest 
film of the Bank of England, a copy of which had been received at the 
Board's offices, be shown during the afternoon of April 4, following 
the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, for those from the 
Board and the Reserve Banks who might be interested. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

14 
3/1/67 
-12-
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Mary Smelker as Senior Economist, Division of Research and Statis 
tics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $20,585, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Transfer 
Lorman C. Trueblood, Senior Economist, Division of Research and 
Statistics, from the National Income, Labor Force, and Trade Section 
to the Business Conditions Section, with no change in basic annual 
salary at the rate of $19,978, effective March 12, 1967. 

790 
Item No. 1 
3/1/67 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R B 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 1, 1967. 
Mellon National Bank and Trust Company, 
Mellon Square, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
15230 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Mellon National Bank and Trust Company, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in London, England, and to operate 
and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section 
and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before April 1, 1968, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of 
foreign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form 
of allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as 
foreign assets for purposes of the voluntary foreign credit restraint 
effort. 
Please inform the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in London. 
(The letter to the Reserve 
y 
t r u l y 
y o u r s > 
Bank stated that the Board 
also had approved a six-
month extension of the 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
period allowed to estab-
lish the branch; and that 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
if an extension should be 
Assistant Secretary, 
requested, the procedure pre-
scribed in the Board's letter of 
November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should 
be followed.) 

791. 
Item No. 2 
3/1/67 
For immediate release. 
March 1, 1967. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today that the System is undertaking a study of recent develop-
ments in the bank credit card and check credit field as one phase of its 
continuing interest in credit developments. 
Because of the rapid spread 
of a variety of credit card and check credit plans among banks in all parts 
of the country, this type of credit is becoming one of the more important 
and dynamic components of consumer credit. 
As such, the emergence of 
this type of credit may have a significant impact on developments in the 
consumer credit area, both in extending the scope of expenditures made 
° n c r e d * t and in affecting the pattern of consumer spending and saving. 
The study will assemble information on the nature of 
the various credit card and check credit plans now in use by banks; assess 
t h e l r npHcations of bank activities in this area for bank competition, bank 
supervision, and the banking structure; compile data on the amount of this 
t y p e 
o f credit in relation to the total volume of consumer credit; and 
G V a l u a t e t h e impact that its further expansion may have on the financing of 
c°nsumer expenditures and on consumer savings. 
The information is 
being gathered and analyzed by a System task group made up of members 
the research staffs of the Federal Reserve Banks and the Board of 
Go 
V e r n o r s « 
Results will be published in aggregate form following 
C o^pletion of the study. 
