MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 26, 1968 

1519 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, April 26, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss McWhirter of the Office of the Secretary 
- 
- •. •. 
.j 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
c°pies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
Placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Partee 
and Axilrod of the Division of Research and Statistics and Messrs. 
sammons, Reynolds, and Wood of the Division of International Finance 
then withdrew from the meeting. 
<< , 
Annual Report. Staff reported that the Bank of Italy had raised 
^ e question, in connection with the forthcoming Annual Report of the 
i r 
—' Others officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1520 
4 / 2 6 / 6 8 
-13-
Board, whether information on its purchase of gold might not be omitted 
from the section on foreign currency transactions. After discussion, 
during which it was noted that information on gold purchases by other 
countries would be included and that the figures, in somewhat different 
form, had already been published elsewhere, it was decided to inform 
representatives of the Bank of Italy that it was believed the information 
in question should be included. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Atlanta and St. Louis on April 25, 1968, of the rates 
°n discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved unani-
mously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to 
those Banks. 
Regulation T. The Board had scheduled a meeting with represen-
tatives of the New York Stock Exchange for Tuesday, April 30, to discuss 
objections of the Exchange to section 220.7(f), the so-called "agency" 
section of Regulation T, Credit by Brokers, Dealers, and Members of 
National Securities Exchanges. Question was raised whether representatives 
the Securities and Exchange Commission should be invited to attend 
the meeting, and it was agreed that an invitation should be extended. 
The Board also agreed to meet later the same day with represen-
tatives of the National Association of Securities Dealers regarding the 
"agency" section. 
Foreign travel. The Board authorized Messrs. Solomon and Sammons 
the Division of International Finance to accompany Governor Mitchell 

1521 
4 / 2 6 / 6 8 
-13-
to Alta Gracia, Argentina, for the Fifth Annual Conference of Central 
Bank Governors of the American Continent to be held May 2-3, 1968. 
The Board also authorized Mr. Sammons to attend the Sixth Reunion of 
Latin American Central Bank Governors in Alta Gracia on April 29-30 
and to visit the central banks of Chile, Peru, and Ecuador during the 
week of May 6-10, during which time Mr. Solomon was authorized to 
accompany Governor Mitchell to Brazil and Venezuela. 
Lease of space. The Board approved, on Governor Robertson's 
recommendation, the subleasing of 4,200 square feet of additional office 
sPace in the Watergate Building at $6.95 per square foot for a period 
°f three years beginning May 1, 1968. 
The following entered at this point: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, 
Division of Examinations 
Messrs. Doyle, Mertz, Porter and 
Sanders of the Legal Division 
Messrs. King, Lougee, and Thomson of 
the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Goodfellow and Poundstone of 
the Division of Examinations 
Regulation Q matter. In a telegram dated April 25, 1968, an 
officer of Republic National Bank of Houston, Houston, Texas, had inquired 
whether there would be any objection from the standpoint of Regulation Q, 
Payment of Interest on Deposits, if a member bank paid interest at the 
r a t e of 6-1/4 per cent on a $100,000 certificate of deposit with a 

ir>22 
4 / 2 6 / 6 8 
- 4 -
maturity of at least 180 days issued to a cooperative formed solely to 
allow ten persons to pool $10,000 each in order to obtain such rate. 
The Legal Division proposed to advise the inquirer that there 
would be no objection. However, several Board members expressed the 
opinion that the proposal involved an evasive device that should not 
be sanctioned. They suggested that the matter be handled by interpre-
tation and that, if necessary, Regulation Q be amended. Another Board 
member, while agreeing basically that use of the device would be undesir-
able, pointed out that it might be difficult to stop the practice. There 
was the question, for example, whether banks should be held responsible 
for investigating the source of funds whenever a party desired to 
purchase a large-denomination certificate of deposit. In response, it 
was suggested that at most banks there were relatively few purchases of 
the size in question and that the banks would usually know the depositor. 
If pools were permitted, the practice might spread rapidly. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the matter was remanded 
to the Legal Division for further study. 
H.R. 15344. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to the 
Bureau of the Budget recommending approval by the President of enrolled 
kill H.R. 15344, which would extend for two years the authority of 
Federal Reserve Banks to purchase United States obligations directly 
from the Treasury. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Foreign credit restraint. Unanimous approval was given to a 
letter to the Secretary of Commerce certifying, in accordance with the 

1523 
4 / 2 6 / 6 8 
-13-
provisions of section 1(c) of Executive Order 11387, certain additional 
categories of banks and financial institutions as being subject to 
the foreign credit restraint programs referred to in that section and 
delineating for exemption from the provisions of said section all banks 
and financial institutions comprised within the Board's certification, 
as now expanded, with an exception as indicated. A copy of the letter 
is attached as Item No. 2. 
S. 2959. A memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated 
April 25, 1968, submitted a revised draft of letter to Chairman Sparkman 
°f the Senate Banking and Currency Committee with regard to S. 2959, a 
bill "To increase insurance of savings and loan accounts and bank deposits 
°f public units." The revised draft reflected comments made at the 
Board meeting on April 15, 1968. 
After discussion, during which certain further clarifying changes 
were agreed upon, unanimous approval was given to a letter in the form 
attached as Item No. 3. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The First National Bank of 
woodridge, Woodridge, New York, into County National Bank, Middletown, 
New York, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller 
the Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger would eliminate 
competition between the First National Bank of Woodridge 
and the Sullivan County office of County National Bank, 
Middletown. However, neither of these banks is now a 
major competitor in the relevant market, and the overall 
competitive effect would be slightly adverse. 

1524 
4 / 2 6 / 6 8 
-13-
First National City. In connection with an application of 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, 
to acquire the shares of First Loan Company, Hong Kong, it was noted 
that the Board had recently held over an application of First National 
City Bank to establish a branch in Bridgetown, Barbados, because the 
foreign loans and investments of the bank and certain subsidiaries 
exceeded, as of March 29, 1968, the guideline ceiling applicable under 
the foreign credit restraint program. 
The Board was informed that a letter had now been received from 
First National City explaining its problem in effecting a reduction in 
loans to foreigners, particularly because of commitments outstanding 
at the end of 1967, but indicating that the bank and its subsidiaries 
expected to be within the ceiling by the end of June. It was noted that 
the bank had shown a significant reduction in outstandings during the 
first quarter of 1968. 
It was also reported that representatives of First National 
City had met with officials of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in 
January and the latter had considered that it would be reasonable, in 
the circumstances, if the bank got within the ceiling by the middle of 
the year. 
• . . . 
In view of the January discussion, of which he had not previously 
^ e en aware, Governor Brimmer withdrew certain objections he otherwise 
w°uld have had to approving further applications by First National City. 
°ther Board members expressed general statisfaction with the progress 

8 
4 / 2 6 / 6 8 
-13-
made by the bank since the first of the year and with its commitment 
to get within the ceiling by the end of June. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to a letter to First 
National City Bank approving the establishment of a branch in Bridgetown, 
Barbados, and to a letter to First National City Overseas Investment 
Corporation granting consent to its acquiring the shares of First Loan 
Company, Hong Kong. Copies are attached as Items 4 and 5. 
United California. Unanimous approval was given to a letter 
to United California Bank International, New York, New York, granting 
consent for it to acquire stock of P. T. Jakarta California Bank, Djakart 
Indonesia, a new bank to be organized under the laws of Indonesia. A 
C0Py is attached as Item No. 6. 
Republic National. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
Republic National Bank of Dallas, Dallas, Texas, granting it permission 
to organize a corporation under section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
to be known as Republic International Company, Dallas, and transmitting 
a Preliminary permit. A copy is attached as Item No. 7. 
H.R. 16064. A memorandum dated April 25, 1968, from Mr. Cardon 
submitted a draft of report to the Bureau of the Budget on H.R. 16064, 
a bill "To amend the Federal Deposit Insurance Act with respect to the 
Scope of the audit by the General Accounting O f f i c e T h e Board had 
a l s o been given an opportunity to testify on the bill before the House 
B b-
inking and Currency Committee. However, Mr. Cardon recommended that 

4 / 2 6 / 6 8 
-12-
the Board not volunteer to testify and that instead a letter similar 
in form to the letter to the Budget Bureau be sent to the Chairman 
of the House Committee. 
Mr. Cardon's recommendation was accepted. Accordingly, unanimous 
approval was given to the proposed letters, copies of which are attached 
a s Jtems 8 and 9. 
It was understood that Governor Robertson would advise Chairman 
Randall of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of the action taken 
by the Board. 
Domestic financing of SDR's. In a memorandum dated April 24, 1968, 
Mr. Robert Solomon noted that on April 22 the Treasury had transmitted 
to the Bureau of the Budget a draft bill to provide for U.S. participation 
in the International Monetary Fund plan for special drawing rights (SDR's). 
; 
V / 
• i 
t 
; 
f 
• 
. . . . 
r . 
,, 
. 
fhe bill made provision, among other things, for the receipt, holding, 
and use of SDR's by the United States. One aspect of the arrangements of 
special interest to the Federal Reserve was the domestic financing of U.S. 
acquisitions of SDR's. 
In an effort to assure passage this year of the necessary legis-
lation, it had been decided to accelerate the presentation of the matter 
to the Congress, and hearings were now scheduled to begin early next week. 
facilitate consideration of the matter by the Board, the memorandum 
^scribed certain relevant characteristics of SDR's and the SDR system, 
summarized the Treasury proposal for domestic financing of SDR's, and 
c°nmiented on the two main parts into which that proposal could be divided. 

1527 
4 / 2 6 / 6 8 
-13-
One important aspect of the Treasury proposal was its provision for 
issuance by the Treasury to the Federal Reserve of "SDR certificates." 
The considerations believed to justify the Federal Reserve in accepting 
such certificates were summarized in an appendix to the memorandum. 
The Bureau of the Budget had requested the Board's views on 
the draft bill. 
The provisions of the proposed legislation were discussed at 
some length, especially those that appeared to be of special concern 
to the Federal Reserve. It was the general view of the Board members 
that the Board should recommend submission of the proposed bill to the 
Congress. It was suggested that any letter written to the Budget Bureau 
°n such short notice with respect to so complex a piece of legislation 
would necessarily have to be limited in scope, but that probably there 
would be a further opportunity to comment or to testify when hearings 
were held. However, it was the consensus, in reference to the authority 
in the proposed bill for the Secretary of the Treasury to issue SDR 
certificates 
to the Federal Reserve Banks, that the letter should indicate 
that in the Board's view such certificates should be issued and remain 
outstanding only to the extent that the dollar proceeds were needed by 
the Exchange Stabilization Fund to finance the acquisition of SDR's or 
international stabilization operations. 
It was agreed unanimously that such a letter to the Budget Bureau 
should be prepared and sent after clearance with the Treasury, with the 
^derstanding that if necessary the staff could come back to the Board. 

1528 
4 / 2 6 / 6 8 
- 1 3 -
Secretary's Note: It did not prove necessary 
to return to the Board on the matter. A copy 
of the letter sent to the Budget Bureau is 
attached as Item No. 10. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On April 24, 1968, 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf of 
the Board the following items: 
Letter to the Secretary of the Conference of Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks (copy attached as Item No. 11) regarding 
assignments of members of the Division of Bank Operations to serve 
as associates on committees and subcommittees of the Presidents' 
Conference. 
h. 
Memorandum from the Division of Administrative Services dated 
April 12, 1968, recommending the establishment of two additional 
messenger positions in that Division and requesting approval of any 
overexpenditure in the Division's 1968 budget resulting from this 
increase in staff. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Alan IC. Severn as Economist, Division of International Finance, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $13,371 (or $12,233 in the 
event all Ph.D. requirements were not completed), effective the date 
entrance upon duty. 
Trudy J. Wagaman as Programmer, Division of Data Processing, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $7,184, effective the date 
°f entrance upon duty. 
Buckner Wallingford as Summer Research Assistant, Division of 
Research and Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of 
effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Governor Robertson noted a memorandum 
advising that Helen A. Lupton, Graphic 
Illustration Supervisor, Division of 
Data Processing, had filed application 
for retirement effective April 30, 1968. 

lr>29 
A / 2 6 / 6 8 
- 1 1 -
On April 25, 1968, Governor Robertson 
approved on behalf of the Board the 
following item: 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
April 22, 1968, recommending the establishment of an additional 
Summer Research Assistant position and an additional Summer Assistant 
position in that Division. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administration dated 
April 25, 1968, requesting authorization for the Director of that 
Division to approve administrative leave for staff members for a 
period not to exceed three months for the purpose of preparing a 
dissertation, upon a finding that the case for granting such leave 
had merit, with the understanding that leave in excess of three 
months would require approval by the Board member in charge of 
internal affairs. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
William Courtney as Summer Research Assistant, Division of 
Research and Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of 
$7,409, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Theresa K. Pinckney as Cafeteria Helper (part-time), Division of 
Administrative Services, with annual salary at the rate of $2,014, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
William Nusbaum as Programmer, Division of Data Processing, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $6,123, effective the date of entrance 
uPon duty. 
Letitia R. Simpkins as Statistical Clerk, Division of Data Processing, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,615, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
On the dates shown, actions were taken on behalf 
of the Board under delegated authority as reflected 
in the following letters, copies of which are 
attached as indicated: 

4 / 2 6 / 6 8 
- 1 2 -
Qn April 24, 1968 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to Farmers and Merchants Bank, Hannibal, 
Missouri, approving an investment in bank premises. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to First National City Bank, New York, 
New York, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch in Djakarta, 
Indonesia. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Letter to The Central Trust Company, 
Cincinnati, Ohio, granting an extension 
of time within which to establish a 
branch in Springfield Township. 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
V-.- ' 
:, 
" 
~~ 
" . - • 
Letter to Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, 
California, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch in Stockton. 
I 
OtLApril 25, 1968 
I,,-, . 
General Counsel of the Board 
T r 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
approving the Bank's acting as fiscal agent 
with respect to a proposed issue of bonds by 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development. 
j^L_the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to Bankers Trust Company, New York, 
New York, approving the establishment of a 
limited-purpose branch at Two Park Avenue. 

aK-. 
1531 
4 / 2 6 / 6 8 
- 1 3 -
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Item No. 
V-.-'^feviv.'• * * 
—
—
. 
Letter to Peoples Trust Company of Bergen 
18 
County, Hackensack, New Jersey, granting 
an extension of time within which to 
establish a branch at Route 4 and Hackensack 
Avenue. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Letter to The Ashland Bank and Savings 
19 
Company, Ashland, Ohio, approving the 
establishment of an in-town branch. 
On April 26, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Letter to The State Bank and Trust Company, 
20 
Defiance, Ohio, approving the establishment 
of a branch in Defiance County. 
jZ the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to Security Bank and Trust Company, 
21 
Lincoln Park, Michigan, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch in Taylor Township. 
Letter to Wyandotte Savings Bank, Wyandotte, 
22 
Michigan, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Taylor Township. 
£g_the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Letter to Colorado CNB Bankshares , Inc., 
23 
Denver, Colorado, granting an extension 
°f time within which to become a bank 
holding 
company through the acquisition 
°f shares of three banks in Denver. 

15 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF" 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 1 
4/26/68 
O F F I C E 
O F 
T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
April 26, 1968. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request of April 25, 1968, 
for the Board's views on H.R. 15344, an enrolled bill "To amend 
section 14(b) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, to extend 
for two years the authority of Federal Reserve banks to purchase 
United States obligations directly from the Treasury." 
The Board favors Presidential approval of this bill. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

\ 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• 
F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 2 
4/26/68 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
April 29, 1968 
The Honorable Cyrus R. Smith, 
Secretary of Commerce, 
Washington, D. C. 
20230 
Dear Mr. Secretary: 
In accordance with the provisions of section 1(c) of 
Executive Order 11387, by letter of January 2, 1968 to Secretary 
Trowbridge the Board of Governors certified that eleven enumerated 
categories of banks and financial institutions are subject to the 
foreign credit restraint programs referred to in said section 1(c), 
The Board of Governors hereby expands the scope of said 
certification by 
(a) Amending item 7 to read as follows: 
7. Organizations engaged principally in under-
writing or dealing in securities, or investment 
counselling,or acting as broker in securities 
transactions. 
(b) Amending item 10 to read as follows: 
10. Corporations organized under section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act (so-called "Edge Act 
corporations"), corporations having an agree-
ment or undertaking with the Board of Governors 
under section 25 of said Act (so-called "Agree-
ment corporations"), and majority-owned domestic 
subsidiaries of Edge Act corporations or Agree-
ment corporations. 
(c) Adding a new item reading as follows: 
12. Bank holding companies registered pursuant to 
section 5(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841 et seq.). 

The Honorable Cyrus R. Smith 
- 2 -
In accordance with the provisions of said section 1(c), 
the Board of Governors delineates for exemption from the provisions 
of section 1 of said Executive Order all banks and financial 
institutions comprised within the BoardTs certification, as expanded 
hereby, with the exception of any bank or financial institution that 
is subject to the reporting provisions of said programs but is not 
reporting (or covered by reports filed by another or others on its 
behalf) in substantial compliance with said reporting provisions. 
The foregoing certification and delineation are subject 
to modification or termination with respect to any category or 
individual bank or financial institution, in the event that (a) 
the foreign credit restraint programs referred to in section 1(c) 
of said Executive Order are so modified that such category or 
individual bank or financial institution is no longer subject to 
said programs or (b) the Board of Governors determines that 
modification or termination of said delineation is necessary or 
appropriate in the public interest. Any such modification or 
termination will be communicated by the Board to the Secretary of 
Commerce. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm, McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wiu McC. Martin, Jr. 

1535 
Item No. 3 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
4/26/68 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
April 26, 1968 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your request of February 12, 1968, 
asking for the Boardfs views on S. 2959, a bill "To increase 
insurance of savings and loan accounts and bank deposits of 
public units." 
The bill would remove the $15,000 limitation on the 
amount of FDIC and FSLIC insurance available for public deposits. 
Insofar as some banks are concerned the bill might create an 
acute problem with respect to their management of their assets 
and liabilities. These problems can arise with respect to public 
deposits that are disproportionately large in relation to total 
deposits. Experience with public deposits shows them often to 
be subject to wide seasonal fluctuation and unexpected with-
drawals. In turn, these deposit characteristics create problems 
of asset management which may give rise to risks such as exposure 
to illiquidity or loss. 
Providing 100 per cent insurance against public funds 
also raises a question whether in equity and principle public 
deposits should be given favored treatment over those of 
individuals. We recognize, of course, that many laws now require 
banks to pledge government securities against public deposits and 
this requirement constitutes a form of preferential treatment for 
such deposits. But we believe that the question as to whether 
this kind of preference should be extended to the field of deposit 
insurance requires considerably more study. 
Many governmental units exempt from pledging requirements 
that portion of a deposit covered by FDIC insurance. Therefore, 
enactment of the legislation would immediately supplant pledging 
requirements in many instances, and the proposed legislation 

I 
• 9 K •; 
vv' fit 
i 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
- 2 -
would probably lead to the eventual removal of pledging require-
ments. In all likelihood, such a development would mean that 
financial institutions would reduce their holdings of Treasury 
and municipal obligations. This seems a particularly inappro-
priate time to run the risk of subjecting the markets for 
government securities to increased pressures of this sort. 
In view of these problems, the Board is opposed to 
enactment of S. 2959. 
Sincerely, 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
J 
/ 
Item No. 4 
4/26/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R D 
April 29, 1968 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to First National City Bank, New York, New York, 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
to establish a branch in Bridgetown, Barbados, and to operate and 
maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and 
of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before May 1, 1969, all rights granted hereby shall be 
deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. Please inform the Board of 
Governors through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York when the branch 
is opened for business, furnishing information as to the exact location 
°f the branch. The Board should also be informed of any future change 
in location of the branch in Bridgetown. 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of 
foreign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form 
°f allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as 
foreign assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
^ view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, this consent is granted with 
the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. 
The Board has noted that as of March 29, 1968, the foreign 
loans and investments of your Corporation, First National City Overseas 
investment Corporation, International Banking Corporation, and First 
National City Bank (International) exceeded the guideline ceiling 
applicable under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect. 

y 
1538 
- 2 -
.1 ' 
First National City Bank 
• X & y : 
. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that steps will 
be taken to reduce those foreign loans and investments to a level 
•^'consistent with the guidelines by the end of June 1968; that the 
investment now being approved will be ^ d e within those guidelines 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
t v; >• •„ o 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
.'iii 

1 ^I'jiJ 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F THE 
Item No. 5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
4/26/68 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
f ^ r ^ v 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 29, 1968 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
March 18, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation to purchase and hold all of the shares of First Loan 
Company ("FLC"), Hong Kong, at a cost of approximately $125,000, 
provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of FLC by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following conditions 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in FLC if FLC at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a cor-
poration in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if FLC establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Hong Kong or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of FLC as it may require from time to time; 
and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FLC be 
reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if FLC were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the second paragraph of this letter so far as it relates to 
restrictions on loans granted by FLC in Hong Kong in the currency 
of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of the Articles of Association and 
By-Laws of FLC. 
" 
The Board has noted that as of March 29, 1968, the foreign 
loans and investments of your Corporation, First National City Bank, 
International Banking Corporation, and First National City Bank 
(International) exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect. The foregoing consent 
Is given with the understanding that steps will be taken to reduce 
those foreign loans and investments to a level consistent with the 
guidelines by the end of June 1968; that the investment now being 
approved will be made within those guidelines; and that due considera-
tion is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
V:;- hi". " 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

'•ffeE&V 
1541 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R 5 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 6 
4/26/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 29, 1968 
United California Bank International, 
61 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
9 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 3, 1968, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for United California Bank 
International ("UCBI"), to purchase and hold 60 per cent of the 
common stock and 100 per cent of the preferred stock of P. T. 
Jakarta California Bank ("Jakarta Bank"), Djakarta, Indonesia, 
at a cost of approximately US$750,600, provided such shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. In 
this connection, the Board also approves the purchase and 
holding of the above-mentioned shares in excess of the limita-
tions on liabilities of one borrower as set forth in 
Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and 
holding of shares of Jakarta Bank by UCBI is granted subject 
to the following conditions: 
(1) That UCBI shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of Jakarta Bank if Jakarta Bank 
at any time fails to restrict its activities to 
those permissible to a corporation in which a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act could, with the consent of the 
Board of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if 
Jakarta Bank establishes any branch or agency or 
takes any action or undertakes any operations in 
Indonesia or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to UCBI; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, UCBI 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Jakarta Bank as it may require 
from time to time; and, 
^ I V - V ; 

United California Bank 
International 
- 2 -
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
Jakarta Bank be reported under Section 211.8(c) 
of Regulation K in the same manner as if Jakarta 
Bank were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends until further notice the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the second paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to 
restrictions on loans granted by Jakarta Bank in Indonesia in the 
currency of that country. 
The Board has noted that as of March 29, 1968, the foreign 
loans and investments of your Corporation and United California Bank 
exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect. The foregoing consent is given 
with the understanding that those foreign loans and investments will 
be reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent with the 
guidelines; that the investment now being approved for your Corpora-
tion will be made within those guidelines; and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
1 5 4 3 
Item No. 7 
4/26/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R D 
April 29, 1968 
Mr. James W. Aston, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Republic National Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Dear Mr. Aston: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and Organization Certificate dated March 18, 1968, 
of Republic International Company, Dallas, Texas, and there is 
enclosed a Preliminary Permit authorizing that Corporation to 
exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the 
Board authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the 
Board will issue its final permit to commence business, the 
President, or Secretary and Treasurer, together with at least 
three of the directors, must certify (1) that each director is a 
citizen of the United States; (2) that a majority of the shares 
of capital stock is held and owned by citizens of the United States, 
by corporations the controlling interest in which is owned by 
citizens of the United States, chartered under the laws of the 
United States or of a State of the United States, or by firms or 
companies the controlling interest in which is owned by citizens 
of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital stock 
specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent has 
been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individually 
Paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. 
Thereafter the Secretary and Treasurer shall certify to the payment 
of the remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, in 
accordance with law. 

Mr. James W. Aston 
- 2 -
Your attention is drawn to the fact that Republic 
International Company will have no separate base under the foreign 
credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or investments will 
need to be made under the ceiling of Republic National Bank of 
Dallas. Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with the 
understanding that any foreign loans and investments of the 
Corporation will be made within the guidelines established under 
the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply 
to the foreign lending and investment activities of Republic 
National Bank and that due consideration will be given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

H i 
;V> •-•A 
ill 
M M : 
mm 
• 
iMstfi 
• V', W 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N 
April 29, 1968 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested 
in it by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, 
has this day approved the Articles of Association dated 
March 18, 1968, and Organization Certificate dated March 18, 
1968, of REPUBLIC INTERNATIONAL COMPANY duly filed with said 
Board of Governors, and that REPUBLIC INTERNATIONAL COMPANY 
is authorized to exercise such of the powers conferred upon 
it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and preliminary to 
its organization pending the issuance by the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System of a final permit generally to 
commence business in accordance with the provisions of said 
Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
<1 
\ 
\ 
s iOSfe, 
r 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
1515 

^qvcov^V. 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
Item No. 8 
4/26/68 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
3 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
April 26, 1968 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request of April 5, 1968, 
for the Board's views on H. R. 16064, "To amend the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Act with respect to the scope of the audit by 
the General Accounting Office." 
At present, the authority of the GAO to audit the FDIC 
extends only to "financial transactions of the Corporation". The 
bill would eliminate "financial" and add to the specific list of 
items to which the GAO shall have access property "used by the 
Corporation, including examination reports of the Federal Reserve 
banks and the Comptroller of the Currency relied on by the 
Corporation in making its examination, pertaining to its 
transactions". 
The bill would also add a new provision to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Act under which "Any information obtained by 
the General Accounting Office pursuant to _/the foregoing/ that 
concerns the operation and financial status of an individual bank 
shall be confidential and may not be released by the General 
Accounting Office without prior approval of the Corporation 
except upon the order of a court of competent jurisdiction, or 
by direction of the Congress of the United States, or either 
House thereof, or any committee of Congress or either House 
duly authorized." 
In the Board's view, enactment of H. R. 16064 would 
impair the ability of Federal bank examiners to obtain the 
information that they need to make an adequate examination of 
an insured bank. Over the years, banks have disclosed to 
examiners financial information relating to their customers on 
the understanding that such information will be treated as 

1 5 4 7 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
-2-
t t; 
I t: '•: 
| ; 
'4 '!\> 
confidential by the examiner and his supervisors. Opening the 
examination reports to the GAO would very likely result in banks 
becoming reluctant to disclose such information, which is necessary 
properly to evaluate the quality of the bank's credit transactions. 
The Board considers that running this risk would be undesirable 
and contrary to the public interest. 
These adverse considerations, of course, apply with 
greater force in the light of the provision under which examination 
reports would be available without restriction to duly authorized 
committees of Congress. Banks would have to consider the increased 
possibility, under such procedures, that information they made 
available to an examiner could in due course become available to 
the public generally. 
In sum, as a matter of sound Governmental administration 
and supervision of the banking system and in fairness to individual 
borrowers from our nation's banks, the Board considers that 
H. R. 16064 represents undesirable legislation. 
'Mi. 
ffe 
Sincerely, 
Robertson 
\ • ft- f 
. < , 
J Wj • 
A i 
1\ 
! 
i' fi'Y;\ 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
3 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 9 
4/26/68 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
April 26, 1968. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing to submit, for the consideration of your 
Committee, the views of the Board of Governors on H. R. 16064, 
"To amend the Federal Deposit Insurance Act with respect to the 
scope of the audit by the General Accounting Office." 
At present, the authority of the GAO to audit the FDIC 
extends only to "financial transactions of the Corporation". The 
bill would eliminate "financial" and add to the specific list of 
items to which the GAO shall have access property "used by the 
Corporation, including examination reports of the Federal Reserve 
banks and the Comptroller of the Currency relied on by the 
Corporation in making its examination, pertaining to its 
transactions". 
The bill would also add a new provision to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Act under which "Any information obtained by 
the General Accounting Office pursuant to _/ the foregoing/ that 
concerns the operation and financial status of an individual 
bank shall be confidential and may not be released by the General 
Accounting Office without prior approval of the Corporation 
except upon the order of a court of competent jurisdiction, or 
by direction of the Congress of the United States, or either 
House thereof, or any committee of Congress or either House duly 
authorized." 
In the Board's view, enactment of H. R. 16064 would 
impair the ability of Federal bank examiners to obtain the 
information that they need to make an adequate examination of 
an insured bank. Over the years, banks have disclosed to 
examiners financial information relating to their customers on 

Will'' 
W
r 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
f tviK-i''! 
* - 
- 
' 
the understanding that such information will be treated as 
confidential by the examiner and his supervisors. Opening the 
examination reports to the GAO would very likely result in banks 
becoming reluctant to disclose such information, which is 
necessary properly to evaluate the quality of the bankfs credit 
transactions. The Board considers that running this risk would 
be undesirable and contrary to the public interest. 
1549 
m i ? , 
•' V't 
These adverse considerations, of course, apply with 
greater force in the light of the provision under which examination 
reports would be available without restriction to duly authorized 
committees of Congress. Banks would have to consider the 
increased possibility, under such procedures, that information 
they made available to an examiner could in due course become 
available to the public generally. 
In sum, as a matter of sound Governmental administration 
and supervision of the banking system and in fairness to individual 
borrowers from our nation1s banks, the Board considers that 
H. R. 16064 represents undesirable legislation. 
It would be appreciated if you would include this 
letter in the record of the hearings on the bill. 
H 
Sincerely, 

'•^LRES^'*' 
•uv 
BDARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
1550 
Item No. lo 
4/26/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 26, 1968 
P 
V 
m $ u 
' . r , 
,4. v 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference, 
Executive Office of the President, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Attention: Mr. J.F.C. Hyde, Jr. 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This refers to your Legislative Referral Memorandum 
of April 23, 1968, requesting the Board's views regarding the 
Treasury draft bill "To provide for U.S. participation in the 
facility based on Special Drawing Rights in the International 
Monetary Fund, and for other purposes." 
The Board of Governors recommends submission of the 
proposed bill to the Congress. 
Section 4(a) of the proposed bill would authorize 
the Secretary of the Treasury to issue to the Federal Reserve 
banks Special Drawing Rights certificates in such form and in 
such denominations as he may determine, against any Special 
Drawing Rights held by the United States. It is the view of 
the Board that, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4 
of the proposed bill, and the provisions of Section 10(b) of 
the Gold Reserve Act of 1934, as amended (31 U.S.C. 822a), such 
certificates should be issued and remain outstanding only to 
the extent that the dollar proceeds are needed by the Exchange 
Stabilization Fund to finance the acquisition of Special Drawing 
Rights or for international stabilization operations. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

BOARD OF GDVERNDR5 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
1551 
Item No. 11 
4/26/68 
r 
• f t 
S i 
d p 
s 
*>? r> 
M
r 
if? 
• 
iv^'f-r 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 24, 1968. 
Mr. Philip A. Shaver, 
Secretary, 
Conference of Presidents, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Phil: 
Enclosed is a memorandum from John Farrell 
setting forth suggested assignments of members of the 
Divisio n of Bank Operations to serve as associates on 
committees and subcommittees of the Presidents' Con-
ference. 
The Board has approved these assignments, and 
we would appreciate your taking the necessary steps to 
notify the chairmen of the respective committees, insofar 
as that has not already been done, and to reflect the 
changes in the roster. 
M
: 
Enclosure 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D • F 
G O V E R N O R S 
or THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1 5 5 2 
ice 
Mr. Kenyon 
John R. Farre11 
• 
Date April 23, 1968 
Subject: Subcommittee assignments. 
Pursuant to our telephone conversation, following 
are the reappointments and changes I would suggest in the 
assignments of members of the Division of Bank Operations to 
serve as associates on the committees and subcommittees of 
the Presidents' Conference shown below: 
Last Year 
This Year 
Subcommittee on Collections 
John R. Farrell 
John R. Farrell 
Subcommittee on Currency 
and Coin 
John R. Farrell P. D. Ring 
Subcommittee on Fiscal 
Agency Operations 
John N. Kiley 
James A. Mcintosh 
Subcommittee on Improving 
N. Kileyl/ 
the Payments Mechanism 
John N. Kiley 
John N. Kileyl/ 
Subcommittee on Accounting 
M. B. Daniels 
John N. Kiley 
Insurance Committee of the 
Federal Reserve Banks 
M. B. Daniels 
P. D. Ring 
Fire Insurance Committee 
M. B. Daniels 
P. D. Ring 
Ad Hoc Subcommittee on 
2/ 
Boundaries 
John R. Farrell James A. Mcintosh"" 
Ad Hoc Subcommittee on 
N. Kileyl 
Vault Space Study 
John N. Kiley 
John N. Kileyl 
1/ Confirmation of reassignment contained in your March 25, 
1968 letter to Mr. Heflin. 
2/ Notification of change contained in your April 15, 1968 
letter to Mr. Francis. 
3/ 
No notification needed since appointments to ad hoc sub-
committees generally continue until assignment is com-
pleted. 

1553 
b
o
a
r
d 
d
f 
g
o
v
e
r
n
o
r
s 
• 
F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 12 
4/26/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 29, 1968 
O'jf ; 
Board of Directors, 
Farmers and Merchants Bank, 
Hannibal, Missouri. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves, pursuant to Section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act, 
an investment in bank premises of not to exceed $322,360 
by Farmers and Merchants Bank, Hannibal, Missouri, for the 
construction of the new main office building. The latter 
amount includes $96,000 representing cost of land. 
.'V 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
V . , I : 
t* 
: ' ' - - . 

1551 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K OF N E W 
Y O R K 
Item No. 13 
4/26/68 
N E W 
Y O R K , 
N . Y . 
1 0 0 4 5 
AREA CODE 
212 
732-5700 
April 2b, 1968 
W. J . Riether 
vice President 
? V e rseas Division-Operations 
^irst National City Bank 
Park Avenue 
York, New York 
10022 
Mr. Riether: 
We refer to your letter dated April 18, 1968, with 
closure, in duplicate, requesting an extension of time 
^hin which your bank may establish a branch in Djakarta, 
^Public of Indonesia. 
This*branch was approved by the Board 
Governors on May 17, 1967, with the proviso that it be 
st*blished by June 1, 1968. 
^ 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
serve System, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, acting 
^o.er delegated authority, has approved your request and extends 
December 1, 1968, the time within which your bank may establish 
b r&nch at the above location. 
U 
We shall appreciate your advising us when the branch 
°Pened for business, giving the effective date of opening, 
. e name, if any, by which it will be known, and the official 
° 8 t&l address. 
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter by signing 
r®turning the enclosed copy to us. 
Very truly yours, 
crdc/t 
robert C. Thoman 
Assistant Vice President 
sure 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND 
Item No. 14 
4/26/68 
April 24, 1968 
•i v 
>! • if 
Mr. Jamas E. Mount joy 
Vice President 
The Central Trust Company 
Cincinnati, Ohio 
Dear Mr. Mountjoy: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal Feserve 
System, acting under delegated authority, the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Cleveland has approved your request for an extension of time within 
*hich your bank may establish a branch at 8425 Vine Street. Spring-
Held Township, Hamilton County, Ohio. 
This extension expires on 
13, 1969. 
On the day operations are started, will you please wire us 
taat the branch has been formally opened for business. 
Very truly yours 
H. W. Huning 
Vice President 
ii

Item No JjS5t> 
4/26/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
B A N F R A N C I S C O , 
C A L I F O R N I A 
0 4 1 1 0 
April 24, 1948 
Mr. Robert H, Steele, 
Assistant Vice President, 
Wells Fargo Bank, 
464 California Street, 
San Francisco, California 94120. 
Dear Mr. Steele: 
On behalf of the Boetftl of Governor^ of the 
Federal Reserve System, acting wider delegated authority, 
this Bank has approved an extension to HoVember 6, 1968, 
of the tine within j#h±ctr4(elIs Fargo 8«nk may establish 
a branch office ax the intersectlonvof Miner and II Dorado 
Streets, Stockton, California, provided that operations 
now being conducted st 26 N« Ban Joequin Street are die* 
continued simultaneously with the establishment of the 
nep-'trFFIce. 
\ 
This extineion Is granted in connection vlth 
the request contained in your letter dated April 23, 
1968. 
/ 
Very truly yours, 
feigned) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irvln L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 

1557 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 16 
• F 
T H E 
4/26/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
• F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 25, 1968 
Mr. F. T. Davis, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Davis: 
This refers to your letter of April 23, 1968, and 
enclosures, concerning the proposed issue by the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development of its Twenty-six Year Bonds of 
1968, due May 1, 1994, in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed 
?15 million. In this regard, you state that it is proposed to amend 
Schedule A of the Fiscal Agency Agreement, dated as of February 6, 
1950, between the International Bank and your Bank to include the 
bonds in question. 
Acting on behalf of the Board pursuant to delegated 
authority, the General Counsel of the Board has approved of your 
Bank acting as fiscal agent with respect to the proposed bond issue 
^nd the execution and delivery by your Bank of an agreement with 
^ne International Bank substantially in the form of the draft of 
upplement No. 36 to the Fiscal Agency Agreement enclosed with 
your letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

UO* 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
Item No. 
4/26/68 
17 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK 
10048 
1558 
APR 2 S1958 
{ 
faofeere 
tiU9i Cceyrxy 
^ P a t Qffloo Scat JlB 
Kr« Hlohrol 
tasty 
&**retcary 
Agslptasnt 
Cociiwl 
waxrea uiresi Pwixca 
Be* Icsfe, 8*y lark 1CQ0L5 
^csw 
Sos&Qfi 
Oa ifearll 15, 1$68, 
lafu-xd you that the establish-
cent of a festering Dopertssszt by TViuteip b u s t Germany at **o Park 
f Bsv Tarii, tor Teifc, veald col n g r b n the e^pranl of the 
of Governors of the federal Reserve Byotca. Ctfbaefocatly, you 
Ccrrsol to this Bash that tha oetlvltlca at the proposed 
tgr voul&i la ffcst, izrrolvt the "lsxaUas of ocaey"* On tho 
tela 
of this lnfoornatlcn, It vcald Q p e a r that the eotahllahmot 
of the p r o a u A ihelllty vculd retire the Beard's sgprvval. 
K 
After reviewing year CTllcratlci In the light of the 
tero esscrated la Oootlca e&.fi(f)u) of the Ruleo Receding 
Ooleeotlcn of Authority Issued by the Board of Governors of the 
HiUaml 
Reserve Oyatea, ve have eccaicfted that your c&llcatloa should 
be approved* Aooerdlngly, en behalf of the Board of Governors, the 
Vbdtaal Reserve Beak of Haw T a t , cotlng usder deLegstel CKtharlty, 
the estehllatasat by year teak of a broach at Two P u t 
_ , tor Teorft, Bar York, for the Halted purpooe of epeiatlag a 
feotcrlag Oepartscot, provided tha brenah la eatabllahed a t M n el* 
ncotfaa firca tha dote of thlo Latter. 
' 
/ 
We shall eppreettte your edvlslag ua 
the toeaeh 
la eotenlly eatabllahed esd cgeaol ft? tualaeaa, giving the efffcotlve 
date of opedaa, tha tan, 
if eay, hy e&leh It will he kaoan, sad the 
offiolal peatal e&dresa, lwilirtlng the alp eode 
Please eakacwlaAca receipt by alprtag sad reluming 
to ua the cnalcaort ecpy of this letter. 
Very truly years, 
M 
W. m e r i t , Jr. 
Vice Proaldaut 
ftyji r t w 
PO/ol 

l46., 
Item No. 18 
""•e8) 
^ 
_ 
4/26/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE B A N K OF NEW YORK 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK 
10048 
1 5 5 9 
April 25, 1968 
Kenneth H. Plsher 
«*ocutiYO Tiee President 
r—<foplaa Trust Coopany of Bergen County 
^ 
Main Street 
Kackensack, Voir Jersey 07601 
D«»r Mr. Fishers 
r 
Reference is aado to your letter dated April 19, 
l963# requesting an extension of the tine within which your 
^nk aay establish a branch at tho intoraootion of Routo k 
Haokensaek Avenue, Kaekensaok, low Jorooy, at approrod 
^ho Board of Oorernors on Boreabor 2, I966. 
On bohalf of tho Board of Governors of tho 
, 
Reserve Systea, acting undor dologatod authority, 
Federal Reserve Bank of low Tork has approrod your 
^ t A u e s t and extends to May 2, 1969, tho tine within which 
bank say establish a branch at tho above location. 
, 
Vo shall approciato your advising us whon tho 
ranch is ootabliokod and oponod for business, giving tho 
*Ji? C t l T # 4 l l t # o f 
tho naae, if any, by which it 
tk 
b* knoinKf * n d tho official postal address, including 
M 
sip codo nuaber. 
Jj 
Fleaee aoknowledge rocoipt of this lottor by 
*Cnlng and returning the enclosed copy to uo. 
Tory truly yours, 
C l o s u r e 
Robert C. Thoaan 
Assistant ?ice President 

f 1 
i 
L 5 E O P Y 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND 
Item No. 19 
4/26/68 
April 25, 1968 
Mr. W. O. Kraut*, President 
The Ashland Bank and Savings Company 
Ashland, Ohio 
Dear Mr. Krause: 
The application of your bank, dated March 14, 1968, for per-
mission to establish an in-town branch at 818-828 Union Street, Ashland, 
Ashland County, Ohio, has been reviewed by this bank. Upon investiga-
tion, the Federal Reaerve Bank of Cleveland finds that the capital of the 
bank is adequate, that its management is satisfactory, that the proposed 
branch will serve the convenience and needs of the community, and that 
it will not tend to create an undesirable, competitive situation. 
Accord-
on behalf of the Board of Governors of the Pederal Reserve System, 
acting under delegated authority, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
hereby approves the establishment c ' an in-town branch by your bank at 
818-828 Union Street, provided the branch is established within one year 
*rom the date of this letter. 
On the day operations are started, will you please wire us 
that the branch has been officially opened for business. 
Very truly yours, 
H. W. Honing 
Vice President 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND 
is 
S G P P Y 
Item No. 20 
4/26/68 
April 26, 1968 
Mr. Lawrence E. Smart, President 
The State Bank and Trust Company 
Defiance, Ohio 
u « * r Mr. Smart: 
The application of your bank, dated March I, 1968, for per-
mission to establish an out-of-town branch to be Located on the west 
*ide of North Clinton Street, two-tenths of a mile from the city limits 
of ^fiance, Defiance County, Ohio, has been reviewed by this bank, 
upon investigation, the federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland finds that 
the capital of the bank is adequate, that its management is satisfactory, 
proposed branch will serve the convenience and needs of the 
community, and that it will not tend to create an undesirable, competitive 
situation. 
Accordingly , on behali of the Board of Governors of the 
* ederal Reserve System, acting under delegated authority, the Federal 
reserve Bank of Cle^land hereby approves the establishment of an 
out-of.town branch by your bank at the above location, provided the 
oranch is established within one year from the date of this letter. 
On the day operations are started, will you olease wire us that 
branch has been officially opened for business. 
Very truly yours, 
H. W. Huning 
Vice President 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
2)0 S O U T H L A S A L L E 
S T R E E T 
C H I C A G O , I L L I N O I S 60WQ 
( ) I 2 ) H A 
7-2)20 
Item No 
4/26/68 
April 26, 1968 
Mr. Clarence R. Mead, President 
Security Bank and Trust Company 
Lincoln Park, Michigan 
Dear Mr. Mead; 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank has approved establishment 
"by your bank of a branch in the vicinity of the intersection 
of Ecorse Road and Beech Daly Road, Taylor Township, Wayne 
County, Michigan. 
The Reserve Bank finds that capitalization of 
Security Bank and Trust Company is adequate, that the 
proposed branch will serve the needs and convenience of 
the cosznunity and that the branch will not c res to an unde-
sirable competitive situation. 
J3M:tJf 
- Mr. Robert C. Holland/ 
- Mich. FIB 
- Detroit Branch 
• Examiner'a file 
Very truly yours, 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
1 5 6 3 
1)0 S O U T H L A S A L L E S T R E E T 
I t e m No . 22 
C H I C A G O , I L L I N O I S 60WQ 
4/26/68 
(111) H A 
7-2)20 
April 26, 1968 
Mr. William T. 0rr, President 
Wyandotte Savings Bank 
Wyandotte, Michigan 
Dear Mr. Orr: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank has approved establishment 
by your bank of a branch at 20650 Northline Road, Taylor 
Township, Wayne County, Michigan, provided the branch is 
established within six months from the date of this letter. 
The Reserve Bank finds that capitalization of 
Wyandotte Savings Bank is adequate, that the proposed branch 
will serve the needs and convenience of the community and 
that the branch will not create an undesirable competitive 
situation. 
Very truly yours, 
Loland Ross 
Vice President 
Q P t e u t j r 
II cc - Mr. Robert C. Holland 
- Kich. FIB 
- Detroit Branch 
^ ^ 
- Examiner's file J 
/
j 
tij 

_ 
„ 
^ 
1 5 6 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K 
OF 
Item No. 23 
KANSAS CITY 
4/26/68 
A m u 26, 15® 
C 0 V M A H OO aANKSHARtS, INC. 
S K V I M T I I N T N 
A N 9 
C N A N R A 
S T R U T S 
O T M » # 
C O L O R A D O 
6 0 2 1 7 
A T T S N T I O N or 
M C I V I N 
J » *ootRTs, 
P R C S I O C N T 
GCNTICKXNS 
T H I S 
K C F C M 
T O 
Y O U * 
U T T T R 
O F 
A R R I L 
1 9 
R C T F J T S T I N F T 
A N 
( X -
T I N S I O N 
O F T I M S 
M O M 
* A Y 
2 J , 
1$68, 
T O 
J U L Y 
1 , I968, 
I N 
W H I C H 
S
^
I
M
.
^
I 
0
F
,
<
V " ' 
C O N S U N M A T C 
F 
" 
6
7 
C
I
,
,
T 
1 , 0 1 1 
^ 
™T 
V O T I N O 
S H A R K S 
O f 
I
" 
B A N K 
o r 
O C N V K R J 
N O R T H E A S T 
C O L O R A D O 
N A T I O N A L 
^
T
H 
C O L O R A D O 
N A T I O N A L 
B A N * , 
O I N V I R , 
A
L
L
™ 
*«stNvt 
S Y S T C N 
O A T K O 
N O Y C M S C R 
2 9 , 
1 9 6 7 . 
SUCH 
^
^ 
A N 0 
^ 
rOR 
I T u l l l l lL 
A C T , M 
octtaATto 
A U T H O R I T Y , N c m . 
! 
A C T I O N A L 
C X T T N S I O N or Tins 
T H A T 
T H K S T 
A C * £ | S I » 
^ 
"T0 *LV 
™ 
l l ' T f l V * " 
W , T M 
T H I 
V
I
S
I
O
N
S 
or 
T H C 
B O A R D ' S 
O R O K R , 
Y O U R S 
V Y I R Y 
T R U L Y , 
SV9R9I 
V L C T 
P R I S I O K N T 
• Hooots, 
S I L Y C R S T C I N A 
H A R R I N O T O N 
