MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 23, 1970 

ZM 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, January 23, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Staff presented the usual weekly money market review. Copies 
o f the statistical materials prepared for the review have been placed 
i n the Board's files. 
Members of the staff who had attended for the purpose of the 
weekly review then left the room and the following entered: 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator and 
Assistant Secretary 
-i/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1/23/70 
-2-
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on January 20, 1970, and by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, 
Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas on January 22, 
Ji97;0, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing sched-
ules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate 
advice would be sent to those Banks. 
First at Orlando Corporation. The Board authorized the issu-
a n c e o f an order and statement reflecting the Board's action on 
January 5, 1970, approving the application of First at Orlando Corpo-
r^%ion, Orlando, Florida, to acquire shares of First National Bank of 
% k e Wales, Lake Wales, Florida. Copies of the documents are attached 
U n d e r Item No. 1. 
Bankers International Corporation. Bankers International 
9rporation, a subsidiary of Bankers Trust Company, New York, New 
Y°rk, had applied for permission to acquire, directly or indirectly, 
a n additional 51 per cent (for a total of 75 per cent) of the shares 
o f Deutsche Unionbank GmbH, Frankfurt, Germany. 

m 
1/23/70 
-3-
In approving requests by Edge corporations for permission to 
acquire controlling interests in foreign companies, the Board had 
followed a policy of stipulating that the foreign subsidiary must 
confine its activities generally to those permissible to its parent 
Edge corporation, as set out in section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act and Regulation K, Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and 
Financing under the Federal Reserve Act. Anticipating that the Board, 
if it approved the current application, would impose such a condition, 
Bankers International requested that the Board not restrict the German 
bank in the exercise of any of the specific powers granted to it by 
German banking law, and (2) that the restrictions of Regulation K not 
be made applicable to the German bank, or at least that they be modi-
fied in certain respectsrso as not to restrict the operations of the 
German bank unduly. 
Similar requests had been made by Bankers in connection with 
applications to invest in Rodo Investment Trust Ltd., London, and in 
Bankers Trust Finanziaria S.p.A., Rome. Subsequently, at the request 
Bankers, those applications were approved subject to the standard 
condition, with the understanding that the Board would give further 
consideration to applicant's original request that the condition be 
waived in entirety or suspended in important respects. 
In connection with the Deutsche Unionbank matter, which was 
the subject of a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and 

1/23/70 
-4-
Regulation dated January 21, 1970, the Board's staff and the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York both recommended that the application to 
acquire the additional shares be approved and that the request for 
waiver of the standard condition in entirety be denied. The alter-
native request of applicant for suspension of the standard condition 
in certain respects involved the following issues: issuance of 
savings certificates of deposit; disclosure of information about the 
German bank's activities; the limitations of section 211.9 of Regu-
lation K; and transactions in securities by the German bank, includ-
ing dealing in equities for its own account, underwriting operations, 
Portfolio investments in securities of U.S. companies, and acquisitions 
°f convertible debt obligations. The recommendations of the New York 
Reserve Bank on those issues were set forth in a letter dated Decem-
ber 3, 1969. The recommendations of the Board's staff, including 
alternatives in some cases, were set forth in the Division memorandum 
and in a draft of proposed letter to Bankers International. 
The discus sion of the Bankers International matter included 
several observations having pertinence to the administration of the 
f°reign banking statutes more generally. First, it was brought out 
that the basic underlying issue had to do with the extent to which 
the Board wished to encourage U.S. banks in activities abroad, par-
ticularly through the medium of Edge corporations. To some degree 
that attitude might be reflected in the regulatory approach, either 

1/23/70 
-5-
through interpretation or through regulatory amendments. Beyond that 
point it would be necessary to seek changes in the pertinent statutes. 
Another observation was to the effect that the granting of 
exceptions to standard conditions in individual cases left much to be 
desired from a supervisory standpoint and could have unfortunate con-
sequences. It was generally agreed that if exceptions were made in 
Particular cases, equity would dictate that the availability of such 
exceptions should be made known to all interested parties. 
It was further noted that a lack of overall guidelines tended 
to create confusion on the part of the staff, both at the Board and 
the Reserve Banks, with resultant delays in processing of cases and 
eventual presentations to the Board that were difficult to analyze 
and required time-consuming review prior to the reaching of decisions. 
An additional comment was to the effect that the Board should 
bear in mind that decisions could not be reached on an individual 
application without taking into account the precedents that would be 
established. 
With reference to the case immediately before the Board, con-
sideration was given to the alternative recommendations on the several 
issues, as presented by the Board's staff and the New York Reserve 
fiank, and it developed that there was general agreement with positions 
Proposed by Governor Mitchell, although in one or two instances Gover-
nor Robertson indicated that he would prefer a somewhat more restric-
tive approach. 

2 7 1 
1/23/70 
-6-
The issues on the disposition of which agreement was thus 
reached were fitted into the context of the proposed letter to Bankers 
International Corporation, and it was understood a revised draft 
letter would be cleared with the Board before being sent. 
It was brought out during the discussion that the positions 
agreed upon by the Board today tended to settle some of the questions 
that had been raised in connection with the applications of Bankers 
International to acquire shares of Rodo Investment Trust Ltd. and 
Bankers Trust Finanziaria S.p.A., although the latter cases also 
involved certain additional questions. Staff advised that it should 
now be possible to submit those two cases to the Board for disposition 
within the next few days. 
Processing of foreign banking applications. In connection 
with the discussion of the Bankers Trust application, consideration 
also was given to the problem of delays in the processing of foreign 
banking applications. Attention had been directed to this problem in 
a letter addressed to Governor Brimmer under date of January 7, 1970, 
b y Mr. William H. Moore, Chairman of Bankers Trust Company, in which 
Mr. Moore complained particularly about the delay encountered in the 
Processing of the several applications of Bankers International Corpo-
ration that were pending. As the result of Mr. Moore's letter, 
Mr. Frederic Solomon had prepared a memorandum to the Board under date 
o E January 22 in which he recognized the existence of delays generally 

A- K 
1/23/70 
_7_ 
in the processing of applications and listed several steps that were 
being taken to expedite action on such applications. 
In discussion it was noted that the problem reflected delays 
both at the Reserve Bank level and at the Board level. A number of 
causes were assigned, including personnel shortages and deficiencies 
in applications filed. However, it was noted also that a considerable 
Part of the problem appeared to be attributable to a lack of guidelines 
in policy areas, and doubt was expressed that the steps outlined in 
Mr. Solomon's memorandum would be fully effective. It was recognized 
that a complete study of regulatory provisions and possible amendments 
would involve a rather extended period of time, and members of the 
Board expressed a desire that interim steps be taken to the extent 
Possible. Among other things, mention was made of the complexity of 
issues presented to the Board from time to time in connection with 
individual applications. Several suggestions were made as to proce-
dures that might be instituted to expedite the handling of applica-
tions pending the resolution of fundamental issues in the foreign 
banking area, and it was understood that Governor Brimmer would work 
with the staff in an effort to develop procedures that might be useful. 
Chase Manhattan. Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, 
New York, New York, had applied for permission to acquire up to 15 per 
Cent of the outstanding shares of Standard and Chartered Banking Group 
Limited, a holding company being organized in England to hold all of 
the shares of The Standard Bank Limited, London, and The Chartered 

' v-1') 
1/23/70 
-8-
Bank Limited, also of London, by conversion of presently held shares 
Standard Bank and purchase of shares of Standard Bank, Chartered 
Bank, or the holding company. The problem involved was that 
Chartered Bank presently operated two branches in New York City, a 
subsidiary bank organized under the laws of California, and an agency 
l n san Francisco. It appeared that the California subsidiary was 
conducting a full-scale commercial banking business in California. 
Staff recommended in a memorandum dated January 21, 1970, that 
the Board's consent to the proposed investment be conditioned on a 
requirement that the California subsidiary's domestically oriented 
activities in the United States be liquidated over a period of two 
years. Certain other conditions with respect to the activities of the 
New York branches and the San Francisco agency also would be pre-
scribed. A draft of letter to Chase Manhattan reflected the staff 
recommendations. 
After discussion during which a change in the draft letter for 
Purpose of clarification was agreed upon, unanimous approval was given 
a letter to Chase Manhattan in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
Maximum rate payable on savings accounts. The Secretary 
referred to the actions affecting Regulation Q that had been taken by 
the Board on January 20, 1970, particularly the increase to 4-1/2 per 
e n t in the maximum rate payable by member banks on savings accounts. 
Til e actions had been taken effective January 21, 1970. Some Federal 

# 
** if1 I 
1/23/70 
-9-
Reserve Banks had since received inquiries from member banks as to 
whether it would not be possible to allow payment of the 4-1/2 per 
cent rate on savings accounts retroactive to January 1, 1970. Unless 
that could be done, the banks reportedly would experience operating 
difficulties, related principally to the design of computer programs. 
A check with a director of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation had indicated that no problem was seen in complying with 
the request, c It was understood that the Corporation had not yet 
issued its formal regulations revising the ceiling rates applicable 
to insured nonmember banks, and that it probably would permit payment 
o f the higher rate on savings accounts by such banks retroactive to 
the first of the year if the Board granted such permission with 
respect to member banks. Also, it was understood that the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board probably would permit savings and loan associa-
tions to pay higher rates on share accounts retroactive to the first 
o f the year. 
After discussion it was agreed that it would be appropriate 
Permit member banks to pay a maximum rate of 4-1/2 per cent on 
savings accounts effective January 1, 1970, and that all member banks 
should be so advised through the Federal Reserve Banks. A copy of the 
telegram sent to the Reserve Banks on this matter is attached as 
Item No 
q 
i 
- — : — a l o n g with a copy of the press release that was issued. 
Assessment for Board expenses. Governor Robertson said that 
the p resident of a Federal Reserve Bank had informed him that the 

1/23/70 
-10-
Bank's directors had taken note of the sharp increase in the rate of 
the assessment levied to meet the expenses of the Board for the first 
half of 1970. The question raised by the President was whether it 
would be in order for the directors to request an explanation. Gover-
nor Robertson said he had advised the President of the principal items 
contributing to the increase in expenses, including computer opera-
tions and the general pay raise for employees, and that the President 
W° U l d attempt to handle the matter with his directors on that basis. 
The meeting • then adjburned. 
Secretary 

276 
Item No. 1 
1/23/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Ir* the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, 
Orlando, Florida, 
approval of acquisition of at least 
80 per cent of the voting shares of 
First National Bank of Lake Wales, 
Lake Wales, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First at Orlando Corporation, 
Orlando, Florida, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
Prior approval of the acquisition of at least 80 per cent of the 
v°ting shares of First National Bank of Lake Wales, Lake Wales Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Vritten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
^ e Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 

-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 24, 1969 (34 Federal Register 17314), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
ar*d views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
w a s forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
c°nsideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
B o a r d's Statement of this date, that said application be and 
hereby is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall 
U o t be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following 
t h e d a t e of this Order, or (b) later than three months after the 
date of this Order, unless such time shall be extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 23rd day of January 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill, 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
[SEAL] 

278 
a 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, ORLANDO, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF LAKE WALES, LAKE WALES, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida ("Applicant'1), 
registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of at 
least 80 per cent of the voting shares of the First National Bank of 
Lake Wales, Lake Wales, Florida ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the applica-
tion was given to the Comptroller of the Currency, and his views and 
recommendation were requested. The Comptroller recommended approval 
o f the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
t o monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
n y p a r t of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
c<luisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 

15 
-4-
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
° r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. 
In each case, the Board is required to 
take into consideration the financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
inking organizations in Florida, all of which are bank holding com-
panies, control about 38 per cent of deposits held by all commercial 
kanks in the State. 
Applicant, the fifth largest, controls 14 banks 
with aggregate deposits of $420.3 million. Acquisition of Bank 
/ A , . 
*5 million deposits) would increase Applicant's share of the 
total State deposits from 3.6 per cent to 3.7 per cent, and would 
otherwise leave unchanged Applicant's position relative to other 
banking organizations in the State. 
Bank, with a single office in Lake Wales, Polk County, 
^orida, is th e tcKj.h largest of the 20 banks located in the county 
controls 3.2 per cent of the deposits held by all such banks. 
hoi d
A 1 1 inking data are as of June 30, 1969, adjusted to reflect 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
° date. 

Z8Q 
-3-
lt serves an area encompassing Lake Wales and extending approximately 
seven miles north, five miles south and west, and nineteen miles east 
from Bank. The only other bank located in the service area is also 
headquartered in Lake Wales, and has deposits of about $15 million; 
acquisition of that bank by Atlantic Bancorporation, a registered 
b 
2/ 
ank holding company, was recently approved by the Board. 
Ten 
other banks, five of which are larger than Bank, compete to some 
e*tent in the area. Bank holds 44.4 per cent of the total deposits 
the two banks located in the service area, and 6.4 per cent of the 
total deposits of the 12 banks competing therein. 
None of Applicant's present subsidiaries is located in 
J)°lk County or competes with Bank. The closest of the subsidiary 
hanks is located in Orlando, which is about 53 road miles north of 
B a n k 
t 
• in view of the lack of present competition, the distances 
which separate Bank from Applicants present subsidiaries, the 
Presence of numerous banks in the intervening areas, and Florida 
a^s which prohibit branching, it appears that consummation of the 
Proposal would neither eliminate existing competition nor foreclose 
Potential competition between Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries. 
Ther 
would be no significant impact upon the degree of concentration 
°f bankino 
^"g resources in any relevant market, and no undue adverse 
on any competing bank. 
2 j 
1 9 6 9 Federal Reserve Bulletin 899. 

281 
-4-
On the record before the Board, it is concluded that the 
Proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly, or be in 
furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize the busi-
n e s s °f banking in any relevant area. Consummation of the proposal 
would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, 
°r restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Ihe financial conditions and managements of Applicant and its 
subsidiary 
banks are satisfactory and their prospects are favorable. 
The proposed acquisition would provide the means for 
adding needed strength to Bank's management, with resultant improve-
m e n t 
its financial condition and earnings. Prospects of Bank are 
considered favorable. 
These considerations, as they relate to Applicant and its 
Present subsidiaries, are consistent with approval of the present 
PPlication, and lend some weight in support of such action as they 
relate t o Bank. 
QPJ™enience and needs of the communities involved. ~ 
nsummation of the present proposal would not affect the convenience 
needs of customers served by Applicant's present subsidiary banks. 
The city of Lake Wales is in Central Florida, about 50 miles 
Orlando, The economy of the area is primarily agricultural. 
8 Products are the principal crops, and citrus processing the 
incipal industry. Cattle ranching is also important, and there 

some tourist activities. The population of the area served by Bank, 
which, as earlier described, includes Lake Wales and several nearby 
communities, is 16,500. 
It appears that banking needs of the area are served 
a^equately by the banks located in and near the area. The principal 
effect of the acquisition on banking services would be to improve 
ar*d expand the services now offered by Bank. Drawing on its associa-
tion with Applicant, Bank would offer improved trust services and 
more expeditious handling of participations required to serve credit 
needs of larger customers. Additionally, affiliation with Applicant 
should facilitate solutions to problems related to managerial suc-
cession and future capital needs, thereby enabling Bank to more 
adequately serve its customers. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
^ e community served by Bank provide additional weight in favor of 
aPproval of this application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
f a « 
s contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
t h e Proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
t h e aPplication should be approved. 
January 23, 1970. 

2 S 3 
B O A R D D F G G V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
2C551 
Item No. 2 
1/23/70 
A C D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 23, 1970. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, 
* Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
N g w York, New York; 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of Octjber 17 and December 10, 
tii 
11 
Soard i f Governors grants consent C.oc your Corporation 
V CM0BC") to acquire approximately 15 p'^r cent of the outstanding 
Snares of Standard and Chartered Banking Group Limited ("Holding 
^ompany") being 
organized in England to hold all of the shares of 
Standard Bank, Limited, London ("Standard Bank"), and The 
gartered 3ank Limited, London ("Chartered Bank"), by conversion 
CMOBC's presently held shares of Standard Bank and purchase of 
ares of Standard Bank, Chartered Bank and/or Holding Company, at 
an additional cost of approximately $15,500,000, provided such addi-
nal shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
ter. Xn this connection, approval is also granted for the ac-
^uisition and holding of shares of Standard Bank, Chartered Bank 
/or Holding Company by your Corporation in excess of the applicable 
imitation* set forth in the provisions of Section 25(a) [12 U.S.C. 
i5(c)] of the Federal Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
t 
t 
The Board has considered, the activities of Chartered Bank's 
sid' D r a n C* 1 0 S 
York, l t s a g e n c y in '->an F?:ancisco, and the sub-
lary bank in California, The Chartered Bank of London, San Francisco, 
that 
I'he above consent is granted subject to the condition 
sh 
bartered Bank's New York branches and San Francisco agency 
n o t engage in any activity in the United States not permissible 
^ 
a Corporation organized under Section 2 5(a) of the Federal 
in S G r V C 
enSaCed in banking or not contrary to the restriction 
Unj!>araSraph (c) of Section 25(a) relative to doing business in the 
if h 
States; provided, however, that no objection will be interposed 
j 
.l0 branches and agency invest temporarily idle funds derived from 
Funrf1^11 s o , J r c e s i n brokers' loans, prime commercial paper, Federal 
. S 1 a n d short-term obligations of United Spates banks. This con-
New1?11 a l s o aPPlies to the activities of Standard Bank's agency in 
°rk as prescribed in the Board's letter of November 17, 1965. 

Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
. . 
On the basis of information furnished concerning the activ-
ities of l^e Chartered Bank of London, San Francisco ("California 
subsidiary"), the Board has again concluded that the California sub-
sidiary is engaged in various activities of purely domestic character 
at are not permissible to an Edge Corporation. Moreover, under 
Paragraph (c) of Section 25(a) an Edge Corporation may not invest 
a company that directly or indirectly is transacting business in 
^he United States that, in the Board*s judgment, is not incidental 
its international or foreign business. Accordingly, the fore-
S0i-ng consent is granted on the further condition that Chartered 
n«t will cause its California subsidiary to terminate any domestical 
riented activities in the United States by continuing to collect all 
Payments on assets already held and by liquidating other nonconformir. 
of 1
1
Vlt:ie':5 o v e r a period of two years from the date of acquisition 
i t
 sllares of Chartered Bank or Holding Company, or if alternatively, 
Carf U l d.° e m o r o satisfactory to the parties, to sell Chartered Bank1 
to 1 0 r ? i a subsidiary and its two branches, t:ie Board would not objec 
tio^ftinuance of the subsidiary and its branches as a going institu-
n for one year during which a sale should be arranged. 
11 
ac.. 
Please keep the Board of Governors advised as to such 
c6„^°n <1S i s contemplated. Upon application, the Board would, of 
w i l U n S fc<> consider if particular activities of the 
stat "°rnia subsidiary would ap>pel¥ to' b^r'perkUssiible'under the 
'utory and regulatory provisions. 
ng 
that t-v. 
^ o r eS°i ng consent is given with the understand! 
e investment now being approved will be made within the guide-
effect;
eStablislxecl under the foreign credit restraint effort now in 
of 
a s 
they apply to the foreign lending and investment activitie 
and 
C o r P o r a t i ° n , The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), 
t0 t, S °ther subsidiaries, and that due consideration is being given 
e Priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M 
I t e m N o > 3 
}V.V 
M' 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
1/23/70 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF T H E F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
January 23, 1970. 
Presidents, all Federal Reserve Banks 
In response to inquiries, Board has decided that member banks may 
(repeat may) compute interest from January 1, 1970, on savings 
deposits held on January 20, 1970, at new maximum rate of 4-1/2 
per cent. 
Please inform member banks in your District. 
There 
will be a press release on this matter later today. 
v.iiC v,. ;•'• 
• tiU 
•U.t&v 
(Signed) Normand Bernard 
BERNARD 

i 
' / " ' " jJ.^'Y'*' 
"'*''"' •>* -'•••: • 
7 
For immediate release. 
January 23, 1970. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Preserve System 
said today t.iat for accounting convenience, member commercial 
hanks which increase thej.r interest rate on passbook savings 
may if they desire compute interest at the new rate from 
January 1, 1970, on savings deposits held on January 20, the 
date the Boar J announced a new structure of maximum interest 
rates payable on deposits. 
The Board approved a maximum interest rate on passbook 
savSfogs• effective January 21, of A.50 pc* cent, compared with 
o previous maximum of 4 per cent. Permission for member banks 
to compute interest on passbook savings at the new rate beginning 
anuary 1 was granted to avoid additional complexities in making 
interest computations. 
-0-
