MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 12, 1969 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, March 12, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Williams, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
1/ Withdrew from meeting and returned at points indicated in minutes. 

863 
3/12/69 
-10-
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regula tion 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia and Miss Ormsby of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
The following letters were approved unanimously after considera-
tion of background information that had been made available to the Board. 
Copies are attached under the numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National 
1 
Association), New York, New York, granting 
consent for Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking 
Corporation to continue to hold stock of The 
Chase Manhattan Trust Corporation Limited, 
Nassau, Bahamas, after the latter acquires the 
stock of The Chase Manhattan Bank (Geneva) S.A. 
Letter to Chairman Sparkman of the Senate 
2 
Committee on Banking and Currency reporting on 
S. 823, a bill that would add to the Truth in 
Lending Act a new chapter to be known as the 
Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Reports on competitive factors. Reports on the competitive 
factors involved in the following mergers were approved unanimously, 
the first two for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency and the 

... 
8 6 4 
3/12/69 
-3-
third to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion of 
each report indicating that the proposed transaction would have no 
adverse competitive effects: 
Commonwealth National Bank, Boston, Massachusetts, with 
Commonwealth Bank, National Association, also of Boston; 
The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), New York, 
New York, with The Chase Bank of New York (National 
Association), New York, New York; and 
Mississippi Bank & Trust Company, Jackson, Mississippi, 
with Bank of Wesson, Wesson, Mississippi. 
Fidelity Bank. An application by The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, to merge with Trefoil Bank, also of Philadelphia, and an 
application by the latter bank for membership in the Federal Reserve 
System were merely devices to facilitate the formation of a one-bank 
holding company that would own all of the stock of The Fidelity Bank. 
Documentation included drafts of an order and statement approving the 
merger application. 
The applications were approved unanimously, and the issuance 
of the order and statement was authorized. Copies of the documents, in 
the form in which they were issued, are attached under Item No. 3. A 
copy of the letter sent to Trefoil Bank is attached as Item No. 4. 
Governor Daane then withdrew from the meeting. 
First Wisconsin Bankshares. After review of documentation that 
had been distributed, the Board unanimously approved the application of 

8\>S 
3/12/69 
-11-
First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire 
shares of The First National Bank of Rice Lake, Rice Lake, Wisconsin, 
with the understanding that an order and statement reflecting this decision 
would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Governor Daane then returned to the meeting. 
Bank advertising. Legislation enacted in 1968 had given the 
Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation permanent authority 
(and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board temporary authority) to prescribe 
regulations governing advertising and other matters relating to interest 
on deposits. Pursuant to the understanding at the meeting on November 27, 
1968, a proposal by the Board to implement this authority through an 
amendment to Regulation Q, Payment of Interest on Deposits, had been 
discussed by the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 
As brought out by the Legal Division in a memorandum of 
February 27, 1969, the FDIC had presented for the Committee's considera-
tion several alternatives to prohibit banks from advertising an average 
annual yield on deposits. The Division recommended against acceptance 
of the FDIC proposals and expressed the view that the only practical way 
to resolve the problem was to publish for comment the Board's proposal 
in the form in which it had been presented to the Coordinating Committee. 
In another memorandum, prepared under date of March 11, 1969, 
Mr. Holland outlined considerations that suggested the possibility of 
accepting something akin to the FDIC's third alternative proposal, under 

3/12/69 
-11-
which a bank would be permitted to advertise both a total percentage 
return and an average annual yield, on condition (a) that they be clearly 
identified as such, and (b) that the bank present with equal prominence 
both the number of years necessary to achieve such a return or yield 
and the annual rate of simple interest involved. 
In discussion, question was raised whether the FDIC proposals 
listed in the Legal Division's memorandum were to be regarded as alter-
natives or additives to the Board proposal, and the answer given was 
that the first three were to be regarded as alternatives while the last 
three were intended to be additions. 
A general debate of the matter revealed differences of opinion 
within the Board concerning the precedure that might most appropriately 
be followed. 
Governor Robertson, who was supported strongly by Governor Brimmer, 
argued that the best procedure would be to publish the Board proposal for 
comment, leaving the FDIC to publish whatever it deemed best in its own 
judgment. In that manner, he suggested, the problem perhaps could be 
worked out in the light of comments received. As matters stood at the 
present time, while he might be willing to concede to the FDIC on some 
or all of its additive proposals, he did not feel that such concession 
would be likely to bring about a reconciliation of the basic issue, and 
he was not inclined to regard the FDIC's alternatives favorably. He 

3/12/69 
-11-
added that even within the Corporation there was understood to be a 
difference of opinion. 
The other members of the Board gave a great deal of weight to the 
objective of achieving uniformity of regulations in this area. In their 
view the matter was not one of extreme importance, yet it was one on 
which emotions tended to be aroused. Some sentiment was expressed in 
favor of working toward the FDIC's third alternative, for reasons similar 
to those presented in Mr. Holland's memorandum, or toward the Corporation's 
first alternative, under which a bank would be prohibited from advertising 
an average annual yield that resulted from compounding interest but would 
be permitted to advertise an average annual yield that resulted from 
changing the rate of simple interest during the life of the deposit, on 
condition that the number of years required to achieve such rate was 
stated as prominently as the average annual yield. 
A member of the Board (Governor Mitchell) then proposed a modifi-
cation of the FDIC's first alternative, and several other members indicated 
that with such a change they would regard that alternative as an attractive 
basis for compromise. 
Governor Robertson, who had brought out earlier that the subject 
was scheduled for further consideration at the next meeting of the Coordi-
nating Committee, then suggested that in the circumstances it would seem 
better if some member other than himself were to speak on behalf of the 
Board. In reply to a question from the Chairman, Governor Mitchell 

. 868 
3/12/69 
-7-
indicated that he would be willing to undertake the assignment if the 
Board so desired, and it was understood that he would do so. 
The Legal Division's memorandum had also submitted a proposed 
reply to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis with regard to the 
request of a national bank in St. Paul, Minnesota, for an interpretation 
on whether the bank could establish a deposit plan in connection with 
which it would advertise a "lifetime guarantee of 5% interest." The 
proposed reply stated that no Federal law or regulation would prevent 
the bank from advertising the plan as involving such a guarantee. 
The item was held over for further consideration after some 
Board members indicated that they would like to study the question at 
more length. 
Foreign credit restraint. In a memorandum of March 11, 1969, 
Governor Brimmer made preliminary comments on a series of regional 
meetings that had been held to review the Voluntary Foreign Credit 
Restraint Program. Two issues had dominated the discussions: 
(a) the 
alleged inequity of the program, and (b) its asserted limiting effect 
on U.S. exports. Since the Administration wanted to act in the near 
future on various elements of the balance of payments program, Governor 
Brimmer suggested, as a basis for conferences with other Government 
agencies, several modifications in the Board's guidelines applicable to 
banks and to nonbank financial institutions. The changes were intended 

3/12/69 
-11-
to reduce inequities as between small and medium-sized banks on the 
one hand and large institutions on the other, while still emphasizing 
the priority of export credits and credits to less developed countries. 
They were not intended as a liberalization of the program. 
In his memorandum Governor Brimmer also commented on other 
alternatives for reshaping the foreign credit restraint program, namely, 
elimination or suspension of the program in entirety or of any restraint 
on export-related credit. In addition, he discussed the possibility 
of shifting to a system of restraint that would rely on market mechanism 
techniques. His conclusions were that elimination or suspension of the 
program would involve high-risk consequences in terms of the U.S. balance 
of payments, that there would be difficulties in exempting export credits 
from the coverage of the program, and that it would be impractical to 
shift now to any alternative to the basic restraint technique. 
In discussion, one Board member (Governor Mitchell) expressed 
himself as philosophically inclined toward suspension or termination 
of the foreign credit restraint program. He added, however, that he 
had not yet had an opportunity to study the question carefully. 
Other members felt that there was little alternative to continuation 
of the program, at least in the absence of a viable alternative. They 
pointed out, among other things, that it would be difficult to reinstate 
such a program after it had once been suspended. The members concluded 

870 
3/12/69 
-9-
that Governor Brimmer had done a good job in devising his suggested 
changes in the guidelines, that such changes were generally in the right 
direction, and that more drastic changes aimed at relaxation would not 
be warranted at present. It was hoped that changes of the kind proposed 
by Governor Brimmer would develop to be compatible with the revisions 
currently being worked out in the general U.S. balance of payments 
program and that equity considerations could be highlighted in announcing 
them. 
Toward the end of the discussion Governor Robertson commented 
on the need that he saw to move at some stage to a program that would 
be essentially more equitable. However, it would be imprudent to dis-
band the present program until a better one was in place for use as 
needed. Accordingly, he would urge the Administration to move forward 
with the development of an alternative, for activation as necessary, 
and to seek whatever legislation might be required. The Administration 
also should be advised of the risks that were seen in dropping the present 
program before an alternative program was in readiness. 
Chairman Martin expressed his full support of Governor Brimmer's 
recommendations, particularly since they worked in the direction of 
redressing inequities. He concurred in the view that it would be appro-
priate to give the Administration the benefit of the Board's advice. 
However, he cautioned against moving ahead of the Administration in any 
respect and suggested that the Board act only within the context of such 

871 
3/12/69 
-10-
balance of payments policies as might be developed by the Adminis-
tration. Once the Administration had made a decision, the Board could 
revise its guidelines along the lines recommended by Governor Brimmer 
if such action appeared consistent with the overall program. 
Governor Brimmer agreed that the Board should not move ahead of 
the Administration and suggested that if the Administration decided to 
do nothing the Board could then take another look at its own program. 
After other Board members expressed agreement, Governor Brimmer said that 
he would like to talk with Treasury Under Secretary Volcker in general 
terms along the lines of the points brought out in his memorandum, parti-
cularly since he understood that Mr. Volcker was leaving for Europe 
shortly for discussions concerning the U.S. balance of payments, and 
Governor Brimmer was authorized to do so. 
Annual Report. Reference was made to the draft of Part I of 
the Board's Annual Report for 1968 that had been submitted with a memo-
randum from Mr. Molony of March 4, 1969. Chairman Martin requested that 
members of the Board send their suggestions to Mr. Molony as soon as 
they had completed their review of the material, and it was understood 
that Part I would be regarded as approved unless comments received by 
Mr. Molony appeared to necessitate further consideration by the Board. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 

a 
3/12/69 
-11-
Minneapolis salary structure. The Board considered a request 
from the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis for an increase from $22,000 
to $23,500 
in the special maximum for grade 16 of the salary structure 
pplicable to employees of the Bank. The reason for the request was to 
facilitate the employment of John Kareken, who the Bank proposed to 
retain on a full-time basis for one year beginning July 1, 1969, while 
he was on sabbatical leave from the University of Minnesota. 
After discussion of the circumstances involved, the Board 
approved unanimously an alternative plan under which the present grade 16 
maximum would be retained but a special exception would be granted to 
permit the employment of Mr. Kareken at the annual salary rate indicated. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Minneapolis Bank pursuant to 
this action is attached as Item No. 5. 
Salary of officer at Cleveland. The Board approved unanimously 
the payment of salary to William J. Hocter, currently associated with 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, as Vice President and Economist of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland at the annual rate of $27,500, as 
fixed by the Cleveland Bank's directors, effective when Mr. Hocter 
assumed his new duties on a date to be worked out with the Chicago Bank, 
A copy of the letter sent to the Cleveland Bank is attached as 
Item No. 6. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
Y 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
• F T H E 
3/12/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 12, 1969 
The Chase Manhattan Bank 
(National Association), 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to the Board's letter of September 6, 
1968, granting consent for Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corpora-
tion to continue to hold the stock of The Chase Manhattan Trust 
Corporation Limited ("CMTC"), Nassau, Bahamas, after CMTC acquired 
all the shares of The Chase Manhattan Bank (Geneva) S.A. ("Chase 
Geneva"), a commercial bank to be formed in Geneva, Switzerland, at 
a cost of approximately $7,000,000, provided shares of a value of 
at least $6,000,000 were acquired within one year from that date. 
As requested in your letter of January 9, 1969, the Board 
of Governors amends its letter of September 6, 1968, and grants per-
mission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act and 
Regulation M, for The Chase Manahttan Bank (National Association) 
("CMB") to purchase and hold all the shares of Chase Geneva at a 
cost of approximately $7,000,000, provided shares of a value of at 
least $6,000,000 are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed holding of shares of 
Cha se Geneva by CMB is granted subject to the following conditions! 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as prac-
ticable if Chase Geneva shall in any manner engage 
in any activity or take any action whatsoever that 
would not be permissible if Chase Geneva were a 
corporation or ganized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
CMB will furnish the Board with such reports re-
garding the activities of Chase Geneva as it may 
require from time to time and that CMB maintain 

- 8 
The Chase Manhattan Bank 
(National Association) 
-2-
at its head office all such information as is nec-
essary for the proper administration of Chase Geneva 
by CMB and for a proper evaluation of the investment 
by examiners; and 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Chase 
Geneva be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation 
K in the same manner as if Chase Geneva were a corpo-
ration organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board sus-
pends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the 
immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate 
to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) of Regula-
tion K. 
It is requested that the Board of Governors be furnished, 
through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles 
of Association, Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of Chase Geneva 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your bank, Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, and Chase 
International Investment Corporation, and that due consideration is 
being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(3) 

V 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5Y5TEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
? D 5 5 I 
Item No. 
3/12/69 
• FFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN 
March 14, 1969 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D.C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your request of February 3, 1969, 
for a report from the Board on the bill, S. 823, which would add 
to the Truth in Lending Act (Public Law 90-321) a new chapter to 
be known as the "Fair Credit Reporting Act." 
The stated purpose of the bill, which was introduced 
by Senator Proxmire for himself and nine other Senators, is to 
require all credit reporting agencies utilizing the facilities 
of interstate commerce to adopt reasonable procedures, in accordance 
with regulations prescribed by this Board, for meeting the needs of 
commerce for credit and other information in a manner fair and 
equitable to individual consumers. The billfs definition of "credit 
reporting agency" seems sufficiently broad to include some creditors 
The main thrust of the bill is its requirement that 
every such credit reporting agency provide, upon request, a rea-
sonable opportunity for any individual to correct information in 
the hands of the agency that may bear adversely on his credit rating 
To this end, the bill would require any person or organization that 
rejects an application for consumer credit or other prospective 
transaction by or with an individual wholly or partly because of a 
report from a credit reporting agency, to notify the individual 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-3 8 / i 
and disclose to him the name and address of the agency involved. 
In addition, a credit reporting agency would be required to notify 
an individual of any derogatory information on him obtained from 
a public record and provide him a reasonable opportunity to 
submit an explanatory statement. 
Credit reporting agencies would also be required by the 
bill to follow procedures that would insure the confidentiality of 
information bearing upon the credit ratings of individuals; limit 
the collection, retention, and furnishing of such information to 
current items essential for the purposes for which the information 
is sought; and insure that, except as the individual concerned 
agrees otherwise in writing, information will be furnished only to 
persons with a legitimate business need and for the purpose 
described in the collection of information.. Failures of agencies 
or users of information to comply with the bill would be subject 
to civil penalties collectible through the courts by the individuals 
concerned. 
As the bill would add a new chapter 4 to the Truth in 
Lending Act, some of the provisions of that Act would also apply 
to the bill, such as the provision placing in the Board broad 
regulatory authority, including the authority to make exceptions 
and classifications; the provisions for administrative enforcement 
distributed among nine Federal departments and agencies; and the 
provision for criminal penalties. 
The collection, processing, and disclosure of information 
bearing on the credit standing and reputation of consumers clearly 
requires of those performing that service adherence to high 
standards of care commensurate not only with the personal nature 
of such information, but also with the basic need for its accuracy 
and relevancy in the interests of both the users and grantors of 
credit. Devotion even to the highest standards feasible, however, 
would not guarantee against occasional failures, either human or 
mechanical, unfortunate though they may be. Nevertheless, the 
need for vigilance with respect to proper standards may very well 
increase as the credit industry adapts more and more to modern and 
more centralized mechanical developments that make possible greater 
accessibility to sources of credit for consumers. 
In considering your request, the Board recalled the 
rejection by the House about a year ago of a proposed amendment by 
Mr. Zablocki to the Truth in Lending bill similar to S. 823. Among 
the arguments for rejection of the amendment was the need for 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-3 
further study of so "far-reaching" a proposal. The Board also 
has no ted--as did Senator Proxmire in his remarks on January 31, 
1969, when he introduced S. 823--that a number of Congressional 
committees have recently undertaken studies of the subject. 
That this Congressional activity has had a salutary effect is 
evidenced particularly by the recently issued "Credit Bureau 
Guidelines to Protect Consumer Privacy" developed by an associ-
ation of credit bureaus and several interested trade associations 
as a result, at least in part, of the Hearings last year of the 
Special Subcommittee on Invasion of Privacy, chaired by Congressman 
Gallagher, of the House Committee on Government Operations. 
Senator Proxmire, as well as Congressman Gallagher, have indicated 
that this represents encouraging cooperation from the industry. 
The Board has noted also Senator Proxmirefs statement on January 31 
of his belief that his bill reflects what many of the best credit 
reporting agencies are already doing. 
Presumably there is room for further improvement in 
the situation, although the subject is an unfamiliar one to the 
Hoard. We assume, that in considering whether legislation is 
necessary, your Committee will not underestimate the importance 
of the collection and disclosure of credit information to the work 
of credit grantors. Such information strongly influences the 
quality of service creditors are able to render to their customers 
and, of course, has obvious bearing on credit risk. In weighing 
the desirability of legislation in this field, care should be taken 
to avoid creating inequities among various classes of creditors, 
impeding the flow and availability of necessary credit information, 
reducing ready access by consumers to credit sources, or increasing 
credit costs. 
With respect to the provisions for administering the bill, 
the Board is not prepared to assume responsibility for prescribing 
regulations to implement such legislation. Such an assignment 
would require of us a function for which we have no special quali-
fications. Furthermore, assignment of additional duties to the 
Board in regard to the protection of consumers is inconsistent 
with effective performance of our primary responsibilities in the 
field of monetary policy. The Board has accepted responsibility 
for prescribing the Truth in Lending regulations. However, the 
legislative history of the Truth in Lending Act clearly established 
that the Board!s role should be a limited one, and that its 
acceptance of responsibility for developing regulations under that 
Act should not be taken as a precedent for assigning to the Board 
wide-ranging duties in the general area of consumer protection. 
8 / i 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-3 8 / i 
In view of the recent increase in legislative measures 
designed principally for the protection of consumers and the 
likely continuance of this trend, the Board suggests that the 
administrative responsibility for such legislation be vested in 
an agency whose responsibilities traditionally have required 
that it be more intimately concerned with consumer matters, or 
that a new Federal department or agency be established to which 
administrative responsibility for consumer protection measures 
would be transferred and in which responsibility for future consumer 
measures would be vested. In this connection, the Board welcomes 
the action of the Committee on Government Operations in opening 
hearings next week on S. 860 to establish a Department of Consumer 
Affairs. Under this bill, functions relative to consumer matters 
that have been vested in other agencies, including the adminis-
trative responsibilities under the Truth in Lending Act, would be 
transferred to the new department. 
The Board would recommend against enactment of S. 823. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

_ 879 
Item No. 3 
3/12/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 1 
THE FIDELITY BANIC 
• 
for approval of merger with 
1 
Trefoil Bank 
• 1 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF RANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by The Fidelity 
Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a State member bank of the Federal 
Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that 
bank with Trefoil Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, under the 
charter and title of The Fidelity Bank. Notice of the proposed 
merger, in form approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to 
said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by 
the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, and the Attorney General on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger, 

880 
-2-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 12th day of March, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman itertin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
Brimmer end Sherrill. 
V 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

881 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY THE FIDELITY BANK 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
TREFOIL BANK 
STATEMENT 
The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ("Applicant"), 
with total deposits of about $1.1 billion has applied pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior 
approval of the merger of that bank with Trefoil Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania ("Trefoil"), which is a newly organized bank not in 
operation. The banks would merge under the charter and name of 
Applicant, which is a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
The proposed merger is one step in a plan of corporate 
re-organization whereby Fidelity Corporation of Pennsylvania, a newly 
organized Pennsylvania corporation, would become a one-bank holding 
company. Fidelity Corporation of Pennsylvania presently owns all 
the stock of Trefoil; upon the merger of Applicant with Trefoil, 
stock of Fidelity Corporation of Pennsylvania will be exchanged for 
stock of Applicant, 
Use of a merger transaction in Applicant's plan to form 
a one-bank holding company would assure to Fidelity Corporation of 
Pennsylvania the ability to acquire, except for directors' qualifying 
shares, all the outstanding stock of the banking subsidiary. 

_ 882 
Statutory considerations. - From the record before the 
Board, the proposed merger of Applicant and Trefoil--the latter being 
a bank with no operating history, formed solely to facilitate the 
corporate reorganization plan described above--uould itself have no 
effect on either competition or the banking conveience and needs of 
any relevant area. Nor would it appear that the proposal would have 
any adverse consequences relative to the financial and managerial 
resources and prospects of Applicant or Trefoil Bank. 
Accordingly, and in light of all of the standards set 
forth in the Bank Merger Act, the Board concludes that the application 
should be approved. 
March 12, 1969. 

883 
0* G<W •. 
-S&U.' . 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
3/12/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R t S P Q N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 12, 1969 
Board of Directors, 
Trefoil Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Trefoil Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, subject to 
the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
(1) Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the safety 
of its depositors, and, except with the permission 
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, such bank shall not cause or permit any 
change to be made in the general character of its 
business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to member-
ship. 
(2) The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and 
other corporate powers. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
that Trefoil Bank will not conduct a banking business with the public 
until it has merged with The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with special reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the Regulation is enclosed. 

To: Board of Directors 
- 2 -
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Board 
of Directors of Trefoil Bank. A certified copy of such resolution 
should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Feder al Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
is limited to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank 
applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the 
Board is advised that all of the requirements have been complied 
with and that the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock 
has been issued to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a 
formal certificate of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosures. 

885 
Item No. 5 
3/12/69 
A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
H E 
B O A R D 
14, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 55440 
Dear Mr. Galusha: 
In response to your letter of February 27, 1969, the 
Board prefers that the current penthouse maximum of your Bank's 
nonofficial salary structure of $21,500 be continued, but approves 
an exception to allow payment of an annual salary up to a maximum 
of $23,500 for John Kareken. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
'•f^rstsf:-' 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I 
T O "T 
March 

886 
BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
Item No. 5 
3/12/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 12, 1969. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to Mr. William J. Hocter as Vice President and 
Economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland at an 
annual salary rate of $27,500. This is the rate fixed by 
your Board of Directors as reported in your letter of 
March 6, 1969, to Governor Mitchell. 
It is understood that Mr. Hocter's appointment 
and new salary will become effective at the convenience of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
