Minutes for 
May 9, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

I H ' 1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, May 9, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Plotkin, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Bennett, Analyst, Division of Bank Operations 
Messrs. Lyon, Supervisory Review Examiner, and 
Pounds tone, Review Examiner, Division of 
Examinations 
Application of Marine Midland (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval 
was given to a letter to Marine Midland International Corporation, New 
York, New York, interposing no objection to the acquisition of pre-
ferred stock of Credico, Inc., Montreal, Canada, in lieu of the stock 
Purchase for which consent was granted by the Board on July 27, 1966. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 

184 
5/9/67 
-2-
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency of a report on 
the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The First 
National Bank of Stockport, Stockport, Ohio, into The First National 
Bank of McConnelsville, McConnelsville, Ohio, in a form in which the 
conclusion read as follows: 
There is little competition existing between The 
First National Bank of McConnelsville and The First 
National Bank of Stockport and little potential for 
competition between them in view of the small size of 
the last named bank and community in which it is 
located. The overall effect of the proposal on compe-
tition would not be adverse to any significant degree. 
Application of First Virginia Corporation (Items 2 and 3). 
There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on April 5, 1967, of the application of The First 
Virginia Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, to acquire voting shares of 
Cambria Bank, Incorporated, Christiansburg, Virginia. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 2 and 3. 
Remittance for cash letters (Item No. 4). Question had been 
raised by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis with respect to 
accounting methods followed by member banks when remitting for cash 
let ters by means of a draft on a correspondent bank. It appeared that 
some member banks decreased a correspondent bank's account on their 
books upon drawing the draft; others credited a transit account pending 

1848 
5/9/67 
-3-
arrival of the draft at the Reserve Bank. The question centered around 
the manner in which such a transaction might be reflected in the member 
bank's report of deposits for reserve purposes and its published report 
of condition; and additionally, whether bookkeeping involving the use 
of transit accounts made delayed cash letter remittances advantageous, 
thereby tending to encourage an increase in float. The matter was 
referred to the Conference of Presidents for study. 
The Subcommittee on Accounting, to which consideration of the 
problem was assigned within the Presidents' Conference, conducted a 
survey of cash letter remittance procedures. In a report dated 
November 25, 1966, the Subcommittee concluded that a member bank's out-
standing cash letter remittance drafts on a correspondent bank account 
might properly be carried in a deferred account and reported as other 
liabilities. In addition, there was no evidence to indicate that this 
procedure had encouraged, or would encourage, banks to delay remittances 
and thus increase float. The Subcommittee also found no policy conflict 
involved in allowing banks that remitted on correspondents to compute 
required reserves in the same way as banks that remitted on their own 
reserve accounts. Accordingly, the Subcommittee recommended that 
member banks be permitted to begin using, or to continue to use, a 
deferred account to make allowance for time in transit of remittance 
drafts drawn on correspondent banks in order to synchronize the date 
of entry to their "due from banks" account with the date payment was 

1849 
5/9/67 
-4-
due at the Federal Reserve Banks. The Conference of Presidents, at 
its meeting on March 6, 1967, approved the report of the Subcommittee. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated May 5, 1967, 
from the Division of Bank Operations commenting on the problem and on 
the findings of the Subcommittee. The memorandum noted that remit-
tances for cash letters were required to be made in immediately avail-
able funds. Consequently, there should be no difference with respect 
to float whether remittance for cash letters was made by a draft on a 
correspondent bank or by authorization to charge the member bank's own 
reserve account, but in some cases remittances by draft on a correspon-
dent, when received later than the clearing hour, were held over until 
the next day. The memorandum then referred to the February 28, 1967, 
progress report of the Subcommittee on Collections relating to imple-
mentation of recommendations to reduce float, in which it was pointed 
out that 29 of the 36 Federal Reserve offices had, or were in the 
process of developing, a program for automatic cash letter payment 
agreements with payor banks. Also, 27 offices were now presenting 
remittance drafts drawn on local correspondent banks over the counter 
when received too late for the local clearing or were in the process 
of making such arrangements. 
It was recommended that the Board concur in the action of the 
Conference of Presidents but call attention to the fact that remit-
tances for cash letters by drafts on a correspondent bank should be 

1850 
5/9/67 
-5-
received in time for the local clearing, or that special arrangements 
should be made under which the correspondent bank's account would be 
charged promptly. Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to 
the Reserve Banks along these lines. 
In discussion, Governor Mitchell noted that the Reserve Banks 
would have to protect themselves against late receipt of remittances. 
The proposed letter made that point clear. However, it seemed to him 
that there was some foot-dragging in the development of the programs 
referred to in the memorandum from the Subcommittee on Collections. 
He suggested that the draft letter include a statement to the effect 
that such programs should be pushed forward aggressively. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to a letter to the 
Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks in the form attached as 
_Item No. 4. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Hodges S. Burton, Jr., as Laborer, Division of Administrative 
Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
(The appointment was to a budget 
Position for which dual occupancy was authorized due to an illness.) 
Ella Greenfield as Statistical Assistant, Division of Research 
and Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,859, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 

I — 
1851 
i'.'vi: 
5/9/67 
Appointment 
-6-
Evelyn Simms as Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,269, effec 
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 

1852 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
5/9/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 9, 1967. 
Marine Midland International Corporation, 
140 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of May 2, 1967, referring 
to the Board's letter of July 27, 1966, which granted consent to 
your Corporation to acquire a maximum of approximately 126,000 addi-
tional shares of Class B (voting) stock of Credico, Inc., Montreal, 
Canada, at a cost of approximately US$600,000. 
You state that shareholders of Credico, Inc. have agreed 
to authorize a new issue of 1,000 shares of convertible preferred 
stock which your Corporation will purchase in its entirety at par, 
Can.$500 per share, for a total of Can.$500,000. This acquisition 
will be in lieu of the above Class B stock. It is understood that 
each preferred share will be convertible into 35 shares of common 
stock Class B plus 132 shares of common stock Class A and that it 
ls your Corporation's intention to retain not more than 24 per cent 
°f the voting stock of Credico, Inc. 
In the circumstances, the Board of Governors interposes 
n ° objection to the proposed acquisition of preferred stock. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1853 
Item No. 2 
5/9/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D, C. 
1 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
THE FIRST VIRGINIA CORPORATION, 
' 
Arlington, Virginia,
 
1 
f°r approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent
 
1 
°r more of the outstanding voting shares of
 
1 
Cambria Bank, Incorporated, Christiansburg,
 
1 
Virginia. 
» 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
section 222.4(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)), an 
aPplication by The First Virginia Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, a 
r egistered bank holding company, for the Board's approval of the acquisition 
80 per cent or more of the outstanding voting shares of Cambria Bank, 
Incorporated, Christiansburg, Virginia. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt cf 
application was given to the Virginia Commissioner of Banking with 
a 
request for his views and recommendation. The Ccmmissioner advised 
that he had no objection to approval of the application. 

1854 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on January 13, 1967 (32 Federal Register 393), pro-
viding an opportunity for submission of comments and views regarding the 
Proposed acquisition, A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
D e p a r t m e n t of Justice for its consideration. The time for filing such 
comments and views has expired and all those received have been considered 
by the Board. 
IT IS ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's Statement 
this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, provided 
that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day after the date of this Order or (b) later than 
three months after the date of the Order. 
Dated at Uashington, D . C., this 9th day of May, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and Governors 
Robertson, Shepardson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Governor Sherrill did not participate in the Board's action 
in this matter. 
(Signed) Ilerritt Sherman 
• 
ileriritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
( S E A L ) 

1855 
Item No. 3 
5/9/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY THE FIRST VIRGINIA CORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
CAMBRIA BANK, INCORPORATED 
STATEMENT 
The First Virginia Corporation, Arlington, Virginia ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
c°nt or more of the outstanding voting shares of Cambria Bank, Incorporated, 
Christiansburg, Virginia ("Bank"). Applicant presently controls 12 banks, 
w hich operate 72 offices (including two facilities), with total deposits 
of * 
y 
$286 million as of June 30, 1966. 
Bank, which operates two offices 
l n Christiansburg, has deposits of $2.7 million. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
b y s ection 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Virginia Commissioner 
Banking of receipt of the application and requested his views and 
r ecommendation thereon. The Commissioner expressed no objection to 
aPProval of the application. 
i' Unle ss otherwise indicated, all banking data noted arc of this date, 
formation with respect to Applicant gives effect to the acquisitions 
f Staunton Industrial Bank, Staunton, Virginia, and First Valley National 
a n k , Rich Creek, Virginia, which were consummated subsequent to June 30, 1966. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 

1S56 
-2-
Statutory factors. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides that the 
Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a monopoly, 
be in furtherance of any ccmbination or conspiracy to monopolize or 
to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the 
United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, the 
effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially to 
lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other 
banner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the 
ar*ticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed 
in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In each case, 
the Board is required to take into consideration the financial and mana-
Serial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
hanks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community to be 
served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant, the 
third largest bank holding company and sixth largest banking organization 
n Virginia, controls total deposits of $286 million, representing 5.6 per 
C Qnt of the total deposits in the State. Over 50 per cent of the latter de-
posits are controlled by the seven largest banking organizations - four bank 
holding companies, including Applicant, and three independent branch bank 
systems. Acquisition of Bank would increase by .05 per cent Applicant's 
share of the deposits held by all banks in the State. The share of those 
^
ePosits controlled in the aggregate by the State's seven largest organ-
isations would be similarly Increased. 

-3- 
1857 
Bank's main office is located in the town of Christiansburg, which 
is 30 miles soutlwest of Roanoke and the seat and ccmmercial center of 
Montgomery County. A branch office of Bank is located outside the town limits 
about one and a half miles from the main office. Bank's primary service 
2/ 
a r e a , 
wholly situated within Montgomery County, includes Christiansburg and 
• the surrounding rural area within an approximate three-mile radius. 
Applicant's acquisition of Bank would represent the initial entry 
a bank holding company directly into Montgomery County. The nearest sub-
sidiary bank of Applicant, Bank of New River Valley (deposits of $6 million), 
is located in Radford, about eight miles west of Bank. Although a primary 
h l8hway links Radford and Christiansburg, the mountainous terrain between 
t^e towns presents somewhat of a ccmmercial and commutation barrier. This 
ci-*cumstance, and the fact that both Bank and Bank of New River Valley are in 
c°mpetition with larger institutions, explain the lack of any significant 
C cmpetition between the two in their respective communities. The next two 
CJ-osest offices to Christiansburg of one of Applicant's banks are 35 and 43 
^iies distant. According to Applicant, neither derives business from the 
C h*istiansburg area. 
Consideration of the effect of Applicant's control of Bank on 
n°n-affiliated competing banks in the area does not warrant denial of the 
application. Bank has about 14 per cent of the deposits held by 
^rlstiansburg banks. Bank's two larger competitors in Christiansburg, 
Bank of Christiansburg (deposits of $9.4 million) and The First National 
B*nk of Christiansburg (deposits of $7,2 million), together hold the 
P ^ r e a from which Bank derives 80 per cent of its total of deposits of 
i n d i V i d u a l S j partnerships, and corporations ("IPC deposits"). 

1858 
-4-
remaining 86 per cent of such deposits. The First National Exchange Bank 
o f Virginia (deposits of $292 million) and the National Bank of Blacksburg 
(deposits of $11 million), with offices located, respectively, between 
and seven miles from Bank's main office, draw business from Bank's 
service area. 
Considering Bank's size and the sizes and number of its 
competitors, and the fact that the proposed acquisition will not reduce 
number of alternative sources of banking services, it is reasonably 
S G e n 
t h a t Applicant's proposal, if consummated, would not lessen, but could 
lt*tensify> competition. 
In summary, the Board concludes, on the basis of the record 
b efore it, that consummation of Applicant's proposal would not result in 
ft m 
°nopoly, or further any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or 
m P t to monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area of the 
St-a t G ; nor would such consummation substantially lessen ccmpetition, tend 
0 create a monopoly, or operate in restraint of trade in any relevant area. 
> 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. - The 
ar*cial conditions of Applicant and of its subsidiary banks are considered 
0 b e satisfactory. Applicant's prospects, gauged principally in the light 
of t, 
,ie sound financial condition of its subsidiary banks, are favorable, 
r e those of its banks. Management of Applicant and of its subsidiary 
is considered capable and experienced, and in all respects satisfactory. 

1859 
-5-
Bank's financial resources and condition appear reasonably 
satisfactory, and its management qualified and competent. However, 
additional personnel are needed, particularly persons qualified to effect 
the service and growth potential of Bank's branch office. It is the 
Board's judgment that the employment advantages that Applicant can offer 
Potential employees would assist Bank measurably in obtaining qualified 
Personnel. Accordingly, while Bank's prospects under its present owner-
ship 
appear favorable, the Board believes that its prospects under Appli-
cant's ownership and operation would be improved. Accordingly, considera-
tions bearing upon the banking factors are consistent with, and somewhat 
favor, approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the area involved. - Montgomery County, 
including Bank's service area, is primarily agriculturally oriented. In 
r°cent years, however, the general area of Christiansburg, except for the 
Cambria section thereof where Bank's main office is located, has experienced 
a Growth of light industry. This development has been a principal factor 
the increase in Christiansburg's population to its present 7,500, and 
t o the growth to 25,000 of the population in Christiansburg's general 
trade area. A mountain ridge separates the Cambria section of Christiansburg 
frcm its central business district. Cambria's resulting "separate community" 
Posture offers considerably less potential for econcmic growth than that 
indicated for the Christiansburg area generally. It is to the continued 
ec°ncmic 
development of the Christiansburg area, the direct assistance to 
t l l G Cambria section thereof, and the resulting growth in Bank that Applicant 

1860 
-6-
asserts its application is directed. While the evidence of record reflects 
that the major banking needs of the Christiansburg area are being served, 
it appears that more convenient and improved services would be offered by 
Bank under Applicant's ownership. Among Applicant's proposals, the follow-
ing appear to offer a potential for public benefit: to establish a credit 
extension program at Bank's branch office - no loans are presently made 
there; to encourage and assist Bank in opening a branch office in 
c^risttansburg's business district; and to provide direction and assistance 
with 
n respect to the initiation of, or improvement in, specific operational 
Procedures and practices. In sum, Applicant's proposal to develop Bank 
a s a full-service institution weighs, under the circumstances presented, 
i n favor of approval of the application. 
Conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant facts contained 
i n t h e record, and in light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) of 
t he 
G Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be 
the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
May 9 . 1967, 

1861 
Item No. 4 
5/9/67 
I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 9, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
The Conference of Presidents at its meeting on March 6, 1967, 
considered the report dated November 25, 1966, of the Subcommittee on 
Accounting concerning the committee's study of member bank remittances 
for Federal Reserve cash letters. The Conference accepted the report 
and approved the recommendation of the Subcommittee on Accounting that--
member banks be permitted to begin using or to continue 
to use a deferred account to make allowance for time 
in transit of remittance drafts drawn on correspondent 
banks in order to synchronize the date of entry to 
their "Due from Banks" account with the date payment 
is due at the Federal Reserve Banks. 
The Board of Governors concurs in the action of the Presidents' 
Conference. Hovever, in view of efforts being made toward reduction 
of float, the Board believes that when member banks remit for cash 
fetters by drafts on a correspondent bank and use a deferred account 
for recording the drafts while in transit to the Reserve Banks, steps 
should be taken to prevent any creation of remittance float by the 
Procedure. The member banks should be required to dispatch the drafts 
"
 a timely fashion so that no delay in remittance will result. 
It 
should also be understood that if such drafts are received too late 
or the local clearing, the correspondent bank would agree to presenta-
tion over the counter or some other special arrangement for collection 
°f the drafts on day of receipt. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C 
T O • 

- 2 -
1862 
In this connection, the Board took note of the February 28, 
1967, report of the Subcommittee on Collections in which it was noted 
that: 
(1) 29 of the 36 offices have in effect, or are developing 
programs for, automatic cash-letter-payment agreements 
with payor banks. 
(2) 27 of the 36 offices have arranged, or are working on 
arrangements, for over-the-counter presentation of 
drafts drawn on local correspondent banks when re-
ceived too late for the clearing* 
The Board believes both of these programs should be 
aggressively pursued in offices where they are not now in effect. 
Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
