Minutes for 
July 14, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Off ice of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
adv ise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
°nly that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
SO/L 

2810 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, July 14, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
yv-i.-. • 
pv -
vi. 
. • , j 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Eaton and Miss McWhirter of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Gramley, 
Sigel, Eckert, Bernard, Ettin, Fry, Keir, and 
Kelty of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Hersey, Baker, Gekker, Pizer, and 
Ruckdeschel of the Division of International 
Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Kelty discussed developments in the 
Government securities market, after which Mr. Ettin commented on recent 
and prospective bank credit developments. Mr. Ruckdeschel then reported 
° n activity in foreign exchange markets and on liabilities of U.S. banks 
t o their foreign branches. Copies of the several charts and tables 

2811. 
7/14/67 
-2-
distributed in connection with the review have been placed in the 
Board's files. 
An ensuing general discussion centered principally on the 
probable needs of the Treasury for new money in the last half of the 
year. 
Governor Brimmer observed, during the discussion, that he had 
previously suggested the desirability of restructuring reserve require-
ments, within the limits of existing statutory authority, in the direc-
tion of a graduated system. In the present circumstances he believed 
thought should be given to providing through reserve requirement action 
part of the reserves it seemed probable the Federal Reserve would find 
it necessary to supply to the market in the coming months. While he 
recognized that there was some reluctance to use that instrument for 
meeting day-to-day needs for fear of releasing in a rather permanent 
form more reserves than would be desirable, he thought some considera-
tion should be given to such an alternative. 
In response to staff comments regarding progress being made 
within the framework of the System Research Advisory Committee in 
formulating reserve requirement proposals, Governor Brimmer expressed 
the view that it was not necessary to wait for recommendations from 
that source. The Presidents' Conference, at its recent meeting, had 
recommended that the Board move within a reasonable time on the imple-
mentation of a system of moderately graduated reserves, and he did not 
believe the matter was any longer primarily a research problem. 

7/14/67 
-3-
Members of the staff who had attended for the money market 
review then withdrew and the following entered the room: 
Be • ' 
: , • 
• 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Messrs. O'Connell and Shay, Assistant General 
Counsel 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Messrs. Noble, Porter, and Sanders of the 
Legal Division 
Mr. Kichline of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Goodfellow of the Division of Examinations 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, and Dallas on July 13, 1967, of the rates on discounts and 
advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the 
o • , . 
• . . 
understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been made 
available to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under the 
respective item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
: i . 
, ,, , 
Letter to Shawmut International Corporation, 
1 
Boston, Massachusetts, granting consent to 
Purchase shares of ADELA Investment Company, 
A., Luxembourg. 

7/14/67 
-4-
Item No. 
Letter to Boston Overseas Financial Corporation, 
2 
Boston, Massachusetts, granting consent to pur-
chase the remaining outstanding shares of Inter-
national Factors, A. G., Chur, Switzerland, and 
to acquire from that organization up to 50 per 
cent of the stock of each of the regional fac-
toring companies it currently holds. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
3 
Francisco approving the adoption of increased 
rates and improved benefits under the Blue Cross 
hospitali zation and surgical program. 
With respect to Item No. 1, Governor Mitchell noted that 
Shawmut International Corporation's foreign credits, combined with 
those of its parent, National Shawmut Bank, exceeded the target for 
the bank under the voluntary foreign credit restraint program. Mr. 
Sammons indicated that this point had been considered, but it had been 
believed that because of the modest size of the excess and in the light 
°f the bank's program for reducing it in the near future, the point 
need not be stressed in the letter. 
Rules of Practice for Formal Hearings (Item No. 4). On 
April 27, 1967, the Board authorized publishing in the Federal Register 
f o r comment a proposed revision of its Rules of Practice for Formal 
tarings. The 
revision had been developed primarily in response to the 
need for additional rules and procedures resulting from enactment of 
^ e Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 1966, but it also included 
changes deemed desirable in the light of experience with the Rules 
since their most recent revision in December 1961. 

7/14/67 
-5-
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated July 11, 
1967, from the Legal Division submitting a further draft; the changes 
from the draft that had been published for comment were not substan-
tive, but rather were designed to clarify and make more explicit the 
purpose of certain of the provisions. The memorandum concluded with 
the recommendation that the Board adopt the proposed revision. 
After discussion, the revised Rules of Practice for Formal 
Hearings were approved unanimously, to become effective on August 1, 
1967. A copy of the press release announcing this action and describ-
ing the principal changes in the Rules is attached as Item No. 4; a 
copy of the Rules has been placed in the Board's files. 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary, entered the room at this 
Point. 
Article regarding Public Information Act. Pursuant to the 
understanding at the meeting on July 10, 1967, there had been distrib-
uted a draft of article, prepared by Mr. Hackley, regarding the Public 
Information Act. It was proposed to publish the article in the July 
issue of the Federal Reserve Bulletin, which would also contain the 
Rules Regarding Availability of Information adopted by the Board effec 
tive July 4, 1967, major parts of which were for the purpose of imple-
menting the Public Information Act. 
During discussion Messrs. Hackley and Hexter expressed reserva 
tions regarding the desirability of publishing such an article, on the 

2 1 8 1 5 
7/14/67 
-6-
ground that, in advance of gaining experience with the requirements of 
the Public Information Act, general statements in such an article might 
prove embarrassing if they should later be found inapplicable to spe-
cific circumstances. However, the predominant view among the members 
of the Board was in favor of publishing the article in the Bulletin. 
A number of suggestions were made for over-all approach, edito-
rial revisions, and other changes in the article. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
Governors Maisel and Brimmer would work with Mr. Hackley to incorporate 
in the draft the various suggestions upon which there had been agree-
ment. It was also understood that copies of the article would be sent 
to the Federal Reserve Banks for their information as promptly as 
Possible after these revisions had been made in order that they might 
have an opportunity to read the article before its publication. 
(Note: 
The revised article was published in the July Bulletin under the title 
"The Public Information Act--Its Effect on Member Banks.") 
Revenue bond underwriting (Item No. 5). In a letter of 
March 31, 1967, Chairman Proxmire of the Financial Institutions Sub-
committee of the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency requested 
that the Board undertake "a complete and thorough investigation as to 
the annual amount of savings, if any, which may accrue to State and 
local governments" through enactment of S. 1306, a bill that would per-
mit commercial banks to underwrite municipal revenue bonds of invest-
ment grade. 

2816 
7/14/67 
-7-
At the meeting on July 13, 1967, there was preliminary dis-
cussion of the principal components of a draft report of the staff 
study. At that time members of the Board made a number of comments 
and suggestions, primarily of a technical and editorial character, to 
assist the staff in completing the paper. There had now been distrib-
uted a revised draft of major parts of the report. 
The discussion at today's meeting indicated that members of 
the Board found the present version of the report a substantial improve-
ment over the earlier one, although various suggestions were offered 
for further refinements. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Board authorized trans-
mittal to Chairman Proxmire of the study in a form that would incorpo-
rate the suggested changes. A copy of the letter subsequently sent to 
Chairman Proxmire is attached as Item No. 5. 
Meetings regarding revenue bond underwriting. Chairman Martin 
referred to earlier discussions relating to the possibility of hearing 
proponents and opponents of commercial bank underwriting of revenue 
bonds. He suggested that arrangements now be made for such a presenta-
tion by an interested group of commercial bankers, headed by Mr. Kenneth 
V. Zwiener, Chairman of Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Chicago, Illinois, 
and that a meeting also be arranged with a group of investment bankers. 
It was agreed that arrangements would be made for such confer-
ences, and that in advance of the meetings the participants would be 
furnished copies of the staff report sent to Chairman Proxmire. 

2817 
7/14/67 
-8-
Governor Maisel suggested that in preparation for the meetings 
it would be helpful to have the staff prepare a summary of the pros 
and cons of the revenue bond underwriting question, and it was under-
stood that such a summary would be prepared. 
Secretary's Note: Arrangements were 
subsequently made for a meeting with 
commercial bank representatives on 
July 26, 1967, and for a meeting with 
investment bankers on August 1, 1967. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: A letter was sent today 
to International Bank of Commerce, Seattle, 
Washington, acknowledging receipt of notice 
of its intent to establish an additional 
branch in Hong Kong, to be located at 
578-580 Nathan Road, Kowloon. 
Acting in the absence of Governor Robertson, 
Governor Sherrill today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointment 
G. Joseph King as Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $10,166, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Adjustment in entrance salary 
John E. Petersen, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
basic annual salary at the rate of $11,741 rather than the rate pre-
viously approved, effective July 14, 1967 (date of entrance upon duty) 
Reemployment following maternity leave 
Frances B. Loveless, Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Adminis-
tration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,269, effective 
July 24, 1967. 

2818 
7/14/67 
-9-
Salary increases, effective July 16, 1967 
Basic annual salary 
To 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
Office of the Secretary 
Carolyn A. Bickel, Clearing Assistant 
$ 5,507 
$ 5,867 
Virginia M. Spivey, Assistant Supervisor, 
6,659 
6,857 
Secretarial Section 
Research and Statistics 
Darwin L. Beck, Economist 
8,740 
9,001 
Richard L. Breen, Statistical Assistant 
5,507 
5,683 
Frank de Leeuw, Senior Economist 
18,157 
18,764 
Edward C. Ettin, Economist 
16,152 
16,675 
George J. Konomos, Economist 
7,957 
8,218 
J. Cortland G. Peret, Economist 
16,152 
16,675 
Milo 0. Peterson, Economist 
12,822 
13,769 
Erling T. Thoresen, Economist 
11,685 
12,064 
Petronella van der Vossen, Secretary 
5,331 
5,507 
Dorothy M. Vereb, Statistical Assistant 
5,683 
5,859 
Administrative Services 
Henry Edmonds, Grounds Maintenance Worker 
5,470 
5,762 
Theodore L. Jones, Operator (Xerox-Mimeograph) 
5,429 
5,699 
Data Processing 
Kenneth L. Johnson, Graphic Illustrator 
4,557 
4,936 
("Trainee" deleted from title) 
Carolyn J. Latina, Stenographer 
4,936 
5,096 
Transfers 
Bert Harvey, from the position of Chauffeur (Station Wagon) to the 
Position of Chauffeur, Division of Administrative Services, with an 
increase in basic annual salary from $5,158 to $5,470, effective July 16, 
1967. 
Judy C. Walker, Secretary, Division of Data Processing, from the 
Appl ications Analysis Section to the Financial Statistics Section, with 
n° change in basic annual salary at the rate of $5,331, effective July 16, 
1967. 

2 8 1 9 
7/14/67 
-10-
On July 14, 1967, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated : 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
6 
approving the appointment of Patricia A. Roach 
as assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
7 
approving the appointment of Richard J. Burda, 
Richard M. Lang, and John E. Murphy as examiners. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
8 
approving the appointment of William Curtis Ogdahl 
as assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
9 
approving the appointment of Modesto A. Villaluz as 
assistant examiner. 
By the Director of the Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Lett er to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
10 
approving the appointment of Charles T. Belisario 
and Hoke S. Holt as Federal Reserve Agent's 
Representatives at the Jacksonville Branch. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, 
11 
New York, New York, approving an extension of 
time within which to establish a branch at 
2 Pennsylvania Plaza, Borough of Manhattan. 
Letter to Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, 
12 
New York, New York, approving an extension of 
time within which to establish a branch at 
5910 Clarendon Road, Brooklyn. 

7/14/67 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to Union County Trust Company, Elizabeth, 
New Jersey, approving an extension of time within 
which to establish a branch at 295-299 Morris 
Avenue, Summit. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to The Detroit Bank and Trust Company, 
Detroit, Michigan, approving the establishment 
of a branch in West Bloomfield Township. 
Letter to First State Bank of Greenville, 
Greenville, Michigan, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch in Eureka Township. 

28.21 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
item No. 1 
oVgoVA'. 
O F T H E 
7/14/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
• FFI C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 14, 1967. 
Shawmut International Corporation, 
55 Congress Street, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of July 5, 1967, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and 
hold 25 shares of ADELA Investment Company, S. A., Luxembourg, at 
a cost of approximately US$250,000 provided such stock is acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board notes that the outstanding foreign credits of 
The National Shawmut Bank of Boston combined with those of your 
Corporation exceed the guidelines established under the voluntary 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect. The foregoing 
consent is given with the understanding that every effort will be 
made to reduce such foreign credits, including the one presently 
being approved, to an amount within the guidelines by the earliest 
practicable date. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
7/14/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 14, 1967. 
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation, 
67 Milk Street, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 29, 19(7. the Boaid of 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("BOFC") to purchase and 
hold the remaining outstanding shares of International Factors, A. G. 
("IFAG"), Chur, Switzerland, at an initial cost of approximately 
US$1,350 ,000, which will subsequently be reduced throi'gh the liquidation 
of assets of IFAG to approximately US$800,000, provided such additional 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. In 
this connection, the Board also approves the purchase and holding of 
shares in IFAG in excess of 10 per cent of your Corporation's capital 
and surplus and suspends temporarily the limitations on the liabilities 
°f one borrower as set forth in Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K inso-
far as IFAG1s liabilities to BOFC are concerned. 
The Board also grants its consent for BOFC to acquira from 
IFAG and to hold up to 50 per cent of the outstanding stock of each of 
the regional factoring companies whose stock is currently held by IFAG. 
The Board's consent to the proposed additional purchase and 
holding of shares of IFAG by BOFC is granted subject- to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That BOFC shall not hold any shares of stock in IFAG 
if IFAG at any time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with the 
consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or 
if IFAG establishes any branch or agency or takes any action 
or undertakes any operation in Switzerland or elsewhere, in 
any manner, which at the time would not be permissible to BOFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, EOFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the activities 
of IFAG as it may require from time to time; 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL 
R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation 
.2 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by IFAG 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the same 
manner as if IFAG were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board suspends 
until further notice the provisions of subparagraph (1), above, so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by IFAG in Switzerland in 
the currenty of that country. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the 
investment now being approved combined with other foreign loans and invest-
ments of your Corporation, The First National Bank of Boston, and Bank of 
Boston International will not cause the totals of such loans and investments 
to exceed the guidelines established under the voluntary foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect and that due consideration is being given to 
the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2824 
'v. 
V. 
2*. 
•J?: 
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
7/14/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 14, 1967 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
This refers to your letter of July 7, 1967, advising 
that your Board of Directors has approved the adoption of in-
creased rates and improved benefits under the Blue Cross hospi-
talization and surgical program. These benefits will provide 
coverage more in line with progressive firms in the communities 
served by your Bank and Branches. 
The Board of Governors will interpose no objection 
to the increased rates and benefits, and approves the payment 
of two-thirds of the premium costs for officers and employees. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

2825 
Item No. 4 
7/14/67 
For immediate release 
J u l y 25, 1967. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
adopted, effective August 1, 1967, a revision of its existing "Rules 
of Practice for Formal Hearings". 
The principal impetus to this action was the enactment into 
law in October 1966 of the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 
1966. The revised regulations are divided into three parts, two of 
which are entirely nev; and are directed exclusively toward implemen-
tation of procedural requirements established by the Supervisory Act 
for proceedings initiated pursuant to its provisions. In addition, 
however, the Board also took this opportunity to revise its existing 
Procedural rules, which are applicable to all formal hearings held by 
the Board, including such hearings as may be held in connection with 
the Board's responsibilities under the Federal Reserve Act, the Bank 
Merger Act of 1966, and the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. 
The Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 1966 authorizes 
the Federal bank supervisory agencies to act to prevent unsafe or 
unsound banking practices and violations of law, rules, or regulations 
bV banks under their supervision, through the issuance of orders 
requiring such banks to "cease and desist" from engaging in the 

- 2 -
2826 
proscribed activity. In certain aggravated situations, the agencies 
are also authorized to suspend or remove from office an officer, 
director, or other person participating in the affairs of a bank. 
Generally speaking, these situations are those which threaten ser-
ious injury to a bank or its depositors as a result of actions in-
volving personal dishonesty on the part of such officials. 
The procedure for issuing a cease-and-desist order under 
the new regulations is as follows: The Board would serve a notice 
to the bank involved containing a statement of the facts constituting 
the alleged unsafe or unsound practice or violation and fixing a 
time-and place at which a hearing would be held to determine whether 
a cease-and-desist order would be issued. The hearing would be held 
within not less than 30 nor more than 60 days after service of the 
notice, unless the bank itself requested an earlier or later date, 
and would ordinarily take place in the Federal judicial district in 
which the home office of the bank is located. Failure of the bank 
to appear at the hearing would constitute consent to the issuance of 
a cease-and-desist order. If the hearing is held and the specified 
charges are established, a cease-and-desist order would ordinarily 
be issued, to become effective 30 days after the service of the order 
upon the bank concerned. 

2827 
-3-
If the unsafe or unsound practice specified in the notice 
of charges is one that is likely to have a substantial financial 
impact on the assets or earnings of the bank or otherwise seriously 
prejudice the interests of its depositors, the Board may issue a 
temporary order prior to the hearing, which would take effect upon 
service on the bank and would remain in effect pending the completion 
of the administrative proceedings, at which time either a permanent 
order would be issued or the charges would be dismissed. 
The area of direct responsibility of the Board of Governors 
under the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act is with respect to 
those state-chartered commercial banks which are members of the Federal 
Reserve System* In addition, the Act also places upon the Board respon-
sibility for proceedings involving removal or suspension of officials 
of national banks in cases where the facts involved are certified to 
it by the Comptroller of the Currency. In the latter cases, the 
Comptroller is authorized to sit as a member of the Board. In other 
cases, the Board is generally required to permit State authorities 
an opportunity to take corrective action before acting under the 
authority conferred by the Act. 
Attached is a copy of the new regulations as sent to the 
Federal Register, 
Attachment 

2828 
pOFCp^' 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Q F T H E 
Item No. 5 
7/14/67 . 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5Y5TEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
• . 
C . 
2 Q 5 5 I 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
July 24, 1967. 
The Honorable William Proxmire, 
Chairman, 
Financial Institutions Subcommittee, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510. 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
As requested in your letter of March 31, 1967, 
and in line with the Board's letter to you on April 18, 
our staff has now completed a study of the interest cost 
effects of commercial bank underwriting of municipal revenue 
bonds. Two copies are enclosed, and the Board hopes your 
Committee will find the study helpful in your consideration of 
legislative proposals relating to possible changes in authority 
for commercial banks to underwrite such securities. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosures 

2829 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 6 
• F T H E 
7/14/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 17, 1967 
Mr. Luther M. Hoyle, Jr., 
Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106. 
Dear Mr. Hoyle: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the appointment of Miss Patricia A. Roach as an 
Assistant Examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. 
Please advise us of the effective date of her appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
• (Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
7/14/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D T H E 
B O A R D 
July 17, 1967 
.'Mr 
Mr. Leland M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois 60690. 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the appointments of Messrs. Richard J. Burda, 
Richard M. Lang, and John E. Murphy as Examiners for the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, effective August 7, 1967. 
It is noted that Mr. Lang will be paid $9300 per 
annum, while Messrs. Burda and Murphy will be paid $9400 annually, 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
28:N 
Item No. 8 
7/14/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 17, 1967 
,':>•• y , 
Mr. M. H. Strothman, Jr., 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55440. 
Dear Mr. Strothman: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the appointment of William Curtis Ogdahl as an 
Assistant Examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
effective July 17, 1967, at an annual salary of $7500. 
Very truly yours, 
> A iV. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
ar> 
'jj:: 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
7/14/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 17, 1967 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California 94120. 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the appointment of Modesto A. Villaluz as an Assistant 
Examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
Mr. Villaluz's appointment is effective the date of this letter, 
f;'; 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
§ 
KI 
a 
HI

2 8 3 8 
Item No. 10 
7/14/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . C • R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T D T H E 
B O A R D 
July 17, 1967 
Mr. Jack Tarver, 
Federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30303 
Dear Mr. Tarver: 
Acting under delegated authority, the Director of the 
Division of Personnel Administration has approved the appointments 
of Messrs. Charles T. Belisario and Hoke S. Holt as Federal Reserve 
Agent's Representatives at the Jacksonville Branch to succeed Messrs. 
Jessie T. Watson and Cecil L. Williams. 
This approval is given with the understanding that Messrs. 
Belisario and Holt will be solely responsible to the Federal Reserve 
Agent and the Board of Governors for the proper performance of their 
duties, except that, during the absence or disability of the Federal 
Reserve Agent or a vacancy in that office, their responsibility will 
be to the Assistant Federal Reserve Agent and the Board of Governors. 
When not engaged in the performance of their duties as 
Federal Reserve Agent's Representatives, Messrs. Belisario and Holt 
may, with the approval of the Federal Reserve Agent and the Vice 
President in charge of the Jacksonville Branch, perform such work 
for the Branch as will not be inconsistent with the duties as Federal 
Reserve Agent's Representatives. 
It will be appreciated if Messrs. Belisario and Holt are 
fully informed of the importance of their responsibilities as members 
of the staff of the Federal Reserve Agent and the need for maintenance 
of independence from the operations of the Bank in the discharge of 
these responsibilities. 
Please have Messrs. Belisario and Holt execute the usual 
Oath of Office which should then be forwarded to the Board of Governors 
along with notification of the effective date of their appointments. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
of gov; •. 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTE 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 

2SPA 
^prc^srpyr 
o p Njfsrvv V\>F:K 
Item No. 11 
7/14/67 . 
'—/ORfc, ish'vV 
:« ikvw 
Iisi i .i 
o W 
I ^ ^Q) 
\ 
Mr* Paul Av Reaaell 
NSeaior Tice President 
Manufacturers Hanover 
Trust Coapany 
350 Park Avenua 
York, Hew tork 
10022 
ear Mr, Beamell: 
\ 
• > A, 
T 
/ 
/i 
Reference i3 nade to your latter dated Juns 30* 
3 with enclosures* requesting an extension of the 
tltco within vhich your bank may establish a branch at 
^Pennsylvania Plaza, Borough of Manhattan, How York, flow 
"^ork, as approved "by the Board of Governors on August 
^ 1 9 6 6 . 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the 
fcjoderal Haserve Systea, acting under delegated authority, 
Federal "Reserve Bank of New York has approved your 
re que s t and extends to February 3 , 1968, the tine within 
vhich your bank nay establish a branch at the above 
location, 
] 
We ahall appreciate your advisinr. us when the 
b r a n c h Is established and opened for business, giving the 
©ffective data of opening, the none, if any. bv which it 
bo known, and the official postal address, including 
tho sip code number-. 
Please acknowledge receipt of thi& letter by 
signing and returning the enclosed copy to uo. 
Very truly ^cara* 
^Uci osure 
Fred V, Piderit; Jr 
Vice President 

Item No. 12 
7/14/67 . 
2 8 3 5 
FEDERAL, RESERVE BANK OF N E W YORK 
MEW YORK,. NEW YOftK iOCdS 
** J -4 
... 
Paul A, H c m o l l 
Senior Vice President 
anuf&cturer® Hanover 
vTrust Conpany 
350 Park Avenue 
^ov York* Nov York 
2.0022 
Mr. Re suae 11* 
Reference? is nade to ycur letter dated June 30, 
vith enclosures, requesting 
extension of the tirao 
v\thin vhich your bank aay establish a branch at 
59fO Clarendon Road;* Brooklyn. Itev 
ae approved "by 
Board of Governors on August 3, 1966, 
y 
On behalf of the Board of Cove m o m of tho Federal 
Koaorve Systea, acting undor dolegated authority, the federal 
serve Bank of Kev Vorh has approved your request and extends 
^ ^ 
rj August 3, 1968 tho tiae vithin vhich your banfc way estab-
—Vinfc u branch 
the above location. 
Ve ohall appreeiato your advising us vhen the branch 
*o established and opensd Tor business. Giving the cfTeetive 
aato of opening, the oane, if any, by vhich it vill be knovn, 
\ 
^ 
tho official postal address, including the sip code number. 
V * 
Please acknowledge raceipt of tbie letter by signing 
returning the enclosed copy to us. 
Very truly yours, 
Fred V. Piderit. Jr 
Vice Prosidoat 
Sticl 
^/miab 
oeuro 
.-. 
K\£ii?cr\ * c jDMwrv w-r jycvv i 
vVJ,\.»Ji 

2 8 ' v G 
r fvOERAL R E S E R V E B A N K O F N E W YOFX 
Item No. 13 
7/14/67 . 
• • - YORK NEW vofJX "0045 
i 
I A 1957 
R. 
V 
Mr* Saysaond 
TJauer 
\tfnion County £ruat Ooiapeny 
Broad tit rest 
Elisabeth* 
Jsrsey 
0720? 
Soar Mr. Bauer: 
Reference is nado to your lotto? dated July 
N. 2-967, requesting an extension of the tisss within which 
\your "bank nay establish a branch at 295-299 Morris Avenue, 
^uauaitj Hev Jersey. no approved 
the 3card of Governors 
on August 3, 1966/ 
• " •' I 
/ 
On behalf of tho Board or Governors of the 
Federal Reserve Syatea, actins under do legated authority, 
the Federal Beserve Bank of Row 
has approved your 
quest and extends to August 
1968* the tirao vithin 
^A'hich your ^ank nay establish a branch at the above 
^ location* 
Ve shall appreciate your advising us vhen the 
"branch is established and opened for business? giving the 
effective date of opening* the noae, if any, "by vhieh it 
y-'ill be Hnovn, and the official postal address, including 
\ ,r" the zip eodc nuuber-
I 
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter by 
\ 
I 
and returning tho enclosed copy to ut 
Very truly yours* 
•• - 'A: 
• ;,v . \ 
ifliil;: 
®acl 
*EP/amb 
jt'red Vf. Pidorit, Jr 
Vice President 
ooure 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
no SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 606W 
<Jii) HA 7-2320 
2837 
Item No. 14 
7/14/67 . 
Juiv ri, 
±LM 
Harold P„ Carr 
Vice President and Cashier 
She Detroit Ban!: and Trust Company 
Jktrcitj Michigan 1*8231 
Itear Mr. Carr: 
On behalf of the Board or Governors, acting under 
delected authority, this Bank has approved the establishment 
by your bank oi* a "branch at Orchard Lake and West Maple Roads, 
West Blocznfield Township, Oakland County, Michigan, provided 
the "branch is established within si:c months from the date of 
this letter• 
Very truly yours^ 
J
7 
, /J 
Leland Koss 
Vice President 
C c - Mr. Merritt Sherman1 
Michigan Financial Institutions Bureau 
^Detroit Branch 
Examiner's file 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
230 SOUTH LA 5ALLS STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60600 
0 1 I) HA 7-2520 
July IK, -967 
£ S•> 
^ 
Item No. 15 
7/14/67 . 
Kessler, President 
First State .Sank of Greenville 
Greenville^ Michigan 
Tear Mr- Kessler: 
On behalf yf the Board of Governors? acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank has approved the establishment 
by your ban!: of a branch one block west of the city limits of 
Renville on Highly M-57, Eureka Township, Montcalm County, 
^chi^an, provided the branch is established within six months 
the date of this letter* 
Very truly yours, 
/(v.. 
/ j O 
Leland Itoss 
Vice President 
- Mr- Jferritt Sherman -
Michigan Financial Institutions Bureau 
Detroit Branch 
Examiner's file 
c 
