I 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 23, 1968 

- > f—<0 O 
OO'^-vo 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Monday, September 23, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of 
Administrative Services 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Schaeffer, Chief Federal Reserve Examiner, 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 

3524 
9 / 2 3 / 6 8 
-2-
Messrs. Doyle and Heyde of the Legal Division 
Mr. White of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Poundstone of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Foreign banking matters. The following items were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background information that had 
been made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the 
respective numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Continental International Finance 
1 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, consenting 
to its acquisition of shares of Development 
Bank S.A.L., Beirut, Lebanon. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
2 
York approving the opening and maintenance 
of an account in the name of South Arabian 
Currency Authority for People's Republic of 
South Yemen. 
Scope of repurchase agreement exemption. The question before 
the Board was whether, and if so to what extent, to narrow the scope 
of the current exemption from the category of deposits, for purposes 
of Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, and Regulation Q, Payment 
of Interest on Deposits, of indebtedness of a member bank arising 
from a transfer of assets under repurchase agreement. At present the 
exemption applied to any such indebtedness, written or oral, but the 
question of limiting the scope of the exemption had arisen in view of 
recent and contemplated use by certain banks of repurchase agreements 

>tr 
9 / 2 3 / 6 8 
-3-
to avoid reserve requirements and the rules governing the payment of 
interest on deposits. 
At its meeting on July 1, 1968, in connection with consideration 
of a plan of First Wisconsin National Bank of Milwaukee, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, to sell participations in a pool of its mortgage loans pur-
suant to an agreement that would obligate the bank to repurchase the 
participations, a majority of the Board reached certain tentative conclu-
sions favoring a narrowing of the repurchase agreement exemption and it 
was suggested that the comments of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
be obtained. 
The Bank's comments were provided in a letter of July 31, 1968, 
and were analyzed in a memorandum from the Legal Division of September 17. 
The memorandum also reviewed other aspects of the matter and pointed 
out that the Board could now either publish a proposal for comment or 
take some form of action to amend Regulations D and Q. If the decision 
was to publish for comment, the Division suggested publishing the most 
restrictive proposal that the Board might consider adopting. Under such 
a proposal, as set forth in an attachment to the memorandum, the repur-
chase agreement exemption would be narrowed so as to apply, broadly 
speaking, only to agreements, evidenced in writing, with respect to 
obligations of the United States or its agencies as to which a bank 
transferred its entire interest (except, of course, its right to repurchase). 

o r 
O
M
J 
9 / 2 3 / 6 8 
-4-
(Note: At the same time there would be published a proposal 
designed to expand the scope of the interbank exemption to include 
liabilities on promissory notes issued by a member bank to certain 
nonbank foreign or international monetary or financial authorities, 
the time deposits of which are exempt from interest rate limitations.) 
Discussion of the matter revealed that all members of the Board 
preferred to publish a proposal for comment rather than to decide on a 
regulatory action at this time. This did not mean, however, that the 
members were necessarily in agreement in their tentative thinking as to 
the form of action that should eventually be taken. One member (Governor 
Mitchell) reiterated views he had expressed previously in which he cast 
doubt on the wisdom of any limitation of the current exemption, while 
other members expressed uncertainty about limiting the exemption to 
exclude, for example, repurchase agreements involving municipal securities 
or bankers acceptances. It was felt, however, that publication of the 
most restrictive proposal would elicit the broadest range of comments and 
thus be most helpful to the Board in reaching a decision. 
Accordingly, the publication for comment of a proposal in the form 
submitted with the Legal Division's memorandum was authorized. A copy 
of the notice of proposed rule making is attached under Item No. 3, along 
with a copy of the related press release. 
The Board also approved the sending of a letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago advising that the proposal of First Wisconsin 

9 / 2 3 / 6 8 
-5-
National Bank of Milwaukee was considered to be inconsistent with the 
purposes of reserve requirements and of limitations on the payment 
of interest on deposits and asking that the member bank be informed 
of the regulatory proposal so that it would not overlook the oppor-
tunity to submit comments. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 4. 
One-bank holding company question. Counsel for First Pennsyl-
vania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, had raised 
through the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia the question whether 
it would make any difference in the Board's decision with respect to an 
application under the Bank Merger Act if the proposed merger involved 
an existing bank and a "phantom" bank and was a step in the formation 
of a one-bank holding company. 
In a memorandum dated September 9, 1968, the Legal Division 
recommended providing an answer to the question, even though a specific 
merger application was not before the Board for consideration. The 
proposed answer would be, in effect, that the Board would not, as a 
matter of principle, disapprove a merger application solely on the ground 
that the merger was a step in the formation of a one-bank holding company 
or, as a possible alternative, undertake solely on that ground to condi-
tion its approval of the application so as to regulate the one-bank 
holding company. 

9 / 2 3 / 6 8 
-6-
On a secondary question that had been raised, the Legal Division 
recommended expressing the view that it would make no difference in the 
Board's consideration of a proposed merger whether an existing bank or 
a "phantom" bank would be the resulting institution. 
After discussion, there was general agreement with the Division's 
recommendation and changes suggested in the proposed letter to the Reserve 
Bank were of an editorial nature. Accordingly, unanimous approval was 
given to a letter in the form attached as Item No. 5. The substance of 
the letter was sent to all Reserve Banks for their information. 
One-bank holding company legislation. In a memorandum dated 
September 5, 1968, discussing alternative approaches to the one-bank 
holding company problem, Mr. Cardon recommended that the Board wait 
until next year to submit a bill. His next choice was to submit now a 
bill with a grandfather clause, and his third choice was to submit now 
the Board's traditional one-bank bill. 
In a memorandum of September 6, Mr. Hexter questioned the 
advisability of including a grandfather clause in a Board draft of a 
one-bank holding company bill. 
In a memorandum of September 23, distributed at this meeting, 
Governor Maisel presented a draft of letter proposed to be sent to 
Congressman Patman, Chairman of the House Banking and Currency Committee, 
in response to Mr. Patman's request, by letter of July 27, 1968, for 

K j t j f ^ i j 
9 / 2 3 / 6 8 
-7-
information of various kinds on one-bank holding companies and their sub-
sidiaries. One table to be sent with the reply would provide data on 
one-bank holding companies as of September 1, 1968, as compared with 
December 31, 1965. A second table would provide a list of 29 banks 
that had announced during the past six months that they intended to 
form one-bank holding companies, while a third table would provide a 
list of proposed purchases of banks by eight nonbank institutions, as 
reported in the press and trade journals during the past six months. 
(Governor Maisel noted that the work on the reply to Congressman Patman 
was not yet completed.) 
At the beginning of today's discussion Chairman Martin expressed 
the opinion that the one-bank holding company problem was likely to be 
one of the most important that the Board would be facing. He went on 
to refer to a number of conversations that he had had with the Comptroller 
of the Currency, the Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and, in one instance, with the Secretary of the Treasury, all with the 
purpose of starting a process of thinking that hopefully might result 
in a unified approach to legislation. The Chairman expressed the view 
that the Board should study the problem in depth before moving forward 
with any legislative recommendation so that it would not find itself in 
an untenable position once the legislative process had been set in 
motion. 

O O t 
9 / 2 3 / 6 8 
-8-
Chairman Martin also referred to the Board's authority under 
section 4(c)(8) of the present Bank Holding Company Act to permit 
a bank holding company to retain an interest in a company "all of the 
activities of which are ... of a financial, fiduciary, or insurance 
nature ... so closely related to the business of banking or of managing 
or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto ... and as to 
make (divestment) unnecessary ... to carry out the purposes of this Act. 
It was his opinion that the translation of such authority to the one-
bank holding company situation was at the heart of the problem, since 
he believed there would probably be fairly general agreement that an 
association of banking and purely nonbanking activities within a holding 
company framework should not be countenanced. 
Other members of the Board expressed general agreement with the 
Chairman's assessment of the importance of the problem and also with 
his view that the Board should explore the subject carefully and move 
forward prudently. However, in the light of current and prospective 
developments in the area, members raised the question whether it would 
not be desirable to make known in some manner, and in general terms, 
the Board's concern about the association of banking and nonbanking 
interests. It was suggested that submission of the data that had been 
requested by Congressman Patman might provide an appropriate vehicle 
for placing such an expression on record, along with an indication that 

9 / 2 3 / 6 8 
-9-
the Board was working on the problem and hoped to be able to present 
recommendations for legislation by the time of the next Congress. 
The discussion concluded with an understanding that the work 
being done under Governor Maisel's direction would continue and that 
the individual Board members would devote further thought to the subject 
prior to additional discussion by the Board. 
Arrangements for reception. The Board approved arrangements, 
as described in a memorandum of September 20, 1968, from Messrs. Holland 
and Solomon (International Finance), for a reception at the Federal 
Reserve Building on October 2, 1968, for central bankers attending the 
annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the International 
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and authorized payment of the 
necessary expenses, along with any resultant overexpenditure in the 
pertinent account of the Board budget. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff atten-
dance. 
Atlanta Bank. In the report of examination of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta, made as of May 20, 1968, the Board's field 
examining staff commented on the continued lack of adherence to pre-
scribed procedures, particularly with respect to operations incident to 
the cancellation and destruction of unfit currency. The deficiencies 
were believed to relate generally to a management problem, as described 

9 / 2 3 / 6 8 
-10-
in more detail in a separate confidential memorandum, accentuated by 
the prolonged absence of the First Vice President of the Bank due to 
illness. 
During a review and discussion of the situation, staff expressed 
the opinion that the deficiencies noted carried with them no undue risk 
of loss to the Reserve Bank or others, although operations were likely 
to be performed less expeditiously. The Chairman then suggested that the 
matter be dealt with essentially as a management problem and that one 
member of the Board be designated to work with the Reserve Bank in an 
effort to bring about improvement. 
The Chairman's suggestion was accepted and Governor Sherrill 
was designated as the member to follow through on the matter, it being 
understood that he would report back to the Board from time to time. 
Annex building. With regard to the matter of awarding a con-
tract for designing the furniture, furnishings, and interior decoration 
of the Board's new annex building, Mr. Shepardson reported in a memoran-
dum dated September 19, 1968, that following previous discussion of the 
subject he had written to four firms asking them to submit sample designs 
for three or four typical areas along with the basis of their charges 
if they should be awarded the contract. 
The three firms that had replied all objected to the proposed 
method of selection, stating that the submission of a design for sample 

< ) *•— * V * I 
o O J o 
9 / 2 3 / 6 8 
-11-
rooms was riot practical without a study of the total building and some 
knowledge of budget limitations. They preferred to make a presentation 
of jobs that they had done as a demonstration of their competence, with 
selection made on that basis. They all proposed to perform on an 
hourly cost basis, with or without an outside cost limit, and if they 
were asked to handle the actual purchasing of the furniture, that would 
be done on a time basis without any commission on furniture purchased. 
After discussion, it was understood that arrangements would be 
made for representatives of the interested firms to make presentations 
to Governor Sherrill and Mr. Shepardson, with the other Board members 
invited to attend if they so desired. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
> 

of cow-'-. 
^LRES^?-' 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Oi 
Item No. 1 
9/23/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 23, 1968. 
Continental International Finance Corporation, 
231 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
Aug ust 27, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
("CIFC") to purchase and hold 60,000 shares representing 75 per cent of the 
outstanding shares of Development Bank S.A,L. ("DBS") Beirut, Lebanon, at 
a cost of approximately $2,750,000, provided the shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. In this connection, the Board also 
approves the purchase and holding of shares of DBS in excess of 15 per cent 
of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of shares 
of DBS by CIFC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That CIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any shares 
of stock in DBS if DBS at any time fails to restrict its 
activities to those permissible to a corporation in which 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if DBS establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Lebanon or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time would 
not be permissible to CIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CIFC will 
furnish the Board with such reports regarding the activities 
of DBS as it may require from time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by DBS be reported 
under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in the same manner as 
if DBS were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That CIFC shall not carry on its books the shares.of DBS at a 
net amount in excess of its proportionate share of the book 
capital accounts of DBS, after giving effect to the elimination 
of all known losses. 

o 5 o 5 
Continental International 
-2-
Finance Corporation 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board suspends 
until farther notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the immediately 
Preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions 
on loans granted by DBS in Lebanon in the currency of that country. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the 
investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines established 
under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to 
he foreign lending and investment activities of your Corporation, Continental 
AUinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, and Continental Bank 
international, and that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P0 Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

' i m p -
t 
T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
Item No. 2 
9/23/68 
September 23, 1968 
MAC LAURY - NEW YORK 
Your wire of September 19. Board approves opening and maintenance 
of an account on books of Federal Reserve Bank of New York in the 
name of South Arabian Currency Authority for People's Republic of South 
Yemen, subject to usual terms and conditions. It is understood 
that participation in this account will be offered to other Federal 
Reserve Banks. 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
HOLLAND 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
For immediate release. 
Item No. 3 
9/23/68 
September 25, 1968. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
published for comment a proposal to limit the types of promissory 
notes which are exempt from rules governing member bank reserves 
(Regulation D) and the payment of interest on deposits (Regulation Q). 
Major purpose of the proposed change would be to narrow the 
scope of an exemption for bank liabilities on repurchase agreements 
(those involving sales of instruments with an agreement for subsequent 
repurchase) from classification as deposits subject to those 
regulations. 
At present, the exemption applies to any indebtedness of a 
bank, written or oral, arising from a transfer of any assets under a 
repurchase agreement. Under the proposed change the exemption would 
apply generally only to written repurchase agreements on obligations 
of the U. S. Government or its agencies as to which the bank transfers 
its entire interest. 
On all other repurchase agreements with a person other than 
a bank, the bank would be required under the proposal to maintain 
reserves as provided under Regulation D and would be limited under 
Regulation Q to the amount of interest it could pay on funds borrowed 
in this manner. Liabilities on any repurchase agreement with a bank 
would remain exempt from classification as a deposit. 
The Board said limiting the exemption appears necessary 
because of recent and contemplated use by some banks of repurchase 

J 
-2-
agreements to avoid reserve requirements and the rules governing 
payment of interest on deposits. 
The Board said comments from interested parties should be 
submitted in writing within 30 days. 
A copy of the notice of proposed rule making submitted for 
publication in the Federal Register is attached. 
-0-
.. 1, 
••:. .t 
.1 ' 
^ ; 
, 
.'MI ^ : c :. ov-; :; : 
1 in,^1: 
> 
J 
i.) 
. v ^ v - . f „ 
•• 
v . • v 
«•.<:>• ) ,'H 
v : •. .y 
' - - 
- 
' • • 
' : 
:•;••• 
coo' 
,
>
c
l
; 
I J . — ; b z v . z ) 
c.-.rj>. 
!'. 
: 
r. -ry.r,; <.,.';;.••*.<; i , .cv 
J iii.x.^ a,!-.; 
r^I^s bial 
a
w 
'i£ 
vyi :,:h 
•; .>, \r:- 
'
' ,f L j , 
^^^Zri 
a : y 
iC 
i* 
In 
r
v
.
;
:
:
.
>
c 
v.--: 
r 
i 
at 
z-riJ 
3;* 
i a i t 
it.;:. 
2 <':•:••;• 
- 
V 
a 

3533 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Parts 204, 217] 
[Regs. D, Q] 
RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS; PAYMENT OF INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Promissory Notes as Deposits 
The Board of Governors Is considering amending section 204.1(f) 
and section 217.1(f) to read as follows: 
§ 204.1 Definitions. 
§ 217.1 Definitions. 
* * * 
(f) Deposits as including certain promissory notes. For the 
purposes of this part, the term "deposits" shall be deemed to include the 
proceeds of any promissory note, acknowledgment of advance, due bill, or 
similar obligation (written or oral) that is issued by a member bank prin-
cipally as a means of obtaining funds to be used in its banking business, 
except any such instrument (1) that is issued to and held by another bank, 
a foreign government, a monetary or financial authority of a foreign gov-
ernment when acting as such, or an International financial institution of 
which the United States is a member, (2) that evidences an indebtedness 
arising from a transfer of obligations that are direct obligations of the 
United States or any agency thereof or are fully guaranteed as to prin-
cipal and interest by the United States or any agency thereof (other than 
a pro rata interest in a pool of such obligations) that the bank is obli-
gated to repurchase, or (3) that has an original maturity of more than 
two years and states expressly that It Is subordinated to the claims of 
depositors. This paragraph shall not, however, affect the status, for 
the purposes of this part, of any Instrument Issued before June 27, 1966, 
or any Instrument that evidences an Indebtedness arising from a transfer 
of assets under repurchase agreement Issued before September 25, 1968. 

.2. 
3 3 1 0 
*
*
*
*
* 
The principal purpose of the proposal is to limit the scope of 
the repurchase agreement exemption from deposits for the purposes of rules 
governing member bank reserves (Regulation D) and payment of Interest on 
deposits (Regulation Q). At present the exemption applies to any indebted-
ness (written or oral) arising from a transfer of any assets under repur-
chase agreement. Broadly speaking, under the proposed §§ 204.1(f) and 
217.1(f) the exemption would apply only to repurchase agreements, evidenced 
in writing, with respect to obligations of the United States or its agen-
cies as to which the bank transfers its entire Interest. Limiting the scope 
of such exemption has become necessary in view of recent and contemplated 
use by certain banks of repurchase agreements to avoid reserve requirements 
and the rules governing payment of interest on deposits. 
The proposal is also designed to expand the scope of the inter-
bank exemption from deposits to include liabilities on promissory notes 
issued by a member bank to nonbank foreign monetary or financial authori-
ties. Under section 217.3(a) the time deposits of such organizations are 
exempt from interest rate limitations. Making the inter-bank exemption 
completely parallel with the exemption from time deposit interest rate 
limitations insofar as institutions are concerned seems reasonable in view 
°f their international nature, the possible benefits from the standpoint of 
the balance of payments, and the unlikelihood that the limited expansion of 
the inter-bank exemption that is involved could be used as a device by banks 
to avoid the purposes of Regulations D and Q. 

-3-
3341 
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) of Title 5, 
United States Code, and section 262.2(a) of the rules of procedure of the 
Board of Governors. 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, inter-
ested persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or arguments. 
Any such material should be submitted in writing to the Secretary, Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C., 20551, to 
be received not later than October 28, 1968. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 25th day of September, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary, 
(SEAL) 

'->r- 
i * y 
b o a r d 
d f 
g d v e r n d r s 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
9/23/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 25, 1968. 
Mr. Ward J. Larson, 
Assistant General Counsel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
P. 0. Box 834, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Larson: 
This refers to your letter of May 17, 1968, requesting the 
Board's views on whether a proposal by First Wisconsin National Bank 
of Milwaukee under which it would sell participations in pools of its 
mortgage loans pursuant to agreements by which the bank would agree 
to repurchase the participations at specified dates and at specified 
rates of interest would give rise to "deposits" for the purposes of 
Regulations D and Q. 
The Board considers that the First Wisconsin proposal would 
be inconsistent with the purposes of reserve requirements and of limi-
tations on the payment of interest on deposits. Accordingly, to pre-
vent the development of such means for avoiding the statutory prohibi-
tion against payment of interest on demand deposits (12 U.S.C. 371a), 
the Regulation Q limitations on payment of interest on time deposits, 
and the reserve requirements of Regulation D, the Board proposes to 
modify the provisions of those regulations relating to what consti-
tutes "deposits" so as to require member banks to include as deposits 
any indebtedness arising out of repurchase agreements involving obli-
gations other than those of the United States or its agencies and with 
respect to which the bank makes a written transfer of its entire in-
terest (other than its right to repurchase, of course). Copies of the 
proposed amendments to the regulations reflecting these modifications 
are enclosed. 
It would be appreciated if you would apprise the member bank 
of the substance of this letter and furnish to it a copy of the 
enclosure. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosures 

B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
O O ' I J 
Item No. 5 
9/23/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
September 24, 1968 
Mr. Joseph R. Campbell, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
Dear Mr. Campbell: 
This refers to your letter of August 9, 1968, to 
Mr. Solomon, and its enclosure, presenting two questions raised 
with your Bank by Mr. Harry E. Sprogell, a director of First 
Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
and counsel to the bank. Mr. Sprogellfs first question is whether 
it would make any difference as to the Board's decision with respect 
to an application under the Bank Merger Act that the proposed merger 
involves an existing bank and a "phantom bank" and is a step in the 
formation of a one-bank holding company. Further detail concerning 
the matter was forwarded with your letter of September 20. 
The Board's responsibility under the Bank Merger Act, of 
course, is to determine whether the merger should be approved or 
disapproved in the light of all of the standards and factors set 
forth in the Act after a full consideration of all information 
relevant to the particular application. However, it is the Boardfs 
view that it could not under present law, as a matter of principle, 
disapprove a merger application solely on the ground that the merger 
was a step in the formation of a one-bank holding company or, as a 
possible alternative, undertake solely on that ground to condition 
its approval of the application so as to regulate the bank holding 
company. 
The second question asked by Mr. Sprogell was whether it 
would make any difference in the Boardfs consideration of a proposed 
merger of an existing bank and a "phantom bank" organized for the 
purpose of the merger whether the "phantom bank" or the existing 

Mr. Joseph R. Campbell 
-2-
bank would be the resulting institution. The Board does not believe 
that which bank is to be the resulting institution would, of itself, 
be a material consideration in a merger of this nature. 
It is hoped that the foregoing will aid you in replying to 
Mr. Sprogell. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
