PR 609 
3/70) 
Minutes for 
September 24, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
•H" 
' \ t.... v 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
I.M 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

2485 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, September 24, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mrs. Semia, Miss Key, and Mr. Wilbanks, Technical 
Assistants, Office of the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 

2486 
9/24/71 
-2-
Testimony on operations in agency issues. 
The staff had prepared 
a draft of a statement to be given by Chairman Burns on September 27, 1971, 
before the Subcommittee on Domestic Finance of the House Committee on Banking 
and Currency regarding Federal Reserve transactions in obligations issued by 
Federal agencies. 
On September 16 the Federal Open Market Committee had 
announced its authorization for broadening such transactions to include out-
right purchases and sales as well as repurchase agreements. 
Discussion emphasized the need to avoid giving the impression that 
significant results were expected in improvement of the market for agency 
issues. 
It was suggested that the move be described 
as experimental and 
the hoped-for benefits as modest. 
Discussion of the question whether the 
transactions might result in benefits included comments on spreads of 
borrowing costs between direct obligations and agency issues. 
Available 
evidence seemed to indicate that Federal Reserve purchases would cause some 
slight narrowing. 
It was observed that if such a narrowing did in fact 
occur, that improvement in the borrowing costs of Federal agencies would 
justify Federal Reserve purchases. 
Another theme of the discussion was the need to make clear that the 
Federal Reserve would not attempt to purchase issues of any particular 
Federal agency in order to provide it with an assured supply of credit at 
any particular rate of interest. 
The focus of Federal Reserve purchases 
Would be on general monetary policy, although of course the System had an 

2 4 8 7 
9/24/71 
-3-
interest in orderly markets for all Government obligations, including 
agency issues. 
In the context of that principle, inquiry was made whether 
even keel procedures would be used in connection with markets for agency 
issues as well as for direct obligations. 
Staff response indicated that 
the guidelines that had been stated for direct purchases of agency issues 
would take care of the even keel problem. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that revisions 
would be made in the statement to reflect the views that had been expressed, 
and that the statement would be presented in a final form satisfactory to 
Chairman Burns. 
(Note: A copy of the statement, as presented, has been 
placed in the Board's files.) 
Housing study. 
In recent months approximately twenty papers related 
to the staff study of housing finance had been distributed, and with a 
memorandum dated September 15, 1971, the Division of Research and Statistics 
submitted a staff report to the Board and a summary of the study. 
Discussion at today's meeting centered on procedural questions, 
primary to which was the fact that, although it was probable that the 
Congressional banking committees that had requested that the Board give 
attention to the problem of housing finance expected that recommendations 
by the Board would be forthcoming, considerable time would be necessary to 
analyze and debate the issues raised by the staff before the Board could 
arrive at its positions. 
The end of September had been specified for comple-
tion of the study. 

2488 
9/24/71 
-4-
Suggestion that only the supporting papers prepared by individuals 
be furnished to the committees met with the observation that the staff 
report to the Board was a necessary capstone. 
Consideration was given to 
the possibility of sending the supporting papers with the staff report 
as representing only staff work and not as Board conclusions. 
However, 
it seemed likely that the committees would react to the far-reaching 
suggestions by the staff by calling hearings promptly, which would put 
pressure on the Board to make recommendations without sufficient time to 
formulate its views. Another possibility considered was having the staff 
report signed by a staff member and edited to delete passages in the 
nature of recommendations. 
Comment was made that many ideas that at least 
implied recommendations were inherent in the text, and deletion of all 
such passages would make the document largely meaningless. 
There was discussion of the expectations of the committees and 
the terms of the commitment by Chairman Burns that the study would be 
made. Although there was agreement that the committees desired the Board's 
views and not merely technical advice, it was also brought out that their 
interest was not confined to what the Federal Reserve could do about the 
problem of housing finance but what the Board could suggest in the way of 
improvement that might be accomplished through any agency. 
There was also 
agreement that if and when the Board arrived at recommendations, it could 

2489 
9/24/71 
-5-
confine them to the areas of its own responsibilities, even though the 
staff report suggested other avenues, such as fiscal devices, through 
which improvement in housing finance might be sought. 
Views were expressed regarding the need to furnish the study to 
other agencies of the Federal Government having responsibilities relating 
to housing. 
At the conclusion of the discussion there was majority agreement 
to pursue an approach suggested by Governor Robertson in which the staff 
papers would be furnished to the Congressional committees with a letter 
saying that because of pressure of domestic and international problems 
the Board had not been able to review and analyze the documents, and that 
it was unlikely that it would be in a position to formulate conclusions 
for some time. The staff report would be edited to present pro and con 
analysis rather than recommendations. 
It was understood that a letter 
reflecting this approach would be drafted for the Board's further consid-
eration. 
Governor Brimmer did not favor this course of action because 
he believed that if staff papers were transmitted they would be presumed 
to represent Board views. 
He advocated awaiting any presentation to the 
committees until Board recommendations could be made. 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director of the Division of 
International Finance, then entered the room with other officers and staff 
of that Division and the Division of Research and Statistics. 

2490 
9/24/71 
-6-
The research staff presented the usual weekly economic and 
financial review. Copies of the statistical charts and tables prepared 
for the purpose of today's review have been placed in the Board's files, 
along with copies of the individual briefings. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
