MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 29, 1968 

a 
S 
-» • 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, February 29, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
If 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the 
Board and Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Assistant Adviser, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, 
Division of Examinations 
1/ Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes; did not attend 
afternoon session. 

7 3 2 
2/29/68 
-2-
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary-
Miss Hart and Messrs. Doyle and 
Shuter of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Shull, Lawrence, and Lougee 
of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Lyon and Maguire of the 
Division of Examinations 
Bank of America. There had been distributed a memorandum dated 
February 21, 1968, from the Division of Examinations relating to a 
request of Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, 
San Francisco, California, for permission to acquire the stock of a 
commercial bank to be established in Casablanca, Morocco. Attached to 
the memorandum was a draft of letter to Bank of America that would grant 
such consent. 
Governor Brimmer referred to the constraints against direct 
investments in the developed countries of continental Western Europe 
and noted that the proposed investment by Bank of America, while not 
in Western Europe, was in a section of the French franc zone. He sug-
gested that such a situation was one to which the Board should be sensitive. 
Governor Mitchell observed that permitting penetration by U.S. 
banks was one way of diminishing French influence in countries such as 
Morocco. He also pointed out that the investment here proposed apparently 
had been negotiated prior to January 1, 1968. 
Governor Robertson said that the staff had been working on revised 
language that might be incorporated in Board letters where consent was 

4 . 
2/29/68 
-3-
granted to investments in developed countries. However, it was not 
clear to him that such language would be applicable to a situation of 
this kind. 
Mr. Sammons confirmed that the staff would continue the study 
referred to by Governor Robertson. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the letter to Bank of 
America, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 1. 
Marine Midland International Corporation. At the meeting on 
February 15, 1968, the staff had been directed to obtain additional 
information with respect to the history of the application of Marine 
Midland International Corporation, New York, New York, for permission 
to acquire shares of Carte d'Or, Paris, France, particularly with a 
view to determining how far negotiations had proceeded prior to 
January 1, 1968. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated February 26, 
1968, from the Division of Examinations transmitting a detailed account 
of the preparations and negotiations over a period of approximately one 
and one-half years that had led to what Marine Midland considered a 
moral and legal commitment to make the proposed investment. 
There was general agreement that, although an equity investment 
in Western Europe of the type here proposed would not ordinarily be 
permissible under the current balance of payments program, negotiations 
had gone too far in this case prior to January 1, 1968, to warrant denial 
of the proposed investment. 

2/29/68 
-4-
Governor Brimmer suggested, however, that Marine Midland be 
encouraged to seek financing of the investment in such manner as to 
minimize the impact on the U.S. balance of payments, and also that it 
be emphasized to Marine Midland that it was not the Board's current 
policy ordinarily to approve equity investments in continental Western 
Europe. 
Following further discussion, the request of Marine Midland for 
permission to acquire shares of Carte d'Or was approved unanimously, 
with the understanding that the corporation would be made aware that in 
granting its consent the Board (1) had taken into account the fact that 
the application was filed prior to January 1, 1968, and (2) understood 
that the corporation would make every effort to minimize the impact of 
the investment on the balance of payments. A copy of the letter trans-
mitted to Marine Midland is attached as Item No. 2. 
Report on competitive factors. There had been distributed a 
draft of report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Bank of Greenwood, 
Greenwood, Mississippi, into First National Bank of Jackson, Jackson, 
Mississippi. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
There is little, if any, competition between First 
National Bank of Jackson and The Bank of Greenwood, 
although there is some potential for competition between 
them through de novo branching. The overall effect of the 
proposal on competition would be slightly adverse. 

« r O 
2/29/68 
-5-
Governor Maisel stated that since the second largest bank in 
the State (First National) proposed to enter a new market area and merge 
with the largest local bank, it would appear that the effect on competi-
tion would be adverse. 
Governor Mitchell commented on the banking structure of the 
State of Mississippi and the need for redistribution of credit resources. 
The effect of entry into Greenwood of First National Bank of Jackson, 
either through merger or de novo branching, would not, in his opinion, 
appear so adverse if viewed against that background. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the reasoning developed by 
Governor Mitchell went more to the factor of convenience and needs, 
whereas the Board was required to limit its advisory reports to the 
effect on competition. He inquired as to the basis on which the Banking 
Markets Section had arrived at its "slightly adverse" finding. 
Mr. Shu11 replied that the case was considered fairly close, 
particularly for the reason that the merger, if consummated, would repre-
sent the first entry of a large city-based bank into the area in question. 
The Banking Markets Section, he said, found persuasive the argument of 
the research staff of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta that the ability 
of First National to offer more and better services than were presently 
available to customers of the Bank of Greenwood would tend to stimulate 
competition in the area. In addition, as he understood Mississippi State 
law, banks were limited in the extent to which they could branch outside 

2/29/68 
-6-
the head office city, and First National was close to the limit at this 
time. Further, while First National ranked high in its holdings of 
total deposits in Mississippi, it held a lesser percentage of the 
smaller deposits. 
Governor Maisel reiterated his view that the competitive effects 
of a merger between the second largest bank in Mississippi and the domi-
nant bank in the Greenwood area (which apparently ranked eighth or ninth 
in the State) would be adverse. On the other hand, the result would be 
less adverse in the event a merger were proposed between First National 
and one of the smaller banks in the Greenwood area. Ensuing comments by 
Board members noted a lack of information in the report pertaining to 
the relative sizes of Mississippi banks in terms of deposits. 
Following further discussion, it was understood that the staff 
would review the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger in 
the light of the comments at today's meeting, after which the report 
would be resubmitted to the .Board. 
Letter to Congressman Clawson. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated February 28, 1968, from the Office of the Secretary 
relating to a request from Congressman Clawson for comment on a proposal 
by Mr. Preston Martin, Savings and Loan Commissioner for the State of 
California, that the Federal Reserve System commit itself to purchase 
Federal Home Loan Bank obligations, either directly or in the secondary 
market, as a means of cushioning the impact of monetary policy on the 
savings and loan industry during periods of severe credit restraint. 

2/29/68 
-7-
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of reply to Congressman 
Clawson that would summarize the arguments advanced by Mr. Martin, 
review the legal background, comment on the feasibility of achieving 
the objectives sought by Mr. Martin by purchasing Home Loan Bank obli-
gations, as well as possible side effects, and suggest alternative 
procedures that were considered more likely to improve the mortgage 
and housing markets. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the proposed reply 
was somewhat more extensive than necessary; however, he found the tone 
of the letter generally satisfactory. 
He described several changes in 
language that he felt might be helpful. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the more important question was 
the intent of Congress when it included in the Act of September 21, 1966, 
(Public Law 89-597), an amendment to section 14 of the Federal Reserve 
Act that authorized open market operations by Federal Reserve Banks in 
direct obligations of, or those fully guaranteed by, any agency of the 
United States. Among the points he believed should be clarified were: 
(1) whether the Federal Reserve had a responsibility for improving the 
market for housing agency obligations and, if so, to what extent; (2) 
what course of action the Federal Reserve should pursue if a situation 
occurred again similar to that which prevailed prior to the enactment 
of Public Law 89-597; and (3) whether the Federal Reserve favored sup-
porting the housing market either through direct or indirect subsidy. 

4 . 
2/29/68 
-8-
With such questions in mind, he believed the System should determine 
its proper responsibility with respect to agency obligations in normal 
and crisis times. Before taking a position, however, he would be 
interested in having the recommendations of the Steering Committee for 
the U.S. Government Securities Market Study, which was in the process 
of studying the question of agency issues. That question, he recalled, 
had been under study for an extended period, and the Federal Open 
Market Committee had thus far refrained from going further than authoriz-
ing repurchase agreements against agency issues. 
Governor Roberts on noted that the Board would be asked to testify 
within the next few weeks on the question of extending the temporary 
authority contained in Public Law 89-597. Accordingly, it appeared 
essential that the reply to Congressman Clawson be coordinated with 
such testimony. That seemed to suggest deferring the reply, if necessary 
to assure that the position taken in it was consistent with previous and 
prospective Board testimony. 
There ensued a discussion of the apparent intent of the Congress 
in including the section of Public Law 89-597 relating to agency issues, 
following which Governor Brimmer expressed the view that although some 
members of the Congress did endorse support of the housing market by the 
Federal Reserve, the legislation did not represent a mandatory instruc-
tion. He said that in conversation with Mr. Martin he had pointed to 
previous Board testimony as an indication that the Board was not likely 

2/29/68 
-9-
to favor Mr. Martin's proposal. Governor Brimmer inquired whether it 
would not be advisable to defer any answer until such time as the Board 
was called upon for testimony. 
Mr. Cardon noted that a member of the House Banking and Currency 
Committee had asked the Board for comment and that there had already 
been quite a long delay. Unless the Board was divided in its position, 
he felt that a reply should not be postponed further. So far as Con-
gressional intent was concerned, the legislative history, in the form 
of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee report, almost paralleled 
the interpretation set forth in Governor Robertson's testimony before 
that Committee in August 1966. It seemed clear that section 6 of the 
Act of September 21, 1966, was not intended to force the Federal Reserve 
to support the housing market but as an aid in the marketing of agency 
issues. Congressman Patman had, of course, asserted to the contrary, 
but his assertion did not appear to be borne out by the legislative 
history. 
During further discussion the staff indicated that the proposed 
reply to Congressman Clawson had been put together within the framework 
of the legislative history and that the reply set forth the staff's 
understanding of the Board's policy thus far. Mr. Brill observed that 
the full range of policy had not yet been laid out; that was the inten-
tion of the Government Securities Market Study, which would include a 
review of all elements, including the issues raised by Governor Maisel. 

808 
2/29/68 
-10-
Governor Sherrill noted that the reply concentrated more on 
what the System's policy was not, and what the System had not done, 
than on what it had done. He suggested certain changes that would 
present a more positive approach. 
Following further discussion, it was understood that a revised 
draft of letter reflecting the tenor of this morning's discussion would 
be prepared for Board consideration. 
Public Law 89-597. Mr. Hexter stated that he had received a 
call from the Bureau of the Budget with respect to a draft bill that 
would make permanent the authority embodied in the Act of September 21, 
1966, (Public Law 89-597), for more flexible regulation of maximum rates 
of interest or dividends and other purposes. The Board had reported 
favorably on this bill; however, the Council of Economic Advisers had 
indicated a preference for an extension of that authority on a two-year 
basis rather than on a permanent basis. The Budget Bureau now sought 
the Board's reaction to the view of the Council. 
Mr. Cardon indicated that there was a certain degree of urgency 
attendant upon the Board's answer since he understood that tomorrow had 
been set as the deadline by which any legislation must be submitted if 
Congressional action was to be expected this year. 
During discussion it was noted that members of the Council of 
Economic Advisers would be meeting at luncheon today with members of the 
Board. Comments favored an exchange of views with the Council prior to 
replying to the Bureau of the Budget. 

2/29/68 
-11-
Accordingly, it was agreed that an answer to the Bureau of the 
Budget would be delayed until after the luncheon meeting. 
Chairman Martin entered the meeting at this point. 
Amendments to Regulation U. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated February 28, 1968, from Messrs. Frederic Solomon and 
Partee and Miss Hart relating to amendments to Regulation U, Credit by 
Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Stocks, which 
originally had been published in the Federal Register for comment in 
October 1967. 
One proposed new section (221.3(t)), 
would have forbidden banks 
from performing services in connection with stock-secured "purpose" 
loans, unless the loans were made and maintained in conformity with 
applicable margin regulations. Among banks objecting to this proposal 
were those of the New York Clearing House, on the grounds that the pro-
vision was too broad and would impose on banks the burden of policing 
their customers. 
Accordingly, the Board had amended section 221.3(u), relating 
to "services" by a bank, (1) to apply only to situations where the bank 
knew or should have known that its customer was extending credit secured 
by registered equity securities, (2) to permit the bank to rely on a 
statement accepted in good faith that the principal did not extend credit 
in violation of margin regulations, and (3) to limit the scope of the 
prohibition to services performed in connection with securities transactions. 

808 
2/29/68 
-12-
A principal purpose of the section on services, or activities 
of a bank as "agent", was to stem the flow of potentially destabilizing 
foreign credit into the U.S. securities market. For reasons set forth 
in the memorandum, the Clearing House banks had objected that under 
section 221.3(u) they would have to cease performing all services involv-
ing securities on behalf of foreign banks. Most of the arguments advanced 
by the Clearing House had been taken into account prior to adoption of 
section 221.3(u), but the statutory responsibility of the Board to regu-
late the flow of credit into the stock market, whatever its origin, was 
considered the more important factor. However, the Clearing House main-
tained that the objective of closing the loophole in the flow of foreign 
credit into domestic securities markets would be achieved at the cost 
of disrupting normal international banking relationships, and that a 
substantial volume of compensatory foreign deposits as well as cash 
investment by foreigners in domestic securities markets would be lost, 
a result that would be at variance with the President's balance of pay-
ments program and the 1964 report of the Fowler Committee urging steps 
to increase foreign investment in U.S. securities markets. 
Staff of the Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission 
had met with Clearing House representatives on February 23, 1968, to 
discuss the conflicting objectives in the balance of payments and margin 
regulation areas. 

2/29/68 
-13-
In view of the apparent potential risk from the standpoint of 
the balance of payments, the staff had prepared a compromise draft of 
section 221.3(u) for Board consideration. 
Under the revised provisions 
a U.S. bank could act as agent for a foreign bank in reliance on a 
written statement by the foreign bank that the domestic bank would not 
be asked to act as agent in connection with any transaction involving 
an extension of credit to a U.S. citizen or resident against collateral 
including registered equity securities. 
If the foreign bank was acting 
as agent, it, in turn, would be asked to assure itself that each prior 
agent had obtained a similar statement. 
Attached to the February 28 memorandum was the compromise draft 
of section 221.3(u). 
The staff did not recommend that similar excep-
tions be written into Regulations T, Credit by Brokers, Dealers, and 
Members of National Securities Exchanges, and G, Credit by Persons other 
than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying 
0 
Registered Equity Securities. 
However, the draft did include certain 
clarifying changes that the staff recommended for inclusion in all three 
regulations. 
In commenting on the proposals, Miss Hart stated that copies of 
the redraft of section 221.3(u) had been sent to the New York Clearing 
House. 
Subsequently, counsel for the Clearing House submitted further 
revisions which he described as "language changes." 
He indicated that 
if the Board's staff was not prepared to recommend the adoption of these 

CQ .n >\ 
2/29/68 
-14-
changes, the Clearing House would renew a previous request to discuss 
the matter with interested Board members. Miss Hart said that the staff 
was not favorably inclined toward the proposed changes, the nature and 
possible effects of which had been summarized in a memorandum distributed 
to the Board this morning. 
Mr. Partee said that in this instance it appeared there were two 
concepts of Board responsibility. One was that the Board should be con-
cerned with the flow of credit into the stock market, regardless of its 
origin. The other was that the primary concern should be with the balance 
of payments program. The question whether to make the U.S. securities 
market attractive to foreign capital or to seal it off from non-margin 
credit was of course a matter for Board decision. The compromise suggested 
by the staff would represent abandonment of any attempt to control the use 
of foreign credit by foreigners to buy U.S. equity securities; on the 
other hand, it would leave unchanged the attempt to restrict the use of 
foreign securities credit by U.S. residents and citizens, and thereby 
would serve to protect the integrity of domestic margin regulations in 
terms of loopholes available to knowledgeable and substantial margin 
customers. If the Board decided that the balance of payments was the 
more important issue and adopted the Clearing House proposal, Mr. Partee 
considered that a step backward would be taken. Accordingly, Mr. Partee 
had indicated to the Clearing House that he could not support their pro-
posal, and he would suggest that the Board discuss the problem with 
representatives of that group. 

o n 
o o 
2/29/68 
-15-
After further discussion, a consensus emerged in favor of 
arranging a meeting with representatives of the New York Clearing House 
to discuss the situation. In this connection, it was suggested that 
the Clearing House be asked to send representatives who could supply 
the Board with pertinent factual information. It was also suggested 
that the balance of payments issue be explored with representatives of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Mr. Partee noted that the amended section 221.3(u) of Regulation 
U was to become effective March 11, 1968. In the circumstances, it was 
agreed to defer the effective date until April 10, 1968. 
Report by Mr. O'Connell. Mr. O'Connell reported that he had been 
informed by Mr. Donald Finn, who was associated with the New York City 
firm of Spear and Hill, that he expected to appear before the U.S. Dis-
trict Court for the Southern District of New York on Friday, March 1, 
to seek a temporary restraining order for the purpose of enjoining the 
Board from making Regulation G, Credit by Persons other than Banks, 
Brokers, or Dealers for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered 
Equity Securities, effective on March 11, 1968. Subsequently, Mr. Finn 
expected to seek a declaratory judgment to the effect that Regulation G 
was invalid and unconstitutional. Mr. O'Connell understood that Mr. Finn 
would represent several groups who had appeared before the Board's staff 
to protest the regulation. 

2/29/68 
-16-
Mr. O'Connell was authorized to take whatever steps were necessary 
to protect the interests of the Board. 
Views of Reserve Bank directors. There had been distributed, 
under date of February 28, 1968, a further revision of a proposed letter 
to the Chairmen of all Federal Reserve Banks with respect to the Board's 
interest in receiving the views of Reserve Bank directors on matters 
relating to monetary policy. In addition, Governor Daane had caused to 
be distributed at today's meeting an additional proposed revision of the 
paragraph that would request advice of special facts or insights that 
might add to the Board's intelligence concerning economic or financial 
trends of national significance. 
The principal focus of discussion at today's meeting was on the 
paragraph submitted by Governor Daane. Comments by members of the Board 
were to the effect that the tone should be such that there could be no 
misinterpretation of the Board's interest in financial or economic 
intelligence as an invitation to the Reserve Bank directors to share 
in open market policy decisions. Several suggestions for appropriate 
wording were considered. 
With revisions thus agreed upon, unanimous approval was given 
to a letter to the Chairmen of all Federal Reserve Banks in the form 
attached as Item No. 3. 
The meeting continued from this point with Messrs. Holland, 
Kenyon, Sherman, Hackley, Molony, Cardon, and Fauver present. 

S ' 0 7 
2/29/68 
-17-
Leak of information. 
Mr. Molony referred to the leak of 
information in connection with the Treasury financing last fall that 
an investigation by the Treasury Department had traced to a former 
employee of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. 
He then sum-
marized changes from the original draft of report on the matter that 
had now been proposed by the Treasury, and members of the Board agreed 
that such changes were desirable. 
Members of the Board raised certain questions for consideration, 
among them being what steps had been taken by Federal Reserve Banks to 
guard against repetition of such an occurrence, what steps were planned 
to be taken in respect to the securities firm whose personnel had 
received the information from the employee of the Philadelphia Bank, 
what steps, if any, were indicated in respect to further transactions 
of the Trading Desk with the securities firm in question, and whether 
there was indication of involvement of other personnel of the Philadelphia 
Reserve Bank. 
It was understood that those questions would be given 
further study. 
Question also was raised whether a statement should not be 
issued, either by the Board or the Philadelph ia Bank, simultaneously 
with the release of the Treasury report. 
Members of the Board expressed 
the view that the issuance of a statement by the Board would be appro-
priate. 
It was then agreed, at Chairman Martin's suggestion, that 
Mr. Molony would discuss the question with the management of the 
Philadelphia Reserve Bank. 

808 
2/29/68 
-18-
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
3:30 p.m. with Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill, 
present. Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Frederic Solomon, O'Connell, and 
Forrestal also were present. 
Amendments to margin regulations. Governor Robertson referred 
to the decision reached by the Board this morning to defer from March 11 
until April 10, 1968, the effective date of section 221.3(u) of Regula-
tion U. He then stated reasons why it appeared that it would be advis-
able also to defer the effective date of the similar provisions of 
Regulations T and G. One reason was the impending litigation with 
respect to Regulation G, in which the plaintiffs were alleging discrim-
ination in favor of banks in several respects. 
After discussion, during which Governor Brimmer joined the 
meeting, it was the unanimous view that Governor Robertson's suggestion 
was appropriate and that it would be advisable to defer the effective 
date of the pertinent provisions of Regulations T and G to April 10, 
1968. Accordingly, the deferment of the effective date of those provi-
sions was approved unanimously. 
Attached as Item No. 4 is a copy of the press statement that 
was issued later in the afternoon. Attached as Item No. 5 is a copy 
of the notice of deferral that was published in the Federal Register. 
o 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2/29/68 
-19-
Secretary's Notes: 
Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Nathan B. Hughes, Jr., as Personnel Specialist, Division of 
Personnel Administration, with basic annual salary at the rate of 
$14,135, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
John I. Connell as Guard, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,466, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Salary increase 
Lee R. Thompson, Senior Computer Operator, Division of Data 
Processing, from $5,751 to $6,137 per annum, effective March 10, 1968. 
On February 29, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached as 
indicated: 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Item No. 
Letter to The First Pennsylvania Banking and 
6 
Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
approving the establishment of a branch in 
Upper Merion Township. 
Letter to The First Pennsylvania Banking and 
7 
Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
approving the establishment of a branch in 
Falls Township, Bucks County, in place of a 
branch in Lower Makefield Township. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Letter to The Loramie Banking Company, Fort 
8 
Loramie, Ohio., approving an investment in 
bank premises. 

810 
2/29/68 
-20-
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Item No. 
Letter to The Bank of Montpelier, Montpelier, 
9 
Indiana, waiving the requirement of six months' 
notice of withdrawal from membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 
Secretary 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
• F 
T H E 
2/29/68 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 29, 1968 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 11, 1968, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Regulation M, for Bank of America National Trust and 
Savings Association ("B of A"), San Francisco, California, to purchase 
and hold up to 100 per cent of the outstanding stock of a new commer-
cial bank to be established in Casablanca, Morocco ("Moroccan Bank"), 
at a cost of approximately US$200,000, provided such shares are ac-
quired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Moroccan Bank by B of A is granted subject to the appli-
cable provisions of Section 25 and Regulation M and the condition 
that B of A shall not hold any shares of stock in Moroccan Bank if 
Moroccan Bank at any time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a national bank or to a foreign branch of a national 
bank under the provisions of Regulation M. 
Regulation M provides that, when required by the Board of 
Governors, B of A will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Moroccan Bank as it may require from time to time. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans 
and investments of Bank of America National Trust and Savings Associa-
tion, Bank of America, New York, and Bamerical International Financial 
Corporation, will not cause the total of such loans and investments 
to exceed the guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint 
effort now in effect. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

fJi 9 
Item No. 2 
2/29/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 1, 1968 
Marine Midland International Corporation, 
140 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 20, 1967, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase 
and hold approximately 17,400 shares (29 per cent) of the capital 
stock of Carte d'Or, Paris, France, at a cost of approximately 
US$348,000, provided that at least 75 per cent of such shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
It is not the Board's current policy ordinarily to ap-
prove equity investments in continental Western Europe. The Board 
has taken into account the fact that your application antedated the 
balance of payments measures announced on January 1, 1968, and has 
granted the aforementioned consent on the understanding that your 
Corporation will make every effort to minimize the impact of this 
investment on the balance of payments. The consent is given with 
the further understanding that this investment, combined with other 
foreign loans and investments of your Corporation and Marine Mid-
land Trust Company of Western New York, will not cause the total 
of such loans and investments to exceed the guidelines established 
under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect, and that 
due consideration is being given to the priorities therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
.••'of gov/'. 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE S Y S T E 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
2/29/68 
S-2046 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N O E N 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 1, 1968 
Dear Sir: 
At the meeting of the Conference of Chairmen of the Federal 
Reserve Banks last December, both the Chairmen and the members of the 
Board expressed an interest in improving communications between the 
Reserve Bank Boards of Directors and the Board of Governors. This 
letter is being addressed to you, in furtherance of the discussion 
at that meeting, to make clearer the Board's interest in receiving 
the considered views of the directors on matters of relevance to 
monetary policy. 
Specifically, the Board would appreciate being advised from 
time to time of any special facts or insights reported by the direc-
tors that might represent a net addition to the Board's intelligence 
concerning economic or financial trends of national significance. 
These, of course, tend to come to light as the Reserve Bank Boards 
consider action with respect to their discount rates. While the 
Board of Governors has the responsibility for policy decisions in 
this area, it is especially receptive to such facts, interpretations 
and convictions as directors would like to place before it. Such 
information would also be helpful as it relates more generally to 
the overall posture of monetary policy. 
It would also be very helpful to the Board, in discharging 
its statutory responsibility for review and determination of discount 
rates fixed by a Reserve Bank, to have before it a specific statement 
setting forth the principal reasons underlying any proposed change in 
those rates. There may be, for example, occasions when such action is 

S-2046 
-2-
takeri only after significant discussion by the Reserve Bank's direc-
tors of the arguments for and against maintaining the prevailing 
rates. On the other hand, even in cases in which no change is 
finally voted by the directors, there may have been considerable 
sentiment in favor of the establishment of new rates--if not at the 
moment, then at least in the relatively near future. The Board 
believes it would be helpful to have the directors' views in these 
kinds of cases. 
It is appreciated that such a statement of reasons might 
sometimes be quite brief, as, for example, on occasions when Reserve 
Bank directors are taking action to fix the same new rates that have 
already been established by the directors of another Reserve Bank 
and approved by the Board of Governors. And, of course, for the 
routine re-establishment of existing rates a statement of reasons 
therefor would ordinarily be superfluous. 
Depending on the circumstances, information of the kinds 
referred to could be included in the usual telegram advising of the 
establishment of rates on discounts and advances or, in the alterna-
tive, could be transmitted to the Board by mail or wire as a separate 
communication. 
The foregoing suggestions will not be very useful if their 
only result is perfunctory or stereotyped comments. The leadership 
of the Chairmen of the respective Banks as to how and when to use 
these channels of communication within the System is of key importance. 
A copy of this letter is being sent to the President of your Bank, 
with whom you will undoubtedly be working closely in this matter. 
This letter supersedes the Board's letter of December 10, 
1935, on the same general subject (F.R.L.S. #5672). 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
TO THE CHAIRMEN OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
COPY TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
For immediate release 
Item No. 4 
2/29/68 
February 29, 1968 
To mitigate the administrative burden connected with 
handling a substantial volume of ministerial agency transactions 
involved in effectuating the requirements of sections 221.3(u) 
of Regulation U, 207.4(f) of Regulation G, and 220.7(f) of 
Regulation T, the Board has deferred the effective date of such 
paragraphs from March 11 to April 10, 1968. The provisions to 
be deferred restrict the services which may be performed by a 
bank, broker/dealer, or other lender subject to margin regu-
lation, as agent, in connection with credit that is secured by 
registered securities. 
0 -

TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No 
2/29/68 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
- BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Regs. G, T, and U] 
- CREDIT BY PERSONS OTHER THAN BANKS, BROKERS, 
OR DEALERS FOR PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR 
CARRYING REGISTERED EQUITY SECURITIES 
- CREDIT BY BROKERS, DEALERS, AND MEMBERS 
OF NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGES 
- CREDIT BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING 
OR CARRYING REGISTERED STOCKS 
Deferred Effective Date 
By documents appearing in the Federal Register of February 8, 
1968 (33 F.R. 2691, 2695, 2702), the Board of Governors ad opted a new 
Part 207 and amended §§ 220.1 through 220.8 and §§ 221.1 through 221.4, 
all effective March 11, 1968. 
To mitigate the administrative burden connected with handling 
a substantial volume of ministerial agency transactions involved in 
effectuating the requirements of §§ 207.4(f), 220.7(f), and 221.3(u), 
the Board has deferred the effective date of such paragraphs from 
March 11 to April 10, 1968. 
The effective date of all other provisions of Part 207 and 
of §§ 220.1 through 220.8 and §§ 221.1 through 221.4 remain unchanged. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 29th day of February 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
SUBCHAPTER A 
PART 207 
PART 220 
PART 221 

Item No. 
2/29/68 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
BANK 
O F 
P H I L A D E L P H I A 
P H I L A D E L P H I A . 
P E N N S Y L V A N I A 
1 9 1 0 1 
February 29, 1968 
Board of Directors 
The First Pennsylvania Banking 
and Trust Company 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101 
Gentlemen: 
On behalf of the 
Reserve System, acting under 
Reserve Bank of Riila^aijjhia app1 
First Pennsylvania B&nkinXand Tr 
Pennsylvania, of>e br**INh a\ the 
Pike (Route 20 
Merion Townshi 
"branch is estab. 
letter. 
aijar Henct^rso^i Road, 
mtgomerV County, 
s of the Federal 
ority, the Federal 
e establishment by The 
any, Philadelphia, 
corner of De Kalb 
of Prussia, Upper 
feylvania, provided the 
ar from the date of this 
•consideMng^^his/ftpplication, it has been deter-
.ne^thalN^our "bank'sNnanagement and capital position are 
|ati(sfactory, artd that tK£proposed branch would serve the 
mv^nience a M Mfids of the community. In addition, it is 
no\be\ieved toat Establishment of the branch would tend to 
create asj un^sir^role competitive situation. 
sylvania 
1968. 
Application for this "branch was approved by the Fenn-
;ate Banking Department under date of February 26, 
Very truly yours, 
J, 1. 
Joseph R. Campbell 
Vice President 

Item No. 7 
FEDERAL 
RESERVE 
BANK 
OF 
PHILADELPHIA 
2 / 2 9 / 6 8 ^ 
P H I L A D E L P H I A , 
P E N N S Y L V A N I A 
1 9 1 0 1 
February 29, 1968 
As you know a determination must be made as to whether the 
proposal set forth by Mr. Felix represents a relocation of an au-
thorized branch or whether it represents surrender of a right to 
establish a branch at a given location and application to establish 
another branch at another location. Examiner Stephen M. Ondeck of 
Dear Mr. Day: 
Under date of Octoa^r 
of Philadelphia, on behalf of 
Federal Reserve Systejjt-^nd actii 
proved the establishmentyour 
side of Trenton 
approximate 
intersection o^Troilton Xyerroe and 
Lower Makefielfc Tcwnship, ijucltti. County) 
Avenue 
Federal Reserve Bank 
Governors of the 
delegated authority, ap-
a branch on the north 
feet northeast of the 
ove Road (Route 1 3 ) , 
nnsylvania. 
Under (Jatey February)8, 1968 Senior Vice President 
Anthony 
F^ix^or., of your bank has informed 
been " \.. rr litfcle or no progress towards opening 
ause\}fz£>m.ng complications arising from the 
iela Township is in the course of adopting 
ip zoning plan". Mr. Felix goes on to say 
before the zoning is changed of as much as 
more, and asks that the bank be permitted to 
anch in the meantime "on the north side of Trenton 
620 yards i/ northeast of the intersection of 
Trenton Avenue and Pine Grove Road (Route 1 3 ) , Falls Township, Bucks 
County, Pennsylvania". Mr. Felix makes it clear that when as and 
if zoning changes take place which would permit establishment of 
the branch at the site first specified your bank probably would 
wish to move the branch from the second site (in Falls Township) 
to the first site (in Lower Makefield Township). 
Mr. William L. Day, Chairman 
The First Pennsylvania Banking 
and Trust Company 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101 
1/ We thought the distance from the intersection was somewhat less 
than this but in any event not very substantially less so the 
matter of a possible difference does not seem material. 

2/29/68 
819 
our staff made an investigation of the situation and filed a 
report of his findings under date of February 20, 1968. Mr. Ondeck 
concluded that the proposal in substance represented a relocation, 
but, for reasons indicated later, was obliged toifr-eat the proposal 
as a new branch application. While the second erftA is in a dif-
ferent township it is on the same road and on the skne side of 
same road and the distance 1/ between the sites Ve relatively small, 
really quite small since in the iimediate^nei^hboihodki pedestrian 
traffic is light and practically everyon^movesBSr automobile. 
I have reviewed this matter with Mr. OndecKanfi\l agree' 
with his conclusion that in substanp^-tMs is a relocakioiu es-
pecially after I visited the two 2ocatiorH} with him on Jvbruary 
21, 1968. 
Had your bank originally/flled for the second site it 
is my belief approval would hpve been forthcoming from the Federal 
Reserve because, from a supe^vis^y standpoint, I see no differences 
of real substance in the two Iscat^orfs. 
However, 
among other things, 
bank from one town 
of a branch in s 
proval of the Bo 
means the same th 
to treat the new 
new application. Thi 
gaining^rfpprov&L for a 
must sjdrrejsflfcr Xts right 
authofriMfl siiTe in 
bankfwish to estatflisl 
would, beNobliged tfes f i: 
208.8 fbsj(7>^f Regulation H provides, 
removaX\ofXbranch of a member State 
conHitates the establishment 
, accordingly, requires the ap-
undefcfitaitel in the given instance "town" 
township".! Accordingly, it is not possible 
ation; it must be treated as a 
ank, as part of the process in 
the new site in Falls Township, 
ablish a branch at the previously 
tr Makefield Township. Later, should your 
a branch at the Lower Makefield site, it 
,e another new application. 
sOn l^hplf of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, acting under delegated authority, the Federal Reserve Bank 
of RiiladelpHla^AxJproves the establishment by The First Pennsylvania 
Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, of a branch 
on th® north side of Trenton Avenue approximately 620 yards north-
east of the intersection of Trenton Avenue and Pine Grove Road 
(Route 13), Falls Township, Bucks County, Pennsylvania. 
It is believed the factors cited in the letter of October 
3, 1967 concerning approval for the site in Lower Makefield Township 
would apply equally in this instance. 2/ 
Yours sincerely, 
J. 1. CcA^twll 
Joseph R. Campbell 
Vice President 
1/ Approximately two tenths of a mile. 
2/ The State Banking Department approved the Falls Township location 
A
M
U
l
i 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND 
Item No. 
2/29/68 
February 29, 1968 
Mr. Paul F. Ahlers, Cashier 
Tha Loramie Banking Company 
Fort Loramie, Ohio 
Daar Mr. Ahlers: 
On bahalf of tha Board of Gorarnora of tha Fadaral Reserve 
System, acting under delegated authority, the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Cleveland has approved under the provisions of Section 24 A of the 
Federal Reserve Act an additional investment in bank premises of 
$116,000 for the purpose of constructing a new bank building. 
This 
amount when added to the present investment of $14,000 in the old 
building and the new parcel of land will result in a total carrying value 
of $130, 000 or $30, 000 in excess of the bank's capital stock of 
$100,000. 
Very truly yours, 
H. W. Huning 
Vice President 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF C H I C A G O 
2/29/68' 
9 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60690 
(J 12) HA 7-2320 
February 29, 1968 
Mr. John R. Maddox, President 
The Bank of Montpelier 
Montpelier, Indiana 
Dear Mr. Maddox: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank waives the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal from the Federal Reserve System. 
Under the provisions of Section 206.10(c) of the Board's 
Regulation H, your institution may accomplish termination of 
its membership at any time within eight months from the date 
that notice of intention to withdraw from membership was given. 
Upon surrender to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago of the 
Federal Reserve stock issued to your institution, such stock 
will be cancelled and appropriate refund will be made thereon. 
It is requested that the certificate of niembership 
be returned to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Very truly yours, 
• -/f 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 
C O P Y 
99-193 
