Minutes for 
March 6, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
Fr om: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 1.0 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutesj it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

844 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, March 6, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Gramley, 
Sigel, Eckert, Wernick, Ettin, Fisher, 
Rosenblatt, Stone, Trueblood, and Zeisel, 
and Mrs. Smelker of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Irvine, Katz, Reynolds, 
Wood, Bryant, Emery, Gekker, Gemmill, Kohn, 
Maroni, and Mills, and Mrs. Junz of the 
Division of International Finance 
Economic review. Staff members of the research divisions 
reviewed developments related to the U.S. balance of payments position, 
selected international financial matters, and economic and financial 

845 
3/6/67 
-10-
trends in the domestic economy. The presentations were based in part 
on materials that had been distributed in preparation for tomorrow's 
meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, and copies of the rele-
vant materials have been placed in the Committee's files. 
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions and Mr. Broida, Miss Eaton, and Miss McWhirter with-
drew from the meeting and the following entered: 
Messrs. Hackley, O'Connell, Shay, Plotkin, and Via, and Mrs. 
Heller of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Leavitt, Egertson, Maguire, and Sanford of the Division 
of Examinations 
Mr. Greenspun of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Bank of Delaware, Wilmington, Delaware, 
approving the establishment of a branch at 901 
Market Street in connection with the relocation 
°f the bank's main office. 
1 
Letter to The First Pennsylvania Banking and 
Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, approv-
ing the establishment of a branch at 114 East Main 
Street, Norristown. 
2 
Letter to The Cleveland Trust Company, Cleveland, 
°hio, approving the establishment of a branch in 
North Olmsted, Cuyahoga County. 
3 
Letters to St. Bernard Bank & Trust Company, Arabi, 
Louisiana, granting an extension of time to estab-
lish branches in Chalmette and Arabi. 
4-5 

846 
3/6/67 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to Ronan State Bank, Ronan, Montana, 
6 
granting an extension of time to establish 
an in-town branch (drive-in facility). 
Application of Union County Trust Company. A memorandum from 
the Division of Examinations dated February 28, 1967, and other perti-
nent papers had been distributed in connection with an application by 
Union County Trust Company, Elizabeth, New Jersey, for permission to 
merge Hillside State Bank, Hillside, New Jersey. The Division recom-
mended approval, as had the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Mr. Egertson summarized the facts of the case, noting that 
Hillside State Bank's capital position was unsatisfactory and its man-
agement was rated only fair. He went on to point out that the bank's 
growth rate had not been nearly as great as anticipated when it opened 
in 1962, and that the bank's general condition had deteriorated in the 
past few years. The bank was rated a problem bank on the basis of the 
1966 examination. While the proposed merger would eliminate actual as 
well as potential competition between the two institutions and would 
increase the concentration of banking resources in Union County, the 
Division concluded that the proposed merger would provide a reasonable 
solution to Hillside State Bank's internal problems without significant 
adverse competitive effects. 
Governor Maisel asked what effect the proposed merger would 
have in terms of de novo branching in Hillside, and Mr. Leavitt expressed 

847 
3/6/67 
-10-
his understanding that due to certain provisions of New Jersey law 
Hillside would not be opened up to de novo branching even if the pro-
posed merger were consummated. 
Governor Brimmer expressed his concern about alternatives. He 
asked whether, if the proposed merger were not approved, the staff felt 
that the Hillside bank was in such difficulty that it was likely to 
fail. Mr. Egertson replied that the bank would definitely have to 
raise additional capital, and there was a question in his mind whether 
the bank would be successful. He felt that the sale of additional 
capital might be difficult in view of the condition of the bank and in 
light of management problems. 
Governor Brimmer requested clarification concerning the discus-
sion in the staff memorandum relating to the fact that a minority inter-
est within the Hillside board of directors controlling about 36 per cent 
of the stock had wanted to merge the bank and had then sold those shares 
to a party under a plan whereby the acquisition of such shares was 
financed by the Elizabeth bank. The memorandum indicated that this 
circumstance had precluded the sale of additional stock by Hillside. 
On the other hand the President of the Elizabeth bank had indicated that 
if the merger was not accomplished he would arrange for interested 
directors and stockholders of the Hillside bank to be given an opportu-
nity to acquire the 3,630 shares in question and that in any case the 
stock would not be used to prevent the Hillside bank from raising 

848 
3/6/67 
-10-
additional capital. Governor Brimmer asked whether there was any indi-
cation that the Elizabeth bank was interested in not having the Hillside 
bank grow because of its desire to take that bank over by merger. 
Mr. Egertson said there was no indication that Union County 
Trust Company had tried to merge the Hillside bank until the dissident 
group wanted to dispose of its stock. 
Mr. Plotkin commented that some time after the organization of 
the Hillside bank in 1962, two distinct factions developed within the 
board of directors and the stockholders. One group wanted to maintain 
the bank as an independent institution and to raise the additional 
capital that would be required. The other group wanted to merge the 
bank. When the question of raising additional capital, which required 
a two-thirds vote, came up, they voted against it. Apparently there 
was almost a proxy fight in early 1965, and later the 36 per cent of 
the stock owned by the dissident group became available for sale. In 
his opinion Union County Trust Company probably arranged for the pur-
chase of that stock. Since that time, with Union County controlling 
36 per cent of the stock, there had been no further attempts to raise 
additional capital. 
On the question of alternatives, Governor Maisel suggested that 
about five or six medium-size banks theoretically could merge the 
Hillside bank, with less adverse competitive effect than through a 
merger with Union County Trust Company. 

849 
3/6/67 
-10-
Governor Daane inquired whether anything had been done by the 
Federal Reserve Bank to assist the Hillside bank, which apparently had 
never been operated properly since its organization, or whether the 
Federal Reserve had simply watched the bank deteriorate. 
Mr. Egertson replied that the Federal Reserve Bank had been 
pushing the Hillside bank quite hard for several years to provide 
additional capital. The institution was not rated as a problem bank 
until the latter part of 1966; its principal difficulties arose within 
the space of about a year prior to that time. When Governor Daane 
asked whether the Hillside bank was a viable institution, Mr. Egertson 
expressed the view that it was not at the present time. 
There followed a rather lengthy discussion of various methods 
of computing the premium being offered in this case. It appeared from 
staff comments that the aggregate premium, which according to one method 
of calculation would be equal to about 7 per cent of the Hillside bank's 
total deposits, was quite high but not unprecedented. It was noted 
that premiums generally ran high in New Jersey because of the provisions 
of State law blocking certain communities from de novo branching. 
Governor Robertson referred to the statement of the President 
of Union County Trust Company that if the merger was not accomplished 
the 36 per cent block of stock would not be used to prevent the Hillside 
bank from raising additional capital. He inquired whether the staff 
felt that in such event the raising of new capital would still be 
difficult. 

850 
3/6/67 
-10-
In reply Mr. Egertson referred to loan losses that had been 
incurred and to the volume of classified loans, with steady deteriora-
tion of the bank's capital position. In addition, the growth of the 
bank had never been as great as originally expected. In these circum-
stances he felt it would be difficult to get the stockholders to agree 
to put in as much additional capital as seemed necessary. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether the staff felt that Union 
County Trust Company would be the only willing purchaser of the Hillside 
bank. He observed that the proposed merger might seem attractive to the 
stockholders of the Hillside bank because they would receive a premium 
and because otherwise they might have to enter into a less favorable 
sale. He asked whether there was any information concerning a possible 
alternative purchaser of the bank. 
Mr. Egertson said that possible alternatives had not been 
explored. Mr. Leavitt commented that it was difficult to determine 
whether alternatives were available in cases where a proposed merger 
had been announced. In certain circumstances banks might make known 
their availability at the outset, but after a proposed merger was in 
process it would be difficult to go to other banks and make inquiries. 
In the file on this case there was no indication that the Hillside bank 
had discussed the possibility of merger with any institution other than 
Union County Trust Company. 
A discussion followed with regard to whether it appeared that 
additional profit would be realized under the terms of the proposed 

851 
3/6/67 
-10-
merger by the individual in whose name the 3,630 shares sold by the 
dissident group were held. Replies by the staff indicated that accord-
ing to the ir understanding there would be no additional profit realized 
on those shares. 
The members of the Board then expressed their tentative views, 
and Governor Shepardson indicated that he would be inclined to support 
the favorable recommendation of the Division of Examinations. Governor 
Mitchell said that he also would support the recommendation, although 
reluctantly, while Governor Daane expressed the view that at this stage 
there seemed to be little option. He repeated his earlier comment to 
the effect that he wondered whether the Federal Reserve Bank could not 
have been more helpful to the Hillside bank in dealing with its diffi-
culties . 
Governor Maisel suggested that alternatives would seem to be 
available. If the proposed merger was denied, it appeared to him that 
there would be no immediate problem, and there were other banks in the 
a r e a that could merge the Hillside bank. In terms of the competitive 
situation, he felt that it would be better to deny the current applica-
tion. 
Governor Brimmer said he gathered that alternative possibilities 
had not been thoroughly explored. He did not know, therefore, whether 
there was any real alternative, but one might reasonably exist. In his 
view, that possibility should be explored carefully in view of the 

852 
3/6/67 
-10-
anticompetitive aspects of the presently proposed merger. In general 
principle, he disliked having the Board conclude that simply because a 
bank was in difficulty it should be allowed to take the easy way out, 
and the premium being offered for the Hillside bank indicated that a 
rather great value was attached to it by at least one other bank. 
Governor Robertson said he was concerned that in this case the 
applicant may have intervened actively to lay the groundwork for the 
merger by indirect acquisition of a substantial portion of the Hillside 
bank's stock. Thus, the Hillside bank may not have been as free to 
compete as it would have otherwise. Nevertheless, there was competition 
between the two banks and the potential for more competition. In view 
of his doubts, he was inclined toward denial of the application. 
Governor Robertson then noted that according to the tentative 
expressions it appeared that three of the members of the Board would 
be inclined to approve the application while three would be inclined 
to turn it down. A tie vote would mean denial of the application, but 
that would not represent a desirable procedure. 
Governor Maisel suggested further exploration of possible alter-
natives, since that appeared to be a critical question. He suggested 
that the staff draw up, in consultation with the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f New York, a plan for exploring the alternatives, with the under-
standing that the staff would then come back with a recommendation. 
Governor Mitchell said he would have no objection. However, 
he felt a negative response on the question of alternatives was likely 

853 
3/6/67 
-10-
to come from the New York Reserve Bank. He suggested that the princi-
pal parties in this case be invited to come to Washington for a confer-
ence with the Board, in order that the Board might ask direct questions 
of them and develop additional information. 
Governor Robertson suggested that members of the Board's staff, 
in company with representatives of the New York Reserve Bank, interview 
the President of Hillside State Bank, some of the bank's directors, and 
perhaps other interested parties, and report back to the Board. 
Governor Maisel noted that in field investigations of various 
applications the Reserve Banks frequently obtain the views of other 
banks in the area concerned. He raised the question whether the manage-
ments of other banks in the area here concerned might not be interviewed 
to elicit any information as to their possible interest in acquiring the 
Hillside bank. However, other members of the Board expressed doubt 
about the feasibility of such a procedure. 
Mr. Plotkin suggested that one of the important parts of the 
problem was to ascertain whether the present management of the Hillside 
bank had any plans to raise additional capital if the proposed merger 
was denied or any other plans for maintaining the Hillside bank as an 
independent institution. Governor Robertson agreed, and Governor 
Brimmer said he assumed that question would be among those that would 
be raised by the staff in interviews. He added that he would like the 
Board's staff to convey to the New York Reserve Bank his feeling of 

854 
3/6/67 
-10-
unhappiness about situations such as had developed in this case where 
the Board was asked to approve a merger application with anticompeti-
tive overtones because of operating difficulties that had grown up 
within a State member bank over a period of time. 
After further discussion it was agreed that the Board's staff 
would work with the staff of the New York Reserve Bank in an endeavor 
to obtain additional information along the lines indicated by the 
questions that had been raised at this meeting and that the staff would 
then report back to the Board with a further recommendation. 
Report on S. 714. There had been distributed a memorandum dated 
March 1, 1967, from the Legal-Division relating to a request from the 
Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency for the views 
of the Board on S. 714, a bill "To amend section 22(g) of the Federal 
Re serve Act relating to loans to executive officers by member banks of 
the Federal Reserve System, and to amend the Federal Credit Union Act 
to modify the loan provisions relating to directors, members of the 
supervisory committee, and members of the credit committee of Federal 
credit unions." Attached to the memorandum was a draft reply that would 
(1) urge enactment of the proposed amendment to the Federal Reserve Act 
and (2) offer no objection to the proposal that would amend the Federal 
Credit Union Act. 
Mr. Cardon stated that in view of the testimony on S. 714 to 
be given by the Vice Chairman of the Board later this month, he had 
ascertained that no letter was necessary at this time. 

855 
3/6/67 
-10-
Report on S. 518 (Item No. 7). There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated March 3, 1967, from the Legal Division relating to a 
request from Chairman Eastland of the Senate Judiciary Committee for a 
report on S. 518, a bill to amend the Administrative Procedure Act. 
On four previous occasions the Board had submitted extensive 
reports on proposed legislation aimed at revisions of this Act. In 
addition, the Board had submitted to the Budget Bureau its views on the 
so-called "Freedom of Information" Act (already law) that would be 
incorporated as a section of S. 518. The Board had consistently ex-
pressed agreement with the underlying philosophy reflected in the 
current bill and its predecessors but had specified several respects 
m which provisions of the bills were objectionable, both as to their 
effect on the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee in particular 
and on all agencies in general. 
The memorandum summarized and commented on provisions of the 
bill, noting that the staff had conferred at length with the staffs of 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Comptroller of the Cur-
rency, and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board in analyzing the provisions 
S. 518 and in appraising the substantive procedural impact of those 
Provisions on the respective agencies. Submitted with the memorandum 
was a proposed reply to Senator Eastland that would indicate concur-
rence in the general objectives of S. 518 but would call attention to 
certain provisions that, subject to their interpretation, might unduly 

856 
3/6/67 
-10-
lmpede effect ive and prompt administrative action by the Federal agen-
cies concerned. The reply would recommend certain language changes in 
the bill and would suggest the inclusion of certain clarifying state-
ments in the Committee report. 
Mr. 0'Connell indicated that hearings on S. 518 were scheduled 
to start this morning before the Subcommittee on Administrative Practice 
and Procedure, and that the Subcommittee had requested that the Board's 
views be furnished today. The proposed reply and its enclosure con-
tained language acceptable to the other supervisory agencies, nearly 
identical letters having been approved for transmittal to the Senate 
Committee by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Comptroller 
°f the Currency, and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. Mr. 0'Connell 
expressed the view that the repeated objections voiced by the four 
agencies and others with respect to certain provisions of earlier bills 
o n t h e same subject had resulted in proposed legislation as nearly 
agency-oriented as could reasonably be anticipated. 
After further analysis of the bill by Mr. 01Connell, Governor 
Robertson observed that the problem had been discussed by the Coordi-
nating Committee on Bank Regulation. In his view, the joint efforts 
o f" 
counsel for the respective supervisory agencies had resulted in 
desirable amendments to previous bills that, together with the letters 
being sent at this time, placed the matter in as good a posture as 
could be expected. Governor Brimmer added that he wished to commend 
t-he staff on the manner in which the issue had been approached. 

857 
3/6/67 
-14-
Unanimous approval was then given to the transmittal of a 
letter to Chairman Eastland in the form attached as Item No. 7, with 
the understanding that a copy would be sent to the Bureau of the Budget 
in accordance with the usual practice. 
There followed a brief discussion of the "Freedom of Informa-
tion" Act and the ways in which the provisions of the bill might apply 
to procedures of the Federal Open Market Committee. It was noted that 
Mr. Hackley, as General Counsel of the Committee, had prepared a memo-
randum that was on the Committee's agenda for consideration tomorrow. 

858 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
3/6/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TD T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of Delaware, 
Wilmington, Delaware. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Bank of Delaware, 
Wilmington, Delaware, of a branch at 901 Market Street, 
Wilmington, Delaware, in connection with the relocation 
of the bank's main office from that location to the 
southwest corner of the intersection of Delaware Avenue 
and Tatnall Street, Wilmington, Delaware. The Board 
has approved the branch provided it is established 
within three years from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

859 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 1 
3/6/67 
A D D R E S S a r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The First Pennsylvania 
Banking and Trust Company, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The First Pennsylvania 
Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, of 
a branch at 114 East Main Street, Norristown, Pennsylvania, 
provided the branch is established within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

8G0 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
3/6/67 
A D D R E S S O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
S Q A R D 
March 6, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Cleveland Trust Company, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The Cleveland 
Trust Company, Cleveland, Ohio, of a branch at 23424 . 
Lorain Road, North Olmsted, Cuyahoga County, Ohio, 
provided the branch is established within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

861 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
3/6/67 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
St. Bernard Bank & Trust Company, 
Arabi, Louisiana. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to May 1, 1967, the time within which 
St. Bernard Bank & Trust Company, Arabi, Louisiana, may 
establish a branch on Goodchildren Street, between 
Decomine Drive and Dauterive Drive in the unincorporated 
area of Chalmette, Louisiana. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary 

862 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
3/6/67 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
St. Bernard Bank & Trust Company, 
Arabi, Louisiana. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to May 1, 1967, the time within which 
St. Bernard Bank & Trust Company, Arabi, Louisiana, may 
establish a branch at the corner of Claiborne Avenue and 
Schnell Drive, within the unincorporated community of 
Arabi, Louisiana. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary 

863 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 1 
3/6/67 
A O D R E B a 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R I B P O N O E N C I 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Ronan State Bank, 
Ronan, Montana, 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to August 23, 1967, the time within which 
Ronan State Bank, Ronan, Montana, may establish a branch 
(drive-in facility) to be located approximately 600 ffeet 
from the bank's head office. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

864 
B O A R D OF GbVErthlORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE S Y S t E M 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 1 
3/6/67 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 6, 1967 
The Honorable James 0. Eastland, 
Chairman, 
Committee on the Judiciary, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C, 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your letter of February 13, 1967, 
requesting a report on S, 518, a bill "To amend the Administrative 
Procedure Act, and for other purposes." 
S, 518 would require revisions in Federal agency procedures 
that are aimed at expediting the administrative process while Assuring 
to the individuals dealing with Federal agencies fundamental fairness 
°f such process. While we concur in the general objectives of the 
bill. certain of the bill's provisions are^ irl the Boaird s opinion, 
subject to interpretations which could undiily impedfe effective and 
Prompt administrative action by the FedStdl agencies responsible for 
supervision of and decision iri the sensitive areas of banking and 
finance. Members d£ the Board's staff in conjunction with staff mem-
bers of the Fedeirai Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Comptroller of 
the Currency, ahd the Federal Home Loan Bank Board have consulted to-
gether atid, as d group, have met with Mr, Bernard J, Fensterwald, Jr., 
Counsel fbt the Subcommittee on Administrative Practice and Procedure 
°f your Committee, and Mr, Cornelius B, Kennedy, a member of the 
American Bar Association's Section on Administrative Law, in an effort 
to make ktlown specific matters of individual and mutual concern, and 
t o elicit comments that might aid in resolving such matters. The 
comments and suggestions resulting from these discussions have received 
thorough consideration in the preparation of this report and its recom-
mendations ^ both with respect to changes believed necessary in certain 
°f the bill's provisions, and in suggestions for interpretive language 
believed applro^ridte for inclusion in your Committee's report on the 
bill. 
There At£ set forth as an attachment to this letter Board 
Recommendations for changes in the proposed language of subsections 5(b), 
and 6(e), and for clarifying interpretive language which we believe 

865 
The Honorable James 0. Eastland 
-2-
would be suitable for use in your Committee's report relating to 
subsections 4(h), 5(a), 5(b), 6(e), 6(h), and 6(k)- We regard the 
suggested clarifying interpretations as of equal importance with the 
proposed changes in the bill itself. These recommendations are made 
following a thorough consideration and balancing of the interests of 
the agencies involved and the public affected by the agencies1 actions, 
and in the belief that the changes and clarifications reflected therein 
are necessitated by the extremely sensitive nature of certain of the 
functions and operations performed by agencies responsible for the 
formulation of monetary policy or supervision of financial institutions. 
Adoption by your Committee of the attached recommended changes 
and of the suggested interpretive language would lessen our aforestated 
concern over enactment of S. 518, in that the bill would provide reason-
ably for the agencies' performance of their statutory functions while 
securing to the public the full measure of rights and protection in-
tended to be afforded by the bill. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J; L. Rbbertson* 
Enclbsttrfe 

866 
PROPOSED COMMITTEE REPORT STATEMENT REGARDING EXEMPTION (6) OF 
SUBSECTION"4(h) 
"An exemption has been added for rulemaking that relates to 
the establishment or revision of monetary rates or policy. This 
exemption is intended to exclude from the rulemaking requirements of 
section 4 actions establishing, maintaining, or modifying interest, 
dividend, or credit rates, terns and conditions, or reserve balances, 
and actions involving debt issuance or management or the formulation 
of directives as to securities or currency transactions, the execu-
tion of which is related to the implementation of effective monetary 
or fiscal policy. The application to such actions of the provisions 
of section 4 relating to prior consultation, and public participation 
following published notice could present an opportunity for specula-
tive activity, and could have generally disruptive effects on finan-
cial markets and financial institutions. These highly sensitive 
determinations will be more effectively formulated and implemented 
if exempted from the general rulemaking provisions of the Act." 
PROPOSED COMMITTEE REPORT STATEMENT REGARDING SUBSECTION 5(a) 
"The section on adjudication has been changed to bring about 
Procedures which are, in the committee's opinion, desirable in 
light of developments in the character and importance of administra-
tive adjudication over the past 20 years* 
"At the present time, section 5 of the Administrative 
Procedure Act applies only to agency adjudications required by 
statute to be determined on the record after opportunity for agency 

-2-
867 
hearing. The bill would amend section 5 to make it equally applicable 
to agency adjudications required by the Constitution to be determined 
on the record after opportunity for an agency hearing. This additional 
language is not intended to control those administrative agencies' hearings 
or adjudicatory procedures which are not required by other statutes or the 
Federal Constitution under applicable court decisions to meet the more 
formal requirements of section 5(a). 
"This amendment is designed to incorporate in section 5(a) 
a principle suggested by Wong Yang Sung v, McGrath, 339 U.S. 33 (1949). 
For, as noted by the Court, when the absence of section 5 procedures 
would make the act of the agency unconstitutional, then section 5 
should apply. The committee's judgment, in harmony with the Court, 
is that cases of this kind should be conducted with the same procedural 
safeguards as those in which a decision on the record is required by 
statute." 
PROPOSED REVISION OF SUBSECTION 5(b) 
"(b) Unless expressly otherwise provided by statute, in 
all other cases of adjudication, the agency shall by rule provide 
informal procedures which shall promptly, adequately and fairly inform 
the parties of the issues, facts and arguments involved. After 
having fully considered the issues, facts and arguments, and without 
delay the agency representative who has considered the matter shall 
make his decision. Such decision shall constitute final agency action, 

868 
-2-
subject only to such appeal and review as may be provided by agency 
rule. Unless otherui.se provided by agency rule, such informal procedures 
shall not be subject to the other provisions of section 5 or to the 
provisions of subsections (e) or (h) of section 6. This subsection shall 
not apply to initial determinations with respect to public property, 
loans, grants, benefits, contracts, inspections, tests, or elections." 
PROPOSED COMMITTEE STATEMENT EXPLAINING REVISION OF 5(b) 
It is believed that this revision makes it clear that agency 
adjudications under 5(b) would be strictly informal and not be subject 
to the formal requirements for adjudications under subsection 5(a) 
where the adjudication is required by the Constitution or by statute 
to be determined on the record after opportunity for an agency hearing. 
It is not intended that these formal procedural requirements attach to 
5(b) adjudications. 
The revision also makes it clear that certain ancillary 
matters contained in section 6 of the bill, namely, the issuance of 
subpoenas (subsection (e)) and the taking of depositions and discovery 
proceedings (subsection (h)) would not be available in subsection 5(b) 
adjudications. Making these matters generally applicable to parties 
in all 5(b) adjudications could have the effect of destroying or greatly 
impairing the speed and informality needed and intended in such 
adjudications. 

869 
PROPOSED REVISION OF THE SECOND SENTENCE OF SUBSECTION 6(G) 
"[When objection is made to the general relevance or 
reasonable scope of such subpoena] The presiding officer or the 
agency may quash or modify the subpoena to the same extent, and in 
the same manner as in civil proceedings in the district courts of 
the United States except to the extent an agency deems such con-
formity impracticable and otherwise provides for quashing or 
modifying such subpoenas by published rule,t" 
PROPOSED CQiHITTEE REPORT STATEMENT REGARDING THE PROPOSED REVISION 
OF SUBSECTION 6(c) 
"The change made in the second sentence of § 6(e) conforms 
the test for quashing or modifying a subpoena to that provided as 
to the availability of depositions and discovery under § 6(h). It 
is intended to permit the presiding officer or the agency the same 
degree of judgment to quash or modify subpoenas which is possessed 
by the district court judge in civil proceedings." 
PROPOSED COMMITTEE REPORT STATEMENT REGARDING SUBSECTION 6(h) 
"The reference in this section to the availability of 
dep 
ositions and discovery to the same extent and In the same manner 
as in district court civil proceedings is intended to make the 
standards applicable to litigants in such proceedings applicable to 
proceedings subject to § 6(h), Matters as to which a deposition or 
discovery (or a subpoena under revised section 6(e)) is sought may 
be relevant to the issues in an agency proceeding, and may be reasonable 

-5-
8 7 0 
in scope; yet the granting thereof may impose unreasonably adverse 
effects on another party or the agency, or result in an undue inter-
ference with the agency's functions, without an overbalancing need 
by, or benefit to, the requesting party. Agencies might rely on 
standards developed by the district courts (as in Carl Zeiss Stiftung 
v- V.E.B. Carl Zeiss, Jena (40 F.R.D. 313, D.D.C., 1966)) on a case to 
case basis, or might, under the concluding phrase of the section, 
provide rules applicable to the availability of depositions and 
discovery." 
PROPOSED COMMITTEE REPORT STATEMENT REGARDING SUBSECTION 6(k) 
"Under 5 5(d) of the Administrative Procedure Act of 1946, 
issuance of declaratory orders is left to the sound discretion of 
the agency. Subsection 6(k) of S. 518 is intended to oblige an 
agency to act upon all such requests. This does not preclude an 
agency's denial of such requests in cases where, for example, the 
facts presented by the requesting party are too abstract or incomplete, 
or where decision on the matter presented would be premature." 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 6, 1S67 
