MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 15, 1969 

2280 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Tuesday, July 15, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room at 2:30 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant to the Board 
Mr. Waller of the Office of the 
Controller 
Retirement System. In a memorandum of July 9, 1969, the Joint 
Board-Presidents' Conference Committee on the Retirement System of the 
Federal Reserve Banks (consisting of Governors Maisel and Brimmer, 
Presidents Bopp, Francis, Galusha, and Hayes, and Mr. Sherman) reviewed 
the intensive study that had been made of the Retirement System over 
the past several years and stated that out of the Committee's delibera-
tions had come a general pattern of agreement on major points of proposed 
policy, as discussed in the memorandum. Although there were alternatives 
yet to be debated and resolved in the construction of a coherent system 
of employee benefits, the major points of policy had to be settled first, 
and accordingly they were now presented to the Board for consideration. 
(Note: A copy of the memorandum from the Joint Committee has been 
placed in the Board's files.) 

2231 
7/15/69 
-2-
In introductory comments, Governor Maisel recalled that in 
January the Board had made a tentative set of decisions and said that 
the Joint Committee had met rather steadily since then. The July 9 
report contained the conclusions of the Committee. In a number of 
instances, the conclusion reflected a unanimity of opinion, although 
in a few cases individual members did not agree with the Committee 
recommendation. The Board representatives had not committed the Board 
in any way. As to timing, the Presidents felt that it would be detri-
mental to morale if whatever changes were agreed upon in the Retirement 
System did not go into effect at the beginning of next year. A large 
amount of drafting and similar work would have to be done, so it would 
be most helpful if the Board could make decisions in principle on the 
issues involved, in order that the drafters might begin work on the 
implementing materials. The whole subject would then come back to the 
Board for final decision later this year. While some eleven recommenda-
tions were contained in the report of the Joint Committee, not all of 
them needed to be taken up by the Board at this particular time, 
Governor Maisel added. He then specified the issues on which a decision 
was most urgent. 
The Board then considered seven of the twelve numbered items in 
the Joint Committee's report, while four others were held over for con-
sideration later. The twelfth item was regarded as a matter of infor-
mation since it did not appear to make a specific recommendation to the 
Board. 

o o q o 
7/15/69 
-3-
The actions taken by the Board on each of the items considered, 
together with some of the pertinent comments relating to those actions, 
were as set forth in the attached memorandum that is identified as 
Item No. 1. 
Sales of loans under repurchase agreements. Governor Robertson 
reported that he had received a call from the Comptroller of the Cur-
rency, who advised that he had received word from a number of banks 
that they wanted to sell loans under repurchase agreements. This pro-
cedure presented questions under Regulation Q and also, in the Comptroller1 
opinion, might tend to prejudice the position of depositors of the banks 
concerned in the event of insolvency. While the Comptroller was not 
disposed to tell the banks that they could not engage in the activity, 
he wanted to bring the matter to the Board's attention, particularly 
since he believed that the activity would increase appreciably in the 
next month or so. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Consultant arrangement. Governor Sherrill noted that the Board 
had approved an arrangement under which retired employees who served as 
consultants to the Board would be limited in their total annual compen-
sation, including retirement benefits, to the amount they would have 
received if they were still in active service, based on their final 

2293 
a, 
7/15/69 
-4-
salary rate. This resulted in limiting the number of days in a year 
that such persons could serve as consultants, and in Mr. Sherman's case 
the maximum number of days had already been reached this year. One 
suggestion was to include the retirement pension but not the annuity in 
making the computation, which would increase, in his case, the number of 
days that could be worked as consultant by about 14 per cent. Another 
suggestion was to adjust the maximum compensation by including an 
increment to final salary equal to the amount that normally would have 
been received under any general pay increases, while still another 
possibility was to work out an arrangement whereby Mr. Sherman would 
be paid by the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks for work 
performed in a consultant capacity to the Retirement System. 
After some discussion during which it was noted that Retirement 
System affairs would require a considerable amount of work, in which 
Mr. Sherman was expert, during the months ahead, Governor Robertson 
suggested that the matter be referred to Governor Sherrill to work out 
whatever arrangement seemed to him most appropriate, and there was 
-.agreement with that suggestion. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
7/15/69 
> 
tmff" ' 
July 24, 1969. 
TO: 
Governor Maisel 
FROM: 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary, Board of Governors 
At a meeting on July 15, 1969, the Board of Governors 
gave consideration to the memorandum from the Joint Board-Presidents' 
Conference Committee on the Retirement System dated July 9, 1969. 
Not all of the items listed in the Joint Committee's report were 
taken up by the Board; of the 12 numbered items in the report, 
seven (numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 10, and 11) were considered and acted 
upon, while four (numbers 5, 6, 7, and 9) were held over for later 
consideration and action. Item 12 was regarded as a matter of 
information since it did not appear to make a specific recommendation 
to the Board. 
The Board's actions in approving proposals made under the 
seven items considered were with respect to the substance of the 
proposals, it being understood that insofar as amendments to the 
Rules and Regulations of the Retirement System might be involved, 
formal approval of the changes would be deferred until the trustees 
of the Retirement System formally submitted the several proposals to 
the Board, preferably together with draft amendments. In giving 
approval to the establishment of a thrift plan as a part of the 
overhaul of the present Retirement System the Board looked with 
favor on the proposal for a thrift plan separate from the revised 

-2-
Retirement System. It is understood that a further report will 
be submitted on the form such a thrift plan might assume, including 
suggestions as to the type of governing body, the mechanism for 
the plan's operation, and proposed rules for its organization. 
The actions taken by the Board on each of the items 
considered at the July 15 meeting, together with some of the 
pertinent comments relating to those actions, are summarized in 
the following paragraphs: 
1) Should the Retirement System be made noncontributory? 
The Board approved the recommendation of the Joint 
Committee that the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks 
be placed on a noncontributory basis effective as of the date of 
reorganization, which is tentatively set for January 1, 1970. 
2) What is to be done with member's contributions and 
earnings thereon? 
The Board approved the adoption of a procedure under which 
member contributions and interest thereon held in the Annuity 
Accumulation Account would be disposed of at the time of reorganization 
of the Retirement System in the following manner: 
a) Member contributions. All such contributions, 
including interest thereon, would be transferred 
to the proposed thrift plan to be established 
outside the Retirement System, where the amounts 
would be identified in a distinctive manner as 
"initial" or "special" contributions. Rights 
of withdrawal of those contributions would be 
determined by the rules governing the thrift 
plan, in the event the member does not wish to 
leave them in the thrift plan. The Annuity 
Accumulation Account would be eliminated as an 
account of the Retirement System. 

-3-
b) Interest earnings. Prior to the transfer of 
funds in the Annuity Accumulation Account to 
the thrift plan, interest at the actual rates 
earned on the investments of the Retirement 
System over the years are to be recalculated 
and credit is to be given to each individual 
account in a manner that will have the effect 
of giving the member an interest return equivalent 
to the actual earnings rates, rather than at the 
assumed rates used in the past. 
c) Capital flains and losses. No direct distribution 
of capital gains and losses of the Retirement 
System portfolio is to be made to members. The 
Board noted, however, that a substantial portion 
of excess earnings and of capital gains on Retire-
ment System investments will be required to fund 
the increased benefit program under the revised 
Retirement System, and that such use of the funds 
would represent the provision of substantial 
benefits to members who have already retired and 
to those who will retire in the future, on the basis 
of portions of accumulated earnings and capital gains. 
It also noted the proposal of the Joint Committee 
that any residual excess earnings might be used to 
reduce current costs to the Reserve Banks over a 
ten-year period except as benefit changes during 
that period might require supplementary funding, 
but it did not act upon the ultimate disposition of . 
these funds. 
3) What should be the level of pension benefits? 
The Board approved the provision of a normal pension benefit 
at the rate of 1.8 per cent of the final five-year average .salary for 
each year of creditable service, reduced by 50 per cent of the primary 
Social Security retirement benefit to which the retiring member is 
entitled, such reduction to be prorated for less than 30 years of 
Federal Reserve service. .In approving this pension formula, the Board 
also approved the adjustment of related pension benefits for optional 
retirement before attaining normal retirement age in a manner that 
would maintain substantially the present proportion of discount from 
normal retirement allowances for those electing to retire early. 

a^/w y t 
-4-
4) .Should special consideration be given to the 
situation of the employee whose service is 
prematurely terminated by death or total 
disability? 
The Board approved in principle the provision of a benefit, 
either through the Retirement; System or by means of group insurance, 
for a dependent spouse or other dependents of members who die in active 
service, as recommended by the Joint Committee. It was understood that 
such a benefit would be generally similar to that recommended in the 
Arthur Stedry Hansen Report of November 1967 and subsequently described 
in the December 11, 1968 report of Professor Dan M. McGill, and that 
further study would be made with a view to determining whether such 
coverage should be provided under the Retirement System or through 
group insurance or a combination of the two. It was also understood 
that specific proposals for this benefit would be submitted to the 
Board for consideration following the study referred to. 
8) What consideration should be given to supplementing 
allowances of present retirees? 
The Board approved the recommendation of the Joint Committee 
that the retirement allowances of all persons drawing such allowances 
immediately prior to the reorganization of the Retirement System, 
tentatively set for January 1, 1970, be supplemented to the extent of 
an increase in existing allowances of 7 per cent, such supplementa-
tion to be in recognition of changes in the cost of living and other 
developments since the retirees or beneficiaries last received a 
supplement to their allowances or since they started receiving the 
existing retirement benefit. In approving this supplemental retire-
ment allowance, the Board noted that the amount of the supplement, 
the precise manner in which it would be applied, and the effective 
date would be the subject of additional study and, if necessary, 
further consideration by the Board. 
10) How should the Retirement System benefit level be 
related to Social Security? 
The Board of Governors approved the recommendation of the 
Joint Committee that the "offset" method of integrating the Retire-
ment System benefit with the primary retirement allowance under the 
Social Security System be adopted. 
11) Is a thrift plan desirable, and if so, what should 
be its general outline? 
The Board of Governors gave approval in principle to the 
establishment outside the Retirement System of an employee thrift 
plan substantially along the lines recommended in the Joint Committee's 
report and outlined in somewhat greater detail in the McGill report. 

2238 
-5-
Xhis action included approval of the payment by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of the management and investment advisory service costs of 
the thrift plan and the making of contributions by the Reserve Banks 
to individual participating member accounts of 25 cents for each 
dollar contributed co the plan by the member, up to a maximum 
contribution level by the Banks of 1-1/2 per cent of salary of the 
individual. It was understood that a specific detailed plan for 
organization and administration of the thrift plan would be sub-
mitted for the Board's consideration prior to placing the plan in 
operation. 
Although the Board did not expressly take up Item 12 
regarding the increase in costs for the proposed retirement program 
and thrift plan, references were made during the discussion to some of 
the data presented. The comments following that item in the Committee 
report touch upon the question of interest assumptions to be used in 
calculating future rates of contribution by the Reserve Banks to the 
Retirement System, and whether the present 3-1/2 per cent assumption 
of some other interest rate assumption such as 4 per cent should be 
used. The mortality assumptions involved in actuarial computations 
are. also mentioned. 
The numbered items not taken up by the Board and held over 
for later consideration are: 
5) IIow should the Retirement System funds be invested 
and administered? 
6) Should the Bank Plan and the Board Plan be merged; 
or if not merged, should the Presidents and 
First Vice Presidents be shifted to the Board Plan? 
7) What disposition should be made of the excess reserves? 
9) How often should the general program of benefits 
provided under the Retirement System be reviewed? 
