^ 609 
Minutes for April 27, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

1632 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, April 27, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Forrestal and Noble, Senior Attorneys, 
Legal Division 
Mr. Maroni, Senior Economist, Division of 
International Finance 
Approved items. The following letters were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the members of the Board. Copies of the letters are attached 
under the respective item numbers indicated. 
Itern No. 
Letter to Old Kent Bank and Trust Company, 
1 
Grand Rapids, Michigan, granting an extension 
of time within which to establish a branch in 
Alpine Township, Kent County. 

1633 
4/27/67 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to Fort Madison Savings Bank, Fort 
2 
Madison, Iowa, approving an investment in 
bank premises. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given to 
the transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency of a report on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Keystone Trust 
Company, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, into National Bank and Trust Company 
of Central Pennsylvania, York, Pennsylvania, in a form in which the 
conclusion read as follows: 
The proposed merger of Keystone Trust Company, 
Harrisburg, into National Bank and Trust Company of 
Central Pennsylvania, York, would eliminate existing 
and potential competition between the two banks and 
would reduce the number of banking alternatives in 
Harrisburg from four to three. Overall, the effect 
of the proposal on competition would be adverse. 
Inter-American Development Bank. Mr. Forrestal advised that 
yesterday afternoon there had been received from the Bureau of the 
Budget a request for a report on a draft bill proposed by the Treasury 
"to amend the Inter-American Development Bank Act to authorize the 
United States to participate in an increase in the resources of the 
Fund for Special Operations of the Inter-American Development Bank." 
Mr. Forrestal explained that at their current annual meeting 
the Governors of the Inter-American Development Bank had unanimously 
agreed to recommend to their respective governments that appropriate 
steps be taken to permit the adoption of a resolution that would provide 

1 6 
4/27/67 
-3-
for an increase in the resources of the Fund for Special Operations by 
the equivalent of $1.2 billion. Of this total, $900 million would be 
contributed by the United States and the equivalent of $300 million by 
the Latin American members of the Bank. Under the schedule of contri-
butions completed in December 1966, the United States contributed 
$750 million and the Latin Americans contributed $150 million, for a 
total of $900 million. The contribution now proposed therefore repre-
sented a substantial increase by Latin American countries over their 
last contributions—both absolutely and in relation to the U.S. share. 
The increase would be paid in three equal and consecutive annual instal-
ments beginning December 31, 1967. 
It was estimated that the funds presently committed to the Fund 
for Special Operations would allow the Inter-American Development Bank 
to continue lending operations at an adequate rate only through the 
first few months of calendar year 1968. The draft bill would authorize 
the U.S. Governor of the Bank to vote in favor of the aforementioned 
resolution. It would also authorize the U.S. Governor, on behalf of 
the United States, to agree to pay to the Fund for Special Operations 
over a three-year period the sum of $900 million as the U.S. share of 
the increase, and authorize the appropriation of that sum. 
Mr. Forrestal stated that he understood the National Advisory 
Council on International Monetary and Financial Policies had approved 
the proposal. He added that in the past the Board of Governors, at 
least in 1963, had simply interposed no objection to similar proposals. 

1635 
4/27/67 
-4-
With regard to the possible effect of the current proposal on 
the U.S. balance of payments, Mr. Forrestal said the Budget Bureau had 
indicated that an agreement was being worked out for a tie-in to pro-
curement in the United States and that probably any funds not spent 
would be placed in interest-bearing securities in the United States. 
Mr. Forrestal added that the Budget Bureau had indicated it 
would be glad to have a reply by telephone from the Board. 
Governor Brimmer said that only because of Mr. Forrestal's last 
comment would he refrain from asking that the matter be held over. He 
went on to say that he had participated in the discussion of the National 
Advisory Council that resulted in the vote of approval. However, he had 
expected that there would be an opportunity for Board discussion, for 
there were certain vital issues involved. On the policy regarding pro-
curement the Latin Americans were somewhat restless, and the question 
did have serious implications from the standpoint of the U.S. balance 
of payments. He had hoped the Board could discuss this issue rather 
extensively, but in view of the time element he would resolve his doubts 
in favor of a report to the Budget Bureau interposing no objection to 
the draft bill. 
Mr. Maroni commented on the prospective procurement provisions, 
noting that the Latin Americans had been rather unhappy on that score 
and had tried to have the provisions broadened to permit procurement in 
other countries of Latin America. He did not believe that that point 
had been fully resolved. 

1636 
4/27/67 
-5-
Governor Brimmer said he had been hopeful that a Board recom-
mendation might be made that would serve to strengthen the hand of the 
Treasury, for he was apprehensive that the State Department might tend 
to weaken. In the circumstances, however, he would not ask that the 
report to the Budget Bureau be held over. 
Governor Daane inquired whether it would seem appropriate to 
underline in the Board's reply to the Budget Bureau the importance of 
the procurement provisions. 
Governor Robertson suggested that that not be done. He under-
stood that the Treasury, the Budget Bureau, and the Agency for Interna-
tional Development were setting up teams for a broad study of various 
countries, beginning with Pakistan and Chile, with a view to ascertain-
ing the relationships between U.S. aid, exports, and the balance of 
payments. Thus, any comments made by the Board in connection with the 
current request could reflect a lack of knowledge regarding the total 
situation. 
Governor Robertson then raised the question why the Board should 
be expected to express views on a proposal such as the one under con-
sideration without more information than had been made available to it. 
Governor Brimmer replied that a good deal of staff work had 
gone into the matter and that there had been considerable study within 
the structure of the National Advisory Council. As he had said, he had 
hoped that there would be an opportunity for the Board to receive a full 

1637 
4/27/67 
-6-
briefing. It had been a major achievement for the schedule of con-
tributions to be shifted in the direction of a relatively substantial 
increase by the Latin American countries. This was in line with a basic 
approach toward increasing the self-help component of aid programs. It 
would be unfortunate, however, if the gain were to be made only at the 
expense of the U.S. balance of payments by in effect telling the Latin 
American countries that they could use a greater share of the increased 
resources for procurement in places other than the United States. That 
aspect should not be passed over lightly. Anything that could be said 
to indicate an awareness of the need for the Latin Americans to make a 
larger contribution of their own and for that contribution not to be 
offset would be helpful. 
Governor Mitchell observed that the proposal reflected in the 
draft bill evidently had received attention at appropriate levels of 
Government. The main responsibility appeared to lie with the Treasury 
and State Departments, and he gathered it was being assumed there. If 
the Board had had an opportunity to review the matter in more detail, 
he might have had no objection to transmitting a more detailed expres-
sion of views. Without such an opportunity, however, it seemed reason-
able simply to advise the Budget Bureau that the Board interposed no 
objection to the proposed bill. 
Governor Daane commented that in view of the Board's strong 
interest in the U.S. balance of payments it would appear that the Board 

1638 
4/27/67 
-7-
should have an opportunity to review matters of this kind and thus be 
able to express an informed judgment. However, he agreed with a com-
ment by Governor Maisel that the whole question of tying provisions 
and the ir effect on the balance of payments required considerable 
study, and agencies of the Government apparently had now embarked upon 
a broad study. 
Mr. Forrestal inquired whether it would be preferable to advise 
the Budget Bureau that the Board had no comments on the proposed bill, 
but Governor Brimmer indicated that he would prefer the approach of 
interposing no objection. He suggested, however, that the Budget Bureau 
be advised of the Board's disappointment that the request for a report 
had been received on such short notice. 
Governor Mitchell noted that apparently the Board's staff and 
at least one member of the Board had been working on the matter for some 
time. As matters stood, the Budget Bureau was considering the final 
step of requesting that a bill be introduced in the Congress, and it 
was seeking the Board's views with respect to that bill. The problem 
lay in the fact that it was difficult for the Board, as such, to register 
an informed opinion because the Board had not discussed the matter fully. 
Further discussion brought out that the Board had at times dis-
cussed generally the question of the effect of attaching tying provisions 
to U.S. foreign aid programs, but that such discussions had not been 
directed toward specific policy issues. 

/ 
1639 
4/27/67 
-8-
Governor Shepardson noted that there had always been substan-
tial questions with respect to the benefits achieved from attaching 
tying provisions to foreign aid programs. He felt that a broad study 
of the type that Governor Robertson had mentioned was long past due. 
This was a matter in which the Board should have an interest. As to 
the current proposal, he felt there might be a question whether it 
would not be appropriate to advise the Budget Bureau that the Board 
lacked the information necessary to express a view. 
Governor Brimmer observed that the immediate question was 
whether the U.S. should increase its contribution to the Inter-American 
Development Bank by $900 million. On that point he was favorably dis-
posed. He simply had been suggesting that if in the process there was 
an opportunity to indicate awareness of certain other policy issues 
that had not been resolved, that would seem helpful. However, there 
could be continuing discussion of those points while the basic proposal 
went forward. On that specific issue he was prepared to say that the 
Board would interpose no objection. 
Governor Shepardson agreed, saying that it was on the question 
of tying that he felt the Board should have more information than was 
now available before expressing views. 
It was then agreed unanimously that the Bureau of the Budget 
should be advised by telephone that the Board interposed no objection 
to the draft bill proposed by the Treasury authorizing the United States 

1640 
4/27/67 
-9-
to participate in an increase in the resources of the Fund for Special 
Operations of the Inter-American Development Bank. 
Rules of Practice for Formal Hearings. With a memorandum from 
the Legal Division dated April 26, 1967, there was presented a draft 
revision of the Board's Rules of Practice for Formal Hearings, these 
being a part of the Board's Rules of Organization and Procedure. It 
was proposed that the revision be published in the Federal Register 
for comments. 
The previous revision of the Rules of Practice became effective 
December 15, 1961. Experience gained since that time with respect to 
the conduct of hearings and related proceedings appeared to warrant 
certain changes and additions. More importantly, the enactment into 
law on October 16, 1966, of the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act 
of 1966 (popularly known as the "cease-and-desist" law) required sub-
stantial revision of and additions to the Rules of Practice. 
Publication of the proposed revision of the Board's Rules of 
Practice was contemplated simultaneously with publication of the pro-
posed revisions of the rules of practice of the Comptroller of the 
Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board had already published and was now reviewing com-
ments. It was further contemplated that preparation of final versions 
of the respective rules of practice, insofar as they related to the 
Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 1966, would be coordinated 

1641 
4/27/67 
-10-
and that the final rules of practice of the respective agencies, as 
adopted, would be made effective at the same time if possible. 
After explanatory comments by Mr. O'Connell, the publication 
of the proposed revised Board Rules of Practice in the Federal Register 
was authorized, with the understanding that a 30-day period following 
publication would be allowed for the filing of comments. 
Messrs. Holland and Solomon, Advisers to the Board, joined the 
meeting at this point, while several members of the staff who had been 
concerned with the foregoing topics withdrew. 
Report by Governor Daane. Governor Daane summarized the meet-
ings held in Washington this week by the Deputies of the Group of Ten 
and the Executive Directors of the International Monetary Fund with 
regard to the proposals for creation of a new international reserve 
asset. He also reviewed the schedule of meetings that was contemplated 
from this point forward. It was understood that he would make further 
comments at next week's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. 
Rating of municipal bonds. Governor Robertson reported a tele-
phone call from Mr. Roy M. Goodman, Finance Administrator of the City 
of New York, who indicated that he considered the present municipal 
bond rating system inadequate and stated that he would like to come to 
Washington next week to discuss the matter with the bank supervisory 
agencies, including the Board. Governor Robertson noted that according 
to press stories Mr. Goodman had suggested that the Federal Reserve 
might assume the job of rating municipal bonds. 

1642 
4/27/67 
-11-
It was agreed that Mr. Goodman should be given an audience and 
that arrangements would be made for him to meet with available members 
of the Board on Thursday, May 4. 
Luncheon with Council of Economic Advisers. At the Board's 
request, Messrs. Brill, Holland, and Solomon reviewed several questions 
with regard to the domestic economy and the international financial 
picture that they felt might be likely to come up for discussion at 
the Board's luncheon today with the members of the Council of Economic 
Advisers. There followed an informal discussion during which the staff 
responded to a number of questions raised by members of the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to Dr. Margaret Kiley, George Washington University, con-
firming arrangements for a 15-hour secretarial workshop in connection 
with the Board's Employee Training and Development program, a fee of 
$700 to be paid Dr. Kiley at the completion of the course. 
Memorandum from the Division of Data Processing dated April 26, 
1967, recommending the establishment of two new computer operator 
positions in the Equipment Operations and Production Control Section. 
Requests for permission to engage 
in outside activities 
Nathan L. Hunter, Messenger-Driver, Division of Administrative 
Services, to work as a stock clerk on a part-time basis. 
Melvin Earl Moore, Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, 
to work as a gas station attendant on a part-time basis. 
Secretary 

f^uTRtsv:-* 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
4/27/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 27, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Old Kent Bank and 
Trust Company, 
Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to August 7, 1967, the time within which 
Old Kent Bank and Trust Company, Grand Rapids, Michigan, 
may establish a branch in the vicinity of the intersection 
of Alpine Avenue, N. W., and Lamoreaux Drive, N. W., 
Alpine Township, Kent County, Michigan. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1644 
i m 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
• . 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
4/27/67 
AOUHESS OiriUIAl COKNESPUNtlCM.t 
r f j 
t u t 
B O A R D 
April 27, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Fort Madison Savings Bank, 
Fort Madison, Iowa. 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 24A of 
the Federal Reserve Act, the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System approves an investment in bank 
premises by Fort Madison Savings Bank, Fort Madison, 
Iowa, of not to exceed $348,000, excluding the cost of 
land already acquired, $91,000, for the purpose of 
expanding and remodeling banking quarters. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
