Minutes for March 31, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

Minutes for March 31, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

1246 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, March 31, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Axilrod, Sigel, Eckert, 
Bernard, Ettin, Fry, Keir, and Kelty of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Hersey, Reynolds, Wood, Bryant, Baker, 
Gemmill, Pizer, and Ruckdeschel of the 
Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Bernard reported on the Government 
securities market and the outlook for Treasury and agency financing, 
Mr. Eckert commented on recent and prospective bank credit developments, 
Mr. Keir followed with comments on corporate and municipal bonds, and 
Mr. Baker concluded the review with a report on foreign exchange market 
conditions. Copies of the tables distributed in connection with today's 
review have been placed in the Board's files. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, Bakke, 
Brill, Holland, Cardon, and Fauver and Miss Eaton then withdrew and 

1247 
3/31/67 
-2-
Messrs. Hackley, General Counsel, and Forrestal and Plotkin, Senior 
Attorneys, Legal Division, entered the room. 
Approved items. The following items, copies of which are 
attached to these minutes under the respective numbers indicated, were 
approved unanimously after consideration of background material that 
had been made available to the Board. 
Item No. 
Letter to The Farmers & Merchants Bank of Logan, 
1 
Logan, Ohio, approving the establishment of a 
branch at 199 East Main Street. 
Letter to the Budget Bureau submitting certain 
2 
proposals for State legislation. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: A letter was sent 
today to Continental International 
Finance Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, 
acknowledging receipt of notice of the 
intent of Banque Europeenne d'Outre -
Mer, Brussels, Belgium, to establish 
two additional offices in Belgium, one 
an agency in Antwerp and the other a 
branch in Brussels. 
Governor Shepardson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board, dated March 31, 
1967, recommending that Professor Hyman Minsky be compensated at the 
consultant rate of $75 per day, plus travel expenses and per diem in 
accordance with the Board's travel regulations, for travel in connec-
tion with his work on the study of the discount mechanism, with the 
understanding that these arrangements would cover his trip to the Board 
on March 30, 1967. 

1248 
3/31/67 
-3-
Memorandum from Mr. Holland dated March 31, 1967, recommending 
(1) payment of $500 to Professor Kenneth Boulding for a paper written 
by him for the study of the discount mechanism; (2) payment of a fee 
of $75 per day, plus travel expenses and per diem in accordance with 
the Board's travel regulations, in connection with a visit to Washington 
by Professor Boulding for consultation on the implications of his paper; 
and (3) reimbursement for the cost of a dinner at the Cosmos Club to be 
attended by Professor Boulding and five members of the System staff, the 
cost being estimated at between $35 and $40. 
Memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administration dated 
March 21, 1967, recommending that, for recently graduated professional 
economists with Ph.D. dissertations completed, a special salary pro-
gression be instituted, consisting of two steps in grade (presently 
totaling $758 in Grade 12 and $896 in Grade 13) at the end of each 
of the first and second years of employment, providing the employing 
division so recommends. The memorandum also noted that progression 
at the end of the third and fourth years of employment would be 
contemplated along the same lines, but with the understanding that 
the Special Classification Committee would continue to consider all 
reclassifications into Grades 13 or 14 when the special salary 
progression moves an employee into one of those grades. It was 
understood that detailed implementing procedures would be worked 
out and that the salaries of some recently appointed economists 
would be adjusted to avoid inequities, these matters to be subject 
to approval by the Board member having responsibility for internal 
administrative affairs. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (copy attached as 
Item No. 3) approving the appointment of Pasquale A. Matera as examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland (copy attached as 
Item No. 4) approving the appointment of Paul T. Merker as assistant 
Memorandum from the Division of Administrative Services recommend-
ing the transfer of Henry Tate from the position of Messenger in the 
Board Members' Offices to the position of Guard in the Division of 
Administrative Services, with an increase in basic annual salary from 
$5,122 to $5,421, effective upon assuming his new duties. 
examiner. 

1249 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
3/31/67 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
f«AL REsfT 
TO THE BOARD 
March 31, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Farmers & Merchants 
Bank of Logan, 
Logan, Ohio. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The Farmers 6c 
Merchants Bank of Logan, Logan, Ohio, of a branch 
(drive-in facility) at 199 East Main Street, Logan, 
Ohio, provided the branch is established within six 
months from the date of this letter. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1 2 5 O 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
3/31/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 31, 1967 
Mrc William D. Carey, 
Executive Assistant Director, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Executive Office Building, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr„ Carey: 
This refers to your letter of January 9, 1967, inquiring 
whether the Board has any proposals for State legislation that it 
desires to present to the Committee of State Officials on Suggested 
State Legislation of the Council of State Governments. The Board 
wishes to submit the following two proposals: 
(1) In connection with its responsibilities under the Bank 
Merger Act of 1960, the Board has occasionally encountered situations 
in which the requirements of State law relating to stockholder approval 
of mergers or consolidations by commercial banks has impeded the con-
summation of the merger or consolidation. These situations involve 
mergers or consolidations which are to be effected because of the 
potential failure of one of the banking institutions, or because of 
other emergency situationsc 
Under the laws of most States, a proposed merger or con-
solidation of commercial banks may not be consummated until approval 
of the proposal by a majority of the stockholders of the merging in-
stitutions at a meeting held after publication of notice of the time, 
place, and object of the meeting. The delay incident to publication 
might, in some cases, have the effect of defeating the purpose of the 
merger or consolidation. This problem can be solved by providing for 
waiver of the publication requirement in appropriate cases0 

Mr. William D. Carey 
- 2 -
1251 
(2) Federal Reserve Regulation F, "Securities of Member State 
Banks" (12 CFR 206), requires that proposed proxy soliciting material be 
filed with the Board by member State banks of the Federal Reserve System 
at least ten days prior to the date the definitive statement is supplied 
to stockholders and, with respect to annual meetings, an annual report 
containing financial statements of the last fiscal year must precede or 
accompany the proxy statements. Member State banks which are required 
by State law to hold their annual meetings in January of each year 
have a major time problem in meeting these requirements of Regulation F. 
In order to avoid this difficulty, those States which have not 
already done so might wish to give consideration to amending their bank-
ing laws to permit annual stockholders' meetings later in the year. 
Draft statements setting forth the above problems and their 
possible solutions are enclosed herewith. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary, 
Enclosures 

1 2 5 2 
STATEMENT FOR SUBMISSION TO 
COMMITTEE OF STATE OFFICIALS ON SUGGESTED STATE LEGISLATION OF THE 
COUNCIL OF STATE GOVERNMENTS 
Waiver of Publication of Notice of StockholdersT Meetings 
in Bank Merger or Consolidation Cases 
Under the laws of many States, a proposed merger or consolida-
tion of commercial banks may not be consummated until approval of the 
proposal by a majority of the stockholders of the merging institutions 
at a meeting held after publication of notice of the time, place, and 
object of the meeting. The time delay involved in obtaining such 
approval is usually anticipated by the institutions involved and causes 
no difficulty. However, in those cases where the merger or consolidation 
is to be effected because of the possible failure of one of the banks, 
or because of other emergency situations, the requirement for publica-
tion of notice of the meeting of stockholders can present difficulties 
and might have the effect of defeating the purpose of the merger or 
consolidation. 
This problem can be solved by amending the relevant State 
statutes to authorize the waiver of the publication of notice, in 
cases where the State banking authorities determine that an emergency 
exists justifying such waiver, by unanimous action of the stockholders 
of the institutions involved. 

1253 
STATEMENT FOR SUBMISSION TO 
COMMITTEE OF STATE OFFICIALS ON SUGGESTED STATE LEGISLATION OF THE 
COUNCIL OF STATE GOVERNMENTS 
Date of Annual Stockholders' Meetings 
Federal Reserve Regulation F, "Securities of Member State Banks" 
(12 CFR 206), adopted pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
is applicable to member State banks with assets of $1 million and 
500 or more "holders of record" of a class of equity securities. 
Under Regulation F, proposed proxy soliciting material must be filed 
with the Board at least 10 days prior to the date the definitive 
statement is supplied to shareholders and, with respect to annual 
meetings, an annual report containing financial statements for the 
last fiscal year must precede or accompany the proxy statement. 
Member State banks that are required by State law to hold their annual 
meetings in January of each year have a major time problem in meeting 
these requirements of Regulation F, which carry out the Congressional 
attitude embodied in section 14 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78n). 
In order to avoid this problem, State banking laws which 
require January meetings might be amended to permit annual meetings 
later in the year. 

1254 
f*AL 
Rt^'* 
b o a r d 
d f 
g d v e r n d r s 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
3/31/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 31, 1967 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of March 29, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of Pasquale A. Matera, at present an 
assistant examiner, as an examiner for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York. Please advise the salary 
rate and the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1255 
BOARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
item No. 4 
dfthe 
3/31/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 31, 1967 
Mr. Harry W. Huning, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
Dear Mr. Huning: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of March 28, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of Paul T. Merker as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. Please 
advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
