MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 23, 1972 

137 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, May 23, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room at 
2:40 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Eckert, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. I. M. Labovitz, who had directed the Board's study of 
State taxation of banks, was also present. 
Taxation of banks. In May 19 71 the Board submitted to the 
Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs the report of 
a study of State and local taxation of banks undertaken pursuant to the 
directive in Public Law 91-156. The American Bankers Association had 
drafted a bill purporting to implement the recommendations made by the . 
Board in its report, and the staff of the House Committee on Banking 
and Currency had informally requested the Board's views on this draft. 
Mr. Labovitz had made a comparison between the draft and the Board's 
report, which was transmitted to the Board with a memorandum of May 19, 
1972, from the Office of the Secretary. Mr. Labovitz, in a separate 

1875 
5/23/72 
- 2 -
memorandum of May 19, expressed the view that preparation of a new draft 
bill would be more feasible than adequate modification of the ABA draft. 
At the meeting on May 22, 1972, Governor Mitchell suggested that 
the Board reconsider the recommendation it had made with respect to 
"doing business" taxes in a State other than the State in which a bank's 
principal office was located. In a memorandum of May 23 he presented 
a rationale in support of the alternative he suggested. 
Governor Mitchell referred in his memorandum to the Board's 
recommendation that the right to tax be divided among States in which it 
could be contended that a bank was "doing business." However, that 
concept would require either that banks maintain separate accounting 
by State or allocation of the tax base among the participating States. 
The concept was in line with current public finance development as urged 
by State tax administrators and endorsed by many students of public 
finance, but in Governor Mitchell's opinion, it was an idea that had 
come before its time so far as banks were concerned. Since separate 
accounting had limited application, the only way to implement such a 
tax philosophy was by some consensus as to appropriate allocation fac- • 
tors, or unlimited multiple-State taxation. The allocation factors 
used for business generally today were property, payroll, and sales, 
which for a bank would ordinarily lie entirely in the domiciliary State. 

1378 
5/23/72 
-3-
As an alternative to a premature attempt to achieve division 
of the right to tax among States where business was transacted, Governor 
Mitchell suggested that the Board advocate interim continuance of the 
provisions of present law, which confers exclusive taxing authority on 
the domiciliary State or its political subdivisions. He suggested also 
that the Board again, as it had in its report, stress the need to develop 
allocative factors appropriate to depositary institutions, in order 
that, if "doing business" taxes were to be authorized in States other 
than that where the principal place of business was located, the Federal 
statute could establish uniform criteria for determining tax jurisdic-
tion; principles and procedures to govern inter-State division of each 
type of applicable tax base; and rules to guide the States in their 
administrative procedures. The study to develop those criteria would 
require a major effort of tax authorities; Mr. Labovitz had suggested 
that the work might be accomplished in time for Congress to rewrite the 
law in 1975. Governor Mitchell did not believe that the Board was the 
best agency for this project, which should be assigned to the Treasury 
or elsewhere. 
At today's meeting, after comments by Governor Mitchell supple-
menting his memorandum, the discussion turned to questions of timing. 
It was brought out that, whereas it had been understood that hearings 
would be held within two weeks by a subcommittee of the House Committee 
on Banking and Currency, the schedule now called for a hearing on June 20 

1378 
5/23/72 
- 4 -
or 21, at which testimony by a representative of the Board would be 
requested. The subcommittee would have before it a bill, which might 
be in the form of the ABA draft. 
It was pointed out that, since several elements of the ABA 
draft were at variance with the Board's recommendations, it would be 
difficult to testify unless an alternative draft could be offered. 
Comment was made that failure to offer an alternative might be inter-
preted by the subcommittee as indifference, with the result that the 
subcommittee would not pursue the development of new legislation. In 
that event, interim restrictions that the Congress had enacted would 
expire, and States would be virtually free to tax banks in any manner 
they chose. An important question, therefore, was the degree of con-
cern the Board felt regarding the tax treatment of banks. 
The ensuing discussion indicated a predominant view that the 
Board would be very much concerned that banks not be treated inequitably. 
However, Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the question was not 
central to the Board's responsibilities; it appeared to him that undue 
involvement would mix the Board's responsibilities for monetary policy 
with the retail business of banks. He thought the Board was being 
pulled increasingly into a role that it should not accept. Despite the 
fact that it had asserted a lack of expertise in the field of State 
taxation of banks, the Board had been assigned to conduct the study 

1378 
5/23/72 
- 5 -
upon which its May 1971 report was based. He would dislike to see the 
Board accept the responsibility of drafting a bill encompassing so many 
technical complexities. He would prefer to have a statement presented 
unaccompanied by a draft bill, but reiterating the Board's earlier 
recommendations with the modification suggested by Governor Mitchell. 
In the past the Board had on occasion responded liberally to requests 
for technical assistance to Congressional committees while at the same 
time declining to take responsibility as a Board. He thought the same 
approach could be used in the present situation. 
Governor Mitchell commented further on the problems involved 
in formulating rules for imposing "doing business" taxes. One question 
to be determined was the application of any rule to nonbank subsidiaries 
of bank holding companies. Although the question was one for the Legal 
Division, it was his impression that the ABA draft bill would apply not 
only to banks but also to the nonbank subsidiaries of bank holding 
companies. The ensuing discussion indicated some uncertainty regarding 
the implications of the ABA draft bill. A view was expressed that if a 
bill was drafted for the Board to present as an alternative, it need not 
deal with anything except banks and other depositary institutions. 
Governor Mitchell raised the question also whether the Board 
wanted to call attention again to its previous recommendation calling 

1378 
5/23/72 
- 6 -
for comparable treatment of depositary institutions other than banks. 
In response to a comment that that would mean that savings and loan 
associations would be taxed in the way commercial banks are even though 
they do not have power to do the same kinds of business, it was pointed 
out that the terms of the recommendation were that the same restraints 
proposed for State taxation of banks should also be provided for State 
taxation of other depositary institutions. 
The continuing discussion indicated a general disposition to 
adopt Governor Mitchell's suggestion for recommending interim adherence 
to the present domiciliary State rule for "doing business" taxes. How-
ever, comments were made that if the Board suggested this expedient in 
order to provide a transition period during which allocation criteria 
might be developed, the result could be that the Board would be assigned 
to conduct a study for that purpose. Agreement developed that it would 
be preferable to avoid suggesting that a study be made. 
Other parts of the discussion dealt with the nature of response 
to be made to the ABA. It was understood that although no formal 
response need be made, Mr. Cardon might talk with Association staff 
members informally and without giving the impression of speaking for 
the Board. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that staff 
would proceed with drafting a statement to be presented by Governor 

13 SO 
5/23/72 
-7-
Mitchell, after resolution of the legal and other points that had 
been raised. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
