FR 609 
Minutes for 
February 12T 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

<471 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, February 12, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

1 
' t 
2/12/70 
-2-
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Mes srs. Doyle, Greenspan, and Lynch, 
and Mrs. Duerson of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Ducy and Lawrence of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Achor, Burton, Goodfellow, Harris, 
Pounds tone, and Sanford, and Miss McShane 
of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
The following items were approved unanimously after consideration 
of background information that had been made available to the Board. 
Copies are attached under the respective numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to First National City Bank, New York, 
1 
New York, granting consent to the acquisition 
of shares of First National City Bank 
(Luxembourg) S.A. 
Letter to First National City Overseas Investment 
2 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent 
to the acquisition of capital stock of Societe 
Hypothecaire et de Gestion Financia, S.A., Antwerp, 
Belgium. 
Letter to First National City Overseas Investment 
3 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent 
for that corporation to continue to hold shares of 
Inversiones y Adelantos, C.A., Caracas, Venezuela, 
after the latter acquires all the shares of 
(1) a new credit agency company and (2) a new 
collection company, both to be organized in 
Venezuela. 

A 
L i <i$ 
2/12/70 
-3. 
Establishment of branches in Switzerland. Notice had been 
received from First National City Bank, New York, New York, of its 
intention to establish two additional branches in Switzerland, and 
it had been suggested that the Board's reply grant permission for 
their establishment subject to an understanding that adequate 
informat ion covering the branch operations would be available. 
A 
memorandum dated February 4, 1970, from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation had been distributed submitting a draft of reply along 
those lines. 
At today's meeting question was raised as to the type of infor-
mation that the bank should be required to make available, it being 
stated that this had never been spelled out. It was noted also that 
the Board had statutory power to examine foreign branches of national 
banks, although it had not been doing so in recent years. A suggestion 
was made that, in lieu of reference to the availability of operational 
information, language be included in the letter to the effect that, 
notwithstanding present practice, there might be instances where in the 
Board's judgment an examination of overseas branches would be advisable 
and the Board would be acting inconsistently with the applicable statute 
if it were to give any assurance that its authority would not be exer-
cised if necessary. This suggestion gave rise to a discussion, among 
other points, of the focus of examinations of foreign branches as 
compared with examinations of domestic offices, the relationship of the 

474 
2/12/70 
-14-
statutory authority to Swiss law, and possible ways in which to protect 
U.S. interests while permitting U.S. banks to operate in foreign 
countries. 
Further discussion pointed up the fact that the subject of 
availability of information had not been explored recently with member 
banks operating branches abroad, and possible approaches to the problem 
of opening up lines of communication were considered. The consensus 
favored undertaking exploratory conversations with representatives of 
affected banks for the purpose of clarifying the issues involved. 
It 
was agreed, however, that the reply to First National City Bank should 
not be further delayed. 
The letter to First National City Bank was then approved, with 
the understanding that a memorandum of conversations with member banks 
would be distributed to the Board prior to being placed in the Board's 
files. It was also understood that if any member of the Board was not 
satisfied with the record that had been made, the matter would be con-
sidered further by the Board. A copy of the letter sent to First 
National City Bank is attached as Item No. 4. 
Applications of Bank of California International and 
Irving International. 
Bank of California International, New York, 
New York, and Irving International Financing Corporation, also of New 
York, had requested permission to continue to hold minority interests 
in Ch ina Trade and Development Corporation, Taipei, Taiwan, after the 

2/12/70 
-5-
latter formed a United States company to represent it, primarily as an 
agent, in making purchases from U.S. sources and sales to U.S. buyers. 
The issues involved were, first, whether the proposed activities of the 
American subsidiary constituted being engaged in the general business 
of buying or selling good, wares, merchandise or commodities in the 
United States and, second, conditional on a negative finding on the 
first issue, whether the proposed activities were incidental to China 
Trade and Development Corporation's international or foreign business. 
A memorandum dated February 3, 1970, from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation, in supplementation of the Division's December 19, 
1969, memorandum, explored the issues in terms of comparison with earlier 
decisions in similar cases. The Division recommended that the Board 
interpose no objection to the continued holding of shares of China Trade 
and Development Corporation by Bank of California International and 
Irving International after the corporation initiated limited operations 
in the United States. However, since there had been no prior operation 
on which to judge the actual activities to be undertaken by the U.S. 
subsidiary, the Division also recommended that the proposed letter 
contain a proviso that the applicant should always be in a position to 
provide sufficient information to demonstrate to the Board's examiners 
that the activities of the U.S. subsidiary were limited as indicated. 

476 
2/12/70 
-14-
Discussion developed majority support for the Division's recom-
mendations. However, Governor Robertson expressed the view that the 
statute was clear, the earlier decisions were wrong, and experimentation 
would only lead to building up a series of precedents that it would be 
difficult to change later. Accordingly, the current applications should 
be denied. 
The recommendations of the Division were then approved, Governor 
Robertson dissenting. Attached as Item No. 5 is a copy of the letter 
sent to Bank of California International; a similar letter was sent to 
Irving International Financing Corporation. 
Request for information on loans. A German and a British bank, 
in each of which U.S. member banks held substantial interests, had report-
edly made loans to a U.S. resident for the purpose of financing the recent 
take-over of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Inc. In a memorandum dated February 9, 
1970, the Legal Division and the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
recommended that the Board request the Comptroller of the Currency and 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to obtain such additional informa-
tion as the respective member banks might have in their possession in 
order to determine whether the loans constituted transacting business 
in the United States in violation of sections 25 and 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act. In addition there might also have been a violation of 
Regulation U, Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying 
Margin Stocks, if the loans were arranged by the U.S. member banks. 

t < 
2/12/70 
-7-
After discussion, the staff recommendation was approved unan-
imously. Copies of the letters sent to the Comptroller of the Currency 
and to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York are attached as Items 6 and 7. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Bank of the Southwest National 
Association, Houston, Houston, Texas, with Southwest Bank, National Asso-
ciation, also of Houston, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion stating that consummation 
of the proposed merger (designed to facilitate acquisition of the existing 
bank by a newly formed holding company) would have no adverse competitive 
effects. 
Application of First Florida Bancorporation. 
There had been 
distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's 
approval on January 22, 1970, of the application of First Florida 
Bancorporation, Haines City, Florida, to acquire 51 per cent or more 
of the voting shares of The Orlando Bank and Trust Company, Orlando, 
Florida. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 8 and 9. 
Application of Union Bank. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated February 4, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of Union 

478 
2/12/70 
-14-
Bank, Los Angeles, California, to merge with Commonwealth National Bank, 
San Francisco, California. 
The recommendations were favorable. 
Following discussion, the application was approved unanimously, 
with the understanding that an order and a statement would be drafted 
for the Board's consideration. 
Policy record entries. With a memorandum dated February 6, 1970, 
there had been distributed the following draft materials relating to the 
Federal Open Market Committee policy record: 
prefatory statement for the 
1969 record for inclusion in the Annual Report; entries for the meetings 
held on November 25 and December 16, 1969, respectively; and a press 
statement announcing their release. 
Both entries of meetings were sub-
mitted for final review before release to the press. The November 25 
entry had previously been approved for inclusion in the Annual Report, 
and the December 16 entry was now submitted for such approval. 
It was 
proposed that the press statement would be released on February 16, 1970, 
two days prior to the date on which Chairman Burns was scheduled to 
testify before the Joint Economic Committee, this being consistent with 
the practice followed in recent years. 
Unanimous approval was given to the entry for December 16, 1969, 
and to the prefatory statement for inclusion in the Board's Annual Report. 
The release to the press on February 16 of the entries relating to the 
November 25 and December 16, 1969, meetings was also approved unanimously. 

10 
2/12/70 
-14-
Report on financial developments. A draft of report on financial 
developments in the fourth quarter of 1969, prepared for transmittal to 
the Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, had been distributed under 
date of February 5, 1970. 
Following discussion during which a minor change in format for 
presentation of the monetary aggregates was agreed upon, the transmittal 
of the report was approved unanimously. A copy of the report, as trans-
mitted, is attached as Item No. 10. 
Shipment of currency to Culpeper. Consideration of a proposal 
to ship reserve supplies of currency to the Culpeper facility, as set 
forth in a memorandum dated February 6, 1970, from the Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations, was held over pending development by 
the staff of additional information, as requested by Chairman Burns, on 
security arrangements. 
Payment of interest on deposits. 
In a memorandum dated February 
10, 1970, Governor Robertson reported on matters relating to the payment 
of interest on deposits considered by the interagency Coordinating 
Committee on Bank Regulation at recent meetings. 
In four instances 
specific recommendations were made, while in three other areas it was 
proposed that further study would be undertaken. 
It was recommended that two interpretations of Regulation Q, 
Payment of Interest on Deposits, be published in the Federal Register. 

4 SO 
2/12/70 
-10-
One would relate to the giving of premiums to depositors and the other 
to the need for informing deposi tors as to the method used in computing 
and paying interest. 
It was understood that the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation and the Home Loan Bank Board would amend their regula-
tions in similar manner. 
Also submitted with the memorandum was a draft of reply to 
Chairman Rosenthal of the Special Consumer Inquiry, Special Studies 
Subcommittee, House Committee on Government Operations, who had urged 
that, in advertising Christmas Club accounts, banks and savings and 
loan associations should.be required to indicate whether interest would 
be paid on such accounts. The proposed reply would reflect the view of 
the Coordinating Committee that, on the basis of present evidence, the 
problem was not of such importance as to warrant regulatory provisions 
of the kind suggested. 
Finally, it was recommended that a letter be sent to each State 
member bank calling attention to the dangers inherent in the practice 
under which brokers solicit bank deposits by agreements to pay rates 
of interest higher than those permitted under regulations of the super-
visory agencies. 
It was understood that a similar letter would be sent 
by the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to institutions under 
their supervision. 

2/12/70 
-11-
During discussion it was agreed that in informing customers of 
the methods used in computing interest on deposits, institutions should 
include advice on provisions for penalities on withdrawals of deposits. 
The four recommendations set forth in Governor Robertson's 
memorandum were then approved unanimously. A copy of the interpretations, 
as published in the Federal Register, is attached as Item No. 11. A copy 
of the letter to Chairman Rosenthal 
is attached as Item No. 12, and a 
copy of the letter to the chief executive officer of each State member 
bank is attached as Item No. 13. 
Governor Robertson then indicated that he would like to have 
guidance with respect to the other problem areas discussed in his mem-
orandum; namely, subordinated notes (for which an interagency staff 
group had been appointed to recommend alternative courses of action prior 
to the next meeting of the Coordinating Committee), automatically renew-
able certificates, and "super" golden passbook accounts. 
After some preliminary discussion it was understood that the 
staff would prepare documentation setting forth alternative approaches 
to the several problems, with advantages and disadvantages, and that the 
questions would then be considered further by the Board. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Partee, 
and Robert Solomon then withdrew from the meeting. 

2/12/70 
-12-
Meeting of Quadriad. Chairman Burns reported briefly on a 
meeting of the Quadriad yesterday afternoon, at which time a topic of 
discussion was the locating of a person who would be suitable to serve 
as chairman of the proposed commission to study U.S. financial insti-
tutions. Chairman Burns also referred to assurances he had sought and 
received from officials of the Executive Branch regarding the exercise 
of due caution about making statements that might be interpreted as 
representing infringement on the responsibility of the Federal Reserve 
for the formulation of monetary policy. 
Basle meetings. Chairman Burns reported that he had had a 
number of conversations with former Chairman Martin and other System 
officials about problems involved in determining appropriate System 
representation at the monthly Basle meetings and said that he proposed 
to have Governor Daane assume the responsibility for working out decisions 
in that regard, except that he would of course be available for consulta-
tion with Governor Daane if circumstances should require from time to 
time. 
The question of issuing a memorandum of notification concerning 
the assignment of responsibility to Governor Daane was raised and was 
to be given further thought. 
Forei gn trave 1. Discussion then turned to the proposed foreign 
travel program of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for calendar 1970. 

483 
2/12/70 
-14-
Chairman Burns noted that there was a financial consideration 
involved which, while it should not be decisive, could not be ignored 
entirely. He then turned to Governor Daane, who said that after study-
ing the matter he would be inclined on balance to interpose no objection, 
altho ugh he recognized that there could be questions about some elements 
of the program. The possibility was suggested of asking the New York 
Bank not to exceed 1969 expenditures, but Governor Daane observed that 
an equivalent amount of foreign travel would cost more in 1970. 
Also, 
the New York Bank had operational responsibilities in the foreign area, 
and it had a need to promote the growth and development of staff. 
The 
basic question, he thought, went to the definition of the System's role 
in the international field and how it should be exercised. Until that 
question was explored further and resolved, it was difficult to estab-
lish guidelines for foreign travel. 
There was general agreement with these views, and also with 
observations to the effect that during the current period foreign 
travel should be restricted generally to that which would be required 
if operating efficiency was not to be impaired. Accordingly, it was 
understood that the reply to the New York Bank concerning its proposed 
foreign travel program would interpose no objection but would include 
a note of caution urging that care be exercised with regard to expendi-
tures in this and other areas in light of the current economic situation 
and the recent considerable growth in System costs. 

484 
2/12/70 
-14-
A copy of the letter sent to the New York Bank pursuant to this 
understanding is attached as Item No. 14. 
Treasury academic consultants. 
Governor Mitchell reported that 
Professor Wallich would be agreeable to whatever representation the 
Board might consider appropriate at the periodic meetings of the Treasury' 
academic consultants. 
Governor Mitchell then suggested that the normal 
representation be two Board members in addition to Chairman Burns, plus 
one or two senior staff members, with some rotation. 
This suggestion was accepted as a general guide. Reference then 
was made to the agenda for the next consultants
1
 meeting, and in light 
thereof Chairman Burns indicated that he would like to give the matter 
some further thought. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

<185 
B O A R D 
n F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• 
F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 1 
2/12/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P U N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 12, 1970 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of November 24, 1969, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Regulation M , for First National City Bank ("FNCB"), 
New York, New York, to purchase and hold all the outstanding shares 
of First National City Bank (Luxembourg) S.A., a proposed wholly-
owned banking subsidiary to be established in Luxembourg, at a 
total cost of approximately $1,000,000, provided that at least: 
$200,000 is invested within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed holding of the shares 
of the subsidiary by FNCB is granted subject to the following con-
ditions : 
(1) 
That such shares be disposed of as promptly as practicable 
if the subsidiary shall in any manner engage in any activity 
or take any action whatsoever that would not be permissible 
if the subsidiary were a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in 
banking"; 
(2) 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCB will 
furnish the Board with such reports regarding the activi-
ties of the subsidiary as it may require from time to time; 
and 
(3) 
That any share acquisition or disposition by the subsidiary 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as i f the subsidiary were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

<486 
First National City Bank 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), 
and (c) of Regulation K. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of the subsidiary. 
The Board has noted that as of December 31, 1969, the com-
bined foreign loans and investments of First National City Bank and 
its subsidiaries exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect. The foregoing consent 
is given with the understanding that those foreign loans and invest-
ments will be reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent with 
the guidelines; that the investment now being approved will be made 
within those guidelines; and that due consideration is being given 
to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

<\H7 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F' T H E 
Item No. 2 
2/12/70 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E A P C L N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 12, 1970 
F i r s t National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 12, 1970, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to pur-
chase and hold between 51 per cent and 84 per cent of the. capital 
stock of Societe H y p o t h e c a t e et de Gestion Financia, S.A. ("FINANCIA"), 
Antwerp, Belgium, a finance and holding company, at a cost of approxi-
mately $4,000,000, provided that the initial investment in the form 
0 j
' a $4,000,000 8 per cent subordinated convertible debenture, carrying 
tbe right to convert to common stock any time within five years, is 
acquired within cne year from the date of this letter. 
In this con-
flection, approval is also granted for the purchase and holding of 
shares of FINANCIA in excess of 10 per cent of your Corporation's 
capital and surplus. 
The foregoing consent is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of FINANCIA if FINANCIA at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if FINANCIA establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or under-
takes any operation in Belgium, or elsewhere, in any 
manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to FNCOIC; 

<188 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FINANCIA as it may require from 
time to time; 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FINANCIA 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if FINANCIA were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; 
and 
That FNCOIC sha].l not carry on its books the shares 
of FINANCIA at a net amount in excess of its propor-
tionate share of the book capital accounts of FINANCIA, 
after giving effect to the elimination of all known 
losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
°f the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by FINANCIA in Belgium in 
the currency of that country. 
The Board understands that one of the subsidiaries of FINANCIA 
provides credit life insurance and fire insurance facilities in connec-
tion with the lending activities of the FINANCIA group companies. 
The 
above consent is granted subject to the further condition that no mate« 
rial change wi11 be made in the nature of the insurance operations of 
that company. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Sank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
Association, and By-Laws of FINANCIA. 
The Board has noted that as of December 31, 1969, the combined 
foreign loans and investments of First National City Bank and its sub-
sidiaries exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect. The foregoing consent is given 
Wrfch the understanding that those foreign loans and investments will be 
reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent with the guidelines; 
that the investment now being approved will be made within those guide-
l i n e s ; and that due consideration is being given to the priorities con-
tain e d therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
\ 
(2) 
(3) 
Sit fcnnnd « 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 3 
2/12/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N O C N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 12, 1970 
F i r s t National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of December 8, 1969, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to continue 
to hold all the outstanding shares of Inversiones y Adelantos, C.A, 
("INADECA"), Caracas, Venezuela, after INADECA: 
(1) acquires 100 per cent of the outstanding shares of a new 
Credit Agency Company to be organized in Venezuela at a 
cost of approximately $2,230, and. the new Credit Agency 
Company issues convertible debentures to mature in up 
to three years in the amount of approximately $560; and 
(2) 
acquires 100 per cent of the outstanding shares of a 
new Collection Company to be organized in Venezuela 
at a cost of approximately $2,230, and the new Collection 
Company issues convertible debentures to mature in up 
to three years in the amount of approximately $560, 
provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
the shares is granted subject to the same conditions and suspensions 
a s
 set forth in the Board's letter of April 3, 1969, in which consent 
w
a s granted to FNCOIC to purchase and hold substantially all of the 
capital stock of INADECA. 

<490 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2~ 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisitions, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of the Credit Agency Company and the Collection 
Company. 
The Board has noted that as of December 31, 1969, the combined 
foreign loans and investments of First National City Bank and its sub-
sidiaries exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect. The foregoing consent is given 
with the understanding that those foreign loans and investments will be 
reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent with the guidelines 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1'fl 
Item No. 4 
E M 
2/12/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 12, 1970 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your letter of December 16, 1969, the 
Board of Governors grants permission for First National City Bank, 
New York, New York, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act, to establish two additional branches in 
Switzerland, to be located in Berne and Basle, and to operate and 
maintain such branches subject to the provisions of such Section 
and of Regulation M . 
Unless the branches are actually established and opened 
for business on or before March 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Re serve Bank of New York, when the branches are opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact locations of each branch. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branches in Berne or Basle. 
The above permissions are granted on the condition that 
adequate information covering your branch operations in Switzerland 
will be maintained at your head office and will be available to the 
Board and its accredited representatives. 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of 
foreign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the 
form of allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded 
as foreign assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T I 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 

First National City Bank 
- 2 -
In view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
with the understanding that in the conduct of the branches' operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. The Board has rioted that as of December 31, 1969 
the 
foreign loans and investments of your bank and its subsidiaries 
exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect. The foregoing consent is given with 
the understanding that those foreign loans and investments will be 
reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent with the guidelines; 
that any investment required will be made within those guidelines; 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
• 

<433 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
D
F
T
H
E
 
Item No. 5 
F E D L R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
2/12/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
** 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
'-f'tuRtS^-'
 
T n T
"
r 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 12, 1970. 
Bank of California International, 
2 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
This is in response to your letter of July 22, 1969, 
relating to your minority stock interest in China Trade and Devel-
opment Corporation ("CTD"), Taiwan, Republic of China, and CTD'.s 
proposed establishment of a subsidiary in New York ("CTD-NY"). 
From the facts presented, it appears that the proposed 
activities of CTD-NY would be closely related to those of companies 
engaged in a commercial business in the United States, The pur-
chase and holding of stock by Edge Corporations in companies, which 
directly or indirectly carry on such operations, presents serious 
and difficult questions concerning the appropriateness of such 
investments under the statutory limitations in Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act. 
However, it is understood that the sole business of 
CTD-NY will be to act as an intermediary, agent, or broker for CTD 
and CTD's foreign clients where there will be no market risk on 
the part of CTD-NY, or to act as principal, but only where there 
are firm orders from foreign clients; that CTD-NY will maintain no 
inventories of unsold merchandise; and that CTD«NY will not under-
take the activities of a general sales or purchasing agent in the 
United States. 
On the basis of the information supplied, it is the 
Board's view that the proposed activities of CTD-NY as presented, 
though representing a close case, would not cause CTD-NY to be 
. . . engaged in the general business of buying or selling goods, 
wares, merchandise or commodities in the United States . . .„" 

<494 
Bank of California International 
-2-
Accordingly, the Board will interpose no objection to 
your Corporation's continued holding of stock in CTD after CTD 
initiates limited operations in the United States through CTD-NY, 
provided that your Corporation will at all times be able to supply 
sufficient information to the Board's examiners so as to demonstrate 
that the activities of CTD-NY are limited to those indicated above. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
V. I : . * 

<435 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• r 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 6 
2/12/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R ' L E S P D N O E N N E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A * D 
February 13, 1970 
The Honorable William B. Camp, 
Comptroller of the Currency, 
Treasury Department, 
Washington, D. C. 
20220 
Dear Mr. Comptroller: 
By letter of July 17, 1968 the Board granted permission 
under section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act for the Texas National 
Bank of Commerce of Houston to acquire approximately 35 per cent 
of the shares of Burs ton, Howard de Walden & Company, Ltd., London, 
England ("Burston"). 
Section 25 does not permit a member bank to 
hold stock in a foreign bank "engaged, directly or indirectly, in 
any activity in the United States except as, in the judgment of 
the Board . . . , shall be incidental to the international or for-
eign business of such foreign bank . . . ." Moreover, § 213.4(d')(2) 
of the Board's Regulation M requires a member bank to dispose of' 
foreign bank stock if the Board deems the holding of such stock to 
be inappropriate under section 25. 
It has come to the Board's attention that several months 
ago Burston & Texas Commerce Bank Ltd., as Burston is presently 
called, reportedly loaned about $22 million to interests identi-
fiable with Mr. Kirk Kerkorian. 
Since Mr. Kerkorian is a United 
States resident and the apparent purpose of such loan was to fi-
nance certain of his activities in the United States, the question 
arises whether making such loan might be regarded as engaging in 
an activity in the United States contrary to the intent of the 
above-quoted statutory prohibition. 
In this connection it may also be noted that the Board's 
Regulation U (§ 221.3(u)) prohibits a bank from arranging for 
credit on terms that would not be permissible thereunder if such 
credit were extended by the bank itself. The loans to Mr. Kerkorian 
apparently would have violated Regulation U if made by a domestic 
bank. 

<436 
The Honorable William B. Camp 
-2-
In order to assist the Board in its consideration of this 
matter, it would be appreciated if one of your examiners would visit 
the Texas National Bank of Commerce in the near future to obtain 
full details of these and any related transactions, including copies 
of any pertinent records, correspondence and memoranda under control 
of said Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B D A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N D R 5 
O F 
T H E 
\S7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
item No. 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
2/12/70 
mSmJ 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
• " 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
••f^rst^r-* 
February 13, 1970 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
By letter of July 1, 1969 the Board granted consent under 
section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act for Marine Midland Inter-
national Corporation ("MMIC") to acquire indirectly approximately 
15 per cent of the capital of Burkhardt & Company, Essen, Germany 
("Burkhardt"). 
Section 25(a) does not permit holding of an owner-
ship interest in a foreign institution "transacting any business in 
the United States except such as in the judgment of the Board . . . 
may be incidental to its international or foreign business . . . ." 
Moreover, § 211.8 (c) (1) (i.i) of Regulation K requires an Edge corpo-
ration to dispose of stock the holding of which the Board deems 
inappropriate under section 25(a). 
It has come to the Board's attention that several months 
ago Burkhardt reportedly loaned about $50 million to interests 
identifiable with Mr. Kirk Kerkorian. 
Since Mr. Kerkorian is a 
United States resident and the apparent purpose of such loan was 
to finance certain of his activities in the United States, the 
question arises whether making such loan might be regarded as trans-
acting business in the United States contrary to the intent of the 
above-quoted statutory prohibition. 
In this connection it may also be noted that the Board's 
Regulations G (§ 207.4(e)) and U (§ 221.3(u)) prohibit arranging 
for credit on terms that would not be permissible thereunder if 
such credit were extended by the person arranging therefor. 
The 
Kerkorian loans would apparently not have been permissible if made 
by a domestic lender. 
In order to assist the Board in its consideration of this 
matter, it would be appreciated if one of your examiners would visit 
MMIC in the near future to obtain full details of these and any 

Mr. Alfred Hayes 
- 2 ~ 
related transactions, including copies of any pertinent records, 
correspondence ana memoranda under control of MMIC, its parent 
bank or its subsidiary, Marine Midland Overseas Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

<439 
Item No. 8 
2/12/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_ 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
FIRST FLORIDA BANCORPORATION,
 
1 
Haines City, Florida, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 51 per
 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
' 
The Orlando Bank and Trust Company,
 
1 
Orlando, Florida. 
« 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of First Florida 
^incorporation, Haines City, Florida, for the Board's prior approval 
of the acquisition of 51 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
The Orlando Bank and Trust Company, Orlando, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Florida 
Commissioner of Banking, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 

500 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 16, 1969 (34 Federal Register 16565), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit c o u n t s 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
'he thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
'han three months after the date of this Order, unless such time shall be 
extended by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant 
t o
 delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 12th day of February 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and Governor Sherrill. 
Chairman Burns was not a member* Of the Board oti the date of 
t H e 
B o a r d
'
s
 decision. 
Signed) Kenneth A , Kenyon 
Kenneth A, Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

<501 
fcOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF iHE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 9 
2/12/70 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST FLORIDA BANCORPORATION, HAINES CITY, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
OF THE ORLANDO BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, 
ORLANDO, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
First Florida Bancorporation, Haines City, Florida ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 51 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of The Orlando Bank and Trust Company, 
Orlando, Florida ('Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was given 
to the Florida Commissioner of Banking and his views and recommendation 
were requested. The Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

50 
-2-
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into con-
sideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant, 
the ninth largest bank holding company and the ninth largest banking 
organization in the State of Florida, controls banks with total deposits 
of $250.2 million, representing 2.0 per cent of total deposits held by 
i 
1 / 
a
U commercial banks in the State." 
Applicant's largest subsidiary 
is Marine Bank & Trust Company of Tampa, with $109.9 million in 
deposits; its other subsidiaries are relatively small banks serving 
communities in their immediate vicinity. Upon acquisition, Bank 
($35.1 million deposits) would be Applicant's second largest subsidiary. 
Applicant's control of State deposits would increase to 2.3 per cent, 
b u
t its position relative to other banking organizations in the State 
^ould otherwise remain unchanged. 
V 
Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of June 30, 1969, 
j-efer to insured commercial banks, and reflect holding company forma-
tions and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

<503 
Bank, which serves an area coextensive with Orange County, 
has a single office in Orlando. It is the sixth largest of the 
20 commercial banks located in the county and controls 5.4 per cent 
of the deposits of the county. The largest banking organization in 
the county is a bank holding company which has six banking subsidiaries 
in the county and controls 42 per cent of county deposits. The 
economy of Orange County (population 347,000) is dominated by the 
City of Orlando, which is a distribution and transportation center 
for central Florida. 
Applicant has no subsidiaries in Orange County; its closest 
subsidiary banks are two banks located in Sanford, Seminole County, 
approximately 22 miles north of Orlando. Neither Bank nor any of 
the present subsidiaries derives a significant amount of business 
from an area served by the other. Because of the distance separating 
Bank from Applicant's subsidiaries, the presence of numerous alterna-
tive sources of banking services in the intervening areas, and the 
fact that Florida law prohibits branch banking, consummation of the 
proposal would neither eliminate present competition nor foreclose 
potential competition. 
It appears likely that Bank's competitive posture will be 
improved as a subsidiary of Applicant. Competition within Orange 
County would thereby be increased, and, to the extent that Bank is more 
successful in competing with larger organizations in the area, decon-
centration of banking resources would be facilitated. 
It does not appear 
that there would be significant adverse effects on smaller banks, which 
already compete with organizations much larger than Applicant. 

M?4 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is con-
sidered to be generally satisfactory, giving effect to current efforts 
by Applicant to augment the capital of its lead bank. Applicant and 
its subsidiaries have capable managements and prospects of the group 
appear favorable. 
Applicant also proposes to provide additional capital 
needed by Bank, and to institute loan controls to correct practices 
which have resulted in certain asset weaknesses. Bank's prospects 
would be greatly enhanced by implementation of these proposals. 
As they relate to Applicant and its present subsidiaries, 
these considerations are consistent with approval of the present 
application; as they relate to Bank, they weigh heavily in support 
of such action. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of the proposed transaction would have no effect on 
customers of Applicant's present subsidiary banks. 

505 
- 5-
The banking needs of the Orange County area are being 
adequately met by banks now serving the area. However, affiliation 
with Applicant would provide Bank with greater facility in arranging 
loan participations, and the financial improvements and operational 
controls which Applicant proposes to institute should provide the Orange 
County community with a stronger and more viable full service alternative 
to other banking organizations serving the area. 
These considerations support approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - Cn the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth 
in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
F e
bruary 12, 1970. 

sis 
<506 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C . 
2 Q S 5 I 
Item No. 10 
2/12/70 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
February 13, 1970. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Joint Economic Committee, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In accordance with the arrangements previously made 
with your committee, I am transmitting herewith a staff report 
on financial developments in the fourth quarter of 1969. 
Sincerely yours, 
— > 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

<507 
February 12,
:
'1970. 
• X. y 
• •"
 :
 t" 
' 
•• 
FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENTS IN THE FOURTH QUARTER OF 1969 
Financial markets remained under pressure during the fourth 
quarter of 1969, as most interest rates rose further, funds available 
for lending from financial institutions were limited, and credit demands 
of corporations, State and local governments, and Federal agencies were 
sizable. With respect to banks, reserves rose only slightly, and the 
total deposits of member banks were about unchanged from September to 
December, in contrast to a marked decline in the previous quarter. 
The 
shift in deposit behavior reflects in the main the slowing of the 
sharp drop in time deposits that had occurred in the third quarter. 
The money stock rose at an annual rate of about 1.5 per cent over the 
fourth quarter. 
Banks obtained less funds from the increase in nondeposit 
i ; : i t 
sources in the fourth quarter than they had in the previous quarter. 
Borrowings in the Euro-dollar market remained essentially unchanged. 
And although issuance of commercial paper by bank-related affiliates 
Picked up somewhat, this increase was offset in part by further 
deductions in the outstanding amount of loans sold subject to repurchase 
agreements to other than affiliates. 
In view of the continued relative scarcity of lendable funds, 
banks extended portfolio adjustments initiated earlier in the year. 
They 
continued to liquidate a large volume of securities and to sell loans 
outright. And expansion of most types of loans remained at about the 

reduced pace of the third quarter, reflecting in part continued tight 
lending terras and conditions at banks. 
Net inflows of funds to thrift institutions moderated further 
in the fourth quarter, as withdrawals of deposits accelerated signifi-
cantly in response to the higher yields available on market instru-
ments. 
New extensions of mortgage commitments slowed, and the backlog 
of outstanding commitments continued to decline from the peak reached 
in the spring. 
Bank Reserves 
Following a substantial decline during the third quarter, total 
reserves at member banks--adjusted to exclude the increase in required 
reserves due to the changes in Regulations D and M, effective October 16, 
1969--resumed growth in the fourth quarter at an annual rate of approxi-
mately 1.5 per cent. Nonborrowed reserves, so adjusted, continued to 
decline on balance, but at a rate sharply reduced from that earlier in 
the year. Member bank borrowing from Federal Reserve Banks remained, 
on average, near the $1.2 billion level of the third quarter. 
(Bank Reserves and Borrowing Chart) 
Indicative of the continued pressure on commercial bank 
reserve positions, banks maintained their heavy demands on the Federal 
funds market—where excess reserves of banks are bought and sold on a 
day-to-day basis. The average daily volume of Federal funds traded in 
the fourth quarter remained around the advanced third quarter pace. 
Similarly, the Federal funds rate--which averaged about 8.95 per c e n t -
was essentially unchanged from the average level of the third quarter. 

BILLIONS OF DOLLARS, SEASONALLY ADJUSTED 
RESERVES: 
TOTAL 
28 
26 
24 
NOT SEASONALLY ADJUSTED 
Monthly averages of daily figures for member banks. 
Total and nonborrowed 
reserves are adjusted to exclude the effects of changes in reserve requirement 
P
e
rcentages, but they do include increases in required reserves of approximately 
$425 million due to changes in Regulations D and M, effective October 16, 1969. 
Nonborrov/ed reserves are total reserves adjusted minus member bank borrowings 
from the Federal Reserve. 
Excess reserves are total reserves less required 
reserves. 
Latest figures, December. 

Monetary Aggregates 
The further rise in interest rates, as well as the continued 
limited availability of credit, induced additional economies in holdings 
of money balances; privately-held demand deposits declined slightly 
further. Expansion of currency in the hands of the public, however, 
continued at a fairly rapid pace, Consequently, the money stock--currency 
and privately-held demand deposits combined--rose at an annual rate of 
about 1.5 per cent, following no change in the third quarter and an in-
crease of 4 per cent during the first half of the year. U.S. Government 
deposits also rose slightly further. 
(Flows of Selected Monetary Aggregates Table) 
As most money market rates of interest rose further, domestic 
investors continued to switch out of time and savings deposits at 
banks--which are subject to Regulation Q interest rate ceilings--and 
into higher yielding market instruments. 
Consumer-type deposits-~savings 
deposits and time deposits held by individuals and business other than 
their holdings of large negotiable certificates of deposits (CD's)—at 
large banks and total time and savings deposits at country banks both 
fell 
somewhat further. 
Attrition of CD's, however, was sharply reduced from what it 
was earlier in the year, reflecting the declining volume of maturing 
issues and the fact that major banks added substantially to their out-
standing CD's during the fourth quarter by issuing these instruments to 
foreign official institutions; time deposits issued to such institutions 
are not subject to interest rate ceilings under Regulation Q. 
The 10 
Per cent marginal reserve requirement on borrowings abroad through 

<511 
FLOWS OF SELECTED MONETARY AGGREGATES 
(Seasonally adjusted annual rates of change, in per cent) 
Money stock 
Time and savings deposits 
at all commercial banks 
Total member bank deposits-
Total member bank deposits 
Plus Euro-dollars 2/ 
Total member banks deposits 
plus Euro-dollars plus 
other nondeposit funds 3/ 
MEMO: 
Average money stock 4/ 
1/ Bank cred it proxy, 
1/ 
Bank credit proxy adjusted to include liabilities of domestic 
banks to foreign branches. 
3/ Beginning on May 28, the following data were collected weekly: 
Euro-dollars borrowed directly from foreign banks or through brokers 
and dealers, bank liabilities to own branches in U.S. territories 
and possessions, commercial paper issued by bank holding companies 
or other bank affiliates, and loans or participation in pools of 
loans sold under repurchase agreement to other than banks and other 
than banks' own affiliates or subsidiaries. 
4/ The percentage change in the average level of the money stock during 
a quarter from the average level during the preceding quarter, at 
annual rates. This measure is included because it is used by 
many analysts and in various econometric models, in relating money 
stock data to quarterly figures for economic activity, such as the 
gross national product. 
NOTE: With the exception of the memo item, changes are calculated from 
the average amounts outstanding in the last month of each 
quarter. 
1968 
IV 
7.1 
17.3 
12.7 
I 
4.1 
1969 
II 
4.5 
III 
.0 
•5.1 
-3.0 
-13.3 
'4.8 
-2.2 
-9.4 
11.9 
-1.8 
1.4 
-6.2 
IV 
1.4 
.0 
.0 
-.3 
n.a. 
n.a. 
n.a. 
-4.3 
2.0 
5.7 
6.0 
4.5 
1.4 
.6 

branches—effective October 16, 1969—provided banks with some incen-
tive to attract foreign official funds, as time deposits at the domestic 
head office are subject to a 6 per cent reserve requirement. 
In total, 
seasonally adjusted time and savings deposits at all commercial banks 
remained about unchanged, on balance, following a large reduction in 
the third quarter. 
Total member bank deposits a i s o remained unchanged during the 
fourth quarter, following a large decline in the third quarter. 
For 
the entire second half of the year these deposits fell at an annual 
rate of about 4.7 per cent, or only slightly more than in the first 
half. 
Nondeposit Sources of Funds to Banks 
Bank acquisitionsof funds from nondeposit sources moderated in 
the fourth quarter, and for the second half as a whole these funds 
did not completely offset deposit outflows. 
Banks acquired an addi-
tional $1.3 billion of such funds in the fourth quarter, about one-
third as much as in the previous quarter. 
Issuance of commercial paper by bank holding companies 
and affiliates—the proceeds of which are usually transferred to 
banks through purchases of bank loans by the affiliates—rose by 
an additional $1.7 billion to an average level outstanding of $4.2 
billion in December. 
Nearly 70 per cent of this increase took place 
Prior to October 29, when the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 

513 
-6-
n. ' 
} 
System announced that it wdd considering amending Regulation Q so that 
it would apply to funds received by member banks from the issuance of 
commercial paper or similar obligations by bank affiliates. 
Bank 
borrowing in the Euro-dollar market remained unchanged, on balance, 
during the final 
quarter of the year and borrowing through the sale 
of loans subject to repurchase agreement to the nonbank public con-
tinued to decline—by about $500 million—having become subject to 
Regulations Q and D (governing reserves of member banks) on August 28, 
1969. 
Banks' Uses of Funds 
With their lendable funds still limited, banks continued to 
liquidate securities in volume, to sell loans outright, and to maintain 
tight lending terms and conditions. Consequently, bank liquidity re-
mained low in the fourth quarter and growth in total bank loans was 
moderate, although larger than in the previous quarter. 
(Bank Credit Components - margin chart) 
The reduction in bank holdings of securities'-which totaled 
nearly $3.0 billion--was about equal to that in the third quarter. 
A l l 
of this fourth quarter reduction represented liquidation of holdings 
°f U.S. Government securities even though banks underwrote several 
Treasury cash financings. Bank holdings of other securities remained 
u
nchanged on balance as a sharp rise in November offset declines in 
the other two months. The November increase was associated with a 

<514 
BANK CREDIT 
COMPONENTS 
TOTAL LOANS 
Q4 
Q1 
r1S68 
S e asonally adjusted 
Q2 
Q3 
Q4 
1969 
BANK LOANS 
MAJOR COMPONENTS 
CHANGE, BILLIONS OF DOLLARS 
BUSINESS 
- 
2 
REAL ESTATE 
r — I 
l~~l 
CONSUMER 
.SECURITY 
Q4 
! 
Q1 
1968 
Q2 
Q3 
1969 
Q4 
Seasonally adjusted 
NONBANK SAVINGS ACCOUNTS 
ANriuA L R ATT^CF CHANGE-pER""C£HT 
H 6 
i 
Q4 
1968 
Q1 
Q2 
Q3 
1969 
Q4 
Seasonally adjusted 

<515 
build-up in inventories of municipal and Federal agency issues in the 
hands of bank underwriters as they encountered difficulties in 
distributing new issues .to final investors. 
(Bank Loans-Major Components - margin chart) 
Bank loans rose by nearly $5 billion—more than twice as 
much as in the previous quarter—largely the result of increases in 
loans to brokers and dealers to finance larger inventories of securi-
ties associated with the Treasury financings, and a rise in loans to 
nonbank financial institutions. 
Growth in other major loan categories, 
However, remained at about the reduced pace of the third quarter. 
Business loans, for example, rose by $1.3 billion, the same increase 
as in the third quarter. 
In fact after adjustment for business loans 
sold outright by banks to affiliates, growth in business loans was well 
below that in the third quarter. Growth in real estate loans remained 
limited, accompanied by reduced levels of housing starts and construc-
tion activity. And consumer loans at banks also continued to expand 
°nly moderately, as did total consumer credit from all sources. 
Honbank Intermediaries and the Mortgage Market 
Met inflows of funds to savings and loan associations and 
mutual savings banks slowed appreciably further in the fourth quarter, 
as the pull of higher yields on alternative investments continued to 
generate substantial withdrawals of deposits. 
Both types of institu-
tions experienced significant net outflows of deposits during the 
interest-crediting month of October and deposit gains for the balance of 

V 
> *. ' 
i 
I 
the quarter were modest. And with return flows of £unds from mortgage 
investments also cons trained—due to a limited volume of prepayments 
associated with the over-all decline in real estate activity—new 
commitment activity at thrift institutions continued at a restrictive 
rate. Consequently, the backlog of outstanding mortgage commitments 
fell further below the peak reached in April. 
(Net Change in Mortgage Debt Outstanding Table) 
Net mortgage debt formation declined from the total registered 
in the preceding quarter. All of the decline was registered in the 
residential area, despite considerable support from the Federal home 
loan banks and the Federal National Mortgage Association. 
Pressures 
°n available funds at commercial banks and life insurance companies 
also substantially limited the extent to which these institutions 
Participated in the extension of new mortgage credit. 
£unds Raised in Security Markets 
Corporations increased their borrowing in capital markets 
during the fourth quarter, with gross offerings of securities reaching 
the high second-quarter rate. A continuing rise in corporate expendi-
tures for plant and equipment, a slowing of internal funds generation 
a s
 profits were under pressure, and less available and more costly 
Q
lternative sources of funds apparently accounted in large part for 
t h
e increase in flotations of debt and equity issues. 
Small and 
m
edium-sized companies accounted for the bulk of stock offerings. 

517 
NET CHANGE IN MORTGAGE DEBT OUTSTANDING 
(In billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted) 
1968 
1969 
III 
IV 
I 
II 
III 
IVe 
Total 
6.6 
7.5 
7.6 
7.1 
6.6 
6.0 
Residential 
4.5 
5.1 
5.5 
5.3 
4.9 
4.2 
Other 1/ 
2.0 
2.4 
2.1 
1.8 
1.6 
1.8 
e - Partly estimated. 
1/ 
Includes farm properties. 

-10-
518 
The use of this financing method probably reflected the limited 
access these companies have to other sources of funds. Debt issues 
were bolstered by several large issues of major industrial corpora-
tions as well as by a sizable volume of offerings by public utility 
and communications companies. 
(Offerings of Mew Security Issues Table) 
State and local government bond offerings also increased in 
the fourth quarter as compared with the total for the previous quarter. 
New offerings of long-term municipal securities averaged $1 billion per 
month, or one-fourth above the reduced third-quarter pace. 
This 
increase reflected several factors, including the temporary decline in 
interest rates on these securities in October, which permitted some 
governmental units subject to rate ceilings that were previously below 
market rates to sell deferred issues. 
In addition, several State 
legislatures liberalized statutory rate ceilings effective during the 
fourth quarter. Over-all, however, actual long-terra borrowing fell 
short of the amount that had been planned, and seme demand for funds 
spilled over into the short-term area. 
In other cases capital projects 
were dalayed and/or stretched out because of the lack of funds. 
The Federal government was a sizable borrower of funds during 
the fourth quarter, as the budget moved further into deficit. 
This 
enlargement of the deficit represented somewhat less of a swing than 
visually occurs at this time of year. Receipts declined about seasonally, 
0 

-11-
OFFERINGS OF NEW SECURITY ISSUES 
(Monthly averages in billions of dollars, not seasonally adjusted) 
1968 
1969 
IV 
I 
i r 
III 
IVe 
Corporate securities — total 
2.0 
2.1 
2.5 
2.1 
2.4 
Bonds 
1.5 
1.4 
1.7 
1,5 
1.6 
Stocks 
.5 
.7 
.8 
.6 
.8 
State & local Gov't, bonds 
1.5 
.9 
1.2 
.8 
1.0 
e - Estimated. 

<520 
Jnft'v ^ '• V 
but expenditures also declined about $1 billion quarter-to-quarter. 
In addition to increased Treasury borrowing, Federal credit agency 
borrowing accelerated in the fourth quarter. Agency net borrowing 
amounted to an unusually large $3 billion, with the FHLBB and FNMA 
raised nearly all this as they sought to channel additional funds to 
mortgage markets. 
(Federal Government Borrowing and Cash Balance Table) 
-Interest Rafps 
/ 
Upward pressures on interest rates were particularly strong 
during the fourth quarter--an indication of the limited availability 
and sustained demands for funds in most markets. The yield on 
3-month Treasury bills advanced sharply to an average of 7.82 per cent 
in December, or more than 70 basis points above the September figure. 
In part, this rise in bill yields reflected several large Treasury 
financings and a continued decline in holdings of Treasury securities 
by 
commercial banks. 
Interest rates on commercial paper also rose on 
balance, over the quarter, probably in association with stepped-up 
sales of paper by bank affiliates in the early part of the quarter and 
reflecting continued relatively intensive use of the short-terra market 
by businesses. 
(Interest Rates - Chart) 
Yields on capital market instruments also advanced sub-
stantially and in December were at new highs. Corporate Aaa new 
issues (with 5-year call protection) registered 8.75 per cent in 
•f; • \ 

'NTEREST r a t e s 
LONG-TERM 
FEDERAL FUNDS 
COMMERCIAL PAPER 
4-6 MONTHS 
FHA MORTGAGES 
TREASURY BILLS 
3-MONTH 
CORPORATE Aaa 
NEW ISSUES 
U.S GOVT 
F.R. DISCOUNT RATE 
STATE AND LOCAL GOVT, 
Monthly averages except FHA (based on quotations for one day each month). 
*
e
lds: U.S. Treasury bills, market yields on 3-month issues; prime commercial 
p .
 r
> dealer offering rates; FHA, weighted averages of private secondary market 
-home 30-year mortgages converted to annual yield (dashed line 
r a t
l C a t e s
 period of adjustment to change in contractual interest rate); corpo-
A b° 
weighted averages of new publicly offered bonds rated Aaa, Aa, and 
nta I
 M o
°dy's Investors Service and adjusted to an Aaa basis; U.S. Govt, bonds, 
a
nd 
yields adjusted to 20-year constant maturity by U.S. Treasury; State 
local govt, bonds (20 issues, mixed quality), Bond Buyer. 

t r o o 
« 
-13-
T. 
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT BORROWING AND CASH BALANCE 
(Quarterly totals in billions of dollars, not seasonally adjusted) 
1968 
1969 
III 
IV 
I 
II 
III 
IV 
Budget surplus or deficit 
-3.2 
.; ,.F . A / 
» 
Net cash borrowing, or 
repayment If 
7.7 
Other means of financing 3/ 
-1.2 
Change in cash balance 
3.3 
MEMO: 
Federal Agency borrowing 4/ 
- .1 
.1/ Excludes effect on Agency debt outstanding of transfers of certain 
agencies to private ownership. 
2/ Adjusted to remove effects of reclassification of $1.6 billion In 
Commodity Credit Corporation certificates of interest from budget 
transactions to agency securities (borrowing from the public). 
3/ 
Checks issued less checks paid and other accrued items. 
4/ 
Includes debt of FHLBB, FLB, FNMA; and FICB and Banks for coopera-
tives beginning January 1969. 
e - Estimated. 
-7.1 
-2.0 -15.5 
-2.5 
-6.Oe 
3.4 
.2 -12.6 
3.2-
7
 4.7e 
- .2 
1.9 
-1.8 
.0 - .1 
-3.9 
.1 
'1.1 
.7 
-1.3 
.7 
1.1 
2.3 
2.7 
3.Oe 
* 

523 
December, nearly 80 basis points above the rate at the end of the third 
quarter. State and local government bond yields declined during 
October—as did many other market rates — largely in response to 
expectational factors, but the limited purchases of municipal 
securities by banks and relatively high volume acted to push up rates 
markedly in November and December. Mortgage yields rose by less than 
other long-term rates as restrictive State usury ceilings and unusually 
high discounts on Government-underwritten mortgages somewhat impeded 
further upward rate adjustments. 
. 0 
V 
J i v j 
;. 
4 t' • 
t 
' '4 S • • -* 
; 
, • , R : 
• 
.
.
. 
1 

<524 
Item No. 11 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
2/12/70 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A — B O A R D OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 217 —INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
[Reg. Q] 
Premiums; Method of Computing Interest 
S ?-17.147 Premiums not considered payment of interest. 
feWr.aiT;..;, <•• 
Section 217.2(b) of the Board's Regulation Q , relating 
. 
i
.
. 
t o
 the payment of interest on deposits, provides that, for pur-
Poses of the Regulation, "any payment to or for the account of any 
depositor as compensation for the use of funds constituting a deposit 
</ | i ; . 
s
hall be considered interest." 
In applying this provision on and 
fir*or 
i 
• 
a f
ter March 1, 1970, the Board of Governors will regard premiums 
whether in the form of merchandise, credit, or cash) given by 
Member banks to their depositors as an advertising or promotional 
e>;
pense rather than a payment of interest if (a) the premium is 
Siven to a depositor only at the time of the opening of a new 
account or an addition to an existing account; (b) the premium is 
n o t
 given to any depositor on a recurring basis; and (c) the value 
the premium or, in the case of articles of merchandise, the 
Wholesale cost (excluding shipping and packaging costs) does not 
e >
^eed $5.00, except that the value or wholesale cost may be not 
^ r e than $10.00 if the amount of the deposit is $5,000 or more. 

^-'v;.'v.,,. 
. 
.
.
. 
rr o r 
1 
- 2 -
• • 
' 
• 
• • • 
vHM&L;. • 
5 217.148 
Information regarding computation of interest on deposits. 
Section 217.6(f) of the Board's Regulation Q, relating to 
Payment of interest on deposits, provides: 
Accuracy of advertising. Mo member bank shall 
make any advertisement, announcement, or solicitation 
relating to the interest paid on deposits that is inac-
curate or misleading or that misrepresents its deposit 
contracts 
Within the spirit of this provision and in order to avoid misunder-
standings on the part of its customers, every member bank should 
inform the. holder of a time or savings account at the time of the 
°Pening of such account as to the method that will be used in 
computing and paying interest on the account, including any pro-
V l s
i o n for nonpayment of interest on deposits made after the 
^ginning of an interest-payment period or withdrawn before the 
0l
id of such period. In addition, if the bank subsequently makes 
• change in such method that will be less favorable to a depositor 
tl)
an the previous method, notice of such change should be mailed 
fcr> each depositor at his last known address. 
(12 U.S.C. 248(i). Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 371a, 
3 ? 1
b , and 461.) 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 12, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL] 

ii I 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5 Y 5 T E M 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
• F T H E 
O F F I C E ; O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No. 12 
2/12/70 
February 12, 1970 
The Honorable Benjamin S. Rosenthal, 
Chairman, 
Special Consumer Inquiry, 
Special Studies Subcommittee, 
Committee on Government. Operations, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D . C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In my letter of December 19, 1969, acknowledging your 
letter to Chairman Martin of December 17, "1969, with respect to 
the advertising by banking institutions of Christmas Club and 
similar accounts, I indicated that, since the Board's authority 
to regulate advertising of interest on deposits may be exercised 
only after consultation with the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, the subject 
of your letter would be placed on the agenda of the next meeting 
of the interagency Coordinating Committee. At a recent meeting 
of that Committee, attended by the Chairman of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, the Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank 
Board, the Comptroller of the Currency, and me, the matter was 
discussed. 
We recognize that some people may assume, when they 
first hear about Christmas Club accounts, that they bear interest. 
Nevertheless, it seems also reasonable to assume that people for 
whom interest or lack of it is a determining factor in regard to 
Christmas Club accounts would inquire about the rate of interest 
before opening an account. The high rate of repeaters among 
those who have Christmas Club accounts suggests either that they 
do not realize they are not getting interest or that they are not 
motivated by interest-rate considerations when they establish the 
account. We believe the latter conclusion is the more reasonable. 
To require those who advertise for Christmas Club accounts to in-
clude in their advertising a statement that no interest is paid 

The Honorable Benjamin S . Rosenthal 
would seem justifiable only if the evidence pointed to the conclusion 
that this is really important to potential account-holders. But the 
evidence suggests that such accounts are popular with the public even 
though they do not bear interest, perhaps because they provide a con-
venient method of establishing a routine that helps people get ready 
for Christmas. 
Accordingly, if any problem exists in this area, it does 
not appear to the Board to be of such magnitude as to warrant regu-
latory action at this time. The Board nevertheless will continue 
to review the matter in order to determine if and when the problem 
becomes of such significance as to call for regulatory action. 
In your letter of December 17, 1969, you requested the 
Board's views as to the desirability of legislation that would re-
quire banking institutions to pay interest on Christmas Club and 
similar accounts. In the Board's opinion, such legislation would 
not be warranted. Any statutory requirement that interest be paid 
on such accounts could well have the net effect of depriving the 
public of a type of banking service that the public apparently wants 
in spite of the lack of payment of interest on such accounts. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) 
J. L. Robertson 
52'; 
Page 2 
J . L . Robertson 

<528 
B q A R D OF D O V E R N • R 5 
0 F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
• . C . 
2 Q 5 5 I 
Item No. 13 
2/12/70 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
February 13, 1970 
TO THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF EACH STATE MEMBER BANK: 
The use of brokered funds has been responsible for abuses 
in banking and has contributed to some recent bank closings, with 
consequent losses to depositors, other creditors, and shareholders. 
Bankers are again urged to be on the alert to schemes that would 
expose depositors' and shareholders' funds to the risks involved 
in loans based on brokered "deposits". They should be especially 
wary of related out-of-territory loans which may appear attractive 
because of the amount of brokered money that will be placed with 
the bank if the loan is made. 
The advertisement of excessive yields on deposits solicited 
for federally supervised banks (whether the premium is provided by 
the bank or by others), moreover, is prohibited by substantially 
identical regulations issued by the Board of Governors and the FDIC. 
To the extent that a bank takes any part in these transactions it is 
considered to be evading the purposes of the interest-rate regula-
tions. Where the bank pays a fee to a broker and knows o?r has 
reason to know that the fee is being shared with a depositor, the 
bank is also in violation of the interest-rate regulations to the 
extent the yield to the depositor exceeds the maximum permissible 
rate. 
The Board is concerned that such activities can result 
in "unsafe and unsound" situations and could adversely affect the 
overall condition of the bank. Examiners, therefore, have been 
instructed to continue to report all cases where banks are obtain-
ing deposits at premium rates, whatever the source of the premium, 
and also to scrutinize any tie-in loans. Appropriate corrective 
action will be required of all banks where such deposits and loans 
are found. 
We understand that a similar letter is being addressed by 
the FDIC, the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Home 
Loan Bank Board to institutions supervised by those agencies. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 

i 
I 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 14 
2/12/70 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N . 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O S - T I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
G U A R D 
February 18, 1970 
M r . William F . Treiber, 
F i r s t Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Treiber: 
In reply to your letter of January 23, 1970, the 
Board of Governors interposes no objection to your Bank's 
foreign travel program for 1970 as approved by the directors 
of the Bank on January 23 and as described in detail in your 
memorandum of January 22. 
In view of the current economic 
situation, which has necessitated budgetary constraints 
throughout the governmental establishment generally, and 
the fact that System expenditures have been rising con-
siderably, the Board urges that due care be exercised to 
achieve all possible economies in foreign travel as well 
as in other areas of operations. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary. 
I 
