Minutes for March 18, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 4 Amendment to Regulation Y, 
Bank Holding Companies. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 

6 8 0 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, March 18, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Br imme r 
Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
K&i 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

G82 
3/18/71 
-3-
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The application of Exchange Bancorporation, 
Inc., Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of Exchange Bank of North Winter 
Haven, Winter Haven, Florida, was listed on the consent calendar for 
today's meeting. However, because of certain questions that were raised, 
a decision was deferred and the staff was requested to obtain additional 
information. 
Issuance of capital notes. Letters to the following banks 
granting approval for proposed issues of capital notes were approved 
unanimously in the form attached as Items 1 and 2, respectively: 
Commercial State Savings Bank, Greenville, Michigan; and 
Farmers & Merchants Bank, Aberdeen, South Dakota. 
T,'I j .. • - .. 
Legislative proposals. The Board continued its discussion of 
legislative proposals to be included in its Annual Report for 1970. 
There had been sentiment during yesterday's discussion in favor 
o f
 omitting a recommendation with respect to interlocking directorates 
a n
d instead expressing a Board position in testimony on H. R. 5700, a 
H l l introduced by Congressman Patman that included a number of provisions 
r e
garding interlocks. However, comments today reflected agreement with 
l^tVTrV- <M. y 
®
 S u
ggestion by the Chairman that there might be advantages to making 
a n
 independent legislative recommendation. 

G 8 2 
3/18/71 
-3-
Governor Maisel reiterated his views that any recommended broader 
coverage of reserve requirements should not extend to noninsured institu-
tions and that banks investing in community development corporations 
should be given greater latitude than contemplated in a draft proposal 
on that subject. 
Although the discussion developed tentative agreement upon the 
general terms of a number of other recommendations, no formal action was 
taken and it was understood that the staff would develop additional 
material. 
Unanimous approval was given to the following items after con-
sideration of relevant documentation. Copies of the correspondence 
are attached under the item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
3 
Minneapolis interposing no objection to 
a
cquisition of certain real estate 
a
djoining the Helena Branch site. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Banks 
4 
r e
questing that examiners obtain from 
State member banks information with 
respect to compliance with the Equal 
Opportunity Program. 
tihl TV 
•
 :
 • 
• 
better to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
5 
tion proposing a compromise position 
Elating to bank services as indirect 
Payment of interest. 
Farm Credit Act of 1971. With a memorandum dated March 16, 
the Division of Research and Statistics submitted a revised draft 

681 
3/18/71 
-5-
of response to a request from the Office of Management and Budget for 
comments on a draft bill, the "Farm Credit Act of 1971." The revisions 
took account of views expressed during discussion of an earlier draft 
on March 12. Suggestions relating to the proposed reply were also 
made by Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board, in a memorandum of 
March 16. 
After discussion during which there was agreement that the first 
suggestion listed by Mr. Shepardson be incorporated into the response, 
the letter was approved unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 6. 
Bank Holding Company Act. Section 4(c)(12) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act permits a company that became a bank holding company as a 
result of the 1970 amendments to retain or acquire any shares or engage 
in any activities until January 1, 1981, if the company complies with 
such conditions as the Board may prescribe. In January 1971 the Board 
Published a proposed amendment to Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, 
under which a company that made an irrevocable declaration to divest 
its bank by 1981 could acquire other businesses under a simple notifi-
C a
tion procedure. Acquisitions by companies that had not made a declara-
tion would require the Board's approval, which normally would not be 
Siven unless the company demonstrated that the acquisition was necessary 
t o
 enable it to market its assets subject to divestiture efficiently. 
In a memorandum dated March 9, 1971, the Legal Division recom-
m e
nded that the Board adopt the amendment, revised to permit a company 

6 8 1 
3/18/71 
-5-
that had made an irrevocable declaration to expand its activities de 
novo without notification. The Division also recommended that the 
Board adopt a form, a draft of which was attached, to provide guidance 
for a holding company in filing a declaration. 
Discussion developed a consensus in favor of including some 
means of placing a particular company on an application and approval 
basis rather than a notification basis if the nature of its proposed 
expansion appeared inimical to the public interest. It was understood 
that the staff would add language to the amendment to accomplish that 
Purpose. 
Subject to that understanding, the amendment to Regulation Y 
was approved unanimously, effective immediately. The form for irrevocable 
declarations was also approved unanimously. 
In a memorandum dated March 9, 1971, the Legal Division described 
the requests that had been received for hearings in response to the pro-
Posed implementation of revised section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act. The memorandum outlined possible procedures and recommended 
the type and scope of hearings that might be appropriate. At today's 
l n e e
ting the Division suggested a tentative schedule calling for three 
tarings in April and May. 
The Division's recommendations were approved unanimously. 
Attached under Item No. 7 are copies of the relevant press release, 
the orders announcing the three hearings, the amendment to Regulation Y 

3/18/71 
-6-
to implement section 4(c)(12) of the Bank Holding Company Act, and the 
form of irrevocable declaration. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance, and Chairman Burns commented on concern expressed to him 
by a Treasury official regarding indications that somewhat conflicting 
statements were being made to reporters by persons within the Government 
with respect to recent U.S. balance of payments statistics and atti-
tudes toward developments in that area. The Chairman urged caution in 
any discussions of the subject with members of the press and also 
requested that staff alert the New York Reserve Bank to the concern 
that was felt. 
Chairman Burns then withdrew from the meeting. 
Trust Company of Georgia. By order dated February 22, 1971 
(pursuant to action on February 11), the Board approved the application 
°f Trust Company of Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia, to acquire the assets 
a
nd assume the liabilities of Peachtree Bank and Trust Company, Chamblee 
Georgia. At today's meeting Mr. O'Connell described representations 
^ade subsequently by the Department of Justice that led the Legal Divi-
sion to recommend that the Board issue an order staying consummation 
the transaction in order to permit the Department's views to be 
studied further. 
The Board unanimously approved the recommendation. A copy of 
the order subsequently issued is attached as Item No. 8. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

6 8 6 
B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
N F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
U T K I C I A L 
C D R R E B P P N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
b O A R O 
Item No. 1 
3/18/71 
March 18, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Commercial State Savings Bank 
Greenville, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
of $300,000 in subordinated notes by Commercial State Savings 
Bank, Greenville, Michigan, as proposed in the revised Under-
taking submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
It is understood that any advertising with respect to the 
obligations will, in addition to being in compliance with 
the provisions of section 217.6 of Regulation Q, clearly 
distinguish the nature of the obligation from a deposit, 
including by setting forth in bold face type that the 
obligation is subordinated to the claims of depositors and 
not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

B O A R D • F G G V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 20551 
G87 
Item No. 2 
3/18/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C U R R E E P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
U D A R D 
March 18, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Farmers & Merchants Bank 
Aberdeen, South Dakota 
Gentlemen; 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3) (i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f)(3) (i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
$250,000 in subordinated notes by Farmers & Merchants Bank, 
Aberdeen, South Dakota. 
It is noted that the proposed capital notes may be 
retired prior to the 7-year maturity, but that such retirement 
C a n
 only be made with funds derived from the sale of common 
stock. The Board has concluded exigent circumstances require 
the issuance of such obligations without regard to maturity 
Provisions of Regulations Q and D 0 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M 
Item N o . 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
' 
3/18/71 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S OF T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON 
March 18, 1971 
Strothman - Minneapolis 
Board will interpose no objection to acquisition of- real -
estate adjoining the Helena Branch site, as described in 
fikti.vt. tr- 
W:. 
Vv-i 
..'v 
(. Mr. MacDonald's letter of March 1, 1971, and authorizes 
an expenditure not to exceed $130,000 for the purpose. 
(Signed) - Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenyon 

>orccn. 
11 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N • R 5 
• F THL" 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON", 
D. C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
3/18/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 19, 197| 
Under Secretary of the Treasury Charls E. Walker has requested 
Q s
a t
 examiners for the Reserve System check, without evaluation, to 
certain whether State member banks with 50 or more employees visited 
y Our examiners have filed the last required equal opportunity report 
E m
t
^
n d a r d
 Form EEO-1) with the Joint Reporting Committee of the Equal 
Corr 
° P P
o r t u n i t
y Corrmission and the Office of Federal Contract 
^•Pliance of the Department of Labor and whether they have forwarded a copy 
such report to the Director of Equal Opportunity Program, U.S. Treasury. 
a ,°
0ndIy
> examiners are requested to determine that all such banks have 
rotten affirmative action program on file. The report and the affirms-
I 
F- • 
Exp
 
1
 program are required under Treasury Regulations implementing 
c u t
i v e Order 11246. 
Co0 
,
 
T h e
 Board has notified Under Secretary Walker that it will 
e x a j ^
r a t e w i t h 
t h e
 Treasury in this effort by directing Federal Reserve 
t
iono
n C
'
r S 
t 0 m a k e 
t h e
 requested checks as part of their regular examina-
° of State member banks. 
dcpa 
Please ask the officer in charge of your bank examination 
0 p p o 
- n t to instruct the examiners to complete the attached Equal 
^ m b e r
U n l t y
 Compliance Report as part of the regular examination of State 
Patt
 r
 k
a n
ks» 
The report is to be completed without evaluation on the 
je c t 
examiner. If State me»r.ber banks nave questions on this sub-
U.S '.p
tlle
y should be referred to the Director of Equal Opportunity Program, 
treasury, Washington, D.C. 
20220. 
0
PpOv t 
. Copios of reports should be forwarded to the Director of Equal 
Program, U.S. Treasury, ancl copies of any reports containing 
Q
tei t o J* findings should be forwarded to the Board. The completed reports 
2
 retained in the Reserve Bank files. 
Very truly yours, 
£ 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
nc
*-°sute 
Deputy Secretary 
to Tl 
h Resident S OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

EQUAL OPPORTUNITY COMPLIANCE REPORT 
Name of Bank_ 
Location 
Date of Examination 
I) Has subject bank filed the last annual required Equal 
Employment Opportunity report with the Joint Reporting 
Committee of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission 
and the Office of Federal Contract Compliance of the 
Department of Labor, and has it forwarded a copy to the 
Director of Equal Opportunity Program, U.S. Treasury 
Department? 
Yes 
No 
SiV 
> Has the subject bank a written affirmative action 
Program on file at the bank? 
Yes 
No 
H/; (i 
5 w 
Examiner 
Federal Reserve Bank of 
G90 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E : 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 5 
W A S H I N G T O N . O. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
3/18/71 
G E O R G E VV. M I T C H E L L 
m e m b e r 
of 
t h e 
b o a r o 
March 19, 1971 
Mr. R. Frank Wille, Chairman 
— 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Frank: 
Several situations have arisen which highlight differing 
views of our respective agencies as to bank services as an indirect 
payment of interest. The Board's Regulation Q and the FDIC's 
corresponding regulation define interest: as "any payment to or for 
the account of the depositor as compensation for the use of funds 
constituting a deposit." 
The Board's position has been that no indirect payment of 
interest is involved when a bank fails to charge for a normal banking 
service. However, the Board has generally regarded payment by the 
bank to a third party to perform a service, even a normal banking 
service, as constituting an indirect payment of interest. We under-
stand that the position of your agency is that it is not an indirect 
Payment: of interest for the bank to absorb the cost of services even 
it the bank pays a third party to perform the service rather than 
„Performing it itself, and the service need not be restricted to 
normal banking services. 
. 
.
 
T h e
 Board believes that a uniform position on this matter 
s desirable. It would appreciate your views on our ioint adoption 
t a r uie along the lines that a bank may furnish a depositor normal 
nking services, irrespective of who actually performs them, without 
r e
gard to Regulation Q. 
Buff- •
 
W e 
b e l i e v e 
t h a t 
t h e
 concept of "normal" banking services is 
tticiently flexible and can be appropriately expanded as banking 
J\actices develop. Also if banks are permitted to absorb the cost of 
services (for example all data processing costs rather than payroll 
^counting or bookkeeping costs), the larger banks would appear to 
Vo
- a competitive advantage in attracting deposits. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) George W. Mitchell 
George W . Mitchell 
r 

B D A R D OF 
G O V E R N • R 5 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 20551 
n r r o 
Item No. 6 
3/18/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 19, 1971 
Mr. J . F 0 C . Hyde, Jr. 
Office of the Assistant Director 
for Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
°ear Mr. Hyde: 
This refers to your Legislative Referral Memorandum dated 
February 12, 1971, requesting the Board's views on the Farm Credit 
Administration's draft bill, the "Farm Credit Act of 1971." 
The Board notes that this bill would modernize and expand 
the lending authority of the cooperative Farm Credit System. 
Pro-
visions governing extension of mortgage credit to farmers would be 
liberalized. The System would be permitted to lend to persons 
°ther than farmers, to finance rural housing (including repairs and 
,maintenance, and mobile home financing) and to finance the provision 
y nonfarmers of "farm related services necessary to agricultural" 
Production, including basic processing and marketing." The System 
w
«uld be authorized to lease equipment and to offer finance-related 
services to these nonfarmers and to farmers as well. It would be 
Permitted to finance cooperatives in which up to one-third of vot-
I n
8 control is held by nonfarmers, rather than 10 per cent as in 
Present practice. 
The Board is interested and active in efforts to improve 
l G
 availability of credit in rural areas, to help meet agricultural 
^ e d i t demands and to help accelerate nonfarm rural development. 
c
 expanded lending authority requested by the Farm Credit System 
help to ensure that rural development is not impeded by imper-
°
c
tions in rural credit markets. 

Mr. J . F. C . Hyde, Jr. 
- 
2 
-
As it exercises the proposed new lending authority, however, 
the cooperative Farm Credit System will necessarily offer greater 
competition to other institutions active in farm lending, and new 
competition to institutions that finance housing and nonfarm businesses 
or that provide finance-related services. This competition on a broad 
front will be fair and desirable if the System is free of significant 
elements of Federal subsidy (the Congress helving provided subsidized 
rural credit programs for specific areas where it deemed such additional 
credit desirable). One element of Federal subsidy retained in the 
proposed Act is the general exemption of the cooperative Farm Credit 
System from Federal, state, and local income taxes, with only the pro-
duction credit associations being subject to Federal tax provisions 
for cooperatives, and all other units of the System exempt. In the 
past, other farm lenders have often obj ected to this exemption. 
The 
Board has no expertise on the merits of this tax treatment, but since 
it may be unrealistic to expect the Farm Credit System to propose 
taxation in its own draft bill, the Board strongly suggests the 
desirability of attempting to ascertain the tax provisions that would 
be most in accordance with the public interest in promoting fair 
competition between the System and other lenders. 
The degree of new competition offered by the cooperative 
Farm Credit System at any given time in a given geographical or 
financial area will depend partly on the interpretation of such terms 
as "rural," "financial related services," and "farm related services," 
a
l l of which the proposed legislation leaves to future decisions of 
the Federal Farm Credit Board. While this provides desirable flexi-
bility for adapting to changing conditions, it also would appear to 
entail prospects of periodic future controversy between the Farm 
Credit System and both would-be borrowers and competing lending _ 
institutions, chief among which would be commercial and mutual sav-
ings banks, savings and loan associations, and life insurance 
companies. 
Given this prospect, the Board suggests that it may be use-
ful to explore the desirability of legislative provisions that would 
improve the ability of the Federal Farm Credit Board to make informed 
^terminations of the boundaries and policies governing the provision 
housing credit and of credit and services to nonfarm businesses. 
For example, the proposed Act specifies that "in making appointments 
t o
 the Board, the President shall have due regard to a fair represen-
tation of the public interest, the welfare of all farmers, and the 

694 
Mr. J„ F. C. Hyde, Jr. 
- 3 -
various types of cooperative credit interests in the Farm Credit 
System, with special consideration to persons who are experienced 
in cooperative agricultural credit, taking into consideration the 
lists of nominees proposed by the Farm Credit System." 
(The 
nominees would in turn be proposed by local units in which only 
the farm members are to be allowed.to hold voting stock.) 
In 
recognition of the broader scope of decisions that implementation 
of the proposed bill would require of theTederal Farm Credit 
Board, it might be appropriate to provide, for instance, that 
appointments be made with regard for fair representation of rural 
residents and businesses as well as farmers. The Board offers 
this suggestion only as an example of the way in which the antici-
pated problem might be ameliorated. Study by those with more 
specific expertise would help to determine the legislative 
provisions likely to prove most appropriate and effective. 
The cooperative Farm Credit System also competes with 
other financial intermediaries for funds saved by the public. 
In 
recent months, the System has been offering "Farm Credit Investment 
Bonds" to rural residents. These instruments have resembled certifi-
cates of deposit offered by banks and thrift institutions, but have 
embodied a combination of interest rate, size, maturity, and redemp-
tion features more attractive than banks and thrift institutions 
were being permitted to offer by their respective regulatory 
agencies. Since the proposed Act would permit the cooperative 
Farm Credit System to continue to raise funds in this manner, with 
Potential threat to sales of U.S. savings bonds and to savings 
deposits at local thrift institutions, it may be desirable for the 
Act to provide that the Farm Credit System obtain clearance from 
the Treasury Department for these offerings. 
Another factor affecting lending competition is the 
decision of the Farm Credit System, following opinion given by 
its legal counsel, to consider itself exempt from state usury 
laws. In certain states, during past periods of restrictive 
monetary actions, this policy has helped to maintain the avail-
ability of agricultural credit. As competing lenders have pointed 
out, however, in so doing the policy has hampered efforts to have 
usury limits raised in response to changed financial conditions. 
With the proposed entry of the Farm Credit System into residential 
financing, it also becomes important to note that VA and FHA 

GS5 
Mr. J . F. C. Hyde, Jr 
- 
4 
-
housing programs have abided by state usury laws. This inconsistency 
among Federally-sponsored credit programs should be examined. 
Very truly yours, 
I ; 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
x •.> 
s t 
. .I^U-u 

Item No. 7 
3/18/71 
For immediate release 
March 22, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
scheduled three separate hearings in April and May on the regulatory 
amendments it proposed last January as a first step toward implementing 
the "Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970." 
The Board on January 25 proposed 10 activities to be regarded 
under the new law as closely related to banking or managing or con-
trolling banks, and thus permissible for bank holding companies, 
subject to Board action in individual cases. 
» 
Companies subject to the Bank Holding Company Act are re-
quired to register with the Federal Reserve and generally must limit 
their activities to banking and activities closely related to banking, 
ihe 1970 amendments extended the Board's regulatory authority over such 
c
°mpanies to those that control only one bank. 
The schedule of hearings is as follows: 
--April 14 on all questions raised by the proposal announced 
a s t
 January except for two activities on which separate hearings will 
b e
 held as listed below. 
--April 16 on one provision of the proposed regulatory amend-
m G n t
 that would permit bank holding companies to provide bookkeeping 
data processing services for (a) the holding company and its sub-
s id' 
I a
ries, (b) other financial institutions, or (c) others, provided 

897 
-2-
that the value of services performed by the company for such persons 
is not a principal portion of the total value of all such services 
performed. 
--May 12 on another provision that would permit such 
companies to act as insurance agent or broker, principally in connec-
tion with extensions of credit by the holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries. 
Under proposed activities to be covered in the April 14 
hearing, a bank holding company could apply to the Board for permission 
to acquire an interest in a company that engages solely in one or more 
of these activities: 
* 
1. Making loans for its own account or for the account of 
others. This would include, for example, operations as a mortgage, 
fi .nance or factoring company. 
2. Operating as an industrial bank. 
3. • Servicing loans. 
4 . Acting as fiduciary. 
5. Acting as investment or financial adviser. 
6. Leasing personal property where*the initial lease pro-
vides for payment of rentals that will reimburse the lessor for the ful 
Purchase price of the property. 
7. Acting as insurer for the holding company and its sub-
sidiaries or with respect: to insurance sold by the holding company or 
any 0 f its subsidiaries as agent or broker. 

6 9 8 
-3-
8. Making equity investments in community rehabilitation 
and development corporations engaged in providing housing and employ-
ment opportunities for low and moderate income persons. 
The large number of comments already received on the proposed 
regulatory amendments together with material presented at the hearings 
will be evaluated by the Board prior to a final decision on changes to 
be made in its Regulation Y relating to bank holding companies. 
Because of the number and variety of comments received and * 
the number of persons who may wish to participate, the Board adopted 
for the hearing on insurance activities a series of preliminary pro-
cedures designed to identify the issues and provide ample opportunity 
* 
for presentation of differing views. These procedures are set forth 
the attached notice of hearing. 
Persons interested in appearing at the hearing on data pro-
cessing activities are invited to focus on the following issues: 
--What, if any, limitations should apply to a holding company 
Performing payroll, accounts receivable and payable, and billing 
services. 
--To what extent, if any, and by what measure, should the 
holding company be limited in the other data processing services that 
it may perform for persons other than itself, its subsidiaries, and 
°ther financial institutions. 
In a separate action on another proposal issued last January, 
0
 Jloard adopted, effective immediately, a regulatory amendment spell-
out the procedures it will use in implementing section 4(c)12 of 

-4-
6 9 3 
the Act. That section permits a company covered by the 1970 amend-
ments to acquire shares of any company--subject to conditions prescribed 
by the Board—until January 1, 1981, so long as it divests "itself by 
that date of either its bank or of activities unrelated to banking. 
Under these procedures, if a company files an irrevocable 
declaration that it will cease to be a bank holding company by January 1, 
1981, it may enter a newly launched activity either directly or through 
a new subsidiary without further action by the Board unless its autho-
rity to do so is suspended by the Board. The same company may acquire 
a going concern 45 days after it has informed the district Federal 
Reserve Bank of the proposed acquisition, unless ,the company is 
notified to the contrary within that time or is permitted to make the 
acquisition at an earlier date because of exigent circumstances. 
If no such declaration is filed, no acquisitions may be made 
°
r
 activity commenced 
under section 4(c)12 without prior Board 
approval. In such cases, the Board generally will approve only those 
applications in which the company demonstrates that the activities 
s
°ught are necessary to enable the more efficient marketing of assets 
S u
kject to divestiture. 
Attached are copies of the notices of hearings and the 
r
°Sulatory amendment implementing section 4(c)12, including a sample 
of irrevocable declaration. 

im 
700 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1X2 CFR Part 222] 
[Reg. Y] 
BANK HOLDING COISAHIES 
Notice of Hearing Regarding Proposed Implementation 
of 5 4(e)(3) of Bank Holding Company Act 
By notice published in the Federal Register on January 29, 
1971 (36 F.n. 1430), the Board of Governors proposed to implement its 
regulatory authority governing acquisition by holding companies of 
interests in nonbanking organizations engaged in activities that are 
"so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as 
to bo a proper incident thereto." 
In view of comments received and requests for a hearing, 
the Board has decided to conduct a hearing on this matter before 
available members of the Board in the Board Boom of its building at 
20th Street and Constitution Avenue, Washington, D. C., on Wednesday, 
April 14, 1971, beginning at 10 o'clock a.m. 
Interested persons are invited to participate by presenting 
their views on all issues rained by the pending proposal, except the 
extent to which data processing and insurance agency activities are 
closely related to banking. Separate hearings will be conducted on 
those issues. 
Persona interested in the proposal arc not required to 
A I T 
RITTC pynressed in written comments 
Participate in the hearing. M l views expieoocu 
on the pending proposal are under consideration by the Board. 
1 
!>tj 
FiL 

Persons interested in participating in the hearing should 
inform the Secretary of the Board in writing not later than March 31, 
1971. Each person admitted as a party to the proceeding will be 
given up to 30 minutes to present his views. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 18, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 
»JM> 

702 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 222] 
[Re S. Y] 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Notice of Hearing Regarding Data Processing Services 
By notice published in the Federal Register on January 29, 
1971 (36 F.R. 1430), the Board of Governors proposed to implement 
its regulatory authority governing acquisition by holding companies 
of interests in nonbanicing organizations engaged in activities that 
are "so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks 
as to be a proper incident thereto." 
One of the activities the Board proposed as meeting that 
test is data processing, subject to certain limitations on the extent 
to which the services may be performed for persons other than the 
holding company involved, its subsidiaries, and other financial 
ins titutions. 
In view of comments received and requests for a hearing, 
the Board has decided to conduct a hearing on this matter before 
available members of the Board in the Board Room of its building at 
20th Street and Constitution Avenue, Washington, D. C., on Friday, 
April 16, 1971, beginning at 10 o'clock a.m. 
Interested persons are invited to participate by presenting 
their views on the following issues: 
(1) What, if any, limitations should apply to a holding 
company performing (itself or through a nonbanl; subsidiary) payroll, 
accounts receivable and payable, and billing services? 

» 
703 
-2-
(2) To what extent, if any, and by what measure, should 
the holding company be limited in the other data processing services 
that it may perform for persons other than itself, its subsidiaries, 
and other financial institutions? 
Several letters of comment suggest alternative language 
for consideration by the Board in describing data processing services 
that are closely related to banking. Some of the alternatives are: 
A. "(9) providing bookkeeping or data processing services 
(i) for the holding company and its subsidiaries, (ii) for other 
financial institutions, (iii) of a financially related nature 
(such as, but not limited to payroll, accounts receivable and payable 
and billing services and financial analyses and reports) and (iv) other 
bookkeeping and data processing services for others, Provided, That 
the operating revenues derived from services performed by the company 
and not authorized under (i), (ii), or (iii) hereof shall not exceed 
fifty percent of the total operating revenues of such company;". 
NOTE: A possible alternative proviso would be that the 
operating revenues derived from services performed under 
(iv) shall not become a significant amount of the holding 
company's consolidated revenues from data processing services. 
"(9) providing bookkeeping or data processing services 
f
or the holding company and its subsidiaries and other financial 
institutions (including Lank holding companies, banks, savings 
b
anks, savings and loan associations, leasing companies, insurance 
companies, loan, finance and mortgage companies, factors, credit 
u
nions, real estate investment trusts, investment companies, companies 
Managing such trusts or companies, trustees of pension and profit 
faring plans, and other similar institutions or persons engaged 

693 
- 4 -
• • 
\ •/ ' 
in similar activities), and for others, Provided, That at the time 
of acquisition of such company the value of all bookkeeping and data 
processing services performed by the group consisting of it and the 
holding company and all its other subsidiaries for persons other than 
such group and such financial institutions shall not be more than one 
half the total value of such services performed by such group;". 
C. "(9) providing bookkeeping or data processing services 
for (i) the holding company and its subsidiaries, (ii) other financial 
institutions, and (iii) others, Provided, That such services performed 
for others are banking-related, as", for example, the performance of 
payroll accounting, accounts receivable accounting, accounts payable 
accounting and inventory accounting;". 
Persons interested in presenting their views on these issues 
should inform the Secretary of the Board in writing not later than 
April 2, 1971. Each person admitted as a party to the proceeding 
will be given up to 30 minutes to present his views. 
Anyone wishing to submit written comments on the issues on 
which the hearing will be held may do so at any'time before the close 
of business on Monday, April 26, 1971. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 1G, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 

705 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 222] 
[Reg. Y] 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Notice of Hearing Regarding Insurance Agency Activities 
By notice published in the Federal Register on January 29, 
1971 (36 F.R. 1430), the Board of Governors proposed to implement its 
regulatory authority governing acquisition by holding companies of 
interests in nonbanking organizations engaged in activities that 
are "so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks 
as to be a proper incident thereto." 
One of the activities the Board proposed as meeting the 
test is acting as insurance agent or broker principally in connection 
with extensions of credit by the holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries. 
In view of comments received and requests for a hearing, 
the Board has decided to conduct a hearing on this matter before 
available members of the Board. Because of the number of issues 
raised and the number of persons who may wish to participate, the 
Board has adopted the following schedule of preliminary procedures: 
(1) A person interested in participating as a party in the 
hearing must file with the Secretary of the Board by March 31, 1971, 
Q
 request to be. permitted to do so, and a list of the issues he intends 
t o
 raise. 

693 
-4-
• J 
(2) All persons admitted as parties in the proceeding (a) will 
be notified by the Secretary of the identity of the other parties and 
of all issues raised by them and (b) will be invited to submit written 
< i •• ' y ,f 
,•-. \ 
material by April 14, 1971, and (c) must send copies of any such material 
to all other parties. 
(3) Any party may submit by April 2G, 1971, written comments 
on material submitted by other parties and must send copies thereof 
to all other parties. 
(4) Each party will be given a specified time, not to exceed 
30 minutes, to present his views orally at the hearing to be held in 
the Board Room of the Federal Reserve Building, 20th Street and 
Constitution Avenue, Washington, D. C., beginning at 10 o'clock a.m. 
on Wednesday, May 12, 1971. 
By order of the Board of Governors, llarch 10, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 

70? 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg, Y] 
PART 222—BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Nonbanking Acquisitions by Certain One-Bank Holding Companies 
1. Effective immediately, § 222.4 of Regulation Y is 
amended by adding a new paragraph as follows: 
§ 222.4 Interests in nonbanking organizations. 
it if & 
Certain acquisitions by companies that became bank 
holding companies on December 31t 1970, as a result of the 1970 
amendments. Except as provided in this paragraph, no bank holding 
company may acquire, directly or indirectly, any shares or commence 
to engage in any activities on the basis of section 4(c)(12) of the 
Act. A company may file with the Board an irrevocable declaration, 
in the form approved by the Board, that it will"cease to be a bank 
holding company by January 1, 1981, unless it is granted an exemption 
under section 4(d) of the Act. A company that has filed such a decla-
r
ation may (1) commence new activities cle novo, either directly or 
through a subsidiary, without further action under this paragraph, 
j 
' 
v^til such time as the Board notifies the company to the contrary, and 
(2) make an acquisition of a going concern 45 days after the company has 
^formed its Reserve Bank of the proposed acquisition, unless the 

70 
. -2-
company is notified to the contrary within that time or unless it 
is permitted to make the acquisition at an earlier date, based on 
exigent circumstances of a particular case. If the company has not 
filed such a declaration, no acquisition may be made, or activity 
commenced, on the basis of section 4(c)(12) except with prior 
approval of the Board.. Normally only requests with respect to 
acquisitions or expansion of activities that the company demonstrates 
to the satisfaction of the Board are necessary to enable it more 
efficiently to market its assets subject to divestiture will be 
approved. This paragraph does not apply to acquisitions made 
pursuant to a binding commitment entered into before March 23, -1971. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
2a. This amendment implements the Board's authority to 
impose conditions upon holding company acquisitions and expansions 
on the basis of section 4(c)(12) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Under the amendment, acquisitions of going concerns by a company 
that became a bank holding company as a result of the 1970 amendments 
and elects to divest itself of its bank may normally be made following 
a simple notification procedure, and de novo expansion may be under-
taken without further action. Acquisitions by other such companies 
require the Board's approval. That approval will normally be limited 
to acquisitions a holding company demonstrates are necessary to assure 

' 709 
that the company's required divestitures can be made as quickly as 
possible, as efficiently as possible, and with as little economic 
loss to the divesting company as possible. 
b. A form for use in filing an irrevocable declaration 
under this amendment has been adopted by the Board. Copies are 
available at the Federal Reserve Banks. 
c. Notice of proposed rule making with respect to this 
amendment was published in the Federal Register on January 29, 1971 
(36 F.R. 1432). The effective date was deferred for less than the 
30-day period referred to in section 553(d) of Title 5, United States 
Code, because the Board found that making its action effective imme-
diately is necessary in the public interest. Permitting unrestricted 
acquisitions by companies that became bank holding companies as a 
result of the enactment of the 1970 amendments'to the Holding Company 
Act is inconsistent with the purposes of the Act and its equitable 
application between such companies and holding companies that were 
registered with the Board before the recent amendments or those that 
might be formed in the future. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 18, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL] 
• 1* 

710 
FORI! OF IRREVOCABLE DECLARATION PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 4(c)(12) OF THE BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
RESOLVED, that 
(Name of Company) 
will cease to be a bank holding company, as that term is defined 
in the Bank Holding Company Act, by divesting itself of whatever 
interest it may have in 
(Name of Bank and Location) 
[unl ess the Company is granted an exemption under section 4(d) 
of the Act, for which application will be made by 
(Date) 
.]* 
All appropriate steps will be taken to accomplish such divestiture 
[as may be required]" by 
(Date) 
, but in 
any event by January 1, 1981. It is further resolved that 
(Name) 
. the 
(Title of Officer) 
and 
— 
(Name) 
, the 
(Title of Officer) 
of 
the Company, or either of them, be and hereby are empowered for and 
in the name and on behalf of the Company to deliver to the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System a certified copy of this 
resolution, pursuant to section 4(c)(12) of the Act, and section 
222.4(d) of the Board's Regulation Y, for the purpose of relieving 
the Company of certain legal restrictions otherwise applicable to 
it. The corporate decision reflected by this resolution will, 
upon delivery to the Board of Governors, become irrevocable, 
subject to all penalties that" may be imposed under applicable law. 
CERTIFICATE 
I HEREBY CERTIFY that the foregoing is a true and 
correct copy of a resolution adopted by the 
(Governing Body) 
- 
(Name of Company) 
at a meeting duly 
called and held at 
on the 
day of 
_ 
19 
, at which meeting a quorum was present 
and voted. 
(Secretary) 
^racketed phrases should be included only if the company believes 
§ 
qualified for, and intends to apply for, an exemption under 
W « 
The date by which an application will be filed for such 
a n
 exemption should be within the reasonably near future. 

Item No. 8 
3/18/71 
711 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
TRUST COMPANY OF GEORGIA, 
Atlanta, Georgia, 
for approval of acquisition of assets and 
assumption of liabilities of Peachtree 
Bank and Trust Company, Chamblee, Georgia, 
STAY OF ORDER APPROVING 
APPLICATION FOR ACQUISITION 
OF ASSETS AND ASSUMPTION OF 
LIABILITIES UNDER BANK 
MERGER ACT 
On February 22, 1971 the Board of Governors issued an Order 
Pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), approving an 
Q
pplication by Trust Company of Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia for prior 
a
Pproval of the merger of Trust Company with Peachtree Bank and 
Tr 
U s t
 Company, Chamblee, Georgia, by means of Trust Company's pur-
chase of assets and assumption of liabilities of Peachtree Bank. 
There has come before the Board pursuant to section 262.2(f)(6) 
0 f
 the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 262.2(f)(6)) a petition by 
KL 
G
 United States Department of Justice for (1) reconsideration of the 
B°ard's order of February 22, 1971, and (2) a stay in the operation of 
l t s
 Order of February 22, 1971 until such time as the Board rules on 
the 
P
e
tition for reconsideration, and if reconsideration is granted, 
such reconsideration is completed and the application is either 
Approved or disapproved. 

712 
- 2 -
The petition appears to raise complex issues of a pro-
cedural and substantive nature. In order that the Board may give 
. appropriate consideration to these issues, a stay of the Board's 
approval Order of February 22, 1971 appears to be in the interests 
of all parties as uell as in the public interest. Accordingly, 
It is hereby ordered, That the Board's Order of 
February 22, 1971, in this matter be and hereby is stayed until 
further order of the Board. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 19, 1971, 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor 
Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A , Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL] 
