The attached minutes of the meeting of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System on May 8, 1967, which 
you have previously initialed, have been amended at the suggestion 
of Governor Maisel to add a third sentence to the third complete 
paragraph on page 5. 
If you approve the minutes as amended, please initial 
below. 

Minutes for May 8, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

1781 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, May 8, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Messrs. O'Connell and Shay, Assistant General 
Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Messrs. Dahl, Egertson, and Sidman, Assistant 
Directors, Division of Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Hart and Messrs. Forrestal and Porter of 
the Legal Division 
Mrs. Reil and Messrs. Stone and Thompson of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Lyon and Poundstone of the Division of 
Examinations 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background material that had been made 

1782 
5/8/67 
-2-
available to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under the 
respective item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Let ter to Community Bank of Bergen County, 
1 
N. J., Maywood, New Jersey, approving the 
establishment of a branch in Rochelle Park 
in connection with the relocation of the 
bank's main office. 
Letter to The Citizens Bank of Shelby, 
2 
Shelby, Ohio, approving the establishment 
of an in-town branch. 
Letter to Greenfield State Bank, Bakers- 
3 
field, California, waiving the requirement 
of six months' notice of withdrawal from 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to Jasper County Savings Bank, 
4 
Newton, Iowa, approving an investment in 
bank premises. 
Letters to Bank of America, New York, New 
5-6 
York, granting consent (1) to purchase 
additional shares of Banca d'America e 
d Ital ia, Milan, Italy, and (2) to purchase 
shares of Banco Guanabara, S. A., Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil. 
With respect to Item No. 6, Governors Mitchell and Brimmer 
raised questions concerning a problem involved in the price, approxi-
mately $2,650,000, that Bank of America expected to pay for its proposed 
interest in Banco Guanabara. This was approximately $1,627,000 more 
than the book value of the stock. The premium was largely accounted 
for by a valuation placed on banking licenses held by Banco Guanabara. 
Because of the marketability and transferability of banking licenses in 

1783 
5/8/67 
-3-
Brazil, Bank of America proposed to reflect its investment at cost on 
its books. However, one of the conditions the Board had imposed as a 
matter of policy in granting consent to purchases by Edge corporations 
of shares in foreign subsidiaries was that the corporation not carry 
such stock on its books in excess of its proportionate share of the 
book value as shown on the foreign subsidiary's books. The Board's 
staff had been instructed to make a review of that policy (which also 
related to the carrying values of shares held by bank holding companies). 
Pending completion of the review, the Board had decided not to depart 
from the existing policy; therefore the letter to Bank of America would 
require that the stock of Banco Guanabara not be carried on Bank of 
America's books in excess of the proportionate share of the book value 
as shown on Banco Guanabara's books. 
Discussion indicated that the current review of the policy ques-
tion was in process, with the views of certain interested holding company 
groups being awaited. Accordingly, although questions were raised as 
to whether the value of the banking licenses here in question could not 
be determined in the market place and whether the circumstances were not 
such as to warrant relaxation of the general rule, it was agreed to 
approve the letter in the form submitted, pending determination of the 
over-all policy question in light of the staff review. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed con-
solidation of First Valley National Bank, Rich Creek, Virginia, and The 

1784 
5/8/67 
-4-
First National Bank, Narrows, Virginia, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion read as follows: 
Effectuation of the proposed consolidation of 
First Valley National Bank, Rich Creek, a subsidiary 
of The First Virginia Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, 
a registered bank holding company, and The First National 
Bank, Narrows, would eliminate existing and potential com-
petition between the participating banks and would reduce 
the sources of banking services in the relevant area from 
four to three. The overall effect of the transaction on 
competition would be adverse. 
Messrs. Sammons, Dahl, Egertson, Forrestal, and Poundstone then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Application of First Wisconsin Bankshares (Items 7-8). There 
had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's approval on April 25, 1967, of the application of First Wisconsin 
Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire 80 per cent or 
more of the voting shares to be issued by Mequon National Bank, Mequon, 
Wisconsin, a proposed new bank. 
Governor Maisel noted that the draft order listed former Governor 
Shepardson among those voting for approval and stated that Governor 
Sherrill was not a member of the Board on the date of the Board's deci-
sion. Governor Maisel raised the procedural point whether there was 
actually a decision by the Board until the order and statement were 
adopted. 
Discussion of the point brought out that the date of issuance 
of the order in a merger or holding company case is the effective date 

1785 
5/8/67 
-5-
of the Board's decision. However, the Board's internal rules of proce-
dure provide for a record vote to be taken at the time such an applica-
tion is considered on its merits. 
The Secretary pointed out that an effort was made to have as 
many members of the Board present as possible when an application was 
considered and voted upon. At the time issuance of the order and state-
ment was authorized, some days or weeks later, there might be a smaller 
number of Board members present, or a difference in attendance. 
Mr. Hackley noted that the Board's procedure was similar to 
that followed by the U.S. Supreme Court. After the Court made a deci-
sion, time was necessary to prepare an opinion. During that period the 
matter was considered to be "in the bosom of the court," but the partic-
ipants in the decision were those Justices who had been in attendance 
at the time the case was heard and decided. 
Various suggestions were mentioned as possible variations of the 
procedure now followed by the Board, one being that the order could be 
issued on the day the vote was taken, with the statement to be issued at 
a later date. However, several members of the Board expressed the view 
that it would be desirable to maintain some degree of flexibility until 
the statement was prepared and its issuance authorized. It was pointed 
out that opinions might be altered as a result of the drafting of the 
proposed statements and members should keep the option of changing their 
votes until the statements were actually approved and issued. 
As to the present case, there was general agreement with a sug-
gestion that the order state that Governor Sherrill did not participate 
in the Board's action in the matter. 

5/8/67 
-6-
The issuance of the order and statement was thereupon authorized. 
Copies of the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are 
attached as Items 7 and 8. 
Accounting procedures in bank reports (Item No. 9). There had 
been distributed a memorandum dated May 4, 1967, from Governor Robertson 
stating that, as he had previously advised the Board, the Coordinating 
Committee on Bank Regulation had agreed some time ago that it would be 
desirable for the three Federal bank supervisory agencies to issue sim-
ilar statements to the effect that (1) profits and losses on sales of 
securities should not be deferred or amortized, and (2) tax-exempt 
revenues should not be converted to a fully taxable basis in financial 
reports. The staffs of the several agencies had developed such a state-
ment, subject to final approval by the individual agencies. Accordingly, 
there were attached to the memorandum (1) a memorandum on "Two Proposed 
Bank Accounting Practices," which discussed the two questions briefly 
(this was merely for the Board's information); (2) a draft of proposed 
letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks; and (3) a draft 
of letter for the Presidents of the Reserve Banks to send to State mem-
ber banks. 
Governor Robertson noted that, while the corresponding letters 
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Comptroller of the 
Currency would be sent directly from their Washington offices, it seemed 
preferable for the Federal Reserve letter to be sent by the President 
of the appropriate Reserve Bank. 

I / o / 
5/8/67 
-7-
Following a background statement by Mr. Solomon, Governor Maisel 
referred to the letter to be sent to State member banks and expressed the 
view that it might be read to indicate that changes affecting the report-
ing of items in bank financial statements were likely to be adopted at 
any time. He suggested clarification of that point. 
Governor Mitchell noted that Mr. Solomon had stated that the 
proposed practices had some merit as methods of supplementing other 
information for certain analytical purposes, and he suggested that such 
a reference be included in the letter to State member banks. 
It was agreed that both of the foregoing concepts should be 
worked into the letter. The letter was then approved unanimously in 
such form, it being understood that Mr. Solomon would confer with the 
other bank supervisory agencies with a view to reaching agreement on a 
similar change in the letters that would be sent by them to banks under 
their respective jurisdictions. 
Attached under Item No. 9 is a copy of the letter subsequently 
sent to the Federal Reserve Banks, along with a copy of the letter to 
be sent by the Reserve Banks to State member banks. 
Messrs. Sidman and Lyon and Miss Hart then withdrew from the 
meeting. 
Truth-in-lending legislation (Item No. 10). On April 5 and 10, 
1967, the Board discussed the position to be taken in response to 
requests from the Congressional Committees on Banking and Currency for 

1788 
5/8/67 
-8-
reports on current truth-in-lending bills, designed to require disclo-
sure of finance charges in connection with extensions of credit. Atten-
tion was focused on bill S. 5, which provided among other things that 
the Board would be charged with responsibility for administration of 
the proposed legislation. A draft of statement that might be presented 
on behalf of the Board was considered at the April 10 meeting of the 
Board, and pursuant to the understanding at that meeting there had now 
been distributed a revised draft of statement on S. 5. A statement on 
that bill was to be presented this week by Vice Chairman Robertson at 
hearings before the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions of the Senate 
Banking and Currency Committee. 
In opening remarks Governor Robertson asked for verification 
that there was general agreement among the members of the Board regard-
ing several of the positions proposed to be taken in the statement, 
including those recommending exclusion of first mortgage loans from the 
coverage of the legislation, exemption of credit extended to corpora-
tions and partnerships and all credits in excess of $20,000, and exclu-
sion of insurance premiums, official fees, and taxes from the computation 
of "finance charges." There was no indication of disagreement. 
Governor Mitchell then referred to an expression in the draft 
statement that it would be preferable to state the standardized finance 
charge in percentage rather than dollar terms, and on an annual rather 
than some other periodic basis. He suggested that the testimony recommend 

179 
5/8/67 
-9-
requiring the charge to be expressed "where feasible" on an annual 
rather than other periodic basis. In his view, there were instances 
in which conversion to annual rates was not feasible because of trade 
practices. For example, it would be difficult to convert charges 
usually calculated as monthly rates on unpaid balances. 
Governor Maisel observed that conversion of monthly rates on 
unpaid balances appeared to have been dealt with effectively in a later 
portion of the statement suggesting a method of translating charges on 
revolving credit accounts to annual rates. 
Governor Brimmer remarked that the requirement of true annual 
rate disclosure was the core of the issue, and Governor Robertson said 
that the point was one on which parties in the Congress appeared adamant. 
Governor Mitchell reiterated that experience would prove the 
difficulty of breaking down trade practices and suggested that the phrase 
"where feasible" would allow for that fact. 
Governor Brimmer commented that the essential purpose of the 
proposed legislation was to change trade practices where they did not 
give the borrower a clear understanding of the rate he was paying. He 
would not agree with compromising the Board's support of disclosure in 
terms of an annual rate. He believed it was a key position that should 
be stated specifically, and that modification of the annual rate recom-
mendation would be taken to mean that the Board was backing away from 
the principle involved. 

1790 
5/8/67 
-10-
After staff comments on certain types of charges that would not 
be included in the annual rate requirement, Mr. Hexter observed that the 
feasibility aspect was already implicit in the language of the draft 
statement, specifically through use of the word "preferable." 
Governor Mitchell commented that he would regard the words 
"where feasible" as stronger than the word "preferable." 
Governor Mitchell then referred to the suggestion in the draft 
statement that "closed-end credit transactions involving small amounts--
perhaps under $100--or small finance charges--perhaps $10" be exempted 
from the disclosure requirements. It seemed to him that it would be 
well to specify a very short term for credit so exempted; otherwise, 
too large a body of credit would be released from the statutory require-
ments . 
Discussion of this point indicated that the draft language was 
based on the view that $10 of finance charges was not an important sum 
of money; that relatively high rates of interest might be justified on 
small loans with a specified term in order to compensate the lender for 
his out-of-pocket costs in handling the transaction; and that if such 
lenders were compelled to state the true annual rate for the credit they 
extended, they might discontinue such loans, with resultant hardship on 
persons to whom other sources of credit were unavailable. 
Governor Mitchell remarked that while he would be willing to 
exempt some certain amount of interest, he would not be willing to 

1.791 
5/8/67 
-11-
exempt a charge equal to 100 per cent of the loan. Governor Maisel 
expressed himself to the same effect. 
Governor Robertson suggested that the intent might be clearer 
if the statement referred to "closed-end transactions involving a small 
amount--perhaps under $100--and a small total finance charge—perhaps 
under $10." 
There was agreement with Governor Robertson's suggestion. 
Governor Brimmer said he attached some importance to the point 
and would like to see the Board encourage coverage of loans of relatively 
small amounts, because that was the area where the loan shark operated. 
He had a serious question about exempting such operations and thought the 
change in language agreed upon was in the right direction. 
Chairman Martin stated that, as he had mentioned to the Board 
from time to time, he found the question raised by Governor Brimmer per-
plexing. Various financial activities that really amounted to loan shark 
operations were supposed to be regulated in many States, but State con-
trol was often weak. This type of business, which catered to low-income 
bo 
rrowers, was a blot on the lending industry, yet it appeared to thrive. 
The operations of such lenders would be especially difficult to control 
and, although the problem was a serious one, he would hate to see the 
Federal Reserve become deeply involved. 
Mr. Partee observed that the aim in the draft statement had been 
to avoid coverage of the smallest unit of the lending business and also 

5/8/67 
-12-
the small retail store that sold minor items on a credit arrangement 
that involved a high rate of interest. Because it was thought these 
operations would be politically sensitive, the draft statement recom-
mended that the Congress draw the line of coverage. 
The discussion then turned to the question of the extent to 
which the Board should indicate willingness to be designated as the 
implementing agency, and the related question of what would be involved 
in the way of staff and procedures. The draft statement emphasized that 
the Board's familiarity with the trade practices involved in the truth-
in-lending bills was very limited; that if the Board were designated to 
formulate regulations under the proposed legislation, the time it could 
devote to its principal responsibility--monetary policy-would be dimin-
ished; and that its organization was not of the type that would be needed 
by the implementing agency. However, the draft would state that if "no 
Federal agency better qualified than the Board is available to prescribe 
regulations to implement this legislation we will, of course, do our best 
to carry out the assignment 
While we understand that it is con-
templated that the Act will be largely self-enforcing, we believe the 
bill should specifically vest responsibility for investigating complaints 
of violations in the Attorney General." 
Governor Robertson read a proposed redraft of the section 
regarding the choice of implementing agency, and Governor Mitchell said 
he thought the rearrangement was an improvement, although he had mis-
givings about whether assignment of enforcement to the Attorney General 

1793 
5/8/67 
-13-
would be practical. In any event, he believed the statement should 
make it clear that the Board would undertake only rule and policy making. 
To the extent the Board's assignment under the law eventually included 
responsibilities for investigation or enforcement, he felt those func-
tions should be delegated to the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Governor Brimmer remarked that he thought it was probably 
assumed that the Board, if given responsibility for administering legis-
lation of this kind, would use the machinery of the entire System. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that a significant policy 
issue was thereby presented. He suggested that it would be well to con-
sider what would be involved, such as the size of organization that would 
be needed. 
Governor Robertson then described conferences with Board con-
sultants from which it seemed clear that it would not be possible to 
avoid dealing with specific questions, including complaints. In order 
to deal with them a sizable staff would be necessary. If the Board 
were given the implementing responsibility, without having the inves-
tigation and enforcement functions placed in the Department of Justice, 
it might be necessary to augment the staff by as many as 200 or 300 
People. However, if Justice was assigned to handle enforcement, per-
haps only about a tenth of that increase would be necessary. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that it still would be neces-
sary to have a small staff--perhaps 5 to 10 people--at each Federal 

179 
5/8/67 
-14-
Reserve Bank to review complaints before they were referred to the 
Department of Justice. Also, there were sure to be inquiries directed 
to the Federal Reserve, and it would be necessary to have employees who 
could handle them. If the Department of Justice handled enforcement, 
however, it would not be necessary for the Federal Reserve to maintain 
staff of the kind equipped to take cases to court. 
Governor Robertson agreed that it would be necessary to have a 
staff to consult with lenders or merchants who wanted to conform to the 
requirements. However, he would propose that the legislation be so 
worded that investigations and prosecution of major violations would be 
handled by the Department of Justice. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the main burden of 
staff effort would be at the outset--in helping lenders and merchants 
to understand the requirements and adapt their operations accordingly. 
A sizable staff would probably be necessary for that purpose at the 
beginning. He could not see the need for as many as 200 or 300 addi-
tional people on the Board's staff, but he could see that the Federal 
Reserve Banks collectively might have to have as many as 500 employees 
to explain the regulations and assist businessmen in adapting their 
operations. 
Mr. Shay recalled that in a letter requesting testimony by the 
Board in regard to the bill Senator Proxmire had indicated that S. 5 
"does not aim at a detailed regulation of the trade practices involved 

1795 
5/8/67 
-15-
in the extension of credit. Once appropriate regulations have been 
issued and explained to the industry, I believe the Act will be largely 
self-enforcing through the civil penalties section. Individual crimi-
nal cases can be referred to the Department of Justice for investigation 
and prosecution." 
Mr. Shay believed it was important that the bill specifically 
place investigatory and enforcement responsibility in the Department 
of Justice. Otherwise, the Department would expect that before it would 
proceed the Federal Reserve would build a case. When the Board's Regula-
tion W, relating to consumer credit, was in effect, the Federal Reserve 
had had to build cases upon which local district attorneys would proceed 
in court. Unless the responsibility for truth-in-lending enforcement 
was assigned by the law to the Department of Justice, it might be nec-
essary to build up substantial investigative staffs at the Federal 
Reserve Banks. 
Governor Sherrill, commenting that Mr. Shay's point was well 
taken, expressed the view that the administrative problems would be 
much greater than anticipated. While he was in favor of the principle 
embodied in the bill, he believed it was important to avoid, if at all 
possible, having investigative and enforcement responsibilities assigned 
to the Federal Reserve. If that could not be avoided, a large increase 
in staff would be necessary, and time and effort would have to be 
diverted from the System's principal responsibilities. Most of the 

1796 
5/8/67 
-16-
people who were hurt by deceptive interest rate practices were not the 
type who had resources to seek redress in the courts. He believed every 
effort should be made to forestall having the entire responsibility 
devolve upon the Board. 
Chairman Martin expressed the view that the Board should not 
adopt a position that looked toward delegating investigative and prose-
cuting responsibilities to the Federal Reserve Banks without consulting 
the Reserve Banks, whose directors would no doubt be reluctant to have 
the Banks assume such a responsibility in the local areas. 
Governor Mitchell commented that it would not seem reasonable 
to set up a separate organization, independent of the Federal Reserve 
Banks. He did not see how administration of the proposed legislation 
could possibly be handled without a field organization, which would be 
needed to answer questions from the public if for no other purpose. 
Since the indications were that the Reserve Banks would be called upon 
to participate in the work, he thought it would be well to have that 
clearly understood at the outset. 
Chairman Martin said the probable need to call upon the Reserve 
Banks, if the Federal Reserve had to assume responsibility for adminis-
tration, pointed up the importance of trying to have functions other 
than rule and policy making placed outside the System. 
Governor Mitchell remarked that if the administrative responsi-
bility was given to the Board, despite the Board's unwillingness, there 

1797 
5/8/67 
-17-
would be no alternative except to try to enforce the statute capably. 
Otherwise, there would be a backwash of resentment against the System. 
Chairman Martin expressed the view that it was important to 
make known to the Congress the scope of the problems that administra-
tion would create for the Federal Reserve, particularly because many of 
the operations to be regulated were far outside the banking area. If 
the System was required to enforce truth-in-lending legislation on a 
national scale, which would mean dealing with a great number of organi-
zations that had no connection with banking, it could be exposed to all 
sorts of accusations, with consequent detriment to the System and the 
conduct of its primary responsibilities. 
Governor Brimmer pointed out that the Board's present responsi-
bilities required it to administer a large body of legislation that 
required contacts not only with banks but with nonbank organizations 
such as securities dealers. He agreed that the System should not become 
involved in fighting lawsuits under the proposed legislation, but he 
could hardly imagine that the facilities of the Federal Reserve Banks 
would not be used. He visualized that each Reserve Bank would have a 
relatively small staff of analysts and lawyers who would work out pro-
cedures for compliance. When confronted with possible violations, they 
would do a minimum of investigation and then refer the cases to the 
Department of Justice through the Board. 
Governor Sherrill asked if there had been any estimates of the 
number of merchants or lenders that would be affected. An estimate of 

1798 
5/8/67 
-18-
200,000 nonbanking organizations was mentioned, which Governor Robertson 
said he believed was an understatement. 
Mr. Shay commented that there might be an available alternative 
to assignment of enforcement to the Department of Justice. A comparison 
might be drawn with the margin regulations, which were prescribed and 
interpreted by the Board but enforced by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. Perhaps the Board might here suggest that the Federal Trade 
Commission be given enforcement responsibility. No doubt the Commission 
would vigorously oppose the suggestion, and it was true that the Com-
mission's cease and desist procedures were cumbersome, but they could 
be streamlined. By contrast, the Federal Reserve Banks were not oriented 
toward investigative functions, and if they were required to engage in 
such activities it would be necessary to bring in and train new person-
nel. The only way to obtain a criminal conviction was to prove willful-
ness, and in order to do that it would be necessary to check with cus-
tomers of the alleged violator to try to establish a pattern. This 
involved a great deal of work, and work of a nature for which the 
Reserve Banks were not prepared. 
Governor Brimmer observed that the draft statement expressed 
the hope that some agency better equipped than the Board would be 
assigned to implement the proposed legislation. It appeared to him, 
however, that at present no better-equipped agency was available. 
Chairman Martin again expressed the view that the activities 
to which the proposed legislation would apply were very different from 

1799 
5/8/67 
-19-
those the Federal Reserve was designed to regulate. He reiterated that 
a grave problem could be created with respect to Reserve Bank directors. 
If the Board made certain decisions with regard to the proposed legisla-
tion and followed that by delegation of investigative and enforcement 
work to the Reserve Banks, strained relationships were likely to result 
and the difficulty of attracting capable directors would be compounded. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that a possible compromise might be 
to agree that, in addition to rule making, the Board would undertake 
enforcement only with respect to financial institutions—both bank and 
nonbank. 
Governor Brimmer observed that the point he had made was more 
narrow; whatever responsibility was assigned to the Board, he believed 
it would be necessary to create some new machinery in the Reserve Banks. 
Mr. Shay noted the possibilities of fragmentation of authority, 
following which Governor Maisel agreed with Governor Mitchell that it 
might be well to reserve a fallback proposal. If a strong recommenda-
tion that enforcement be assigned to the Department of Justice was not 
accepted, the Board might then want to propose a dividing of enforcement 
responsibility, with financial institutions assigned to the Federal 
Reserve and others elsewhere, perhaps to the Federal Trade Commission. 
References were made, in this connection, to the roles played 
by the Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission in administra-
tion and enforcement of the margin regulations. Among other things, 

1800 
5/8/67 
-20-
the much greater mass of lenders under truth-in-lending legislation was 
noted. 
Governor Robertson then suggested that the statement might rec-
ommend that all Federal agencies endeavor to obtain compliance with the 
proposed statute and regulations within the scope of their individual 
jurisdictions by submitting to the Department of Justice any information 
that came into their possession indicating possible violations. 
Mr. Cardon suggested that if the Board wished to make a strong 
effort to confine its implementing activities to rule making, it might 
wish to delete two sections of the draft statement that recommended 
amendments to S. 5 relating to administrative details. One of those 
sections recommended that the Board be authorized to act through its 
duly designated representatives and to utilize the services of the 
Federal Reserve Banks or other agencies, Federal or State, that were 
available and appropriate. Retention of that recommendation might give 
the impression that the Federal Reserve was willing to undertake a more 
extensive job than rule making. The other section recommended providing 
discretionary authority to require registration of retailers and other 
lenders. Mr. Cardon's impression was that there was no general convic-
tion among the staff regarding the purposes to be served by registration. 
Mr. Partee commented that it would be difficult to administer a 
law without knowing who was subject to it. Also, it might be useful to 
know what kinds of credit particular lenders extended. 

1801 
5/8/67 
-21-
Governor Maisel suggested that a possible middle ground would 
be to require registration of lenders who were not already supervised 
by some Federal agency. Fairly large groups of institutions would 
thereby be released from the registration requirement. 
Governor Sherrill recalled the figure of 200,000 nonbank organi-
zations that had been mentioned, and observed that the problem of regis-
tering such a number and keeping the records up to date illustrated the 
monumental size of the administrative task. 
Governor Robertson pointed out that the bill contained general 
language that might be read as providing authority to require registra-
tion, and both he and Governor Mitchell expressed the view that to raise 
the question of registration in the proposed statement might weaken the 
Board's position that it did not seek enforcement responsibility. 
It was agreed that both of the sections Mr. Cardon had mentioned 
would be deleted, Governor Robertson commenting that in any event the 
Board had authority under another statute to delegate functions to the 
Federal Reserve Banks. 
In further discussion, general agreement was expressed with a 
number of suggestions for editorial changes in the language of the draft 
statement, and it was understood that the statement would be revised in 
light of the views expressed at this meeting. 
At this point Governor Brimmer requested clarification of the 
substance of the Board's position in terms of what responsibility it 

1802 
5/8/67 
-22-
would be willing to accept under truth-in-lending legislation. As he 
understood it, the Board would be prepared to accept the responsibility 
for rule making, but it was not clear to him what other functions the 
Board would be willing to perform. 
Governor Maisel said he understood that the Board would be 
willing to accept the functions of analysis and distribution of infor-
mation but that it would not want to accept enforcement responsibility 
in terms that could be described as the role of taking violators to 
court. 
Governor Mitchell indicated that he would like to see a revised 
draft of statement incorporating the very most that the Board would be 
prepared to do, which, as he understood it, would include rule making 
and providing information about the rules. 
Governor Robertson noted that timing appeared to preclude making 
available a revised draft for further consideration by the Board inasmuch 
as he was scheduled to testify on Wednesday, May 10, and advance copies 
of his statement would have to be submitted tomorrow. 
Governor Mitchell then said that in the circumstances he would 
list the functions that, in his view, the Board should not be prepared 
to accept. These included investigation to determine whether the rules 
were being followed, investigation to build up a case for prosecution 
of a violation, and investigation to compel people to do business accord-
ing to the rules. If resistance was encountered in these regards, the 

1803 
5/8/67 
-23-
Board's enforcement functions should at least be confined to financial 
institutions. Governor Robertson commented that the latter would be a 
fallback position, and Governor Mitchell agreed. 
Chairman Martin warned that the Board should not be trapped into 
a position of being enthusiastic about undertaking enforcement responsi-
bilities, for that would involve the Federal Reserve in the affairs of 
loan sharks and numerous similar types of lending operations before it 
was through. The Board's position should be as constructive as possi-
ble, but it should take into account the manifold difficulties involved 
in administering legislation of this character. 
Mr. Hexter remarked that a large area of work related to truth-
in-lending legislation would fall between rule making and enforcement. 
For example, the section of the bill regarding regulations required that 
information on finance charges be set forth in bold type and in suffi-
cient prominence that it would not be overlooked by the person to whom 
credit was being extended. It seemed inevitable that in numerous time 
contracts customers would find the information buried in small type and 
would report the situation to the implementing agency, which would then 
be confronted with the need to get the party extending credit to change 
his form of contract. Also, it would be almost impossible to separate 
Promulgation of regulations from interpretation. Interpretation of 
clean-cut cases seemed clearly to fall within the province of the regu-
latory authority; one might like to avoid having to deal with unclear 

1804 
5/8/67 
-24-
cases, but it was difficult to say where else they should be resolved. 
Further, only through analysis of the impact of regulations on partic-
ular types of situations could the need for amending the regulations be 
disclosed. 
Governor Brimmer commented that this pointed up a fact he had 
mentioned earlier. It was difficult to see how functions such as Mr. 
Hexter had described could be passed on by the Federal Reserve to any 
other agency, and within the Federal Reserve System that would mean 
that such functions logically would be performed to a considerable 
extent at the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Governor Robertson agreed that questions of this character were 
certain to arise and that there would have to be staff at the Federal 
Reserve Banks to deal with them. However, he would hope that regula-
tions could be promulgated in such fashion that the work could be kept 
to a minimum. 
Chairman Martin again mentioned that there would be a real prob-
lem in getting the directors of the Reserve Banks to understand the role 
of the Reserve Banks in such an operation. There would be involved the 
question of the Board's making rules in Washington and passing along to 
the Reserve Banks the work involved in the implementation of those rules. 
Unless such matters were approached with great caution, they could result 
in substantial changes in the whole character of the Federal Reserve 
System. 

5/8/67 
-25-
Secretary's Note: Attached as Item 
No. 10 is a copy of the statement in 
the form in which it was subsequently 
presented by Governor Robertson to the 
Subcommittee on Financial Institutions 
of the Senate Committee on Banking and 
Currency. A copy of the statement was 
also transmitted to Chairman Patman of 
the House Committee on Banking and Cur-
rency with a letter of May 9, 1967, as 
a response to his request for the views 
of the Board on truth-in-lending bills 
pending before that Committee. 
Chairman Martin stated that there would be circulated to the 
members of the Board a letter received from CharIs E. Walker, Executive 
Vice President of the American Bankers Association, commenting on prob-
lems it was believed might attend adoption of the principle that state-
' i I 
ments of finance charges must quote an annual rate of interest. 
Foreign travel. The Board approved a recommendation by the 
Director of the Division of International Finance that Samuel Pizer, 
Senior Economist in that Division, who was to attend a meeting in Paris 
this month for which his travel expenses would be paid by the Agency for 
International Development, be authorized to spend an additional five 
days in Paris and/or London, with the Board to pay his relevant per diem 
and travel expenses. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Pursuant to the author-
ity granted by the Board on April 13, 1967, 
a letter was sent today to St. Joseph Valley 
Bank, Elkhart, Indiana, granting an extension 
of time, until June 30, 1967, for the bank to 
file a registration statement pursuant to sec-
tion 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 and Regulation F, Securities of Member 
State Banks. 

1806 
5/8/67 
-26-
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board memoranda recom-
mending the following actions relating 
to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Judith E. Herriman as Editorial Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,331, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Victoria Shipp as Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,269, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Daniel Roxon as Economist, Division of International Finance, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $18,244, effective the date of entrance 
upon duty. 
Douglas T. Noakes as Senior Federal Reserve Examiner, Division of 
Examinations, with basic annual salary at the rate of $17,198, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Walter Drake Davis as Applications Analyst, Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $14,217, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Secretary 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
5/8/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
May 8, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Community Bank of Bergen County, N.J., 
Maywood, New Jersey. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Community Bank of 
Bergen County, N.J., Maywood, New Jersey, of a branch at 
210 Rochelle Avenue, Rochelle Park, New Jersey, in con-
nection with the relocation of the bank's main office 
from that location to 125 West Pleasant Avenue, Maywood, 
New Jersey. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1808 
BDARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
I t e m No> 
2 
5/8/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
• . 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
O D H R T B P D N O I N C E 
TO T H E 
H O A R D 
May 8, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Citizens Bank of Shelby, 
Shelby, Ohio. 
Gentlemen: 
- .-h: 
i . 
; 
, 
., A- ^ ... ... 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The Citizens Bank 
of Shelby, Shelby, Ohio, of a branch at 29 Gamble Street, 
Shelby, Ohio, provided the branch is established within 
six months from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

1809 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 3 
.^'oVcoV,;.. 
O F THE 
5/8/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ft' 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R C S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
May 8, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Greenfield State Bank, 
Bakersfield, California. 
Gentlemen: 
The Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco has forwarded 
to the Board of Governors your letter dated April 19, 1967, together 
with the accompanying resolution dated April 11, 1967, signifying 
your intention to withdraw from membership in the Federal Reserve 
System and requesting waiver of the six months' notice of such 
withdrawal. 
The Board of Governors waives the requirement of six 
sS?? 8/ ?° t i C e ° f w i t h d r a w a l - 
^der the provisions of Section 
^Ub.10(c) of the Board's Regulation H, your institution may accom-
plish termination of its membership at any time within eight months 
m t h e d a t e t h a t notice of intention to withdraw from membership 
was given. Upon surrender to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco of the Federal Reserve stock issued to your institution, 
such stock will be cancelled and appropriate refund will be made 
tnereon. 
It is requested that the certificate of membership be 
returned to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
( • . 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
item No. 4 
OF t h e 
5 / 8 / 6 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
May 8, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Jasper County Savings Bank, 
Newton, Iowa. 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 24A of 
the Federal Reserve Act, the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System approves an investment in bank 
premises by Jasper County Savings Bank, Newton, Iowa, 
of not to exceed $450,000 for the purpose of 
constructing new banking quarters. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1811 
BDARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20351 
Item No. 5 
5/8/67 
A D D R E B S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
May 8, 1967. 
Bank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of April 4, 1967, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to increase its 
investment in Banca d'America e d'ltalia ("BAI"), Milan, Italy, by 
purchase of additional shares to be issued, at a cost of approxi-
mately US$548,000, provided such shares are acquired within one 
year from the date of this letter. This consent replaces the Board's 
letter of May 17, 1966, which authorized your Corporation to purchase 
additional shares of BAI at a cost of approximately US$150,000. The 
Board also approves the purchase and holding of shares of BAI in ex-
cess of 15 per cent of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans 
and investments of your Corporation, Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, and Bamerical International Financial Corpora-
tion, will not cause the total of such loans and investments to ex-
ceed the guidelines established under the voluntary foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1812 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
5/8/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
May 8, 1967. 
Bank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with your request of March 29, 1967, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for Bank of America ("B of A"), to purchase 
and hold a minimum of 81 per cent of the paid-in voting capital shares 
of Banco Guanabara, S. A. ("BGSA"), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, at a cost 
of 
up to US$2,750,000, provided such stock is acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of BGSA by B of A is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That B of A shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in BGSA if BGSA at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if BGSA establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Brazil or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to B of A; 
(2) That B of A shall not carry on its books the shares 
acquired of BGSA at a net amount in excess of its 
proportionate share of the book capital accounts of 
BGSA, after giving effect to the elimination of all 
known losses; 
(3) That, when required by the Board of Governors, B of A 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of BGSA as it may require from time to 
time; and, 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1813 
Bank of America 
-2-
(4) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
BGSA be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if BGSA were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act* 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board suspends 
until further notice the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the second 
paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions on loans 
granted by BGSA in Brazil in the currency of that country. 
The above conditions are those attached to the granting of 
consent for investments, by Corporations operating under Section 25 or 
25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, wherein control of a foreign institution 
is acquired. These conditions are currently being reviewed in general.. 
It is expected that the review will be completed at an early date and that 
the Corporations will be informed of the Board's conclusions at that time. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans and 
investments of your Corporation, Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
Association, and Bamerical International Financial Corporation, will not 
cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the guidelines 
established under the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect and that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1 8 1 4 
Item No. 7 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
5/8/67 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
FIRST WISCONSIN BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
' 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares to be 
' 
issued by Mequon National Bank, Mequon, 
1 
Wisconsin, a proposed new bank. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.4(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.4(a)), an application by First Wisconsin Bankshares 
Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
more of the voting shares to be issued by Mequon National Bank, 
Mequon, Wisconsin, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
federal Register on February 15, 1967 (32 Federal Register 2915), 

- 
2 
-
18 j 
which provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
tion. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all thcae 
received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calender day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of the 
Order, and that the Kequon National Bank shall be opened for business 
not later than six months after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 8th day of May, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and Governors 
Robertson, Shepardson, Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
Governor Sherrill did not participate in the Board's 
action in this matter. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

181.6 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
NO- 8 
5/8/67 
OF THE 
^ 
- • 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST WISCONSIN BANKSHARES CORPORATION, MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN, 
TO ACQUIRE SHARES OF MEQUON NATIONAL BANK, MEQUON, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has filed with the 
Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 
1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), an application for prior approval of the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares to be issued by 
Mequon National Bank, Mequon, Wisconsin ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
a3 of June 30, 1966, Applicant's nine subsidiary banks held deposits of 
vi.l billion 
and operated 25 offices. Bank, the proposed site of which 
ls in the City of Mequon, approximately 15 miles from downtown Milwaukee, 
Is expected to have deposits of about $4 million after three years of 
operation. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of the application was 
Siven to, and views and recommendation requested of, the Comptroller of 
the Currency. The Comptroller recommended approval. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
^at the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
y All banking data are of this date unless otherwise noted. 

1817 
- 2 -
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to atterrpt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisi-
tion, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be sub-
stantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to 
be served. In each case the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant is the 
largest of eight bank holding companies operating in the State of 
Wisconsin, with 17 per cent of total deposits and 3 per cent of the 
banking offices in the State, and the largest banking organization in 
the State and in the Milwaukee Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area 
("MSMSA"). Within the MSMSA, which is composed of Milwaukee, Ozaukee, and 
Waukesha counties, there are 62 banks with 91 offices holding combined 
deposites of $2.4 billion. The three bank holding companies operating 
in the MSMSA control 66 per cent of the area's commercial bank 
deposits. Applicant's banks hold 34 per cent of such deposits. 
While Applicant's share of the MSMSA bank deposits is substantial, 
assuming that Bank achieves the three-year deposits total of $3.9 
million projected for it by Applicant, Bank's inclusion as part of 

- 3 -
1818 
Applicant's system would increase Applicant's share of the MSMSA 
deposits by only one-quarter of 1 per cent. The actual impact on 
existing concentration would be less than indicated by the foregoing 
figures since a portion of Bank's accounts can be expected to be accounts 
transferred from Applicant's lead bank, First Wisconsin National Bank 
of Milwaukee. 
1/ 
Bank's proposed primary service area, 
commonly known as 
"East Mequon" (population 5,300), has never had, and does not now have, 
a bank. Nine banks located outside this area, ranging in size from 
$799 to $13 million, compete therein. Five of the nine banks are sub-
sidiarie s of bank holding companies--one is Applicant's bank, and two 
each are subsidiaries of the two other Milwaukee-based bank holding 
companies. The four holding company banks that compete with Applicant's 
large Milwaukee subsidiary will be affected by Applicant's ownership 
of Bank only to the extent that there will result increased competition 
for the business each may derive from the East Mequon area. 
The four independent banks that compete in Bank's proposed 
service area are well-established institutions with deposits ranging 
from $13 to $27 million. Of these, only the Thiensville State Bank 
($13 million of deposits), situated four miles west of Bank's proposed 
site, is likely to be affected to any measurable degree by consummation 
°f Applicant's proposal. It is estimated that the Thiensville State 
Bank presently obtains nearly one-fourth of the deposits originating 
The area from which it is estimated that Bank will obtain approxi-
mately 75 per cent of its deposits of individuals, partnerships, and 
corporations ("IFC deposits"). 

181.9 
- 4 -
in Bank's proposed service area, representing about 7 per cent of 
the Thiensville State Bank's total deposits. Applicant's ownership 
and operation of Bank may be expected to result in Thiensville State 
Bank losing some existing business originating in the East Mequon area, 
and in its obtaining a lesser share than at present of new business 
from that area. However, in view of the size of the Thiensville State 
Bank, the relatively small portion of its total business derived from 
the East Mequon area and its record of growth in the face of existing 
competition from the Milwaukee area banks, the Board concludes that 
consummation of Applicant's proposal will have no significant impact 
on the Thiensville State Bank. 
Regarding the effect of consummation of Applicant's proposal 
on Applicant's existing subsidiary banks, inasmuch as the proposal in-
volves the acquisition of a new bank not yet opened for business, no 
existing competition between it and Applicant's present subsidiaries 
is involved. Further, since Applicant states that Bank will not be 
established if this application is denied, the potential for future 
competition between Bank and Applicant's subsidiary banks is not an 
issue. 
In summary, it is the Board's judgment that Applicant's 
acquisition of Bank would not result in a monopoly or tend to create 
a monopoly or restrain trade in any other manner, nor would such 
acquisition result in a substantial lessening of competition in any 
relevant area. 

- 5 -
1820 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
On the basis of the record presented, including data reflecting 
Applicant's sound operation as a holding company system since 1930, 
the Board views the financial resources, management, and future pros-
pects of Applicant and its subsidiary banks as satisfactory. Bank has 
no financial history. Its management would be composed of officers 
drawn from Applicant and Applicant's banking subsidiaries, and its 
board of directors would be composed of residents of Mequon or contig-
uous communities, all of whom are successful corporate executives and 
one of whom is a director of Applicant. It is reasonably concluded 
that Bank's management will be satisfactory. Bank's initial capital 
appears adequate, and its projected earnings prospects reasonable. 
The Board finds that the financial resources and management of Bank 
will be satisfactory, and its prospects under Applicant's ownership 
would be favorable. 
Convenience and needs of the area involved. - Bank's proposed 
primary service area--East Mequon—appears to be a prosperous and 
growing residential community. As earlier noted, Mequon has never 
had a bank. It is one of but four cities in the State of Wisconsin 
with a population over 4,000 and no local bank. The Thiensville State 
Bank, as earlier stated, is the nearest bank now available to East 
Mequon businesses and residents. Although East Mequon and Thiensville 
are contiguous, they are separated by the Milwaukee River, a circum-
stance that makes somewhat inconvenient the Mequon community's access 
to the nearest existing banking facility. While the record reflects 

- 6 -
1821 
that the Milwaukee area banks, including the Thiensville State Bank, 
are serving the major banking needs of the East Mequon community, it 
is readily apparent that establishment of Bank under Applicant's 
ownership would result in a more convenient source of banking services-
to inhabitants of Bank's designated service area, and that the broader 
range of services that would be made available would be of particular 
benefit with respect to the commercial development of East Mequon now 
under way. In the Board's judgment, the foregoing considerations re-
lating to the convenience and needs of the area involved weigh in 
favor of approval of Applicant's proposal. 
Conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant facts contained 
in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) 
of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that Applicant's proposal is 
in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
Hay 3, 1967. 

1822 
*AL RES^ 
BOARD DF G P V E R N • R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
5/8/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
May 9, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
There Is attached a letter regarding the accounting 
treatment of (1) profits and losses on sales of securities, and 
(2) tax-exempt Income, which the Board will appreciate your 
transmitting over your signature to each State member bank in 
your District under date of May 16, 1967. 
While the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and 
Comptroll er of the Currency are transmitting similar letters 
directly from their Washington offices to the banks under their 
supervision, it seems preferable that the letters to State 
member banks be transmitted by the Reserve Banks. 
For your information, but not for forwarding with the 
letter to ail State member banks, there is also attached a staff 
memorandum discussing the two points dealt with in the letter. 
Secretary. 
Attachments 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

Letter to be Sent by Reserve Bank President to All State Member Banks 
1 . 8 ^ 3 
May 16, 1967. 
To the Chief Executive Officer 
of the Bank addressed: 
A number of inquiries have been received by the Federal 
Reserve and the other Federal bank supervisory agencies concerning 
the proposed practice of certain banks of deferring and amortizing 
profits and losses on sales of securities. The proposed practice 
of certain banks of converting tax-exempt revenues to a fully taxable 
basis in the preparation of income reports required by the bank 
regulatory agencies has also been brought to the attention of the 
supervisory agencies. 
Accordingly, on behalf of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, we are informing all State member banks of 
the Federal Reserve System in this District that (1) the deferring 
and amortizing of profits and losses on security sales, and (2) the 
conversion of tax-exempt revenues to a fully taxable basis In bank 
reports of income do not conform to current regulatory instructions 
of the Federal bank supervisory agencies for the preparation of bank 
financial statements. Although these proposed practices have some 
merit as methods of supplementing other information for certain 
analytical purposes, it has not been demonstrated that the practices 
are accurate or desirable methods of reporting the earnings and 
condition of banks. A similar letter Is being sent to insured non-
member banks by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and to 
national banks by the Comptroller of the Currency. 
A reexamination and evaluation of current bank accounting 
programs and financial reporting practices and of new concepts In 
these areas is being conducted by a committee consisting of represent-
atives of the three Federal bank supervisory agencies. All banks will 
be promptly notified if any changes affecting the reporting of items 
In bank financial statements are adopted. 
Your continued cooperation in observing current reporting 
instructions on these items pending a thorough review of the Issues 
will be greatly appreciated. 
Sincerely yours, 

TWO PROPOSED BANK ACCOUNTING PRACTICES 
1824 
Two proposed bank accounting practices have recently 
received staff consideration. After an intensive joint inter-agency 
review, it was the unanimous staff view that such practices would be 
contrary to current regulatory instructions for the preparation of 
bank financial statements, and that they should not be permitted with-
out much stronger demonstrations of their value. The Securities and 
Exchange Commission, represented by its Chief Accountant, participated 
in the review and concurred in the conclusions. The two proposals are 
discussed separately below. 
Deferment^and Amortization of Gains or Losses on Sales of Securities 
It has long been customary to reflect the gains or losses on 
sales of securities in the year in which the sale occurs. This has 
been true not only for banks, but also for other industries. 
Because such gains and losses can vary widely from one year 
to another, some banks have proposed to "smooth" the item by deferring 
and amortizing it over a period of years--one such possible period being 
the remaining life of the security sold. Proponents argue that this 
gives a clearer picture of the performance of management, especially 
since losses may have been taken in order to reinvest at higher yields. 
However, such "smoothed" figures do not give an accurate picture 
of what has happened to bank earnings during the year, or of the bank's 
net worth at the end of the year. Moreover, if securities are sold at a 
loss in order to reinvest at a higher yield, there is no assurance that 

- 2 -
1825 
the bank will earn the higher yield over the remaining life of the 
security sold--the new asset may well be paid off earlier at a time 
when rates have declined. Accordingly, while the whole subject will 
receive further study, there does not appear to be justification for 
permitting the proposed accounting practice at this time. 
Conversion of Tax-Exempt Income to Fully Taxable Basis 
The proposed practice of converting tax-exempt revenues to a 
fully taxable basis in bank income reports would not reflect actual 
revenues earned by the bank. True, the figures for net operating 
earnings would not be affected since the adjustment to the revenue 
accounts would be offset by a corresponding increase in the amount 
shown for applicable income tax; however, the practice would unneces-
sarily disturb the historical value of financial statements. Similar 
information is supplementally furnished in many annual reports distributed 
to the stockholders of banks, and this method of presentation avoids dis-
tortion of financial statements. 
The proposed practice would change the financial statements 
themselves to show more income than actually earned and more taxes than 
actually incurred. It would conflict with present regulatory instructions 
and seems unwarranted in principle. 

— — — ' — — i 
1826 
Item No. 10 
5/8/67 
For release on delivery 
Statement of J. L. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
before the 
Subcommittee on Financial Institutions 
of the 
Senate Banking and Currency Committee 
on 
S. 5-
• • ' 7 
May 10, 1967 

1827 
The Board of Governors appreciates this opportunity to present 
its views on S. 5, the Truth in Lending Act. We believe that important 
social as well as economic benefits may be expected to flow from a more 
effective disclosure of credit costs to consumers. 
You have said, Mr. Chairman, that the purpose of the bill is 
to bring about "full disclosure of the cost of credit so that the con-
sumer can make an intelligent choice in the market place". The Board 
agrees that as reasonable and workable ways are found to accomplish 
this objective the market system will function more efficiently. In 
che field of consumer credit existing trade practices generally fall 
short of the kind of disclosure that facilitates meaningful comparison 
shopping. We also agree with the principle stated in section 2 of the 
bill that competition would be strengthened by a more informed use of 
consumer credit. 
The price system is a fundamental attribute of a free-
enterprise, competitive economy. The sale of goods and services in 
exchange for money is the method by which the vast majority of trans-
itions are consummated, and permits a degree of specialization—with 
its resulting efficiencies--that otherwise would be impossible. And 
f°r this system to function most effectively, it is necessary that the 
Prices at which goods and services are available be stated by the seller, 
and known to the buyer, in standardized, meaningful terms. It is in 
this way that the buyer can be informed of his options—among both com-
peting sellers and competing services—so that he may use his purchasing 
P°Wer in what to him is the most desirable way. The objective of S. 5, 

1828 
-2-
with which the Board is in full agreement, is to see that such informa-
tion is provided with respect to the use of credit. It does not purport 
K 
to impose rate ceilings or any other restraints on terms and conditions, 
but only to assure full disclosure of the price charged for credit. 
Prices of goods and services are usually stated in money terms 
(a point made frequently during these hearings) but a meaningful price 
comparison requires also some knowledge about the service to be acquired; 
namely, quantity und, where applicable, quality and duration of use. 
Nhen the service to be acquired is the use of consumer credit, quantity 
and duration of use are the important variables. Duration of use is 
the period for which the credit is extended, of course, and quantity 
is the amount of credit used on average over this period. It is cus-
tomary in finance to standardize the time-period variable by stating 
Price in terms of charge per year, and the quantity variable by stating 
Price per hundred dollars, 
disclosure of Annual Percentage Rate 
Now it would be possible to meet this price specification 
standard by stating the price of credit as dollars and cents per hundred 
dollars borrowed on average per year. But this is a complex form of 
statement, and it produces exactly the same result as the use of a per-
centage rate. That is, on a 1 year loan of $1000, payable in equal 
Monthly instalments and carrying a charge of $60 (a so-called 6 per 
cent add-on loan), the charge per annum on the average amount of loan 
Mailable to the borrower may be stated at the standardized rate of 
either $10.90 per hundred dollars or 10.9 per cent. 

The important point here is that the borrower has available 
for use, over the life of the loan, not $1000 but an average of $541.90, 
because each monthly payment includes repayment of principal as well as 
interest. The Board believes that to state the standardized charge as 
applying to anything other than the average amount of credit available 
to the borrower would distort the true relationship between cost and 
benefit received. The Board is also convinced that it is preferable 
to state the charge in percentage rather than dollar terms, and on an 
annual basis rather than for some other period. This would facilitate 
comparison with other financial prices, such as the percentage charge 
°n single-payment loans, the interest rate paid on savings accounts, 
and the yield available to investors on Government bonds and other 
securities. Thus, we are in basic agreement with the provisions of 
S* 5 in these respects. 
Ue also agree that the charge should be calculated on an 
Actuarial rather than a constant-ratio or other basis. Again, it is 
question of accuracy--disclosure of the truth--that leads us to 
favor this approach. On a 5-year, 6 per cent "add-on" monthly reduc-
tion loan (not uncommon in the home modernization field), the true 
c^arge per annum is 10.35 per cent while the calculation on a constant 
ratio basis would produce a rate of 11.30 per cent--nearly 1 point 
higher. The reason for the difference is that the constant ratio 
Method assumes that the proportion of each payment applied to interest 

1830 
-4-
is the same. In the actuarial method, the monthly payment is applied 
first to interest, and second to the outstanding--and gradually de-
clining—credit balance. 
The Board also agrees that the rate of finance charge need 
be specified only within "reasonable tolerances", as provided in the 
bill. 
But we believe that Congress should decide, at least in the 
first instance, what constitutes a reasonable tolerance. We therefore 
reconmend a statutory provision permitting the rounding of the annual 
Percentage rate to the nearest whole per cent. This is a small devia-
tion--vicwed in terms of the usual levels of consumer finance charges--
it would make possible the use of standard tables in finding the 
rate to be disclosed in the vast majority of credit transactions. 
also recommend, however, that authority be granted to provide 
^ider tolerances if experience indicates that this would materially 
Amplify the problem of disclosure in difficult cases. 

1831 
-5-
Irregular Payments 
The Board is inclined to believe that the problem of 
irregular payments, by and large, is capable of practical solution. 
In the first place, permitting rounding to the nearest whole per 
cent in the rate disclosure will take care of most of the credit 
contracts that contain minor irregularities. And contracts calling 
for the deferment of payments or a final larger "balloon" payment 
appear to lend themselves to use of special tables or relatively 
simple adjustment calculations. 
For the remaining cases--we hope they are relatively few--
the calculation problem could be a good deal more difficult. Where 
a lender does an appreciable amount of business involving a fairly 
common irregularity, such as skipping summer payments for school 
teachers or patterning payments to the seasonal cash receipts of 
farmers, special rate tables can no doubt be designed. But for 
highly personalized contracts involving, say, a deferred payment 
schedule, a number of skips, irregular payment amounts, and a bal-
loon payment at the end, the lender would seem to have no recourse 
except to compute the rate of finance charge by hand, a process 
^hich could be quite difficult. Although rate calculation for such 
contracts is technically possible, many lenders certainly would 
resist writing them. Thus, it seems to us inescapable that some 
tendency towards use of standardized finance terms must be antici-
pated, and that this should be taken into account in the Committee's 
consideration of the bill. 

18 
-6-
Rjvolving Open-end Credit 
Among the difficult problems brought out in these hearings 
those involved in the disclosure of finance charges on revolving 
open-end credit. First, it has been argued that the annual rate 
that the customer \7ill pay cannot be calculated in advance, because 
the time that will elapse from date of purchase to date of repayment 
is not known in advance. Second, more than one method is commonly used 
computing the base to which the finance rate will be applied. Third, 
some plans call for annual fees, minimum charges, etc., which cannot be 
converted into an annual percentage rate. These variations complicate 
the comparison of finance rates charged by different establishments, as 
W e U as those charged for different types of credit. Yet the need re-
nins: Users of revolving credit--like the users of any other form of 
consumer credit--should understand the credit costs that they will pay. 
In view of these problems, how can the revolving credit cus-
tomer have a clear awareness of the terms under which he buys or borrows? 
believe this can be largely accomplished--although not entirely—by 
requiring such terms to be disclosed at the time he opens a revolving 
credit account. The disclosure required should include the duration 
any free period allowed, the method of computing the balance against 
^ich the charge is imposed, the periodic rate and the annual percentage 
bivalent, and the minimum and special charges (if any). It would be 
entir ely appropriate for a store to give new customers a little leaflet, 
Such as the one you have seen that was printed by the National Shawmut 
of Boston, explaining the advantages of that store's credit plan 
°Ver alternative plans. 

-7-
1833 
In addition to the original complete statement of terms and 
conditions, a brief disclosure of the essentials should be included in 
the monthly bill. For example, the following information might be 
Pointed at the bottom of each monthly statement: 
" - No finance charge is made for the period from pur-
chase until billing date, nor is any finance charge 
made for 30 days thereafter if the account is paid 
in full within that period. 
- If payment in full is not received within 30 days 
of billing date, a charge will be made of 1-1/2 
per cent of the opening balance of this bill. 
- A charge of 1-1/2 per cent per month is equivalent 
to a rate of 18 per cent per year," 
The first sentence points out that the lender provides a 
free period", during which no finance charge is imposed. The second 
Sentence explains the charge that will be imposed if the free period 
is exceeded. You will note that this second sentence is quite similar 
to those now used by many stores not subject to special disclosure laws, 
e*cept that it adds a statement of the base to which the finance charge 
applied. In a store using an adjusted balance method, this sentence 
v,0^ld be expanded to add, for example, the words "less any payments or 
^chandise returns"—underlined if the store wishes. The third sen-
d e e points out to the user the annual equivalent of the stated monthly 
f n * . 
c e. If there are any minimum or special charges, these would be noted 
a fourth sentence. 
Each of these sentences would disclcse necessary information. 
K en together, we believe they would give the credit user a picture 
^ t is fair to the store, informative to the customer, useful in com-
b i n g charges from store to store, and broadly comparable to other 
tat 
charged for credit or paid on savings. 

-3< 
18 
Before turning to our other recommendations, we should like 
to emphasize again what all members of this Committee fully recognize--
namely, that this bill is not a cure-all for the myriad abuses practiced 
by some in the lending of money or sale of merchandise on credit. Thus, 
s. 5 will not (and it would seem impossible to make it) cover the mer-
chant who sells only on a time-price basis or who marks up the prices 
°f his goods to compensate for a lower finance charge; it will have 
Very little influence on cash lenders who advance small amounts at very 
high rates; it will provide little assistance to the consumer who pays 
no attention to what he signs or to the impact of the commitments he 
®akes on his future financial condition. Uhat the bill can accomplish 
l s the disclosure, in the bulk of transactions, of the amount and rate 
o f finance charge on which credit may be obtained. It is only one 
step..though an essential one--in the process of consumer education 
and the increased awareness that is required, 
definition of Credit 
Section 3(2) incorporates a definition of "credit" that \;as 
°riginally developed or designed for a different purpose, the selective 
te8ulation of down payments and maturities for credit in emergency 
s*tuations. Some of the specified categories cover matters that it 
^°uld seem unnecessary or impractical to cover under a credit-cost 
disclosure bill. This would seem true particularly of the definition 
f 
credit" to include "any contract or arrangement for the hire, 
Ailment, o r leasing of property". As to such transactions, it would 
impossible to attribute or determine a "finance charge". Similar 

1835 
-9-
questions can be raised as to inclusion in the definition of such things 
a s options, demands, liens, and pledges. 
We believe it would be preferable to define credit as "the 
right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt or to 
incur debt and defer its payment", followed by an enumeration of some 
the important types of credit listed in section 3(2) of the present 
kill. The quoted definition--which has been proposed in connection 
^ith the Uniform Consumer Credit Code now being drafted by the National 
Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws—is sufficiently 
to cover any situation within what we conceive to be the purpose 
and intent of S. 5. It would eliminate any concern as to categories 
o f transactions whose inclusion in the present definition might seem 
to be questionable. 
^SSRtion of Small Credits and Charges 
I am sure that none of us wants to press disclosure of credit 
c°sts to the point where borrowers are denied access to credit at any 
Price. But there is one area where disclosure of an annual percentage 
rato might do just that. In a closed-end credit transaction involving 
small amount, a high effective rate may be justified to compensate 
the creditor for the relatively high out-of-pocket costs of handling 
th 
G transaction. However, he may be understandably reluctant to dis-
clo 
o sc the very high rate--perhaps 50 or 100 per cent—and might decide 
•J 
* 
^stoad simply to discontinue this type of credit transaction. 
For some borrowers, unable to obtain open-end credit 
aCcommodation or not having access to small cash loans, the need to 

1 8 
-10-
make relatively small purchases on credit may be great indeed. It may 
also be argued that a small finance charge--in dollar amount--is not of 
great significance to the credit user regardless of the effective rate 
°f finance charge. Therefore, we would be disposed to see closed-end 
credit transactions involving a small amount--perhaps under $100—and 
a small total finance charge--perhaps under $10--exempted from the 
disclosure requirements. But we think Congress should make the decision 
and, if it agrees, should incorporate the specific exemption in S. 5. 
Exemption of First Mortgage Loans 
The Board recommends that the bill be amended to exclude 
first mortgage real-estate loans, on the ground that there is already 
reasonable disclosure in this field. The first mortgage contract 
usually specifies the interest charge in terms of annual percentage 
rate on the outstanding balance, and full details of one-time costs 
are customarily given, in dollars and cents, at the time the loan is 
closed. 
The typical first mortgage loan has an original maturity of 
to 30 years, as contrasted with much shorter maturities for consumer 
instalment credit. This fact, and the fact that most first mortgage 
loans arc repaid well in advance of the original maturity, lead us to 
conclude that disclosure requirements developed for relatively short-
terin credit are inappropriate for first mortgage loans. In the first 
Piace, to require that the annual percentage rate be recomputed to 
Reflect costs incidental to the extension of credit would involve par-
ticularly troublesome questions in first mortgage lending because of 

-11-
the number and variety of the costs assessed at closing, many of which 
would be incurred, in whole or in part, by a prudent cash buyer where 
no credit was extended. Second, while it would be possible to spread 
discounts and other credit-related costs over the life of the contract 
as a part of the annual rate of finance charge, we feel that this might 
tend to mislead the borrower. Such charges are in the nature of "sunk 
cost" and are borne in full by the borrower whether the loan is repaid 
in 1 year or 30. Third, to require disclosure of total dollar finance 
charge, including interest payable over the whole life of the contract, 
might be more misleading than helpful. As has been pointed out in 
these hearings, the present value of a dollar of interest to be paid 
20 to 30 years hence is substantially less than one dollar, and rela-
tively few first mortgage contracts appear to be carried all the way 
to maturity. 
The Board does believe, however, that second mortgage loans 
an<i similar transactions should be retained within the scope of S. 5. 
Such credits typically are extended for a much shorter term than first 
Mortgages, and discounts, fees, and charges can make up a much larger 
Proportion of total finance charges. Moreover, second mortgage credit 
is often obtained for purposes such as home modernization, durable 
Soods purchases, and debt consolidation—consumer transactions of the 
type usually financed with consumer instalment credit. 

1838 
-12-
Business Credit Exemption 
The Board recommends that the exemption in section 8(1) of 
extensions of credit to "business firms" be revised to exclude, instead, 
credit extended to corporations and partnerships and all credits that 
exceed $20,000. We agree that credit extended for most business pur-
Poses should be excluded from the Act, but we are concerned about the 
difficulty of applying a purpose test for the many small businesses 
and farm operations in which expenditures for household and business 
Purposes are closely associated and often intermingled. Such purchases 
a s transportation and refrigeration equipment (or miscellaneous purchases 
from mail-order concerns) often serve both household and business uses, 
and such items are frequently purchased on the same instalment credit 
terms as strictly household goods. Furthermore, many small business 
an<* farm operators need the protection of full disclosure of credit 
c°sts as much as do purely household consumers. 
This reasoning leads us to suggest rewording the exemption 
along the lines I have mentioned. The disclosure provisions would 
apply to credit extended to most small business and farm operators, 
but not to larger businesses and agricultural operations. This would 
avoid unnecessary burdens and reduce administrative problems, while 
conforming to the objective of the bill in providing for full disclosure 
to those credit customers who need it most. Discretionary authority to 
^crease the dollar limitation by regulation would also be desirable, 
since experience or changing conditions may indicate a need for a higher 
filing. 

1839 
-13-
Excluslon from "Finance Charge" of Insurance Premiums, Taxes, and 
Offi cial Fees 
One of the issues that has proved troublesome during these 
hearings has been the question of how to treat insurance premiums on 
Policies taken out by borrowers as a condition of, and covering the 
amount of, the credit contract. If such insurance is required, the 
borrower bears a cost which probably would not have been incurred if 
n° credit were obtained. Moreover, exclusion of insurance from the 
finance charge creates a potential area of abuse, since some lenders 
^ay be encouraged to promote high-cost insurance to compensate for a 
somewhat lower finance charge. 
The fact remains, however, that any insurance provides a 
benefit to the borrower over and above the use of credit. To require 
that the finance charge include insurance premiums would overstate the 
actual charge for credit. Therefore, we think that the cost of any 
ki 
nd of insurance is not properly regarded as part of the finance 
charge, and should be specifically excluded in S. 5. Similarly, we 
that the statute should specifically exclude official fees and 
taXes from the "finance charge", since generally they benefit neither 
Cre<Htor nor borrower, are not within their control, and are the same 
tegardless of the source and terms of the credit. Both types of charge 
sh 
be 
required to be itemized among the non-finance charges that 
U 8 t be disclosed pursuant to section 4(a)(4). 

1840 
-14-
Mall and Telephone Sales 
Under section 4(a) a seller on credit is required, prior to 
consummation of the sale, to furnish the customer "a clear statement 
in writing" setting forth specified information. It seems to us that 
compliance with this section generally would not be feasible where a 
customer orders goods or services by mail or telephone. 
Appropriate allowance for this situation might be patterned 
after the 1966 Massachusetts statute (Chap. 255D, subsection F of 
Section 9). Thus, there might be added to section 4(a) of S. 5 an 
e*ception for mail or telephone orders given without personal solicita-
tion by a representative of the creditor, if the cash and deferred 
Payment prices and the terms of financing are clearly set forth in the 
creditor's catalog or other printed material distributed to the public, 
a n d if the creditor delivers to the customer before the date for payment 
o f the first instalment on the purchase a written statement setting forth 
information required to be disclosed by section 4(a). 
^jggption of Registered Broker-Dealers 
Section 8(b) exempts "transactions in securities or 
Cottanodities in accounts by a broker-dealer registered with" the SEC. 
know of no reason for such an exemption, and suggest that the 
c°nanittee consider whether it should be eliminated. 

1841 
-15-
Itates with Substantially Similar Laws 
We believe that section 6(b) of the bill should be modified. 
That section now provides that the implementing agency shall exempt 
from the Act any credit transactions "which it determines are effec-
tively regulated under the laws of any State so as to require the 
disclosure by the creditor of the same information" as required under 
S. 5. We seriously doubt that a Federal agency should be called upon 
to judge how effectively State laws in this field are enforced, par-
ticul arly where, as in the case of S. 5, they are enforced in the 
courts. Action at the State level should be encouraged, not dis-
couraged, by enactment of S. 5, and it should be made clear that the 
States need not follow precisely the provisions of this bill. You 
have indicated during the hearings, Mr. Chairman, that this is your 
intent, but we think it should be spelled out in the bill. The Board 
recommends, therefore, that section 6(b) be amended to exempt trans-
actions that are determined to be "subject to State law that requires 
J 
disclosure substantially similar" to that required under S. 5. 
Effective Date 
Section 9 of the bill provides that the disclosure require-
ments shall take effect 180 days after enactment. This period may 
Prove to be too short. Sufficient time should be allowed to permit 
c°nsultation, preparation and publication of the regulations, and a 
Period during which those subject to the regulations may study their 
Provisions, procure rate tables, and train their personnel in the new 
Procedures. We urge you to amend section 9 so as to make the disclosure 

1842 
-16-
requirements effective at a time to be prescribed in the regulations, 
^ t in no event later than one year from enactment of the law, 
implementing Agency 
Let me turn now to the question of what agency should be 
designated to prescribe regulations to implement this legislation. 
The Board's familiarity with the trade practices that would be subject 
to regulation under this legislation is very limited. Its regulatory 
resPOnsibilities are principally confined to banks. We do collect 
consumer credit statistics as a part of our responsibility for moni-
toring flows of consumer credit along with other kinds of credit, 
^fld we have developed sources of data on current trends in all finan-
cl-al markets so as to be continuously informed of the flow and terms 
credit needs and uses by the economy as a whole. But this experience, 
^Ipful though it is in meeting our responsibilities in the field of 
Monetary policy, has not prepared us for implementing with appropriate 
te8ulations the type of legislation before you today. Administration 
of a law such as S, 5 is a function essentially different from the 
Unctions that Congress heretofore has considered appropriate for the 
Pcderal Reserve System. 
Formulating regulations under this bill would involve the 
°ard in time-consuming consideration of trade practices about which 
W g have very little knowledge and would thereby diminish the time we 
a n devote to the formulation of monetary policy—our principal 
resPonsibility. 

1843 
-17-
However, we believe the need for legislation of this kind 
is great. If the Congress decides to designate the Board as the agency 
to prescribe regulations to implement this bill, we will do our best to 
carry out the assignment, but we hope that in time either the States 
will promulgate substantially similar disclosure requirements, leading 
to exemptions under section 6(b), or administration of Federrl disclosure 
requirements will be reassigned to an agency better suited to perform 
the function. 
The task of implementing this proposed lax; will be complicated 
not only by our lack of knowledge in this field but also by the fact 
that the Board has no trained investigative staff at its command to 
determine whether the Act and the regulations are being complied with. 
Consequently, we would hope that our only function under this legisla-
tion would be to prescribe regulations to implement it in a manner 
^signed to cope with special situations and to prevent evasions. We 
are aware that it is contemplated that the Act will be largely self-
/ 
enforcing, but we recommend that responsibility for enforcement and 
investigation of complaints be vested specifically in the Department 
of Justice or the Federal Trade Commission. A similar division of 
regulatory and enforcement responsibility was made between the Board 
and the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to margin 
requirements for securities transactions. We also hope that Congress 
express its desire that all Federal agencies endeavor to secure 
with the law by lenders and sellers subject to their 

184 4 
-18-
jurisdlction and transmit information indicating violations directly 
to the Department of Justice or the Federal Trade Commission for 
investigation and appropriate action, 
i^ninistrative Provisions 
Let me mention briefly a few amendments we recommend in the 
Provisions of section 5, which relate to administration of the Truth 
in Lending Act. 
Section 5 provides that the regulations prescribed by the 
implementing agency "may contain such classifications and differentia-
tions . . . as in the judgment of the" agency are necessary or proper, 
recommend that after the word "differentiations" there be added 
ii 
» may provide appropriate rules therefor," to make it clear that any 
class of persons or transactions may be subject to special rules ap-
Propriate to that class. 
The last sentence of section 5(a) provides that, in 
Ascribing any exceptions under the bill, the implementing agency 
shall consider whether . . . compliance is being achieved under any 
other Act of Congress." To make it clear that the authority to make 
exceptions is not limited to that situation, we recommend that after 
the word "consider" the phrase ", among other things," be inserted. 
Section 5 provides that the implementing agency "shall 
Request the views of other Federal agencies exercising regulatory 
Unctions with respect to creditors" subject to the legislation. The 
®°ard assumes that any agency preparing regulations to implement the 
kill would, as a matter of course, seek comments and assistance from 

-19-
other agencies that might be affected or might possess relevant 
information. We are concerned, however, that a mandatory requirement 
to this effect might result in the voiding of a regulation on the 
ground that an agency with some related functions had been overlooked 
in the consultation process. We suggest, therefore, that the quoted 
Provision be deleted. 
A measure such as S. 5 obviously will depend for its success 
largely upon the cooperation of the various classes of businesses 
affected. Therefore, the agency that prescribes the regulations 
necessarily will consult with representatives of the creditors to 
whom the bill would apply in order to develop regulations that are 
a s simple and effective as possible. The agency should endeavor not 
°nly to tap the best sources of business advice but also specialists 
c 
rom the non-business sphere. The Board, accordingly, sees no need 
fcn establish an advisory committee as provided in section 5(c) and 
it 
seems particularly doubtful that the best sources of advice would 
available at $25 per day. 
We appreciate the cooperation that the Committee and its 
staff have already extended, Mr. Chairman, in connection with these 
bearings, and we are eager to assist in any way possible your efforts 
to Perfect the bill. Members of our staff will gladly consult with 
t h e Committee's staff to that end. 
