FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
June 1, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
• is 
' 
.t. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
'. . .. ki.'IH C J, L > O '' 
7 
1 ' 
2. 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes. 

1684 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, June 1, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mrs. Byrn, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
The usual weekly economic and financial review was presented; 
copies of the statistical charts and tables prepared for the purpose of 
the review and copies of the individual briefings have been placed in 
the Board's files. 
After discussion based on the review, the meeting continued with 
limited staff attendance. 
Mr. Robert Solomon commented in more detail than had been given 
during the staff review on the decision by Canada, announced May 31, to 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1685 
6/1/70 
-2-
allow its currency to "float", at least temporarily, in the foreign 
exchange market instead of being tied to a fixed parity. 
Governor Daane then summarized the nature of discussions held 
within the Government and within the International Monetary Fund over 
the weekend prior to the Canadian announcement. 
In the light of questions raised during the discussion that 
followed, it was understood that the Division of International Finance 
would make available for the information of the Board members a system-
atic presentation of developments in regard to the Canadian balance of 
payments. 
Members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Kenyon then 
withdrew. 
Governor Robertson reported receipt of advice that Chairman Leach 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis was seriously ill and felt 
that he should resign his position as Chairman of the Bank. Deputy Chair-
man Lilly and President Galusha felt otherwise, and they had suggested 
that a letter might be sent from the Board to Mr. Leach expressing the 
hope that he would not resign. 
Governor Robertson had suggested instead 
that they express their view to Mr. Leach and indicate that it was con-
curred in by the Board. 
There was agreement that the advice given by Governor Robertson 
had been appropriate. 

imti 
6/1/70 
-3-
Governor Robertson also reported on discussions that had 
occurred within the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation with 
respect to the regulation of bank subordinated debentures, particularly 
in the light of comments received following publication of the Board's 
notice of proposed rule making. 
A position had now been arrived at 
within the Committee, and it was necessary to determine whether that 
position was acceptable to the Board. 
If it was, the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board would proceed 
with steps looking toward the issuance of regulations. 
A staff memoran-
dum reviewing the matter in detail would be distributed to the Board 
shortly, in order that the subject could be considered at a meeting when 
all Board members were available. 
Governor Sherrill then commented on certain matters that had 
arisen during his recent visit to attend a joint meeting of the directors 
of the Chicago Reserve Bank and the Detroit Branch. 
Among other things, 
he reported concern on the part of directors, during a discount window 
discussion, with respect to the condition of the Birmingham Bloomfield 
Bank, Birmingham, Michigan, a nonmember Parsons Group bank, which appar-
ently had been having funds passed through to it by Bank of the Common-
wealth, Detroit, a member bank which was also included in the Parsons 
Group. 
The directors, he said, felt that their concern should be made 
known to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and he proposed to 
do so through the Division of Supervision and Regulation. 

I f i 8 7 
6/1/70 
-4-
It was agreed that this would be appropriate and that in 
addition Governor Robertson would communicate with FDIG Chairman Wille 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
