3 
: 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 20, 1968 
. 
.1.' • 
C••"* ii,! 
, • t • <.•/„• 
• 
- v . 
' 
J. 
. :Z 
: X • 
' 
. o y n "
 
v
 s. A • • • r. :ir, 
.• 
.i 
i
 1
 I
 :
 
11 c i * /'<• 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, September 20, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m . 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Brill, 
Partee, and Shull of the Division of Research and Statistics then 
withdrew from the meeting, as did Mr. Morgan, and the following 
entered: 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

o o 
9/20/68 
-2-
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders of the Legal Division 
Mr. Lawrence of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco 
on September 19, 1968, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of National Savings Bank, 
New Haven, Connecticut, into The Connecticut Savings Bank of New 
Haven, also of New Haven, Connecticut, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The con-
clusion read as follows: 
The proposed merger of Connecticut Savings 
Bank of New Haven and National Savings Bank, both 
of New Haven, Connecticut, would eliminate a sig-
nificant amount of existing competition and would 
increase further the concentration of banking 
resources in the New Haven area. The overall 
competitive effect of the proposed merger would 
be substantially adverse. 
S. 3133. The Board approved unanimously a letter to the 
Bureau of the Budget recommending Presidential approval of enrolled 
bill S. 3133, "To extend for one year the authority to limit the 

9/20/68 
-3-
rates of interest or dividends payable on time and savings deposits 
and accounts, and for other purposes." 
The Board decided to include in the letter a reiteration of 
the view that flexible authority to control interest rates along the 
lines authorized by the enrolled bill should be made permanent. 
A copy of the approved letter to the Bureau, assent, is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Regulatory and supervisory relationships. When the Board 
earlier considered a recommendation of the Committee on Bank Super-
vision and Legislation of the Conference of Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks for the establishment of a combined Reserve Bank-Board 
staff task force to study current problems of regulatory and super-
visory relationships with member banks, it decided that it would be 
desirable to obtain a sharper delineation of the specific questions 
that the task force would be asked to consider. Accordingly, members 
of the Board's staff had met with members of the Conference Committee 
and the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Bank Supervision and Legisla-
tion. 
The outcome of the meeting was summarized in a memorandum from 
Mr. Hackley dated September 16, 1968. One of the attachments thereto 
was a letter dated September 5, 1968, in which President Coldwell, 
Chairman of the Committee on Bank Supervision and Legislation, dis-
cussed the objectives of the proposed study and submitted an outline 

o o L l Q 
9/20/68 
-4-
of basic problems in which the principal headings were as follows: 
I. Regulatory relationships. 
A . 
Policy. 
B. 
Implementation. 
II. Supervisory relationships. 
A . 
Policy. 
B . 
Implementation. 
In discussion, several members of the Board expressed doubt 
as to the appropriateness of study by a joint staff task force of 
problems of the kind comprehended under I-A of the outline. It was 
suggested that it would be preferable to invite the Presidents of 
the Reserve Banks to submit views or suggestions directly to the 
Board, where such views or suggestions could be analyzed by the 
Board's staff and submitted to the Board for consideration with the 
staff's recommendations. 
As to the problems comprehended under the remaining sections 
of the outline, question was raised whether it might not be better to 
have a Reserve Bank task force make a study independently and for the 
Presidents then to submit the results of the study to the Board. How-
ever, it developed to be the prevailing opinion that it would be 
satisfactory to have members of the Board's staff join in a task force 
study of problems in those areas, and the following representation 
was decided upon: Mr. Hackley, Mr. Solomon of the Division of 

3519 
9/20/68 
-5-
Supervision and Regulation, and an officer of the Division of Research 
and Statistics to be selected by the Director of that Division, with 
the understanding that the representatives named were authorized to 
select alternates as necessary. 
It was understood that the sense of the Board's discussion 
would be transmitted to President Coldwell by letter, and a copy of 
the letter sent to him pursuant to this understanding is attached as 
Item No. 2 . 
Allocation of staff resources. In a memorandum dated 
September 9, 1968, Mr. Brill referred to the lack of staff resources 
in the Banking Markets Section to cope with the current and prospec-
tive volume of merger and bank holding company cases coming before the 
Board for decision and also the requests from other agencies for 
reports on competitive factors. He suggested that the Section be 
allowed to discontinue active participation in the competitive factor 
report cases for a period of approximately six months, except that 
it would review specific cases as requested by the Board, provide 
independent judgments to the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
in close cases on request, and continue to provide guidance to the 
Research Departments of the Reserve Banks. 
As an alternative, Mr. Brill suggested that if the Board 
desired the Section could continue to review all draft reports 
developed by the Division of Supervision and Regulation and provide 
the Division with its comments. 

f—<r> 
oa.cO 
9/20/68 
-6-
In a memorandum dated September 13, Governor Brimmer suggested 
borrowing economists from Reserve Banks until the resources of the 
Banking Markets Section could be enlarged. 
At today's meeting the problem was reviewed and Governor Maisel, 
after referring to a preliminary discussion of the matter at the 
September 16 meeting, outlined a plan under which the Banking Markets 
Section would screen all incoming cases and then withdraw from further 
participation in them if it appeared that the competitive effect of 
the proposed transaction would be no more than slightly adverse. 
Staff agreed that such a procedure appeared to have merit, 
particularly for the longer run, and the Board authorized the Section 
to proceed in such manner on an experimental basis. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
9/20/68 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 D S 5 I 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
September 20, 1968. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request of September 19, 
1968, for the views of the Board of Governors with respect to 
enrolled bill S. 3133, "To extend for one year the authority 
to limit the rates of interest or dividends payable on time 
and savings deposits and accounts, and for other purposes." 
The Board favors Presidential approval of the bill. 
The Board wishes to take this opportunity to reiterate 
its belief that the flexible authority to control interest rates 
along the lines authorized by the enrolled bill should be made 
permanent. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson. 

V Q V. 
5: 
4Y 
Item 
tioV^ 
9/20/68 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 20, 1968. 
Mr. Philip E. Coldwell, Chairman, 
Committee on Bank Supervision and Legislation, 
Conference of Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks, 
c/o Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Dear Phil: 
The Board has again considered the recommendation of 
your Committee that a study be made by a combined Reserve Bank-
Board staff task force of problems of regulatory and supervisory 
relations with member banks. In doing so, the Board gave careful 
attention to the outline of "Basic Problems of Bank Regulation 
and Supervision" enclosed with your letter of September 5, 1968. 
With respect to the matters covered under I-B and II 
of your outline, the Board concluded that such matters offer 
promising possibilities for productive study by a task force 
composed jointly of Reserve Bank and Board staff representatives. 
The Board has designated Fred Solomon, Howard Hackley, and an 
officer of the Research Division, to be named later, as the members 
of the Board's staff who will participate in that study. These 
representatives have been authorized to name alternatejif necessary. 
With respect to I-A of your outline, the Board is anxious 
to consider all suggestions for possible improvement in this area 
of responsibility. The Board believes it would be most helpful if 
any such suggestions were submitted directly to it by Reserve Bank 
Presidents, on the basis of their own analysis and experience, and 
we would appreciate your so advising them. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
cc: Mr. Clay 
Mr. Hamilton 
