MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 4, 1972 

2063 
i 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, August 4, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
, 
at 11:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Senior Adviser, Division of 
International Finance IJ 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Holmes, Manager, System Open Market Account 
Mr. Bilby, Consultant on Federal Reserve lending 
y 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2070 
8/4/72 
-2-
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the individual briefings have been placed in the Board's files, 
along with the statistical materials prepared for the review. 
Mr. Rippey then reviewed matters of interest to the Board 
presently being considered by the Congress. 
Those who had attended the meeting for the purpose of the 
economic review then withdrew. 
Regulation A. The Board resumed its discussion of proposed 
revisions of Regulation A, Advances and Discounts by Federal Reserve 
Banks. At yesterday's meeting Governor Mitchell had indicated that he 
favored adoption of the proposal for the seasonal borrowing privilege, 
but not the basic borrowing privilege. 
At today's meeting Governor Daane raised a question whether 
this was the proper time for adoption of the revised Regulation. He 
was not opposed to adoption of the seasonal borrowing privilege, but 
he thought that the basic borrowing privilege might complicate the 
effectiveness of open market operations. He was also concerned about 
its possible upward effect on rates on Government securities. 
Governor Brimmer did not favor adoption of the basic borrow-
ing privilege, since he thought that the Board might not be prepared 
to move the discount rate quickly enough to maintain it as a penalty 
rate in times of monetary restraint. He also had reservations about 

2071 
8/4/72 
-3-
the seasonal borrowing privilege. If the seasonal borrowing privilege 
were approved, he thought the maximum deposit size of a bank that might 
qualify should be lower than the proposed $250 million. 
In his view 
a bank with $250 million in deposits was a large bank which should be 
in a position to raise funds in the market more readily than a small 
bank. He believed that $100 million would be a more appropriate 
cut-off. Governor Brimmer stated that he also thought that the maximum 
length of a seasonal loan should be less than the proposed 9-month 
period. He thought the seasonal borrowing privilege would lead some 
banks to hold additional risky, higher yield assets since they could 
rely on the discount window to meet their seasonal needs, and that the 
effect of this was the same as giving the banks additional capital. 
There followed an explanation of the process by which the staff 
had arrived at its recommendation that seasonal credit be extended only 
to banks with less than $250 million in deposits. 
Governor Sheehan expressed concern about the rate of attrition 
in membership in the Federal Reserve System, and he thought the proposed 
revision of Regulation A with its expansion of borrowing privileges 
would help make membership more attractive to small banks. 
Therefore, 
he was troubled by Governor Mitchell's suggestion during the discussion 
yesterday that the recommendations of the Regulation A Task Force on 
the basic borrowing privilege might now be obsolete. If the Board was 

20' 0 
8/4/72 
-4-
prepared at this time to act only on the seasonal borrowing provision 
of the revised Regulation, he would go along but he would hope that 
the staff would update its recommendations with respect to the basic 
borrowing privilege. 
Governor Robertson said that although he thought the study of 
the discount mechanism had already resulted in an improvement in the 
administration and use of the discount window, he was opposed to the 
proposed revision, especially the basic borrowing privilege, for three 
reasons. First, he felt that it would constitute a subsidy to banks. 
Second, he was concerned about the possibility that banks would substi-
tute illiquid assets for liquid ones if the proposal were adopted. 
Finally, he thought that the proposal would result in serious diffi-
culties with open market operations. However, he would go along with 
adoption of the seasonal borrowing privilege, especially for banks in 
agricultural areas. He would prefer lowering the proposed $250 million 
maximum deposit size of a bank that might qualify for seasonal credit 
and he would place no maximum limit on the length of a seasonal loan. 
Governor Robertson indicated that initially he would confine seasonal 
credit to agricultural areas where he considered there was a real need 
for assistance. Through guidelines the Reserve Banks could be given 
authority to extend credit in other areas where there might be special 
needs. 

2073 
8/4/72 
-5-
Chairman Burns observed that the comments at today's meeting 
suggested that the Board was not ready to move ahead with the basic 
borrowing privilege at this time. 
In his view approval of the basic 
borrowing privilege might give the impression that the Federal Reserve 
was easing restrictions and encouraging banks to borrow at the discount 
window. On the other hand, he recognized that there was a very serious 
membership problem, and the basic borrowing privilege would mean a 
great deal to smaller banks which were finding membership in the System 
costly. However, he was concerned about the possible effects of the 
basic borrowing privilege on open market operations. The Federal 
Reserve was experimenting with various operating procedures and if the 
basic borrowing privilege were introduced now, it would be difficult to 
evaluate the new procedure at the end of the year. Moreover, adoption 
of the basic borrowing privilege would require that the discount rate 
be tied closely to market rates and that requirement could pose problems 
for policy in periods when it might be deemed desirable for the discount 
rate to lead market rates or to lag behind them. 
Chairman Burns indicated that he would favor inclusion of a 
seasonal borrowing privilege in the proposed revision of Regulation A, 
although he was somewhat troubled by the emphasis that was being placed 
on the credit needs of agriculture in today's discussion of seasonality. 
The re were special agencies concerned with agricultural problems, 

207-1 
8/4/72 
-6-
whereas the Board's interest was in commerce and industry, as well as 
agriculture. He pointed out that a seasonal demand structure for 
credit could be a problem for various sectors of the economy. He felt 
that any action of the Board to deal with the problem of one specific 
sector of the economy might lead to requests for support of other 
sectors. He was also troubled by the proposal to limit the maximum 
size of banks that could qualify for the seasonal borrowing privilege. 
Limiting the privilege to banks with deposits of $250 million or less 
would suggest that the Board was doing something not for the economy 
as a whole but for small banks as such. 
In his judgment large city 
banks, as well as small rural banks, could have seasonal needs that 
were not being met. He suggested that the proposed draft of Regula-
tion A be revised to reflect the consensus at today's meeting for 
omitting the basic borrowing privilege at this time and changing some 
of the language relating to the seasonal borrowing privilege. 
the nature of seasonality and the banks that should be eligible for 
seasonal credit, it was understood that Chairman Burns' suggestion 
would be followed and the matter would be considered further by the 
Board at an early date. 
At the end of the discussion, which included consideration of 
The meeting then adjourned. 
