Minutes for
 
M a r c h 
6
>
 
1 9 6 8 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
°nly that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

860 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, March 6, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
a
t 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
'^-^rac 1 
'^acae i. 
i i 
:u>; 
01 
. ciu 
ifcuuiiac 
* 
' -U^CU^O 
p'i. CC'.tad". 
ua iru. 
paxrch, 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sigel, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Eckert and Keir, Assistant Advisers, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Dahl and Egertson, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Examinations 
Mr. Langham, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Doyle and Via of the Legal Division 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Goodfellow of the Division of Examinations 
Mr. Veenstra of the Division of Data Processing 

8 6 1 
3/6/68 
-13-
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been made 
available to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under the 
respective item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent for an additional investment in 
Oesterreichische Privat-und Kommerzbank, 
Vienna, Austria. 
Letter to Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent for the purchase of shares in 
Banco Lar Brasileiro, Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil. • »y 
etters to Bank of America, First National 
3-6 
ity Overseas Investment Corporation, Irving 
international Financing Corporation, and 
nited California Bank International, all 
ot New York, New York, granting consent 
the purchase of shares of Korea Develop-
ment Finance Corporation, Seoul, Korea. 
Letter to Continental International Finance 
7 
^orporation, Chicago, Illinois, granting con-
ent for the purchase of shares of House of 
^vestments, inc., Makati, Rizal, Philippines. 
Letter to Manufacturers-Detroit International 
8 
orporation, Detroit, Michigan, granting con-
K e
 
f o r 
t h e
 purchase of additional shares of 
Canada
r U S t & S a v i n g s 
C o n i
Pany, Chatham, Ontario, 
Letter to National Bank of Detroit, Detroit, 
9 
chig a n j approving the establishment of a 
D r
anch in London, England. 

a oa* 
3/6/68 
.3. 
In the form in which Item No. 9 was approved the letter 
reflected a change suggested by Governor Brimmer to state the under-
standing that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum 
reliance would be placed on resources obtained outside the U.S. 
Application of Wells Fargo Bank (Items 10-12). There had been 
distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's 
approval on February 15, 1968, of the application of Wells Fargo Bank, 
S a
n Francisco, California, to merge with Bank of Pasadena, Pasadena, 
California. 
Governor Brimmer said he would like to see the statement focus 
m o r e 
s
harply on the intention expressed by Wells Fargo some time ago 
to expand in Southern California through establishment of de novo 
branches. As now worded, the statement expressed the view that it was 
generally preferable, in light of the objectives of the Bank Merger 
Act, that the larger California banks such as Wells Fargo limit them-
selves in their expansion to the establishment of de novo branches. 
1
 wuuia like to 
see the point made more expressly with respect to 
Wells Fargo. in retrospect, he felt even more strongly regarding this 
P°int than he had when the merits of the application were considered. 
If the other members of the Board would prefer not to specify Wells 
F a r
g o , he might do so in a concurring statement. 
Discussion of the point raised by Governor Brimmer disclosed 
3 v i e w
 that the other Board members would prefer the more generalized 

3/6/68 
-15-
comment. Therefore, it was understood that Governor Brimmer would 
issue a concurring statement. 
The issuance of the order and statement was then authorized. 
are 
Copies of the documents, in the form in which they were issued, 
attached as Items 10 and 11, respectively. A copy of Governor Brimmer's 
concurring statement is attached as Item No. 12. 
Request of National Bank of Washington (Item No. 13). At the 
meting on February 8, 1968, the Board concluded that the Seattle 
offices of a mortgage company acquired by National Bank of Washington, 
Takoma, Washington, should be considered branches for purposes of estab-
ishing reserve requirements. However, the Board also decided that in 
view of the limited functions of the offices, including the fact that 
they did not accept deposits, it would approve a request of the member 
bank for permission to continue carrying reserves at the level required 
°f banks not in reserve cities if such an application were received. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated March 1, 
1968, from the Division of Bank Operations presenting such an applica-
tion by National Bank of Washington. Attached was a draft of letter 
that would state that the requested permission was granted. 
Governors Mitchell and Brimmer suggested that it would be 
g 1 T*Q K 1 
le to state in the letter of approval the reasons upon which 
the Board's decision was based, and there was general agreement with 
this suggestion. 

864 
3/6/68 
-13-
Governor Maisel expressed the view that there might be other 
situations in which "country" national banks, having acquired mortgage 
companies, were operating offices of the latter in reserve cities. 
There followed a discussion of sources of information that might dis-
close such situations, and it was understood that the staff would 
explore the matter. 
The letter to National Bank of Washington, revised in the 
manner suggested, was thereupon approved unanimously for transmittal 
through the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. A copy of the 
letter i n the form in which it was transmitted is attached as Item 
N C W 3 . 
Request by Chairman Patman (Item No. 14). There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated March 1, 1968, from the Office of the 
Secretary regarding a request by Chairman Patman of the House Commit-
tee on Banking and Currency that the Board conduct "a full and complete 
study to determine whether or not in its opinion circumstances have so 
changed as to warrant a recommendation to the Congress for partial or 
complete repeal of the Glass-Steagall prohibitions against banks engag-
e s in the securities business." 
The memorandum expressed the staff's view that a new study at 
this time would not be warranted. The substantive questions raised by 
M r
- Patman had been reviewed at length by the Board prior to Governor 
Mitchell's testimony on the revenue bond bill last August and in 

•bo 
3/6/68 
_6_ 
connection with the Board's reply to Senator Sparkman on the so-called 
McIntyre Amendments," a principal purpose of which was to amend S. 1659 
to permit banks to maintain "managing agency collective funds." Accord-
ingly, it was recommended that a reply be sent to Mr. Patman in the 
form of a draft attached to the memorandum. 
Members of the Board raised a question regarding the consis-
tency of reports the Board had made on legislative proposals with a 
passage in the draft letter stating that "The Board also believes that 
amendments to Federal law are warranted to make it clear that banks 
roay establish and operate collective investment funds that would be 
similar to, and compete with, mutual funds." The staff responded that 
it was believed that this sentence and the one following it in the 
dr s f 
were in agreement with the Board's previous expressions, but 
t h a
t the point would be verified. 
Chairman Martin observed that the draft letter would state 
that the Board favored an amendment to the law to authorize limited 
bank underwriting of revenue bonds and then, in response to Mr. Patman's 
request for the Chairman's individual views, would indicate that 
1 though he had in the past opposed authorizing commercial banks to 
underwrite revenue bonds, he now concurred in the Board's position. 
Chairman Martin suggested that the language of the draft be amended to 
r i
ng out clearly that his concurrence in the proposal for bank under-
writing of revenue bonds did not indicate that he was in favor of 
all owing banks to engage in a general underwriting business. 

o / * < 
3/6/68 
The letter was then approved unanimously, subject to revision 
to meet Chairman Martin's point and verification of the question raised 
b
y other members of the Board. A copy of the letter in the form in 
which it was subsequently transmitted is attached as Item No. 14. 
Purchase of Home Loan Bank System obligations (Item No. 15). 
On February 29, 1968, the Board discussed a draft reply to a request 
by Representative Del Clawson for comment on a proposal by Preston 
Martin, Savings and Loan Commissioner of the State of California, that 
the Federal Reserve commit itself to buy Federal Home Loan Bank obliga-
tions, either directly or in the secondary market, as a means of cush-
ioning the impact of monetary policy on the savings and loan industry 
a n d
 bousing during periods of "very severe" credit restraint. The 
Board requested the staff to revise the draft reply in certain respects, 
and a revised draft had now been distributed with a memorandum from 
the Office of the Secretary dated March 4, 1968. 
After a discussion during which there was agreement upon cer-
tain relatively minor changes, the letter was approved unanimously in 
the form attached as Item No. 15. 
Directors Day program. Pursuant to suggestions made by the 
Board during a discussion on February 19, 1968, of a tentative program 
f
°r the meeting of new Federal Reserve Bank and branch directors to be 
held on March 20-21, 1968, a revised program had been distributed with 
a memorandum from Mr. Morgan dated March 5, 1968. 

8 6 7 
3/6/68 
-13-
Discussion indicated that the questions raised earlier had 
been met satisfactorily, and the revised program was thereupon approved 
unanimously. 
Processing of condition and earnings reports (Item No. 16). 
A t
 the meeting on February 26, 1968, after discussion of a proposal 
to transfer to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation the process-
ing of member bank condition and earnings reports, the Board requested 
that a committee comprised of Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, and Sherrill 
l0
°
k i n t o 
t h e
 matter. There had now been distributed a staff memoran-
dum dated March 6, 1968, setting forth 15 questions relating to pro-
cedures and availability of data that it was proposed to submit to the 
fDie f 
r c
°mment prior to further consideration of the transfer proposal 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that it would be desirable 
t 0
 transmit the list of questions to the FDIC promptly in order to 
obtain the comments of a key staff member who was leaving the Corpora-
t l 0 t l S e m
P
l o
y this week. Governor Mitchell envisaged that the comments 
y the FDIC on the proposed inquiries, together with a memorandum that 
would be forthcoming regarding the data needs of the Board for research 
purposes, would provide background information to enable the Board to 
ecide whether or not it wanted to go ahead with the proposal. If it 
did 
» the views of the Reserve Banks would then be requested, and a 
emorandum of understanding between the Board and the FDIC would be 
fted. He believed the list of questions was good; however, Governor 
Sherrill had not seen the list, and before it was transmitted Governor 

8 6 8 
3/6/68 
-13-
Mitchell wanted to consult him about the fourth item, which read, "To 
what extent could the editing of national bank reports be improved at 
the Reserve Banks? The editing of national bank data has been per-
formed for many years by the Reserve Banks on an informal basis. A 
more formal and satisfactory procedure should be set up by definite 
delegation of authority by the Comptroller to the Reserve Banks to 
improve the editing function there." The procedures that had been 
followed were quite satisfactory, Governor Mitchell continued, but 
recent changes in procedure for the processing of national bank reports 
made it seem advisable to include this question. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that, rather than suggest 
that the Comptroller delegate authority to the Reserve Banks, he should 
b e a s k e
d to assure cooperation by his field offices with the Reserve 
Banks. There was agreement with this suggestion. 
Comments by Messrs. Byrne and Langham brought out that if the 
Processing task was transferred, the change should be scheduled to 
coincide with the adoption of revised call report forms that would be 
e d
 by the several bank supervisory agencies. For reasons that they 
x
Plained, it was not now contemplated that the new report forms could 
b e
 Put into use until 1969. 
Governor Brimmer said it had been his understanding that two 
documents were to be prepared: a staff appraisal of data needs and 
^ 
j 
« 
r a
 t, in terms as precise as possible, of the FDIC proposal. He 

8 6 9 
3/6/68 
-13-
still saw the need for those documents, and he did not see the need to 
rush ahead by sending the list of questions to the FDIC for comment. 
Moreover, he was troubled by the suggestion that transmittal of the 
list be expedited in order to get the views of the key man who was 
leaving. That raised in his mind a question regarding the capability 
of the FDIC to perform the processing task after that man was gone. 
Also, he noted that item 14 on the list contemplated procedures that 
would substantially increase Reserve Bank costs, and he did not believe 
such increased expense should be endorsed even tentatively at this 
stage. 
Governor Maisel likewise expressed reservations about hastening 
to obtain the views of the FDIC staff member who was leaving. It might 
be better to negotiate with his successor, who would be responsible for 
performance. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the step now pro-
posed was necessary to the preparation of the second document Governor 
Brimmer had mentioned, and he did not believe it would prejudice the 
Board's position in any respect. He noted benefits that might be 
derived from having the views of the FDIC staff member to whom refer-
ence had been made. 
Governor Robertson then described the origin of the proposal, 
which had been made by Chairman Randall of the FDIC. If the proposal 
would fulfill its promise of increased efficiency without any sacrifice 

870 
3/6/68 
-13-
in the availability or quality of data, he believed it should be pur-
sued. However, an exact understanding of the proposed division of 
tasks should be set forth. He believed it would be appropriate to 
raise the questions the staff had developed, after which the Board 
could obtain the views of the Reserve Banks and then decide whether 
or not it wished to implement the proposal. 
Chairman Martin asked whether, on that understanding, Governor 
Brimmer continued to have objections, and the latter said he would 
reserve judgment. 
The submission of the list of questions to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation for comment was thereupon approved. A copy of 
the letter sent to Chairman Randall pursuant to this action is attached 
as Item No. 16. 
v. 
. 
Litigation relating to Regulation G. Mr. Solomon referred to 
litigation in which a group of New York money lenders had obtained a 
restraining order against the implementation of the Board's new Regula-
tion G, Credit by Persons other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers for the 
Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity Securities. After 
argument yesterday, the court had refused to extend the restraining 
order, which expired last night. Therefore, although the litigation 
might be prolonged by the plaintiffs, it appeared that Regulation G 
could go into effect on March 11 as scheduled. The Assistant U.S. 
Attorney had been most complimentary regarding the work of the Board's 
staff and that of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 

8 7 1 
3/6/68 
-13-
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: The requirements con-
templated by the Board's action on Febru-
ary 15, 1968, in approving the issuance of 
a preliminary permit to American Interna-
tional Bank, New York, New York, having 
been completed, a letter was sent to that 
corporation on March 5 transmitting a final 
permit to commence business. 
A letter was sent today to Bank of America 
National Trust and Savings Association, 
San Francisco, California, acknowledging 
receipt of notice of its intent to estab-
lish an additional branch in Honduras, to 
be located in Comayaguela. 
On March 5, 1968, Governor Robertson 
approved on behalf of the Board memoranda 
recommending the following actions relat-
ing to the Board's staff: 
Transfe rs 
Stanley P. Bridges, from the position of Program Analyst to the 
position of Systems Analyst, Division of Data Processing, with no 
change in basic annual salary at the rate of $15,841, effective 
March 10, 1968. 
James Jackson, Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
to a messenger position in the Board Members' area, with an increase 
in basic annual salary from $5,214 to $5,341, effective February 26, 
1968. 
Acceptance of resignation 
li." , .O v'vi 
4 ' I li 
Betty Lee Smithson, Programmer, Division of Data Processing, 
effective the close of business March 8, 1968. 
Governor Robertson today approved 
on behalf of the Board the following 
items: 
"'
4
 • - • i' • -»'<r. • ,tIEC<; k• oo'i '.list. • 

^t 
« ^ 
3/6/68 
-13-
Memorandum from Mr. Solomon, Director of the Division of Examina-
tions, dated March 1, 1968, recommending that two employees be borrowed 
from the Securities and Exchange Commission to assist the Task Force-
Special Regulations, it being understood that the Board would reimburse 
the Commission for salaries and related fringe benefits and that the 
employees would be reimbursed under the Board's travel regulations for 
any travel that might be authorized. (Attached as Item No. 17 is a 
copy of the letter subsequently sent to the Securities and Exchange 
Commission.) 
Memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administration and the 
Office of the Controller dated March 6, 1968, relating to payment of 
appointees' moving and transportation expenses to Washington, in which 
it was recommended that: 
1. Subject to recommendation of the pertinent 
Division, and concurrence of the Division of Personnel 
Administration and the Office of the Controller, and 
applicable to appointees to the staff at Grade FR 11 
or above, from outside the Washington area, the expense 
of transportation of the appointee and of his immediate 
family to the Washington area, and the expense of moving 
the appointee s household goods and personal effects to 
the Washington area, be paid by the Board. 
2. The foregoing provisions apply to appointees 
below Grade FR 11, if the appointment is to a type of 
position for which the Government has determined there 
is a manpower shortage in the Washington area. 
3. In giving effect to the foregoing provisions, 
and in deciding on questions of administrative and pro-
cedural detail, allowances, limitations, etc., the Divi-
sion of Personnel Administration and the Office of the 
Controller use pertinent Government regulations and 
interpretations as guidelines. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
intments 
Michael W. Evans as Messenger, Division of Administrative Ser-
vices, with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,776, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 

8 7 3 
3/6/68 
-14-
Appointments (continued) 
Robert Morris as Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,776, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Harvey Galper, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
to serve as a member of the Educational Advisory Board to the Elec-
tronic Computer Programming Institute of Maine, New Hampshire, and 
Vermont. 
John S. Cartledge, Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, 
to work for a local linen service on a part-time basis. 
Walter Jordan, Jr., Cook (Cafeteria), Division of Administrative 
Services, to work as a special security officer for a local organiza-
tion on a part-time basis. 
On March 5 and 6, 1968, actions were 
taken on behalf of the Board under 
delegated authority as indicated by 
the following letters, copies of 
which are attached under the respec-
tive item numbers indicated: 
Permission to engage in outside activities 
Qn_March 5, 1968 
the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
a
PProving the appointment of Christopher W. Walsh 
a s
 assistant examiner. 
18 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
a
PProving the appointment of James M. Pilkauskas 
a s
 assistant examiner. 
19 
Letter to The Bank of New Orleans and Trust Company, 
New Orleans, Louisiana, approving the establishment 
°f three in-town branches (drive-in facilities). 
20 

3/6/68 
-15-
_0n March 6, 1968 
5 !• ! ; ' • 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Letter to Trust Company of Georgia, Atlanta, 
Georgia, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish a branch at 3300 Northside 
Parkway, N.W. 
Letter to Peoples Bank & Trust Company, 
Montgomery, Alabama, approving an invest-
ment in bank premises. 
_By the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Letter to Citizens State Bank of Dalhart, 
Dalhart, Texas, waiving the requirement of 
six months' notice of withdrawal from mem-
bership in the Federal Reserve System. 
>". *: I ' 
} 00 L 
BJL the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, 
California, 
approving the establishment of 
a branch at 2333 North Broadway Street, 
Santa Ana. 
Letter to Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, 
California, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch in San 
Jose. 

<o 
O <\i 
'•f^LRES^-* 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
3/6/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1968. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 13, 1967, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to make an additional 
investment in Oesterreichische Privat-und Kommerzbank ("Kommerzbank"), 
Vienna, Austria, in the amount of approximately US$1,500,000, approxi-
mately $300,000 to be for additional stock in Kommerzbank, and the 
balance to be in the form of a "dedicated deposit account" with 
Kommerzbank against which loan losses and additions to reserves for 
bad debts may be charged, provided that the shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter, and that contributions to the 
dedicated deposit account" are made prior to July 15, 1970. 
The above consent is granted subject to the same conditions 
as set forth in the Board's letter of April 11, 1966, and to the under-
standing that any contribution by your Corporation to the "dedicated 
deposit account" with Kommerzbank shall be fully reserved against on 
the books of your Corporation. 
In granting this consent, the Board has taken into account 
the fact that your application antedated the balance-of-payments measures 
announced January 1, 1968. The consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign 
loans and investments of your Corporation, The Chase Manhattan Bank 
(National Association), and Chase International Investment Corporation, 
will not cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now 
in effect and that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No, 
3/6/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P Q f 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1968. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 10, 1968, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold 
/>020 ordinary shares of Banco Lar Brasileiro ("Banco Lar"), Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil, at a cost of approximately US$4,000, provided the 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
x
t is understood that this acquisition will be in addition to the 
shares presently held by your wholly-owned subsidiary, Brasilar 
Administracao e Participates Limitada, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 
The above consent is granted subject to the same conditions 
as set forth in the Board's letter of February 14, 1962, addressed 
0
 The Chase Manhattan Bank granting consent for the original acqui-
sition of shares in Banco Lar by the predecessor of your Corporation, 
h a s e
 Manhattan Overseas Corporation. 
T h e 
f o r e
going consent is given with the understanding that 
h
e investment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans 
and investments of your Corporation, The Chase Manhattan Bank (National 
ssociation), and Chase International Investment Corporation, will not 
c
ause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
a
nd that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

8 7 7 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
3/6/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1968. 
Bank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 
10004 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 13, 1968, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
to purchase and hold approximately 9,500 shares of Korea 
Development Finance Corporation, Seoul, Korea, at a cost of 
approximately US$175,000, provided such shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved, combined 
with other foreign loans and investments of your Corporation, 
Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, and 
Bamerical International Financial Corporation, will not 
cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint 
effort now in effect and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3*7,3 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 4 
• F THE 
3/6/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
D r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1968. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 14, 1968, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
to purchase and hold approximately 9,500 shares of Korea 
Development Finance Corporation, Seoul, Korea, at a cost 
of approximately US$175,000, provided such shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved, combined 
with other foreign loans and investments of your Corpora-
tion, First National City Bank, International Banking 
Corporation, and First National City Bank (International), 
will not cause the total of such loans and investments 
to exceed the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
3/6/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1968. 
Irving International Financing Corporation, 
One Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 14, 1968, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
to purchase and hold approximately 6,750 shares of Korea 
Development Finance Corporation, Seoul, Korea, at a cost of 
approximately US$125,000, provided such shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved, combined 
with other foreign loans and investments of your Corpora-
tion and Irving Trust Company, will not cause the total 
of such loans and investments to exceed the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now 
in effect and that due consideration is being given to 
the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

v. 
2*. 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
3/6/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1968. 
United California Bank International, 
140 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 16, 1968, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
to purchase and hold approximately 7,560 shares of Korea 
Development Finance Corporation, Seoul, Korea, at a cost 
of approximately US$140,000, provided such shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved, combined 
with other foreign loans and investments of your Corpora-
tion and United California Bank, will not cause the total 
of such loans and investments to exceed the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect and that due consideration is being given 
to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

881 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 7 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
3/6/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C C R R E 3 P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1968. 
Continental International 
Finance Corporation, 
231 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 16, 1968, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase 
and hold approximately 78,109 shares-of House of Investments, Inc. 
("HI"), Makati, Rizal, Philippines, at a cost of approximately 
US$280,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign 
loans and investments of your Corporation, Continental Illinois 
National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, and Continental Bank 
International, New York, will not cause the total of such loans and 
investments to exceed the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

fr. 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 8 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
3 / 6 / 6 8 
2*. 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
E: 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1968. 
Manufacturers-Detroit International 
Corporation, 
151 West Fort Street, 
Detroit, Michigan. 48226 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in a letter of your counsel dated 
February 1, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent 
for your Corporation to purchase and hold 17,500 additional 
shares of Kent Trust & Savings Company, Chatham, Ontario, 
Canada, at a cost of approximately Canadian $131,250, 
provided such shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. In this connection, the Board also 
approves the holding of such shares in excess of 15 per 
cent of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved, combined 
with other foreign loans and investments of your Corpora-
tion, will not cause the total of such loans and investments 
to exceed the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

883 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E
 
Item No. 9 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
3/6/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1968. 
National Bank of Detroit, 
Woodward at Fort Street, 
Detroit, Michigan. 48232 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to National Bank of Detroit, Detroit, Michigan, pur-
suant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to 
establish a branch in London, England, and to operate and maintain 
such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regula-
tion M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before March 1, 1969, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. Please inform the Board 
of Governors, through the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the 
branch is open for business, furnishing information as to its exact 
location. 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of 
foreign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form 
°f allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as 
foreign assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the aforementioned permission 
gis granted on the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's 
operations maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained out-
side the United States. The permission is given with the further 
understanding that the investment now being approved, combined with 
°ther foreign loans and investments of your bank, will not cause the 
total of such loans and investments to exceed the guidelines estab-
lished under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect and 
fc
hat due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
* 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
3/6/68 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D« C, 
the Matter of the Application of 
NELLS FARGO BANK 
approval of merger with 
Bank of Pasadena 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Wells Fargo Bank, 
S a
n Francisco, California, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve 
System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank and 
B
ank of Pasadena, Pasadena, California, under the charter and title of 
W e
H s Fargo Bank. As an incident to the merger, the two offices of Bank 
Pasadena vzould become branches of the resulting bank. Notice of the pro 
Posed merger, in form approved by the Board, has been published pursuant 
t 0
 said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
t h e
 factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 

a
nd the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed merger, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
4 
approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 7th day of March, 1960, 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Ilaisel, Brimmer, 
and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
- 
, 
v 
(signed) 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 11 
3/6/68 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEI1 
APPLICATION BY WELLS FARGO BANK 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
BANK OF PASADENA 
STATEMENT 
Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, California ("Wells Fargo"), 
w i t h
 total deposits of $3.9 billion, has applied, pursuant to the Bank 
I l G r g e r A
ct (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval of the 
e r
8er of that bank with Bank of Pasadena, Pasadena, California 
(«ip 
1/ 
r
«sadena Bank"), which has total deposits of $9 million." 
The banks 
w
°
u
ld merge under the charter and name of Wells Fargo, which is a member 
* 
Federal Reserve System. As an incident to the merger, the two 
^ices of Pasadena Bank would become branches of Wells Fargo, increas-
e s the number of its offices to 236 
Competition. - The head office of Pasadena Bank is in Pasadena 
Estimated population 125,000), which is about 10 miles northeast of Los 
n
8el e s, -jhe bank operates a branch in South Pasadena, 3.5 miles south 
of if 
t s
 main office, and has an application pending for permission to 
s t a
blish a branch 12 miles northwest of the main office at Tujunga. 
Wells Fargo operates 234 offices, all but one of which are in 
th 
le
*n and central California, 200 miles or more from Los Angeles. 
are as of June 30, 1967. 
r o
Posed offices are not included. 

I n
 December 1967, Wells Fargo established a branch in downtoxvn Los 
Angeles, eight miles southwest of Pasadena Bank's branch. Wells Fargo 
h a s a n
 application pending for permission to establish an additional 
branch in Los Angeles, about 12 miles southwest of Pasadena Banlc
f
s head 
office. 
The principal competition for Pasadena Bank Is provided by 
7 8
 offices of 11 banks, including 58 offices operated by five of 
California's seven largest banks. These five banks hold 83 per cent 
the commercial bank deposits, and operate 73 per cent of the commercial 
ba
nking offices, in the area from which Pasadena Bank derives the pre-
ponderance of its business; they hold 85 per cent of the commercial 
b a
nk deposits, and operate 76 per cent of the commercial banking offices, 
i n
 Los Angeles County. The seven largest banks in California hold nearly 
85 
cent of all commercial bank deposits in the State; Wells Fargo, 
With Q 7 per cent of such deposits, ranks third. 
It seems unlikely that there is meaningful competition between 
Wadena Bank and the recently established Los Angeles branch of Wells 
Fare 
However, there is potential for the development of competition 
be
tween the two banks, particularly in view of the fact that California 
Permits State-wide branching. The realization of this potential 
Probably would be impeded to some degree by the existing ratio of bank-
off i c e s to population in Pasadena; and in recent years, the popula-
t t o 
n
 °f Pasadena has grown at about one-half the rate experienced by 
Angeles County as a whole. Nevertheless, given the heavy concentration 

banking resources in California, it is generally preferable, in light 
the objectives of the Bank Merger Act, that the larger banks, such as 
e l l s
 Fargo, be limited in their additions of offices 
to the establish-
n t 
o f
 de novo branches, rather than allowed to acquire existing banks 
t h
i s purpose,< 
,v.r.
 
;
 ,.; 
The effect of the merger on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The banking 
fetors are satisfactory with respect to Wells Fargo, as they would be 
•jyth respect to the resulting bank. 
Pasadena Bank began operations on April 22, 1963; the bank has 
^thout a president since April 11, 1967. The task of filling this 
p 0 s t
» as well as that of attracting other needed management personnel, 
8
 Perhaps made difficult by other problems of the bank. Be that as it 
y > ln
sofar as the record in this case discloses, the efforts of the 
Erectors of Pasadena Bank in this respect have been- only cursory. These 
•'.-••,-•'.•. 
f 
1
 6f f 
°
rta
 have consisted mainly of inquiries to three correspondent banks; 
f
Mtther, the directors have insisted, as one qualification, that the next 
- Resident of Pasadena Bank already be well known in Pasadena, and prefer-
•
 
t l l a t
 he already be a resident of that community. 
- , Pasadena Bank's earnings in 1966 were comparable to the average 
0 t s i m
ilar sized m'ember banks in California; in 1967, however, the bank
1 
^tnga decreased, by 8.5 per cent. Pasadena Bank holds a large volume 
• >
 
c r
iticiz e d loans, and the bank's capital is lower than is desirable. 

While the existence of feasible alternative solutions cannot be 
en
tirely ruled out, the proposed merger would immediately resolve the 
managerial and other problems of Pasadena Bank, 
Convenience and needs of the community. - It does not appear 
the replacement of Pasadena Bank by offices of Wells Fargo would 
^
u
lfill any important need for banking services that is not now being 
m e t
 
reasonable convenience. As indicated earlier, the area from 
"hich Pasadena Bank draws the bulk of its business contains 78 offices 
11 other banks; more than 70 per cent of these offices are operated 
ky five of the seven largest banks in California, However, it is in the 
interests of the community that the problems of Pasadena Bank be resolved 
^
a
irly promptly; the proposed merger would achieve that end. 
Summary and conclusion. - The merger would provide a ready and 
°
n
clusive solution for the problems of Pasadena Bank, which is in the 
int 
e r
ests of the community the bank serves. The Board is of the view, 
however, that the directors of Pasadena Bank, acting more assiduously, 
have found an adequate solution for these problems that would be 
s
 inimical to the preservation of banking competition and, thus, more 
°
ns
onant with the interests of the community than the proposed trans-
c t
ion. The crucial consideration is whether denying the application, thus 
e
avi ng the directors of Pasadena Bank to seek such a solution, is worth 
risk to the community that they might not be able to succeed at this 
c
ture, even with a diligent effort. The Board concludes that it is not, 
and th 
n
at, therefore, the application should be approved, even though it 
Sards the case as a very close one, 
"""h 
7, 1968. 

CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I t e m 
N q 
3/6/68 
I agree, but most reluctantly, with my colleagues that the 
a
Ppllcation in this case warrants approval. While I do not read the 
Principal Statement as being in conflict with my conclusion that 
a
Pproval is warranted by the smallest margin possible, I wish to make 
tile
 point explicit. Further, I think this decision should be confined 
t o
 the facts peculiar to this case and that it should not be regarded 
a s
 a favorable precedent for future applications under the Bank Merger 
This meaning is perhaps implicit in the Board's characterization 
the case as "a very close one". However, I believe it should be 
s t a
ted forthrightly. 

8 9 1 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 13 
3/6/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1968. 
Board of Directors, 
National Bank of Washington, 
Tacoma, Washington. 
Gentlemen: 
'•h 
This is in reply to your letter of February 20, 1968, 
submitted through the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
requesting that the National Bank of Washington, Tacoma, Washington, 
be permitted to maintain the same reserves against deposits as are 
required to be maintained by member banks that have no offices in 
a reserve city. 
As you know, the Board had previously concluded that the 
offices of the Carroll Mortgage Company in Seattle acquired by the 
National Bank of Washington should be considered branches for pur-
poses of reserve requirements. However, in view of the limited 
functions performed by those offices, including the fact that they 
do not accept deposits, the Board has decided that it would be 
appropriate to allow your bank to continue carrying reduced reserves. 
< • 
•.. ... 
Accordingly, the Board of Governors, acting under the 
Provisions of section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, grants permis-
sion to the National Bank of Washington to maintain the same reserves 
>against deposits as are required to be maintained by member banks not 
in a reserve city, effective as of the date of acquisition of an 
office in Seattle, Washington. 
'^M'V!., ... 
Your attention is called to the fact that such permission 
is subject to revocation by the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 D S 5 I 
Item No. 23 
3/6/68 
.'i&v 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 7, 1968. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
2129 Rayburn House Office Building, 
Washington, D. C. 20515. 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your letter of January 29, 1968, 
in which you asked that the Board conduct "a full and complete 
study to determine whether or not in its opinion circumstances 
have so changed as to warrant a recommendation to the Congress 
for partial or complete repeal of the Glass-Steagall prohibitions 
against banks engaging in the securities business." 
As Governor Mitchell indicated in his testimony last 
August on S. 1306, the revenue bond underwriting bill, the Board 
continues to believe that the principle of separation of commer-
cial banks from investment banking, which was recognized and 
adopted by the Congress in the Banking Act of 1933 (the Glass-
Steagall Act) is a sound and significant one. This separation 
tends to minimize possible conflicts of interests that might 
otherwise impair the ability of commercial banks to devote 
themselves single-mindedly to their primary function of serving 
their depositors, borrowers, correspondents, and trust accounts." 
The Board strongly believes that circumstances have not so 
changed as to warrant a complete repeal of the prohibitions 
°f the Glass-Steagall Act. 
The Board does, however, favor an amendment to authorize 
limited bank underwriting of revenue bonds. In the period since 
e
nactment of the Glass-Steagall Act in 1933, revenue bonds have 
ecome an important instrument for financing a wide range of State 
and local capital projects. This change in financing practice, 

Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
in our view, warrants an amendment treating revenue bonds in the 
same manner as general obligations. As Governor Mitchell testified, 
this amendment should not "constitute a precedent for later authori-
zation of commercial bank underwriting of corporate bonds or other 
securities of private borrowers. The case for exempting municipal 
obligations rests, as we see it, on a special concern for assisting 
public bodies in borrowing to meet public needs. We strongly believe 
that any further expansion of bank underwriting—for example, to 
assist in financing private utility companies--would be unwarranted." 
The Board also believes that amendments to Federal law 
are warranted to make it clear that banks may establish and operate 
collective investment funds that would be similar to, and compete 
with, mutual funds. We feel that the service that banks would 
perform in this fashion is similar in many respects to other banking 
services, and that the purposes underlying the Glass-Steagall 
prohibitions are not significantly relevant to the operation of 
a collective investment fund by a bank. 
We agree that changes in statutes as important as the 
Glass-Steagall Act should be considered carefully. The positions 
the Board has taken with respect to these two proposed amendments 
were taken only after a great deal of study and deliberation, and 
with careful consideration of the conflict of interest problems 
and the implications of such amendments for the nation's financial 
structure. 
Since you have requested my individual views on these 
matters, let me add that I concur in the Board's position. As you 
know, I have in the past opposed authorizing commercial banks to 
underwrite revenue bonds. In agreeing with the Board at this time, 
I want to stress that the proposal would simply provide the same 
kind of treatment for one type of municipal security (revenue bonds) 
as is now provided for another (general obligations). I do not 
believe that there is any sound basis for distinguishing between the 
two kinds of obligations in regard to bank underwriting. If special 
consideration for the financing problems of State and local govern-
ments warrants exempting their general obligations, an exemption is 
also justified for their revenue bonds. I should like to emphasize, 
however, that while I am in favor of allowing commercial banks to 
underwrite revenue bonds, I do not believe that they should be 
authorized to go any further than this and to engage in a general 
underwriting business. A limited exemption for revenue bond 
underwriting, granted in recognition of a need to facilitate financing 
of State and local governments, should in no way serve as a precedent 
for any later expansion of the underwriting authority into other 
areas. 

S©4 
Honorable Wright Patman 
-3-
I am enclosing copies of Governor Mitchell's testimony on 
S. 1306, a staff study entitled "Interest Cost Effects of Commercial 
Bank Underwriting of Municipal Revenue Bonds," and our letter to 
Chairman Sparkman dated December 14, 1967, on the Amendments proposed 
by Senator Mclntyre to S. 1659. 
Sincerely yours, 
ointereiy yuuis, 
»• 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
^ 
Enclosures (3). 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
OF T H E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C . 
2 D 5 S I 
Item No. 15 
3/6/68 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 7, 1968. 
The Honorable Del Clawson, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 20515. 
Dear Mr. Clawson: 
This is in reply to your request for comment on a proposal 
by Mr. Preston Martin, Savings and Loan Commissioner of the State of 
California, for possible Federal Reserve "backstopping" of the con-
solidated obligations of the Federal Home Loan Bank System. As you 
w
ill recall, he requests the Federal Reserve to commit itself to 
buy FHL Bank obligations--either directly or in the secondary 
m
arket--as a means of cushioning the impact of monetary policy on 
the savings and loan industry and housing during periods of "very 
severe" credit restraint. 
At the outset it should be noted that Federal Reserve 
Purchases of FHL Bank obligations directly from the FHLB System are 
n
°t authorized under present law. Section 14(b)(2) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 355), which was added to the law by the Act 
°f September 21, 1966, provides that the Federal Reserve Banks may 
buy and sell in the open market, under the direction and regulations 
°f the Federal Open Market Committee, any obligation which is a direct 
°bligation of, or fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, 
any agency of the United States." Although the Reserve Banks are 
also authorized by section 14(b) of the Act to purchase certain 
obligations of the United States directly from the Treasury, this 
authority does not extend to all agency issues but only to those 
w
bich are fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United 
States. Moreover, since existing law already authorizes the Secretary 
°f the Treasury to lend up to $1 billion directly to the FHLB System, 
a similar authorization to the Federal Reserve would be simply additive. 
While the 1966 act does authorize the Federal Reserve to 
Purchase FHL Bank obligations in the open market, such buying is not 
r e
ally a feasible means of supporting the savings and loan industry. 
T o
 have a significant influence on flows of funds to the FHLB System 
a t
 times of severe credit squeeze, such Federal Reserve acquisitions 
w
°uld have to be very large and concentrated within a few months. 

Honorable D e l C I awson 
-2-
Because the market in FHL Bank debt is still relatively small, at least 
w
he n compared to the market for U. S. Government securities, purchases 
°n such a large scale would quickly force other buyers out of the market 
eaving the Federal Reserve the dominant market force. 
Federal Reserve preemption of the buy side of the secondary 
market would, of course, tend to reduce interest yields on FHL Bank 
|-ssues, at least temporarily. But it has generally been our view that 
inancial markets are benefitted most over the long run if basic forces 
supply and demand are allowed to work themselves out in the market-
P ace independent of direct Federal Reserve support. Since the Treasury-
e
 eral Reserve accord in the early 1950's, all of our open market 
operations have been conducted with this view in mind. Otherwise, 
uncertainties are engendered in the minds of investors and dealers 
ether pegged interest rates or general monetary objectives will be 
& ven first priority. Such uncertainties in turn create arbitrary price 
U c
tuations which retard the market's development. 
^ 
The market for FHL Bank debt and agency securities in general 
a
lready grown considerably in depth and breadth in recent years, and 
e Federal Reserve would not wish to inhibit further improvement. Con-
sequently, X believe Federal Reserve transactions in the secondary market 
agency securities should be undertaken only to the extent they 
c
ontribute to the market's long run development. With this objective in 
» the Federal Reserve began in late 1966 to make repurchase agreements 
dealers in agency securities. Since then, nearly $1 billion of such 
ansactions have been made, about half of which have been in the obliga-
°ns of housing agencies. 
More generally, any undertaking to finance the FHL Banks through 
eral Reserve buying of FHL Bank debt would have to be accomplished 
nin the constraints of general monetary policy—which in the circum-
e
 a n c
® s assumed would be strongly anti-inflationary. Federal Reserve 
^Perience with the pegging of interest rates during and after World 
** showed that efforts to hold any given interest rate at artificially 
w
 levels cause the Federal Reserve to become "an engine of inflation." 
r 
If Federal Reserve purchases were to be made on the scale 
quired without releasing substantially more reserves to the banking 
R ^
S t e m
 than would be consistent with general monetary policy, the Federal 
S e
S e r V e W O u l d
 have to make partly offsetting sales of U. S. Government 
t o
C u r i t
i e s . And over the longer run an^ additions of FHL Bank obligations 
for^
6 F e d e r a l
 Reserve security portfolio would represent substitutions 
S. Government securities. 

837 
Honorable Del CI awson 
-3-
Thus, while Federal Reserve purchases would tend, other things 
eing equal, to depress interest rates on FHL Bank obligations, Federal 
reserve sales (or foregone purchases) would at the same time put upward 
Pressure on yields of short-term Treasury issues. At best, a Federal 
Reserve buying program of this type would simply help to keep spreads 
e
tween yields on short-term Treasury and FHL Bank issues from widening 
a s
 ^ c h as they usually would in the assumed circumstances of generally 
r3
-sing short-term rates and expanding FHL Bank offerings. 
In short, Federal Reserve buying of FHL Bank debt--even if 
undertaken directly, as well as in the open market—would probably not 
e
 very effective in insulating the Home Loan Bank System from high 
^nterest
 c o s t s
 at times of severe credit squeeze. Since large-scale 
u
ying of FHL Bank debt would also present problems of market domination, 
already noted, and create important technical difficulties for day-to-
ay nianagement of the Federal Reserve open market portfolio, it is not 
d C
 all cl ear that such a policy would on balance produce a net social 
benefit. 
The Board of Governors does, of course, recognize that occasions 
arise when FHL Banks should be provided with otherwise unavailable 
u
nds for lending to S and L's faced with a severe liquidity crisis, 
mergency arrangements were made during the 1966 credit squeeze for 
deral Reserve Banks to serve as lenders of last resort in such situations 
r
°
u
gh their discount operation. Similar arrangements would again be 
m a
de should similar circumstances develop in the future. But in the last 
a n a
lysis continued efforts to produce fundamental institutional reforms 
likely to be most effective in ameliorating the severity of pressures 
Tq ™°
r
tgage and housing markets during periods of tight money. Since 
' both Government and industry groups have been actively studying 
Promoting a number of such proposals for institutional reform. I 
leve these efforts should continue to be actively encouraged. 
t 
I hope that these comments will be helpful to you in responding 
0
 Commissioner Martin. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

saa 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 16 
3/6/68 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
''f^ALM^''' 
March 7, 1968 
The Honorable K. A. Randall, 
Chairman, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20420. 
Dear Kay: 
With reference to the discussions that have been 
going on between our respective staffs concerning a proposal 
that the FDIC assume responsibility for computer processing 
of member banks' reports of condition, there are enclosed 
copies of a memorandum from our staff to the Board of Governors 
on this subject. The memorandum outlines the proposal and 
raises several questions on which we feel additional informa-
tion is needed. 
We would very much appreciate it if you would re-
view the memorandum and give us your comments on the several 
questions presented. After we have received this additional 
information, the Board will be in a position to consider the 
matter further. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
Enclosures 

% 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 17 
3/6/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 8, 1968. 
The Honorable Manuel F. Cohen, Chairman, 
Securities and Exchange Commission, 
Washington, D. C. 20549 
°ear Mr. Cohen: 
In confirmation of the informal discussions held between Miss 
Janet Hart, Senior Attorney of the Board's Legal Division, and Mr. Harry 
Pollack, the Commission's Director of Personnel, the Board of Governors 
°f the Federal Reserve System requests the services of Mr. William T. 
Lesh, Attorney Advisor, and Mr. Warren S. Shantz, Investigator, on a 
reimbursable basis for an initial period of approximately 90 days for 
the purpose of assisting the Board's Task Force - Special Regulations. 
It is possible that we may need to request an extension of 
their detail; however, at the present time we cannot accurately make 
this determination and request, therefore, that the matter of extending 
their services to the Board beyond the initial 90 day period be left 
°pen for future consideration until we have had an opportunity to judge 
the progress of the project. 
It is understood that the Board will reimburse the Commission 
f°r Messrs. Lesh and Shantz's salaries, accrued leave, as well as the 
Commission's contributions for retirement, health and life insurance 
coverage during their period of detail. In addition the Board will re-
imburse Messrs. Lesh and Shantz directly for any travel expenses incurred 
ky them in connection with their work for the Board. 
The Board's Division of Personnel Administration will forward 
t° the Commission a biweekly time and attendance report for these two men. 
Lesh's period of detail commenced March 4, 1968, and Mr. Shantz's 
detail will begin March 11, 1968. 
If the above arrangement is agreeable we would appreciate 
receiving the Commission's approval. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

300 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 18 
3/6/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 7, 1968 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
Timlen's letter of March 1, 1968, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors 
under delegated authority, approves the appointment of 
Christopher W. Walsh as an assistant examiner for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York. Please advise the effective date of 
the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BDARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 19 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
3 / 6 / 6 8 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1968 
Mr. Joseph R. Campbell, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear Mr. Campbell: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in your letter of February 29, 1968, the Acting 
Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the appointment of James M. 
Pilkauskas as an assistant examiner for the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3 0 2 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 20 
3/6/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
The Bank of New Orleans and 
Trust Company, 
New Orleans, Louisiana. 
Gentlemen; 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the establishment of branches by The Bank of New 
Orleans and Trust Company, New Orleans, Louisiana, in the 
city of New Orleans at 4250 Washington Avenue, 5201 Gentilly 
Road, and in the 5300 block of Canal Boulevard, provided the 
branches are established within six months from the date of 
this letter. 
In considering these applications, it has been 
determined that the proposed branches will serve the conven-
ience and needs of the community, and that establishment of 
the branches will not tend to create an undesirable competi-
tive situation. It is understood that you plan to increase 
capital funds through the sale of common stock or capital 
notes by $1,000,000 in 1968. In view of the substantial 
growth experienced by your bank, all means to strengthen 
its capital structure should receive your continuing con-
sideration so that such growth will be on a sound basis. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F A T L A N T A 
I T E M N O 
3/6/68 
A T L A N T A , G E O R G I A 3 0 3 0 3 
Marcn 6, 1968 
Board of Directors 
Trust Comoany of Georgia 
Atlanta, Georgia 30302 
Gentlemen: 
f»n behalf of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, acting under duly delegated 
authority, this Bank approves an extension of the time 
within which a branch may be established at 3300 Northslde 
Parkway, N. W., Atlanta, Georgia, to July 1, 1968. 
Very truly yoursv 
/ 
Monroe Klmbre" 
President 
CC: Board cf Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
SECRETARY'S DELEGATION DOCKET COPY 

904 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F A T L A N T A 
I T E M 
N O - 2 2 
3/6/68 
""•COR 
A T L A N T A , G E O R G I A 
3 0 3 0 3 
"
t
s i o t n r 
March 6, 1968 
Board of Directors 
Peoples Bank & Trust Company 
Montgomery, Alabama 
36105 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with Section 24A of the Federal Reserve 
Act, on behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, acting under delegated authority, approval is hereby granted 
for your bank to make an additional investment in bank premises in 
the amount of $436,549 for a total investment not to exceed $635,616. 
CC: Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 

C O P Y 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS 
DALLAS. TEXAS 
75222 
Item No. 23 
3/6/68 
March 6, 1968 
Boon! of Director* 
Citizens 3tate Bank of Dalhart 
0. Box 1151 
Dalhart, Texas 79022 
Qsrrtlemen: 
reference is made to President R. fi. Koehler's letter of Febru-
ary 26, 1968, together with the acccopanylng resolution dated February 6, 
ei/^iifyina ycur intention to withdrew from rnecfrership in the Fad-
er*
1
 reserve System and requesting waiver of the six months' notice of 
such withdrawal. 
On behalf of tl»e Board of Governors, acting under delected 
authority, this Bank has waived the requirement of oix swaths
1
 notice of 
vithdrawal, Under the provisions of Action 206.10(c) of the Board's 
^Tttlation H, your institution may accaaqplish termination of its msntoer-
2;li
P at any time within eight aonths froo ti« date that notice of inten-
sion to withdraw from membership was given. Upon currsnder to this bank 
stock issued to your institution, such stock will be cancelled and appro-
priate refund will be made thereon. 
When you have been advised by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation of the cantinuanoe of deposit insurance, please forward us 
for refund the stock of this bank held by you and also your certificate 
or membership in the Federal Reserve 3ystem, thereby terminating your 
^nbership. Tour letter transmitting this stock should contain instruc-
tiona as to the disposition of your reeervw account balance and the trans 
e r
 of securities, if any, which are held in safekeeping for the account 
o f
 your bank by us. 
If we can be of any further assistance, please ftoel free to 
call on us. 
sincerely. 
Thomas R. Jullivan 
Vice President 
Board of Governors of the*-
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D.-C. 20551 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N F R A N C I S C O , C A L I F O R N I A 
0 4 1 2 0 
March 6, 1968 
Item No 
3/6/68 
Mr. Robert H. Steele, 
Assistant Vice President, 
Wells Fargo Bank, 
464 California Street, 
San Francisco, California 94120. 
Deer Mr. Steele: 
This will refer to your lettet-dated October 
1967, in which application was made 
permission to establish 
a branch office in lUe Town end Cpdntry Center, City of Oranae 
Orange County, California, and }Kpur subsequent letter of 
January 23, 1963, in which the siSte of this^bplLcation was 
changed to 2333 North Broadway Street, Sprit* Ana, California. 
On the 
general knjwledg 
capitalLzstion 
the proposed brn
1 
the^ct5mnunity, a 
asr undesirable c 
field Investigation and our 
we believe that the brn'c's 
agement is satisfactory, chat 
the convenience and needs of 
ch will not tend to create 
uation. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
^Reserve Systemj acting under delegated authority, this Bank 
ipproves the establishment by Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, 
lliforniu, est a branch to be located at 2333 North Broadway 
Strfe*tL+_£*f(ta Ann, Orange County, California, provided the 
branch is established one year from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Irwin L. Jennings 
« 
I m i n L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 

c 
c 
0 
0 
p 
p 
Y 
Y 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO 
Item No. 25 
3/6/68 
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA 94120 
March 6, 1968 
Mr. Robert H. Steele, 
Assistant Vice President, 
Wells Fargo Bank, 
464 California Street, 
San Francisco, California 94120 
Dear Mr. Steele: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, acting under delegated authority, 
this Bank has approved an extension to September 29, 1968, 
of the time within which Wells Fargo Bank may establish 
a branch office in the vicinity of the intersection of 
Kooser Road and Almaden Road in the City of San Jose, 
Santa Clara County, California. 
This extension is granted in connection with 
the request contained in your letter dated March 4, 1968. 
Very truly yours 
(signed) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings 
Vice President. 
