MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 13, 19 72 

2 4 4 6 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, September 13, 1972. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

21 ,1 
9/13/72 
-2-
Treasurv accounts. Governor Robertson reported for the Board's 
information that the Treasury had been in danger of being overdrawn in 
its accounts with the Federal Reserve Banks yesterday but had not wanted 
to use its privilege of borrowing directly from the Federal Reserve. 
There had been sufficient cash in the Treasury vaults to cover the expected 
demands on the accounts. Therefore, rather than ship the cash physically 
to the Richmond Reserve Bank, the Treasury had given the Board a warehouse 
receipt and was holding the cash in custody, to be released only upon 
order of the Board, and the Treasury's account at the Richmond Bank had 
been credited with the funds. It was expected that Treasury receipts would 
enable reversal of the transaction today or tomorrow, but also that there 
^ight be other occasions during the next few weeks when special means might 
have to be taken temporarily to adjust Treasury balances. 
Governor Brimmer observed that if the normal means for adjustment 
been used, namely, direct borrowing by the Treasury from the Federal 
Reserve, note of that fact would have appeared in the Board's Annual Report. 
H e disliked the kind of internal transaction that had been used in this 
instance, and suggested that the occurrence be reported in the report for 
this year. 
It was understood that consideration would be given to Governor 
trimmer's suggestion. 
Chairman Burns joined the meeting at this point. 

2448 
9/13/72 
-3-
Flood Disaster Protection Act. In a memorandum of September 13, 
^972, the Legal Division stated that the Office of Management and Budget 
had requested comments on a draft bill entitled the Flood Disaster Protec-
tion Act of 1972. The provision of the bill of most direct concern to 
Board would require that each Federal instrumentality responsible for 
the supervision, approval, regulation, or insuring of banks, savings 
loan associations, and similar institutions direct its supervised 
lnstitutions to require the purchase of flood insurance by their borrowers 
lri flood-prone areas in connection with loans secured by improved real 
estate. The Division considered that that requirement was designed as an 
indirect method of forcing communities to participate in the program and 
m e et Federal flood control standards. The Division expressed the view 
that it Was inappropriate to use the supervisory agencies for a purpose 
s° unrelated to their regulatory responsibilities and that the provision 
In question constituted an inappropriate use of the banking system in 
general. A draft letter was attached. 
Discussion indicated that members of the Board did not share the 
Sfcaff view that the bill proposed using the banking system to achieve a 
regulatory purpose unrelated to the business of banking. There was agreement 
that it would be well to suggest that the requirement of flood insurance 
mortgage loans made by Federally-insured institutions be imposed in 
t h e statute rather than through agency regulations, and that the requirement 

2449 
9/13/72 
-4-
b e applied more comprehensively in order that mortgage lending institutions 
not covered by Federal insurance would not gain a competitive advantage. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the letter was approved 
nnanimously in the form attached as Item No. 1. 
Regulation J. Pursuant to the discussion at the meeting on 
SePtember 12, 1972, the staff had prepared revised drafts of replies to 
Otters from the American Bankers Association and the Conference of 
State Bank Supervisors regarding adverse effects they believed nonmember 
banks would suffer if pending amendments to Regulation J, Collection 
of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks, were implemented on 
September 21 as scheduled. Also, a reply had been drafted to a letter 
from Chairman Patman of the House Committee on Banking and Currency that 
bad requested that further consideration be given to the possible adverse 
effects of the regulatory changes on small banks. The revised draft letters 
reflected the tenor of discussion at yesterday's meeting. Also, the views 
°f the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks had been solicited in a 
telephone conference. In essence, the letters would indicate that the 
Federal Reserve would stand ready for an extended period to provide credit 
to banks, member or nonmember, where the new regulation might create a 
si8nificant impairment of liquidity or impair the ability of a bank to 
Serve its community. Today's discussion centered upon two principal 
Questions: channels through which Federal Reserve credit should be extended 
to nonmember banks, and the rate at which such credit would be available. 

'> I r f i 
9/13/72 
-5-
Several members spoke in favor of confining credit to nonmember 
banks as far as possible to direct loans under the last paragraph of 
section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act, using conduit loans through member 
banks only in those cases where the nonmember bank was unable to offer 
the Government securities collateral required for direct loans. The view 
was expressed that using member banks for the benefit of nonmembers could 
cause future trouble. Other members expressed a preference for conduit 
loans. 
Further discussion developed agreement that the Reserve Banks 
w°uld be given the option of using direct or conduit loans. It was 
-Sg^eed also that the rate to be used for direct loans should be a special 
rate, equal to the principal discount rate under sections 13 and 13a of 
the Federal Reserve Act, and that with respect to conduit loans it would 
b e Permissible for the member bank to add to the discount rate at which 
lt: obtained the credit a small additional charge to the nonmember bank. 
Governor Brimmer dissented with respect to the use of a rate 
equal to the discount rate for direct loans. He believed that a penalty 
rate should be set for both direct and conduit loans; any nonmember bank 
that used Federal Reserve money should pay a higher rate than a member bank. 
It was brought out that the regular rate for direct loans under 
the last paragraph of section 13 was 6-1/2 per cent, and that because of 
Problems of member bank relations the Reserve Banks probably would be 
reluctant to set a special rate equal to the principal discount rate of 
^*~l/2 per cent. There was discussion of the possible use of the Board's 

*> A r- .-a 
9/13/72 
-6-
statutory authority to determine the rate, and some sentiment was 
expressed in favor of that course. However, comments were also made on 
the need to avoid diminishing the role of the Reserve Bank directors, and 
there was agreement with a suggestion that inquiry be made of each Reserve 
Bank by telephone whether it would prefer to establish a special rate equal 
to the principal discount rate or to have the Board determine such a rate 
a s a response to a problem that was national rather than regional. 
A number of suggestions for changes in the draft letters to the 
the Conference of State Bank Supervisors, and Chairman Patman were 
ac*opted in the light of the discussion, including describing the rate to 
b e used for credit extended to nonmember banks as "substantially the 
same terms as are applicable to member banks." The letters were approved 
the form attached as Items 2, 3, and 4, respectively. Pursuant to 
the Board's actions with respect to providing credit for nonmember banks 
a letter was sent to the Federal Reserve Banks in the form attached as 
I t e m j f o , 
5. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Melnicoff, Smith, Axilrod, and Norwood, after which Governor Daane reported 
the proceedings of recent conferences of central bankers in Basle, 
Switzerland. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Sit ' ' 
Si - 
V;'. 
»r~o 
f^-tOtO 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 1 
9/13/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F T I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
September 13, 1972 
William V. Skidmore 
/ 
°£fic.e of the Assistant Director 
for Legislative Reference 
j-fice of Management and Budget 
^cutive Office of the rresident 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Re: Draft bill entitled the "Flood Disaster Protection 
-. 
Act of 1972" 
; 
^ar Mr. Skidmore; 
This refers to your Legislative Referral Memorandum dated 
• °Pter,ibar 12, 1972, requesting the Board's views on the above-refer-
enced bill. 
. 
The proposed bill would amend the National Flood Insurance 
of 1968 to increase the limits of coverage and to encourage com-
^nvt-y participation in the program. As affects the Board of Governors, 
G bill would require it to direct its supervised financial institutions 
j a<" t h ey lTiay not", after certain time periods, make loans secured by 
^proved real estate in certain designated flood prone areas unless the 
°rr°Wer obtains flood insurance, 
# 
The Board's experience subsequent to the recent floods has 
indicated to it that any solvency problems have arisen to date in 
, 
lPe£visod institutions as a result of loans secured by flood damaged 
estate, IVe Board therefore is uncertain of the need of such a 
HU-.reme.nt as a protection for the banking system. 
^ 
The Board sees no objection to the purposes of the bill, 
wever, the Board believes that it would be a more satisfactory 
°cedure for the bill to directly impose upon all federally insured 

William vr. Skidmore 
-2-
p 
nancial institutions the obligation to require such insurance as 
^condition to the extension of credit rather than for a number of 
;Gderal supervisors t:o individually impose the requirement on the 
Iustitu.tions which they supervise. The Board would prefer to sec the 
Principles of the bill applied more comprehensively, since it feels 
bill might have the effect of placing federally supervised 
nancial institutions at a competitive disadvantage in the mortgage 
ailCl construction loan markets. 
Very truly yours, 
/ / 
/
V 
/! 
/ /Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
I 
"i 
I 
i ' 

» 
i 
ry u rr-l 
i 
^"iU-'jt 
, 
< 
B O A R D •!-" G G V E R M C I R S 
/^Sg^V* 
G r 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
9/13/72 
rfWVfrf.VpH 
15. 
W A S H I N G T O N ' . 
D. 
C. 
20551 
' 
A U D R E E S 
O F F I C I A L 
C n i R C B P O N O C H C C 
* 
' 
T O 
T H L 
U O A F < D 
September 14, 1972 
}!r' Willis V7. Alexonder 
^ecutive Vice President 
, 
American Bankers Association' 
Connecticut Avenue, K.W. 
;ashin^ton, D. C. 
20036 
. Alexander: 
The Board appreciates your letter of September 1 commenting 
. changes in check collection, under Regulation J .that will go into 
beginning September 21. Let us say at the outset that the Board 
fully considered the ABA's earlier suggestions, along with many 
<•4, 
S' before announcing the revised proposals on June 22, 1972. We 
" 'ate your concern that reform of the check payments system be carried 
ot»«. „ 
* 
w smoothly and effectively. 
ion 
We note your agreement that the objectives of this reform, 
S ir; preparation, are in the best interests of: the public and of a 
\ 
t a n d 
equitable banking system. We know, too, that you are aware 
the restructuring of reserve requirements under Regulation D> 
^Peeially helpful uo many smaller banks, is a companion measure to the 
^ Elation J changes, and could not be effected now should the revision 
dilation J be delayed. 
0 
Between publication of the proposals for Regulations B and J 
^ 
^rch 2.8 and final adoption on June 22, Federal Reserve representa-
e^as~conferred with hundreds of bankers, individually and in groups, 
J'obtained first-hand information as to the impact of the reforms on 
^ lvidual institutions. These consultations confirmed the experience 
t.|' tbc Federal Reserve Banks arising out of the establishment, during 
!qg
G P a s t t w o years, of Regional Check Processing Centers — a develop-
Which affected both member and nonmember banks in ways quite 
tc the effects of the change in Regulation J. 
;>0 
The Board has compiled cash letter data for every member ana 
nrr--fiber bank. Analysis indicates than the impact: of the Regulation J 
is similar for both classes of banks. On the average the loss 
^ Mailable funds for small and medium size bdtks is less than 1 par 
ha^ °3" total deposits. A small minority of banks appears likely to 
* V t a loss larger than 2 per cent ot total uepcsitr, and in rare cases, 

A-'iOJ 
Willis W. Alexander 
-2-
for larger banks, the loss could exceed 4 per cent -- all against the 
background of an increase of almost 12 per cent in deposits for the 
nation's banks as a whole during 1971. This experience and analysis 
give no indication that a large-seal 
«hift from deferred to immedi-
ate payment seriously affects the ) 
-lit:y or viability of either 
member or nonmember banks« 
Despite this evidew.e, in the event that the new Regulation 
results in a significant i::;;iirment of the liquidity of a nonmember 
bank or impairs its ability to serve its community, the Board will 
exercise its powers to provide Federal Reserve credit on substantially 
the same terras as are applicable to member banks for as long as is 
necessary to enable such a bank to adjust to the new situation, but 
n°t beyond June 30, 1974. 
i 
••••'' i ;' 
Where Regional Check Processing Centers have come into 
°P-ration, more than 1,300 banks already have joined with the Federal 
Reserve in achieving the larger public good to be obtained from elimi-
nation of float and in building the basis for a speedier, less costly, 
modern payments system. In view of your suggestions and cooperation 
i n this program, the Board is pleased to be able to advise you that 
the System's plans for completion of regional check clearing arrange-
ments have been accelerated. Moreover, with implementation of the 
revised Regulation J, the prospects will be good for the establish-
ment of: a comprehensive system of overnight check clearance in the 
near future. Nine Regional Check Processing Centers have already 
been established and by January 1973 it is expected that an addi-
tional 25 regional clearing arrangements will be in operation. 
Your suggestions for the phasing-in of Regulation J were 
n°t incorporated in the amendments because of a number of overriding 
technical obstacles. These include the creation of an unacceptable 
level, of Federal Reserve float, impediments to passing on to banks 
i 
and their customers trie benefits of faster credit for checks, redun-
^ 
,^dant check sorting and handling that would increase the burden and 
^"fcost- of check clearance for Federal Reserve and commercial banks, and 
a general slowing of the. check collection process -- contrary to our 
Ritual objectives. 
The Board looks forward to a continuing dialogue with the 
banking community as we move forward with the creation of a modernized 
Payments mechanism in the public interest. 
5 in.eer e ly your s, 
f? 
J
? 
- -^Mf-K^x 
^f^^-f 
if 
/ 
V Tynan Smith 
Sfiv.ref.arv of the Board 

/C t 5 b 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 3 
ylkwco,;•, 
O F T H E 
9 / 1 3 / 7 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20555 
A D D U C E S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R T S P O N D E N C C 
1 O T H E 
B O A N O 
September 14, 1972 
Lawrence E. Kreider 
Executive Vice President-Economist 
Conference of State Bank Supervisors 
1C)15 Eighteenth Street, N.U. 
Washingt.on, D. C. 
20036 
bear 
r Mr. Kreider: 
The Board of Governors has carefully considered your letter 
September 7 requesting a year's delay in the Implementation of 
aiQ£indnients to Regulation J. We appreciate your support of the Board's 
Actives in facilitating a more equitable ana efficient check eol-
ation system, and your offer to assist the Board in gathering and 
ai,alyzing additional information. 
As you know, the Board published its proposed amendments to 
^Bulations D and J on March 28 for comment. Prior to that time and 
since, i;he Board has gathered and analyzed voluminous data. Members 
?f- the Board's and of the Federal Reserve Banks' staffs have interviewed 
"Undreds of bankers and have analyzed the effects of the changes in the 
filiations on many individual institutions. The Board is convinced 
the available data, and by its experience with the establishment of 
*®8iorial check processing centers, in which many nonmember banks par-
»v 
^icipate, that the impact of the new check'clearing rules will neither 
^ .J^-^usly affect the viability of nonmember banks nor impair their 
x^yty t0 serve their communities. 
Early in our discussions with representative bankers on the 
*f£ects of the" Board's proposals, the suggestion emerged that state 
0£ficialg might wish to review existing reserve requirements for state. 
noi>member banks in the light of our proposed changes, Nonmember bank 
Serves are. generally lower than those for members. Nevertheless, 
a s Von point out in your letter, a number of State Bank Supervisors 
already have taken action to reduce state reserve requirements. 
For the Board to stay implementation of the new rules to 
l^-t state bv state action would create a critical delay in the 
d6v®Xopm6Tit of an efficient payments mechanism and in a restructuring 
member bank reserves, and, Id the Board's judgment, would not .-e 
'Tl 
public interest. 

^tiii 
Lawrence E. Kreider 
-2' 
The Board is confident that, as in recent cases where 
*ones of immediate payment already have been established over large 
^gions for both member and nonmember banks, the transition to more 
modern check collection procedures will be smooth. Nevertheless, as 
•^e Board lias stated elsewhere, should individual nonmember banks 
experience a significant impairment of liquidity or an impairment of 
^eir ability to serve their communities, the Board will exercise its 
Powers to provide Federal Reserve credit to such banks on substantially 
the same, terms as are applicable to member banks, over an extended 
Period. 
The Board is most appreciative of your willingness to^coop-
erate in establishing a firm base for improvement of the nation s 
inking services. 
.. 
Sincerely yours, 
//Tynan Smith 
Secretary of. the Board 

2458 
Item No. 4 
/^Sf^K 
\ 
9/13/72 
CHAIRMAN of 
T H E B O A R D OF" G O V E R N O R S 
m
m
:
, 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
September 14, 1972 
Honorable Wright Patman 
Rinnan 
j^nttnittcc o n Banking and Currency 
use. of Representatives 
asMngton, D. C. 20515 
neat Mr. Chairman: 
* ^ Writing in reply to your letter of September 7 regarding the 
r°Posed amendments to Regulation J. 
^e Board has made a thorough and conscientious effort to measure the 
j 
— — 
ilXC4.V-i.V- 
W 
u u v j . v v ^ j " 
— 
' 
/Pact of this reform on small banks. For example, our staff has compiled 
flatr 
- - 
- - 
-
b*nk; 
Of J 
j. 
- — 
L U 1 1 U 3 
i - U J . 
o - u i c i J. J. 
• - •• 
- 
— 
•• 
deposits. For larger banks the average loss is somewhat greater. 
, 
on cash letters collected by the Federal Reserve System from all 
member and nonmember, Analysis indicates that the average less 
j, investable funds for small banks would be less than 0.5 per cent of 
deposits. For larger banks the average loss is somewhat greater 
any institution, large or small, it would rarely exceed 4 per cent. 
addition, the experience of the Federal Reserve Banks over the past 
years in establishing regional check processing centers, which affect 
in ways quite similar to the proposed new regulation, indicates that 
g
 sl}ift from deferred to immediate payment can be accomplished without 
piously affecting the liquidity or viability of member or nonmember 
. 
. In the months since the proposed amendments to Regulation J were 
J^Ushcid, we have received and studied hundreds of communications. In 
, ^ition, representatives of the Federal Reserve have consulted with 
**Jreds of bankers, individually and in groups. In these consultations 
have gathered first-hand information about the impact of the reforms 
/dividual institutions, and this information confirms the conclusions 
G°d on our earlier experience with regional check processing centers. 
> t t e this evidence, in the event that the new regulation results in a 
j ^Ificant impairment of the liquidity of a nonmember bank or impairs 
^ * ability to serve its community, ve are prepared to provide Federal 
credit on substantially the same terms as are applicable to 
*bei banks for such time as is necessary to enable a particular bank 
•70 
on 
>>a 

K. 
T!le Honorable Wright Patman 
. 
- 2 ~ 
to 
offef.8°lve i t S d i f f i c u l t i e s ' 
W e bel-ieve that such credit arrangements 
the b . r e a s o n a b l e assurance against any serious adverse consequences to 
nism 
<S ° r t'he p u b l i c > a s w c m o v e toward a modernized payments mecha-
""" 
is» a rnech&nisra which will work more speedily, provide 
Fedfi" ef f l c l e n , : service to the public, and, at the same time, reduce 
Reserve float. 
lr'atte0arfI a p p r e c i a t e s 
concern that all parties be heard in this 
is Co
ri.hufc l n v i e w o f i t s extensive study of this problem, the Board 
^tio 
C n t thaL" a p u b l i c hea*"ing would not develop additional infor-
it is
U,?r i s s u e s that t h e Board has not already considered. We believe 
vithOI
 
t h a t t h e r e f o r m c f t h e payments mechanism be accomplished 
ut: further delay. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
I I 
i 
I 
I 

•vfe0'^/. 
y ' " V . 
B D A R D TJF G O V E R N O R G 
• r 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
24 i 
Item No. 5 
9/13/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D t ' S C S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
FJDAWD 
September 14, 1972 
As you know, the revisions in the Federal Reserve Regula-
r s D and / that were approved by the Board in June are scheduled 
to So ir.-o effect beginning September 21. Each Reserve Bank has been 
neSotia-ting with member banks in its district with respect to the 
v,aive1: of penalties authorized in connection with those revisions. 
To make certain that all commercial banks are fully aware 
Wte effective dates of the revisions, including the Regulation J 
Ganges which affect nonmembers as well as members, a reminder from 
y°u>- Re nerve Bank to all commercial banks in your District would 
'fcem to be appropriate. 
Such a reminder need not be lengthy or complex but simply 
? 
to alert bonks once again of the effective dates. Attached 
Q suggested draft letter you might consider using for this purpose. 
We suggest mailing the letter from your bank on September 15 
e° 
will reach the commercial banks a few days before September 21. 
Please note the second paragraph from the end of the sug-
jksted letter to commercial banks. It represents a Board decision to 
j^0vide for Federal Reserve credit to nonmember banks for such time 
^ 
necessary (up to June 30, 1974) to resolve a significant^impair-
of liquidity or to mitigate the impairment of a bank's ability 
° servo its com,unitv. The Board would appreciate being kept closely 
Wl°rtned of lending activities of this type. Additional guidelines 
1 1 he discussed with you and your lending officers shortly. 
Closure 
Sincerely yours, 
Tynan Smith 
•J 
Secretary 
XliE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BAJ^KS 

4? 
<04-.±0_ SL 
D R A F T 
1 nrwerci.al Banks 
I am writing to remind you that revisions in the Board's 
PvG8ula;:iGne; j; and J that were approved in June will go into effect 
be2inn.lng September 21. 
Every commercial bank in the nation will be affected in 
SOlTie way by these changes which are meant to benefit both the banking 
Astern and the public at large. For your easy reference, J have 
Closed a copy of our operating circular relating to these changes. 
The Regulation J revisions apply to all commercial banks 
to ' 
Vj^ich Federal Reserve offices present cash items for payment. The 
Gllclooed document explains the operating details of; this change. 
For member banks, the revisions in. Regulation D—which 
lriVoiVo & restructuring in reserve requirements--will take effect in 
steps beginning the week of September 21-27. 
Under the restructuring,, reserve requirements on net demand 
X. 
cl(ip 0 f , 
-C^its will be based on the following ratios: 
Amount of; Net: Demand Deposits 
Reserve Percentages Applicable 
First $2 million or less 
8 per cent 
Over $2 million to $10 million 
10 per cent 
Over $10 million to $100 million 
12 per cent 
0ve.r $100 million to $400 million 
13 per cent 
Over $400 million 
17-1/2 per cent 
With one exception, the reserve ratios in this table will go 
* 
e£fecfc bagir.niug with the statement week of September 21-27 (based 

2.'. c 
°n clle average level of net dfcmakid deposits Held during the week of 
p 
ePtember 7-5 3). The one exception is the reserve ratify on net demand 
°ePcsits between $100 million and $400 million for present reserve city 
• This ratio (now 17-1/2 per cent) will be reduced to 16-1/2 per 
I o r the statement week ending September 27, and to 13 per cent: for 
the r i. -
^«cement week ending October 4, when all of the reserve ratios in 
the tabic will be in effect. 
Member banks should note that the waiver of penalties on 
o 
deficiencies that have been arranged with this Reserve Bank 
e effective in the statement week of September 21-27. This Bank 
'-i. se be receptive to requests from member banks in need of temporary 
- 
tide them over the period of adjustment to the new check 
^ c-icn rules. 
In the event that the new regulation results in a significant 
^Pat^n 
•fc«'.ent of the liquidity of a nonmember bank or impairs its ability to 
community, the Board will exercise its powers to provide Federal 
0 credit on substantially the same terms as are applicable, to member 
BGRJJ„T 
R 
s, 
° 
as long as is necessary to enable such a bank to adjust to the 
but not beyond June 30, 1974. Nonmember banks that feel 
xf>ht qualify for this assistance should contact this Federal 
Bar.it. 
If you have any further questions relating to these changes, 
- «o not hesitate to call me or (d es i gna t e r ep re sen t; a tivg•) at 
^^Illl^umber). 
Very truly yours, 
