FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
sppt-pmW 
1Q71 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
•, , 
- - 
• 
,. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
\> vt v 
; _ j 
f U > . . . • s v• t n i . 
n » •'."r ..: V. \V ! • 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

23CA 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, September 7, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 1/ 
pan5.1::' ; -M 
v. 
;.: < ". > :.... 
• . . 
- . •.- -•-'••...•• 
V, >: -. v 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
1/ Entered at point indicated in minutes. 

mt: 
9/7/71 
-2-
Proposed amendment to Regulation Y. On June 15, 1971, the 
Board considered a proposed amendment to Regulation Y, Bank Holding 
Companies. The amendment was designed to implement section 4(c)(13) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act, which pertains to foreign acquisitions 
by domestic bank holding companies. 
It would limit bank holding com-
panies' foreign investments to shares of companies in which Edge corpo-
rations may invest and would require prior Board consent for investments 
The proposed amendment was published for comments on June 16, and those 
received were summarized in a memorandum from the Legal Division dated 
August 6. 
The amendment had now been revised in light of the comments 
and other considerations, and was distributed with a memorandum dated 
September 3. 
During discussion questions were raised regarding a number of 
specific provisions in the proposed amendment and the implications of 
withdrawing the amendment altogether. 
In the light of the discussion, 
the staff was asked to revise certain portions of the amendment for the 
Board's consideration. 
Property management. With a memorandum from the Banking Markets 
Section and the Legal Division dated August 26, 1971, a paper from the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had been distributed recommending that 
Property management services be included in the list of permissible 

9/7/71 
-3-
activities for bank holding companies under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act. A draft amendment to Regulation Y, Bank Holding 
Companies, designed to implement the proposal was attached. 
After discussion, the Board approved unanimously publication of 
the draft amendment for comment, with the understanding that certain 
revisions would be made. A copy of the notice submitted to the Federal 
Register is attached under Item No. 1, along with a copy of the related 
press release. 
Governor Sherrill entered the meeting at this point. 
Perry County Bank. 
In memoranda dated August 18, 1971, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section 
recommended approval of the application of The Perry County Bank, New 
Lexington, Ohio, a subsidiary of BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, to 
merge with The Peoples Bank, Thornville. 
Discussion indicated that even though there was a general 
unwillingness to increase the already heavy concentration of BancOhio 
subsidiaries in the area, some members would favor approving the ap-
plication if that were necessary to remedy the management problem and 
strengthen the Thornville bank. The view was also expressed that there 
might be other solutions to the management problem that should be consid-
ered before the Board acted. Thereupon, the Board deferred action on 
the application, and asked the staff to study the management question 
further and submit its findings. 

2307 
9/7/71 
-4-
National Credit Union Bank bill. The Board had received a 
request from the Office of Management and Budget for its views on 
H.R. 6936, a bill to create a National Credit Union Bank. 
In a 
memorandum dated August 27, 1971, to which a draft reply was attached, 
Mr. Stone summarized the effects of the bill. A revised draft reply, 
dated September 3, also had been distributed. 
After discussion, the Board approved unanimously the revised 
letter, with the understanding that several changes would be made in 
it. A copy of the letter in the form in which it was transmitted is 
attached as Item No. 2.c 
Pennsylvania Company. The Board had received a request for 
a determination on whether State member banks could lawfully hold 
stock of Pennsylvania Company, now a wholly-owned subsidiary of Penn 
Central Transportation Company, in accordance with an agreement reached 
between representatives of the Trustees of Penn Central Transportation 
Company and of the Executive Committee of the 53 banks that made loans 
to that Company. With a memorandum from the Legal Division dated 
September 1, 1971, a draft reply had been distributed. 
After discussion, the Board approved unanimously the letter, 
with the understanding that certain revisions would be made. A copy 
of the letter in the form in which it was transmitted is attached as 
Item No. 3. 

23W 
[U 
9/7/71 
-5-
Minbanc Capital Corporation. With a memorandum from the Legal 
Division dated September 1, 1971, a draft letter had been distributed 
responding to a request by the American Bankers Association for a ruling 
on whether Federal law prevents purchase by State member banks of shares 
of Minbanc Capital Corporation, a closed-end investment company formed 
to provide capital to minority-owned banks. The letter expressed the 
view that State member banks could purchase such stock to the extent 
allowed by State law. 
During discussion Governor Robertson indicated that, while he 
t t \ 
considered the purpose of Minbanc worthwhile, purchase of its stock by 
State member banks was in his judgment clearly prohibited by Federal 
statute. 
The letter (copy attached as Item No. 4) was then approved, 
Governor Robertson dissenting. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Smith with-
drew and Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director of the Division 
of International Finance, entered the room. 
Governor Daane briefed the Board on the weekend discussions 
of recent international monetary developments by the Group of Ten Deputies 
The meeting then adjourned. 

•f^c^:-' 
Item No. 1 
9/7/71 
por immediate release 
September 7, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System proposed 
1" a 1 
day to permit bonk holding companies to perform property management 
services. 
Coranents on the proposal should be submitted to the Board by 
October 8. 
This proposal is part of a series the Board has made concerning 
activities regarded as closely related to banking under the 1970 amend-
ment.s to the Bank Holding Company Act and thus permissible activities 
f -
1 bank holding companies, subject to Board approval in individual cases. 
Under section 4(c)8 of the Act, the Board may permit bank 
h i 
0 d*ng companies to engage in activities that are "so closely related 
t o banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident 
thereto." 
The Board's proposal would define property management to encom-
p a s s farm management, the management of office buildings and other business 
industrial properties, the management of residences ranging from single-
c 
mil-y dwellings to high-rise apartment buildings, and the management of 
he air rights or the oil and mineral rights of a particular parcel of 
W d . 
A copy of the proposal is attached. 
-0-

2310 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 222] 
[Reg, Y] 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Interests in tfonbanking Activities 
The Board of Governors, proposes to permit bank holding 
C o mP anies, subject to established regulatory procedures, to engage in 
property management following a determination by the Board that such 
uCt:Lvity is "so closely related to banking or managing or controlling 
^anks as to be a proper incident thereto" within the meaning of 
Se°-tion 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Property management encompasses farm management, the manage-
ment of office buildings and other business or industrial properties, 
•.I 
G management of residences ranging from single-family dwellings to 
high-rise apartment buildings, and the management of the air rights 
o r t k e o i l an(j m|neraj, rights below, a particular parcel of land. 
Property management does not, in the Board's judgment, include 
activities such as the buying and selling of property or the development 
real estate. Although serving as an intermediary in bringing lessor 
and i 
J-fcssee together does not itself constitute property management, 
Serving in that capacity might nonetheless fall within the permissible 
Sc°pe of incidental activities necessary to carry on functions that are 
r°-£arded by the Board as property management. 
To implement the Board's proposal, § 222.4(a) would be amended 
^ adding subparagraph (10), to read as follows: 

§ 222.4 Nonbankinp. activities,. 
(a) ArHvltloa Closely relatglJto^sak 
^SBtrollinp. banks. * * * The following activities have been determined 
by the Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or control-
banks as to be a proper incident thereto: 
* * * 
(10) performing property management services. 
i'e 
To aid in the consideration by the Board of this matter, 
interested persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or argu-
ments, In accordance with the provisions of section 4(c)(8) of the Act, 
Interested persons are also given opportunity to request a hearing on 
this matter. Any comments or requests for hearing should be submitted 
in writing to the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
%ste m, Washington, D. C. 20531, to be received not later than October 8, 
1971. Such material will be made available for inspection and copying 
' 4J j 4n 5 9fi1 6(al of the Board's Rules 
uPon request, except as provided in § 2 6 1 . 0 W o1 
Regarding Availability of Information. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 7, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
ISEAL] 

2 8 S % 
2312 
b o a r d 
o f 
g o v e r n o r s 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
9/7/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
Q O A R D 
September 10, 1971 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
Washington, D.C. 
20503 
Rear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request for comment on H.R. 6936, 
a bill to create a National Credit Union Bank. The proposed Bank would 
be able to provide useful assistance to credit unions in dealing with 
temporary liquidity problems. 
In addition, the proposed powers could 
assist in dealing with special emergency situations such as can result 
from the homogeneous membership of many credit unions, with both share 
holders and borrowers often employees of the same organization. 
While there may be a need for additional credit arrangements 
to protect credit unions and their members faced with emergencies or 
other temporary liquidity problems, the lending authority provided by 
the bill does not appear to be limited to such situations. 
It would 
appear to permit longer-term loans to credit unions for expansion purposes. 
We would see no need for such credit in the light of demonstrated ability 
of credit unions to expand their lending activities based on the resources 
of their own members. During the decade of the sixties they increased 
their share of the rapidly growing total of consumer instalment credit 
held by all lenders from 8.3 per cent to 11.8 per cent. By mid-1971, 
credit unions had increased their share to 13.0 per cent of the total. 
Assuming that the new authority is confined to assistance of 
credit unions with temporary liquidity problems and other special 
emergency situations, it might be preferable, on administrative grounds, 
to give such authority to the National Credit Union Administration, the 
Present supervisory and insurance agency, rather than to create a 
Partially overlapping agency in the credit union field. With the lend-
ing authority clearly limited in this fashion, and with tha economies of 
administration derived from use of the existing supervisory agency, there 
would be no need for a borrowing authority as large as that provided in 

2313 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
-2-
the bill (which we estimate roughly at $1.5 to $2 billion). This may 
also preclude the need for mandatory stock subscriptions by credit 
unions. 
Sincerely yours, 
Secretary of the Board 

J l p 
2314 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
9/7/71 
A D D R E S S 
D F r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 9, 1971 
Shearman 6c Sterling 
53 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Attention: Mr. Hans H. Angermueller 
Gentlemen: < 
You have asked whether State member banks may lawfully 
hold the common stock of Pennsylvania Company (at present a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Penn Central Transportation Company) in accordance 
with the "Summary of Points of Agreement" dated as of May 25, 1971, 
which reflects the points of agreement reached between representatives 
of the Trustees of the property of Penn Central Transportation Company 
and representatives of the Executive Committee of the 53 banks which 
previously lent $300 million to Penn Central Transportation Company. 
Paragraph Seventh of R.S. 5136 (12 U.S.C. 24) provides 
that national banks may not purchase or sell stock for its own account, 
and this statutory prohibition is made applicable to State member banks 
by Federal Reserve Act § 9, paragraph 20 (12 U.S.C. 335). However, 
the Board recognizes that, notwithstanding this prohibition, a State 
member bank may, for the purpose of recouping its losses, acquire 
stock in satisfaction of a debt previously contracted in the course of 
its dealings, and may hold such stock for a reasonable period of time 
needed to recoup its losses. It should be borne in mind that a situa-
tion sometimes arises where stock acquired d.p.c. is held by a bank 
for an unreasonable period of time. For example, if stock acquired 
d.c.p. appreciates in value to the point where the bank can be made 
whole, the bank should, of course, dispose of the stock and realize 
its value; otherwise, the stock is being held for speculative purposes, 
rather than for the purpose of recouping the bank's losses. 

2315 
Shearman & Sterling 
-2-
In addition to considerations of Federal law, the Board 
has noted that, with respect to State member banks, additional 
limitations on the holding of such stock may be imposed by State 
law or by appropriate State bank supervisory agencies. 
Very truly yours, 
faulty 
/{ 
^Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

Q D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
9/ 7/ 7 1 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 7, 1971 
Mr. Peter F. McNeish, Director 
Urban Affairs Committee 
American Bankers Association 
1120 Connecticut Avenue, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 
20036 
Dear Mr. McNeish: 
This is in response to your request for a ruling from the 
Board of Governors on the question whether State member banks may 
Purchase the shares of Minbanc Capital Corporation, a closed-end in-
vestment company which has been formed by the American Bankers 
Association for the purpose of providing capital to minority-owned 
banks which do not have ready access to the usual sources of capital 
funds. 
You indicate that the plan to organize Minbanc was developed 
by the Urban Affairs Committee of the ABA as part of ABA's attempt to 
Provide an industry-sponsored, privately financed program of assis-
tance to minority-owned banks. The Executive Committee of the ABA's 
Urban Affairs Committee will constitute an advisory board to Minbanc 
and the chief administrative officer of Minbanc will be a staff 
Member of the ABA. Minbanc's officers, directors and the members of 
its advisory board will serve without compensation. 
The stock of Minbanc is to be offered only to ABA member 
banks or, where State-chartered banks are not permitted to make such 
investment, to their parent holding companies. The shares will not 
b e freely transferrable but will be subject to an assignable right of 
first refusal in Minbanc before they may be disposed of for value. 
!t is not contemplated that the right of first refusal will be exer-
cised, except to prevent a transfer to a person other than a bank or 
0 parent bank holding company. 
Furthermore, it is proposed that 
Minbanc's shares will be sold to as many ABA member banks as possible; 
no stockholder will be permitted to hold more than 5 per cent of the 
°utstanding shares of Minbanc. 
It further appears that a bank's 
investment in Minbanc shares will be nominal in relation to its 
Capital and surplus. 

231' 
Mr. Peter F. McNeish 
-2-
It is expected that Minbanc will invest its capital funds 
in nonvoting securities of minority-owned banks, although its invest-
ments may take other forms. The primary criteria to be followed in 
making investment decisions will be (i) the extent to which eligible 
minority-owned banks are unable to avail themselves of traditional 
forms of capital; (ii) the operating handicaps resulting from lack of 
sufficient capital; and (iii) the bank's ability to put such capital 
funds to prompt and productive use; safety and profit on investments 
Will only be secondary considerations. 
Accordingly, although there 
may be some income from the ownership of Minbanc shares, it would 
appear purchasers of such shares will be motivated principally by a 
civic, rather than an investment purpose. 
As you are aware, section 5136 of the Revised Statutes 
(12 U.S.C. section 24) which is made applicable to State member banks 
by the 20th paragraph of section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 
section 335), provides "Except as hereinafter provided or otherwise 
Permitted by-law, nothing herein contained shall authorize the purchase 
by the Association for its own account of any shares of stock of any 
corporation". After a comprehensive review of the legislative history 
°f that provision, the Board has concluded that the purchase by State 
member banks of Minbanc stock is not within the legislative purpose 
to which it was directed. Accordingly, the Board is of the view that 
State member banks may purchase shares of Minbanc stock, to the extent 
Permitted by State law. 
However, in view of the high risk attendant to Minbanc's 
securities, the Board expressed doubt whether Minbanc's shares can be 
considered to be a bankable asset. 
In the Board's view, it would ap-
pear to be prudent banking practice for a State member bank to write-
off the amount of its investment in Minbanc stock at the time made. 
Further, the Board indicated that Federal Reserve examiners would 
require such write-off if the amount invested exceeds 2 per cent of 
the bank's capital and surplus. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
