MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 7, 1968 
;r , 

90S 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 7, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
•> 
I , , l \ ; 
; 
, i ' 
. : C 
• - . . : • • 
.•'•?',• "i 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Doyle of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Maguire and Poundstone of the Division 
of Examinations 
The following items were approved unanimously after consideration 
of background information that had been made available to the Board. 
Copies are attached under the respective numbers indicated: 

3/7/68 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to Seattle-First National Bank, 
1 
Seattle, Washington, granting permission 
to organize a corporation under section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act to be known as 
Seattle-First International Corporation, 
Seattle, Washington, and transmitting a 
preliminary permit. 
Letter to Chairman Long of the Senate 
2 
Committee on Finance commenting on 
S. 2902, a bill "To improve the balance 
of payments and protect the domestic 
economy of the United States." 
In connection with Item No. 1, Governor Brimmer suggested that 
it be brought to the attention of applicant that the guidelines of the 
Foreign Credit Restraint Program did not contemplate new term loans 
to,or investments in, developed countries of continental Western Europe, 
and that the present Board policy was not to approve investments in 
that area. The letter, as transmitted, reflected that suggestion. 
United California Bank International. Pursuant to the under-
standing at the meeting on February 15, 1968, the staff had consulted 
the State and Treasury Departments with respect to the appropriateness, 
in 
terms of diplomatic and financial relations with Spain and the 
balance of payments program, of approving the application of United 
California Bank International, New York, New York, for permission to 
acquire stock of Financiera California, S.A., Madrid, Spain. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated March 1, 1968, 
from the Division of Examinations (1) summarizing the background against 

318 
3/7/68 
-3-
which the State Department arrived at the conclusion that denial of 
the investment, which was under negotiation prior to January 1, 1968, 
would have a harmful impact on relations with Spain, and (2) setting 
forth the view of the Treasury Department that approval of the invest-
ment should be conditioned upon minimizing the impact on the balance 
of payments through financing of the investment by funds raised outside 
the United States. 
The Division of Examinations noted that there were precedents 
for Board approval of applications where negotiations had been in process 
prior to January 1, 1968. The Division recommended, in light of those 
precedents and the views expressed by the State and Treasury Departments, 
that the Board approve the application of United California, with the 
understanding, however, that United California would make every effort 
to minimize the impact of the investment on the balance of payments. 
During discussion, there was agreement that the overriding 
factor in favor of the application was the extent to which negotiations 
had proceeded prior to January 1, 1968. Additional comments were addressed 
to the degree of flexibility the Board should allow for expansion. Gover-
nor Brimmer expressed the view that applicant should be put on notice that 
under existing guidelines it should not expect to expand for some time. 
the other hand, Governor Mitchell favored a position based on review 
°f individual circumstances. He observed that in some circumstances the 
original concept of a project might clearly imply periodic investments. 

318 
3/7/68 
-4-
Governor Robertson agreed with the latter view, adding that unless 
the Board maintained flexibility it would be in the position of having 
to make exceptions. 
Following further discussion, the Board approved the transmittal 
of a letter to United California Bank International approving an 
amendment to its articles of association and granting consent to the 
acquisition of shares of Financiera California, S.A. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
Investment in bank premises. In a memorandum dated February 12, 
1968, the Division of Examinations had discussed a request from Citizens 
Trust Company, Atlanta, Georgia, for permission to invest in bank premises. 
In summary, Citizens Trust Company had proceeded with construction of 
an office building at an estimated cost of almost $5 million without 
obtaining necessary supervisory approval, and the latest examination of 
the bank, as of January 22, 1968, indicated a difficult situation with 
respect to capital and assets and an even more serious problem with 
respect to management. On February 15, 1968, the Board had requested 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, in cooperation with the State 
Superintendent of Banks, to bring to the attention of the directors of 
Citizens Trust Company the seriousness with which the Board viewed the 
situation. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated March 5, 1968, 
from the Division of Examinations commenting on a meeting with the bank's 

318 
3/7/68 
-5-
board of directors that was held on February 22, 1968, by representa-
tives of the Federal Reserve and the State Banking Department. After 
summarizing steps that were to be taken to improve the bank's capital 
position and to provide suitable management succession, the Division 
recommended that the Board approve the proposed investment in bank 
premises. 
Governor Brimmer stated that the February 22 meeting was under-
taken in an atmosphere of complete cooperation with the State banking 
authorities. There was agreement among the Superintendent of Banks, 
the President of the Reserve Bank, and himself, Governor Brimmer said, 
that the building project had acquired such a status in the community 
that it would be better to permit it to go forward, even though the 
program represented a substantial undertaking for a bank the size of 
Citizens Trust Company. He was therefore satisfied to leave to the 
State banking authorities the solution of the problem relating to the 
building program. The Superintendent of Banks, among other steps, had 
Proposed that the bank agree not to pay a cash dividend in any year in 
which it was not earned. Also, a portion of the site purchased for the 
new building would not be used by the bank but would be mortgaged to 
the New York Life Insurance Company, which had agreed to provide perma-
nent financing for the project. When the building was 85 per cent leased, 
New York Life would release the mortgaged portion to Citizens Trust, 

3/7/68 
-6-
which then planned to dispose of it. The Superintendent of Banks 
contemplated that a part of the proceeds of the sale would be put in 
escrow to reduce the rent that the bank would pay under the terms of 
an agreement between it and its wholly-owned bank premises affiliate. 
Governor Brimmer observed that he had directed his attention 
more to the management side of the problem. At the February 22 meeting 
he had expressed the view that solution of the management problem was 
all the more urgent in view of the building program, and he had indicated 
that he would not recommend approval of the investment in bank premises 
unless steps were taken to provide a backstop for President Milton. 
Subsequently, President Milton had made recommendations to his board 
of directors looking toward the employment, not later than June 1, 1968, 
of an individual who would be appointed to the newly-created position 
of executive vice president. 
In addition, Governor Brimmer said, Citizens Trust Company had 
been persuaded to make application for permission to carry reduced 
reserves. The funds thus made available to the bank could be invested 
to improve its earning position and pay the salary of the new executive 
vice president. 
Governor Brimmer concluded by saying that the Reserve Bank and 
Mr. Egertson had worked hard on the matter and that the management 
succession problem appeared to be as well along toward solution as could 
be expected. 

3/7/68 
-7-
Mr. Egerts on stated that the report of examination of the bank 
as of January 22, 1968, just received, showed that the bank had received 
a problem rating. The investment in bank premises was large. However, 
since the project was under way and the bank was hopeful of getting new 
management, the Division recommended approval. He added that the bank 
had lent $270,000 to one of its directors for the purchase of a portion 
of the bank's new stock issue. Although the loan was apparently adequately 
protected, Mr. Egertson suggested that the Board urge Citizens Trust 
Company to have the loan placed in another institution. 
In response to questions, Governor Brimmer explained the 
circumstances surrounding the loan to the director, indicating that 
several members of the board of directors had failed to take up options 
to buy a portion of the new stock issue and the bank was faced with a 
deadline by which to meet commitments to New York Life Insurance Company. 
In that situation the director in question had to take up the stock. It 
was expected that he would in time sell the stock. 
Further comments by members of the Board reflected agreement 
that it would be appropriate to call to the bank's attention the question 
of banking prudence raised by its loan to the director. Governor Brimmer 
stated that the Reserve Bank would have no objection to such an admonition. 
Governor Mitchell then raised a number of questions about how 
the present situation had developed and whether blame should be attached 
to the Federal Reserve. 

3/7/68 
-8-
Mr. Egertson said that so far as the building program was 
concerned, he thought the Reserve Bank was on top of the situation. 
Governor Brimmer agreed, indicating that it was his understanding that 
both the Reserve Bank and the State Superintendent had been following 
the matter closely. The property was purchased from the Urban Renewal 
Authority some years ago, and as a part of the contract a deadline was 
set by which time the bank had to give evidence that its project was 
under way. While President Milton was in the process of coordinating 
efforts to start the building project within the prescribed time limit 
and to file for permission to invest in bank premises, he became ill. 
As for the bank itself, Governor Brimmer continued, it had 
always enjoyed a peculiar relationship with the State. It was the only 
Negro-owned bank in Atlanta, and President Milton had a good reputation. 
Over the years the bank's earnings had been moderate; the bank always 
had had some bad loans because many of its customers were poor. The 
Reserve Bank from time to time had tried to persuade President Milton 
to apply for permission to carry reduced reserves, but he had erroneously 
Regarded such an application as an indication of favored treatment, 
which he did not wish to seek. As to the building project, it would have 
been possible, in the early stages, for the State to call a halt to the 
building plans, but it did not, and the Reserve Bank had followed the 
lead of the State authorities. 
Following further discussion, the letter to Citizens Trust Company 
aPproving an investment in bank premises was approved unanimously, it 

3/7/68 
-9-
being understood that the bank would also be urged to remove the loan 
to the director from its books. A copy of the letter subsequently 
sent is attached as Item No. 4. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Holland then withdrew 
from the meeting. 
Canadian situation. Governor Robertson reported on the 
discussions that had been taking place between Canadian and United 
States officials concerning heavy exchange pressures on the Canadian 
dollar. 
The Canadians had reported that they had lost more than $1 
billion in reserves in their recent efforts to defend the existing 
par value of the Canadian dollar. They indicated that, unless they 
could be given a complete exemption from the restraints on credit 
and capital flows contained in the U.S. balance of payments program, 
they would feel compelled to cease their efforts to support the present 
fixed exchange rate and instead to allow the Canadian dollar to float 
in the exchanges. On the other hand, if the desired exemption from 
the U.S. program was forthcoming the Canadians indicated they would be 
prepared, for their part, to undertake to: (a) do whatever was necessary 
to prevent any "pass-through" of the proceeds of Canadian borrowing to 
third countries; (b) keep the total of their reserves from exceeding 
December levels; and (c) hold the U.S. dollar component of their reserves 
insofar as possible in the form of non-liquid funds. 

3/7/68 
-10-
In addition, Governor Rasminsky of the Bank of Canada had 
indicated his interest in obtaining an aggregate U.S. $1.5 billion 
in available short-term credit facilities to help in defending the 
current exchange rate of the Canadian dollar if the above-described 
agreement was reached. It was noted that, under its existing $750 
million swap agreement with the Federal Reserve, the Bank of Canada 
had currently drawn only $250 million. Beyond this, the Canadians 
hoped to negotiate up to U.S. $400 million in additional swap facil-
ities with European central banks, most particularly the Italians and 
the Swiss, and with the Bank for International Settlements. For the 
remaining $600 million in desired credit facilities, it was thought 
that a suitable credit arrangement might be worked out with the Export-
Import Bank. Governor Robertson reported that he and President Hayes 
had had discussions on the matter and that they both agreed that any 
further Federal Reserve assistance in connection with this package should 
be limited to an increase of $50-$100 million in the System swap line 
with the Bank of Canada, if needed in order to make up for any shortfall 
of European credit assistance below the $400 million desired. 
After informal discussion of these matters among the members 
of the Board, Governor Robertson concluded the meeting with the obser-
vation that the concessions sought by the Canadians with respect to 
the U.S. foreign credit restraint program might, if granted, represent 
the beginning of an eventual breakdown of that program. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

318 
3/7/68 
Appointments 
Donna R. Beard as Research Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $7,409, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Susan J. Kimball as Research Assistant, Division of Research 
and Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,734, 
effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
John H. McDonald as Guard, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,062, effective the date 
of entrance upon duty. 
A letter was sent today to the Executive 
Director of the U.S. Civil Service Commis-
sion transmitting three copies of a 
statement regarding the Board's Equal 
Employment Opportunity Program for Women. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board memoranda recommending 
the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Transfers 
Teresita Q. Eakin, from the position of Clerk-Typist, Division 
of Personnel Administration, to the position of Clerk-Typist, Task 
Force-Special Regulations, with no change in basic annual salary at 
the rate of $4,615, effective March 10, 1968. 
Daniel G. Simms, from the position of Laborer to the position 
of Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, with no change 
in basic annual salary at the rate of $3,776, effective March 11, 
1968. 
-11-
Secretary's Notes: On March 5, 1968, 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending 
the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 

91S 
3/7/68 
-12-
• 
• 
• 
- 
; 
Acceptance of resignation 
^f'lS-'f 
Rosalie Ruegg, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
"*ffiv 
e f f e ctive the close of business March 8, 1968. 
Secretary 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 1 
3/7/68 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 7, 1968. 
Seattle-First National Bank, 
Seattle, Washington. 
98124 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of Asso-
ciation and Organization Certificate dated January 17, 1968, of 
Seattle-First International Corporation, Seattle, Washington, and 
there is enclosed a Preliminary Permit authorizing that Corporation 
to exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its organi-
zation. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, the 
Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred by 
Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
issue its final permit to commence business, the President or Secretary-
Treasurer, together with at least three of the directors, must certify 
(1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; (2) that a 
majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned by citizens 
of the United States, by corporations the controlling interest of 
which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered under the 
laws of the United States or of a State of the United States, or by 
firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned by 
citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital 
stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent 
has been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individually 
paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. 
Thereafter, the Secretary-Treasurer shall certify to the payment of 
the remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance 
with law. 
Article SEVENTH of the Articles of Association provides that 
the capital stock of the Corporation shall be $5,000,000 consisting of 
500,000 shares of common stock of the par value of $10.00 each. It is 
understood that all of the shares have been subscribed and that not 

321 
Seattle-First National Bank 
-2-
less than $2,000,000 will be fully paid in. The Board of Governors 
hereby consents that the remainder of the capital stock of the Corpora-
tion may be paid in upon call from the Board of Directors of the 
Corporation, provided that the Board of Governors shall have approved 
each such increase in paid-in capital not more than ninety days prior 
to the date on which the increase is paid in. 
Your attention is called to the fact that Seattle-First Inter-
national Corporation will have no separate base under the foreign credit 
restraint effort and any foreign loans or investments will need to be 
made under the ceiling of Seattle-First National Bank. Further, the 
guidelines in general contemplate no new term loans nor investments in 
developed countries of continental Western Europe, and present Board 
policy is not to approve investments in that area by Section 25(a) 
Corporations. Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with the 
understanding that any foreign loans and investments of the Corporation, 
combined with those of Seattle-First National Bank, will not cause the 
total of such loans and investments to exceed the guidelines established 
under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect and that due 
consideration will be given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

r-ml 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A 3 H I N O T O N 
March 7, 1968. 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association dated January 17, 1968, and 
the Organization Certificate dated January 17, 1968, of SEATTLE-
FIRST INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION duly filed with said Board of 
Governors, and that SEATTLE-FIRST INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION is 
authorized to exercise such of the powers conferred upon it by said 
Section 25(a) 
as are incidental and preliminary to its organization 
pending the issuance by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System of a final permit generally to commence business in 
accordance with the provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules 
and regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD QF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
3 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 1 
3/7/68 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 11, 1968 
The Honorable Russell B. Long, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Finance, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your request for comments on 
S. 2902, a bill to improve the balance of payments and protect 
the domestic economy of the United States. 
The bill contains a number of provisions, including 
a tax increase, constraints on expenditures, repeal of the gold 
reserve requirement on Federal Reserve and other notes, removal 
of the interest rate ceiling in U.S. Government bonds, and 
various provisions affecting U.S. international transactions. 
The Board has, on several occasions, expressed its support for 
repeal of the interest rate ceilings on U.S. Government bonds 
(section 7) and repeal of the gold cover requirement on Federal 
Reserve notes (section 11). The interest rate provision would 
enhance the flexibility of the U.S. Treasury in meeting the 
financial needs of the Government and in adapting debt manage-
ment policies to economic and financial conditions. Repeal of 
the gold cover would assure that the entire U.S. gold stock is 
available to meet the country's international obligations. 
The Board has also supported the need for fiscal 
restraint to combat inflationary pressures under current cir-
cumstances. At various times, the Board has indicated its 
support of a 10 per cent surcharge on both corporations and 
individuals. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
924 
Honorable Russell B. Long 
-2-
In this bill (section 6) a surtax of 8 per cent on 
corporations and 6 per cent on individuals is proposed. In 
addition, various other provisions would impose additional 
constraints on Federal spending. The effect of each of these 
steps would be to reduce net demands, both public and private, 
on our economic resources. The Board would like to take this 
occasion again to emphasize the need for a reduction in the 
prospective growth rate of aggregate demand in order to curb 
the inflationary pressures that are threatening the stability 
of the domestic economy and of our international financial 
position. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 1 
3/7/68 
kDORESS O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 7, 1968. 
United California Bank International, 
61 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letters of November 27 and 
December 20, 1967, requesting Lhe Board's consent to an amendment 
of the Articles of Association of your Corporation to increase 
the capital stock to $6,000,000, consisting of 600,000 shares 
with a par value of $10.00 each. The Board of Governors approves 
the amendment to Article SEVENTH of your Articles of Association. 
Please advise the Board of Governors when the capital increase has 
been effected. 
It is noted that your present capital structure will be 
increased by the sale of 100,000 additional shares to United 
California Bank for $1,000,000. 
As requested in your letter, the Board of Governors also 
grants consent for United California Bank International ("UCBI") 
to purchase and hold up to 50 per cent of the capital stock of 
Financiera California, S.A. ("Financiera"), Madrid, Spain, at a 
cost of approximately US$1,000,000, provided such shares are ac-
quired within one year from the date of this letter. In this con-
nection, the Board also approves the purchase and holding of the 
above-mentioned shares in excess of 10 per cent of your Corpora-
tion's capital and surplus and in excess of the limitations on the 
liabilities of one borrower as set forth in Section 211.9(b) of 
Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Financiera by UCBI is granted subject to the follow-
ing conditions: 

United California Bank International -2-
(1) That UCBI shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in Financiera if Financiera 
at any time fails to restrict its activities to 
those permissible to a corporation in which a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act could, with the consent of the 
Board of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if 
Financiera establishes any branch or agency or 
takes any action or undertakes any operations in 
Spain or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to UCBI; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
UCBI will furnish the Board with such reports re-
garding the activities of Financiera as it may 
require from time to time; and, 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
Financiera be reported under Section 211.8(c) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if Financiera 
were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act. 
It is not the Board's current policy ordinarily to approve 
equity investments in developed countries of continental Western 
Europe. The Board has taken into account the fact that your appli-
cation antedated the balance of payments measures announced on 
January 1, 1968, and has granted the aforementioned consent on the 
understanding that your Corporation will make every effort to 
minimize the impact of this investment on the balance of payments. 
The consent is given with the further understanding that this in-
vestment, combined with other foreign loans and investments of 
your Corporation and United California Bank, will not cause the 
total of such loans and investments to exceed the guidelines estab-
lished under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect, 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R B 
D F T H E 
Item No. 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
3/7/68 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
H O A R D 
March 8, 1973 
Board of Directors, 
Citizens Trust Company, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to the provisions of section 24A of the Federal 
Reserve Act, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves an investment in bank premises, direct and indirect, of 
not to exceed $4.9 million by Citizens Trust Company, for the con-
struction of a new main office building. Of this amount, $1 million 
represents funds already expended, including cost of land, and $3.5 
million represents a loan to the bank's wholly owned bank premises 
affiliate from a source other than subject bank. 
This proposed investment in bank premises is substantial 
in relation to your bank's total capital structure and total resources. 
However, the Board notes that construction has been started and that 
approximately $1 million has already been spent on the project, without 
prior Board approval. 
As you have been previously advised, the Board has viewed 
the management situation at Citizens Trust Company with serious 
concern. In order that loan and collection policies and earnings of 
your bank be improved and the proposed building program be completed 
successfully, it is imperative that steps now being taken by you to 
improve the management of Citizens Trust Company be finalized as soon 
as possible. 
It is understood that Citizens Trust Company has extended 
a loan of $270,000 to Director H. J. Russell to enable him to purchase 
a portion of your bank's new stock issue. Even though Director Russell 
is believed to have a substantial net worth and the loan is supported 
by certain collateral, such a transaction raises serious questions of 
banking prudence, and the Board urges that within a reasonable period 
of time this loan be removed from the bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
