Minutes for September 19, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 1/ 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
y
*
—
— 
/ R 
f i 
1 \y 
i 7>v 
4. u 
1/ Meeting with the Federal Advisory Council 

3 8 5 7 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room 
of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D.C., at 10:30 a.m. 
on Tuesday, September 19, 1967. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Messrs. Simmen, McNeill, Still, Mayer, Wilkinson, 
Fleming, Bodman, Moorhead, Knight, Stewart, 
and Larkin, Members of the Federal Advisory 
Council from the First, Second, Third, Fourth, 
Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Ninth, Tenth, Eleventh, 
and Twelfth Federal Reserve Districts, respec-
tively 
Vq u i. r 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of the Council 
President Moorhead commented that Mr. Brinkley had found it 
; w
 it 
necessary to return to Louisville following yesterday's meeting of 
^ e Council. 
1. Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the general 
outlook for the next 6 months? 
The outlook 
for price and wage developments? 
The members of the Council expect a continued, gradual 
rise in the level of business activity in the next six months. 
The pace of economic activity will be moderated somewhat by 
the extent and duration of the strike in the automobile 
industry. The principal expansive force in the months ahead 

9/19/67 
.2-
 
: > B f i
'
S 
will continue to be rising expenditures by Federal, State, 
and local governments. 
This development may be aided by some 
strengthening in consumer buying as the consumer spending-
savings ratio moves to a more typical level. 
Most members of the Council expect wages to rise 
rather sharply and this in turn will put upward pressure 
on the price structure. However, competitive pressures may 
limit price increases somewhat, so that the rise in wage costs 
will not be fully covered resulting in a narrowing of profit 
margins. 
President Moorhead said he saw more unanimity on the outlook 
than on most other questions the Council had discussed yesterday, 
unanimity as to the state of the economy and also as to the pressure 
°n prices. 
Chairman Martin asked whether the Council had any information 
a s
 to the impact the automobile strike was having. 
• i 
Mr. Bodman said that he had no special information beyond that 
r e
Ported in the press. Mr. Reuther talked as though the companies 
w
°uld be struck one at a time. In response to a question from Governor 
trimmer, he said that increases in prices already announced by General 
^°tors of something like $100 a car could signify what might be expected 
°
n
 1968 models generally. 
B. What impressions do Council members have 
from their customer contacts with regard 
to current business inventory positions? 
Are there any indications of a near-term 
step-up in buying to expand inventories? 
The members of the Council have the general impression 
from their customer contacts that most businessmen are reason-
ably satisfied with their current inventory positions. 
More-
over, there is little or no evidence at present indicating a 
near-term step-up in buying to expand inventories. 

9/19/67 
-3- 3666 
President Moorhead observed that he thought some people 
were wondering why there was not more evidence of expanding invento-
ries since everyone was expecting price increases. Still, there did 
not seem to be an accumulation of inventories. One reason was that 
it cost about as much to carry them as they might get on a price 
increase. Another factor was that some were badly burned last year 
and were being cautious about building up inventories now. 
Governor Mitchell asked whether the Council thought inventories 
were still being liquidated, and Mr. Mayer replied that they were in 
the case of steel. Some stocks of steel were still very high relative 
to current sales. He would suspect that the reason some firms did 
not start building inventories was that they had just been burned 
a
nd this experience was fresh in their minds. They were thinking 
more about that than other things. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the corollary was that infla-
tionary feelings were almost entirely on the financial side, rather 
than being reflected in goods and services, and Mr. Mayer replied he 
c
ould not answer that. President Moorhead commented, however, that 
financial people were worried about inflation. 
C. What are the prospects for residential 
and other construction in the Council 
members' respective regions? Are mortgage 
funds, including construction money, judged 
to be adequate to meet current and near-term 
demands? 
The prospect for residential construction varies some-
what from district to district. In general, however, the 
members of the Council expect some further rise in residential 

9/19/67 
-4- 3666 
and other construction in the months ahead. Mortgage funds, 
including construction money, appear to be adequate to meet 
current and near-term demands. Among the retarding factors 
are rising costs of land, labor and materials, the continued 
relative tightness of funds available for tract developers 
at moderate rates of interest, and the ceilings on mortgage 
rates in some areas. 
Mr. Larkin recalled that in 1964 there was a large inventory 
°f housing to work off in California. 
It had been pretty well worked 
down and there had been a turn around in the past 6 months. 
Building 
volume was going up again, but at a much more sustainable level. 
The 
rise was at about a 5 per cent rate, which was not 
unreasonable. 
Thus, he expected some further support could be expected from that 
segment of the economy. He thought savings and loans were looking 
a place to put their money. 
They had a lot of money but were not 
billing to go in for some of the kinds of deals they had gone into 
before. 
Some of them had gotten hurt and they were being more cautious. 
All of 
the factors operating at this moment were constructive and in 
the right direction. 
Governor Mitchell asked where housing demand and activity 
w
ere strongest, and President Moorhead replied he thought it was quite 
good in the Midwest. Mortgage funds seemed to be plentiful except in 
a
 few cases, such as in States having rather low ceilings on mortgage 
rates. 
Mr. McNeill remarked that in New York there was a boom in 
Residential and office building. 
There seemed to be no end to it. 
^
a
n y observers thought a year ago that this segment was overbuilt, 
new buildings seemed to get filled up, although now the older 

9/19/67 
-5- 
3 6 6 1 
buildings were beginning to suffer. Long-term financings were being 
done primarily on the leases. 
Mr. Still commented that residential building in Philadelphia 
was not moving ahead, although there were more office buildings on 
the drawing board than at any other time. Older buildings were under 
pressure because tenants were moving out into the newer buildings 
e
ven though they paid a higher rate. 
Mr. Fleming reported that housing was beginning to build up 
a
gain in the Southeast. Activity was going more into condominiums, 
especially in Florida, but it was spreading over the other States as 
Well. As cities were growing it was found that people who owned land, 
w
hich had doubled in value, were asking high prices for it. For 
example, Federal Housing Administration restrictions were more severe, 
S u
c h as requiring sewage systems in order to get loans, which had not 
been required before. On top of that, labor, of course, was going 
U
P , and the real increases in costs were not the cost of money but 
the other factors entering into a new home. There was beginning to 
ke a feeling that the cost situation would not get better and one had 
better go ahead and buy. 
2. Banking developments. 
A. What is the Council's assessment of the 
probable strength of business loan demand 
in the fall? 
The Council anticipates a sustained seasonal business 
loan demand in the fall. To date the demand for business 
loans has been less than had been anticipated. This may 
reflect to some extent the large volume of corporate 
borrowing in the commercial paper and bond markets. 

3 6 6 5 2 
9/19/67 
-6- 3666 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether all Council members agreed 
that the demand for business loans had been less than anticipated. 
President Moorhead replied he thought the Council was unanimous 
on that statement; the anticipated loan demand just had not appeared. 
Governor Brimmer asked the Council to describe the effect on 
bank loans of small corporations going to the equity market. 
Mr. Wilkinson commented that a great many small companies had 
gone into the equity market and this had had an effect on bank loans. 
President Moorhead added that use of the commercial paper market might 
in total have affected loan demand at banks more than the bond market. 
Mr. Larkin reported that last Friday he sat in a loan committee 
meeting and saw six major commitments that had been made for bank loans 
cancelled just because of having obtained the money in the bond market. 
Mr. Fleming remarked that the proceeds from bond financing 
Were being used to repay bank loans, but he felt some of the money was 
also used to provide funds to buy commercial paper. 
Governor Mitchell asked whether any of the Council felt they 
did not have enough money to meet loan demand, noting that for a long 
time the Council members had been apprehensive about that. He also 
Pondered whether there was a lack of new loan demand or whether the 
reason totals were not rising was because old loans were being paid 
o f
f , partly with funds obtained from sources other than banks. 
President Moorhead replied that loan demand by any comparison 
except last year was still strong. Everyone had been looking for it 
t o
 take off again, but so far it had not. 

9/19/67 
-7- 3666 
Governor Sherrill inquired how much expansion was taking 
place in establishing new lines of credit, and whether on new lines 
standby fees were paid. 
Mr. Mayer said that standby fees were paid only on firm 
commitments, and he thought the present situation was about as it 
had been in the past. 
President Moorhead remarked that revolving credits were being 
set up by a good many corporations, and, in response to a further 
question by Governor Sherrill, that there was considerable hedging 
by corporations that did not want to get caught again. 
Mr. Stewart said that in the Eleventh District existing lines 
°f credit were being increased quite a bit. 
Mr. McNeill thought there was a good deal of hedging by 
borrowers, although not as much as last year. The same was true of 
loans. His bank's loans were as high now as a year ago but not quite 
as high as had been anticipated. 
Mr. Still noted that his bank was not a money market bank. 
The normal business loans continued to roll in, but some of the 
larger "one-shot" loans made a year or so back were being reduced. 
It took four to five months to run these one-shot borrowers
1
 loans 
off. and his bank was not making any further deals of that sort. 
In response to a question from Governor Brimmer, Mr. Mayer 
s
aid that he did not visualize any great change in the general loan 
situation in the next 90 days. He did anticipate a substantial 

8664 
9/19/67 
-8- 3666 
increase in loans that would in reality be for tax purposes at the 
end of the year. There were oil and coal payments that were being 
pushed into one calendar when normally they would fall in the next, 
and these were usually for tax purposes. His bank had resisted making 
such loans last year because they were not productive. However, it 
was a gadget to gain some advantage, and there was going to be quite 
a bit done this year. 
Mr. Fleming thought also that disproportionate payment of 
taxes in the first part of the year had some effect. Banks were not 
now getting the normal loan demand for tax payments. 
Chairman Martin inquired whether the accelerated tax payments 
had changed the banks' views on liquidity also, and Mr. Fleming replied 
there was still a heavy overall loan demand. If the question was 
directed to business loans, he did not think any of the banks would 
have trouble getting loans if they went looking for them. 
Messrs. McNeill and Mayer commented that most banks were not 
°ut looking for loans. Mr. Mayer went on to say, however, that the 
Council should not leave an impression with the Board that it thought 
loan demand was relatively easy. Everything was relative, and it had 
heen hoped there would be some surcease. He would have liked to see 
loan demand go down appreciably so that there would have been some 
leeway for meeting demands, but that had not happened. 
He did not 
know where the money was going to come from to take care of additional 
demands. 

9/19/67 
-9- 3666 
Mr. Bodman said his bank's volume of outstanding commercial 
loans was about 11 per cent below what had been expected several 
months ago. He and Mr. Simmen both indicated they were receptive 
to more loan volume. 
Mr. Fleming said his bank had not been seeking loans, partly 
because of the heavy lines of credit that might be called upon. 
There was no way for a commercial bank to anticipate exactly what 
such demands might be from firms with established lines. 
In answer 
to Governor Brimmer, Mr. Fleming said his bank found that any 
corporation that had a deposit balance as a rule wanted to support 
that balance with a line of credit of some kind; a $200,000 balance 
was regarded as justifying a $1,000,000 line of credit. 
President Moorhead commented that in general his bank was 
trying to pare down its existing lines, partly to enable it to take 
care of other demands and for insurance purposes. 
Governor Robertson inquired whether there had been an expan-
sion in firm commitments for loans against lines of credit on which 
a fee was paid. 
Mr. McNeill said that in New York there was a tendency to 
hold 
these down and that the demand was not as sharp as last year. 
There was rather little granting of courtesy lines of credit in 
return for balances, although of course a bank would make exceptions. 
Banks were cutting some lines down, and some would go to a company 
a n
d tell the management that it was not maintaining the compensating 
balance at a level desired and thus their credit line was being 

9/19/67 
-10-
3666 
reduced. While he could not say precisely the extent to which 
compensating balances were being maintained, Mr. McNeill felt there 
had been a substantial increase in such balances during the past two 
years and that they were perhaps higher than a year ago. 
B. 
In the Council's judgment, do bank liquidity 
positions appear adequate to meet expected 
fall loan demands? 
Currently the liquidity positions of banks appear 
adequate to meet anticipated fall loan demands. Many . 
bankers in the money centers, however, remembering the 
situation last fall, continue to be concerned about their 
ability to meet credit demands. 
Should the interest rate 
structure move higher and yields on short-term investments 
rise above the Regulation Q ceiling, last year's run-off 
in large denomination CD's might be repeated. 
In this 
event, the liquidity positions of many major banks would be 
severely strained. 
In anticipation of the possibility of 
this development, the Board might wish to consider now the 
desirability of raising the interest rate ceiling on large 
denomination negotiable CD's. 
President Moorhead commented he was not sure this written 
Answer was consistent with what had just been said. Council members 
had suggested on previous occasions that, while liquidity seemed 
a d
equate at the moment, it was based on CD's and when banks were 
°Perating on 
instruments that had ceilings on what they could pay 
they were uncomfortable. His bank was close to the ceiling on six-
m
onth CD's and any upward movement would put it at the ceiling rate. 
In response to a question from Chairman Martin as to where 
felt the maximum rate should be raised to, President Moorhead 
S a
i d he would remove it entirely or at least raise it to a level 
fc
hat was tantamount to its removal on CD's of $1,000,000 or more. 

9/19/67 
-11- 
8 8 ( > 7 
Mr. Mayer commented that it seemed inequitable for negotiable 
CD's to be subject to a ceiling when the instruments with which they 
compete are not under a ceiling. The sources of these funds are large 
corporations, which have other outlets not subject to ceilings. 
Mr. Wilkinson said that liquidity today was entirely adequate, 
but if negotiable CD's were the controlling instrument, that forced a 
bank into a different concept of liquidity because of potential deposit 
losses. 
Governor Robertson said he would like to pursue this line of 
thinking a little. The purpose of removing interest rate ceilings 
would be to enable banks to get more funds to expand loans. Yet 
the views expressed indicated loan demand was not up to expectations 
and some banks were receptive to more loans. 
President Moorhead said that if one looked at the ceiling as 
a control instrument, the Council did not have much case for raising 
the rate, but if one looked at it as facilitating liquidity, the 
ceiling should be raised or removed. 
Governor Mitchell noted that a higher ceiling would make it 
e
asier for banks to take on additional commitments because they would 
know they had that additional source of funds. Mr. Fleming did not 
think the main purpose was to get more money; the idea was for banks 
> 
to keep what they had; and Mr. Mayer said banks were in business to 
m
ake money and such a move would enable them to make loans. 
Mr. Still said that although such a move would enable banks 
to make new transactions to make money, the purpose would in reality 

9/19/67 
-12- 3666 
be to enable them to stay in business. 
If a bank found itself in a 
bad position, it would simply have to cut back. 
President Moorhead pointed out that the problem had been to 
take care of regular customers. With that leeway, banks would have 
an opportunity to get rid of those loans they did not want. 
Governor Robertson thought everyone should keep in mind the 
whole purpose of monetary policy: 
to prevent undue expansion of 
credit and the money supply. 
It might be that what the Council 
wanted to do was to move the ceiling up so that banks could hold 
their place but not expand. 
Governor Mitchell commented that there were corporations 
paying 6-1/8 to 6-1/4 per cent up to five years, including some of 
the best corporations. 
Would they be willing to pay, say, 10 per 
cent to continue their plans? 
That would not be a marginal use of 
credit; it was much above the margin, and many credit users were 
squeezed out by that type of demand. The Board had run into this 
in 1966, and he thought it fair to say that the ceiling was used 
as a control under those circumstances. 
Mr. Mayer remarked that what Governor Mitchell was suggesting 
^as that in periods of stress he would like to see the weak taken 
care of rather than the strong. That was against nature. 
Governor Maisel commented that this pointed up the signifi-
cance 
of the level of lines of credit. 
If the banks had lines of 
credit three times as large as their loans, and if the banks could 

3669 
9/19/67 
-13- 3666 
not get all the money they wanted in the open market, that would mean 
that the corporations that had the established lines were the only 
ones the banks would take care of. This raised the question whether 
those were the logical users of credit in such a period. 
President Moorhead commented that perhaps the banks did not 
want to expand total credit but did want to be able to hold their 
°wn. He noted that there were now $20 billion of certificates in 
the market, which furnished liquidity for banks. 
Governor Robertson suggested that, if banks needed the funds 
only for the purpose of holding their own, perhaps they should have 
to limit CD's to a percentage of total deposits so as to keep the 
$20 billion from rising. 
President Moorhead thought one of the advantages of CD's was 
that their use permitted money to flow where the need was. He did 
not think an arbitrary ceiling desirable. 
Governor Brimmer commented that being able to buy funds on 
CD's permitted the central bank to maintain some degree of control 
s
o that, as rates were raised and reserve requirements were also 
raised, the real cost went up. 
Governor Mitchell pointed out that there were other sources 
that could be tapped; for example, there was the Euro-dollar market. 
Commenting on Governor Brimmer's suggestion, Mr. Mayer said 
that one must devise some means that made the market place determine 
r - if. <'
t
v•-.'! »•.<..;,;! ..".•: 
whether funds were attractive at a certain price. 
If that price 

9/19/67 
-14- 
3 6 7 0 
seemed prohibitive, a bank might have to draw back, although at some 
point along the way it might decide to take a chance. He thought a 
good many bankers went through this last year and were well aware 
of the problems, and that CD's under present conditions had to have 
a place in the deposit portfolio and must not exceed that. He 
suspected there were some banks that had not found that out yet. 
Chairman Martin asked what the Council thought would have 
happened if there had been no ceiling on CD's during the period. 
Mr. Wilkinson thought there probably would have been an 
intensifying of the crunch for a very short time until the banking 
system moved out undesirable loans to get back into a better loan 
situation. 
Mr. Mayer thought the price could have been measured by the 
Euro-dollar market. A good many banks found their escape through 
that market, although some were not in it because they did not have 
connections abroad. 
Mr. Knight reported that a survey in his district of 40 
important banks in the last three months showed their liquidity had 
improved, and their increased deposits of time money had been put 
into investments. For the smaller banks that was not true; their 
gains in deposits went into loans. He believed that the effect of 
using CD's depended on what kind of bank one was talking about. 
C. How would the Council appraise recent and 
prospective changes in demand for consumer 
CD's and savings deposits, against the back-
ground of rates available on competing market 
instruments? 

9/19/67 
-15- 
3 6 7 1 
With the growth in total passbook savings and consumer 
type CD's, there is little evidence that the consumer has so 
far been attracted to other market instruments. 
However, 
the Council believes that if the difference in rates should 
widen sufficiently there is the possibility that savings-
type deposits might move to competing market instruments. 
More important at this time than the competition of market 
instruments is the competition of other types of savings 
institutions. 
President Moorhead commented there was quite a little difference 
in passbook growth: 
some banks were showing quite good growth, others 
were slipping a little. Everyone was having a good response on consumer 
CD's. The Council did not feel that the rate differential at this 
point was enough to cause the really small saver to move into market 
instruments, but when the differential was above a half per cent there 
would be some tendency for the smaller accounts ($25,000 or so) to move 
to market instruments. 
During the ensuing discussion Chairman Martin recalled that at 
the last meeting with the Council there was some disposition toward an 
increase in the maximum passbook rate for savings. He wondered what 
the current view of the Council members was. 
Responses indicated that five of the Council members were 
inclined toward an increase in the rate, while seven would oppose a 
change at this time. 
Mr. Bodman said he thought that he had changed his mind since 
the last meeting. At the moment he would just as soon leave the 
S a
vings deposit ceiling where it is. 
Mr. McNeill said his bank found that with a half percentage 
Point differential it could compete successfully with savings and loans, 

9/19/67 
-16- 
3 6 7 2 
but it was not able to do so when the spread was larger. This would 
argue for raising the maximum on savings accounts from the 4 per cent 
level. 
President Moorhead commented that on the whole he was satis-
fied with the 4 per cent rate. 
Mr. Knight said he was interested in changing the savings 
and loan rate. If it came down, his bank would be happy to stay at 
4 per cent. 
Mr. Larkin said that he would still be opposed to an increase 
in the maximum rate. He thought the higher rate on CD's had solved 
a lot of problems in this area. Those who wanted the higher interest 
rate could get it by using CD's, while those who wanted to be able 
to move in and out of their accounts at will could use the passbook 
savings account. In California there had been about a $70 million 
increase in the 4 per cent passbook saving and about $110 million 
in the savings and loan since the first of this year. The present 
arrangement seemed to be working very well. 
D. What are current policies of banks regarding 
preferred types and maturities of investments? 
As many bankers believe the relative easing of credit 
conditions is temporary and that they shortly may be faced 
with increasing demands for funds, there has been some 
reluctance to invest available reserves for any extended 
period of time. Most bankers have confined their investments 
to the relatively short end of the maturity schedule. 
Should 
loan demand continue to be less than anticipated, there 
probably will be a change in this policy and banks will tend 
to invest an increasing share of their portfolio in municipals 
and governments for longer periods at today's attractive rates. 

8673 
9/19/67 
-17- 3666 
President Moorhead thought that here again there might be 
considerable difference between the large banks and the small banks. 
A good many banks in his district were going out fairly long. 
E. How do Council members evaluate the large 
recent increases in corporate use of the 
commercial paper market? 
Is this develop-
ment likely to have a lasting effect on 
bank loan demand? 
The members of the Council believe the large recent 
increases in corporate use of the commercial paper market 
reflect three developments: 
one, the desire to keep open 
this source of funds which proved to be highly desirable 
during the period of tight money last fall; two, the fact 
that commercial paper market rates have been below the 
lending rates of commercial banks; and three, that some 
corporations and banks have had short-term funds avail-
able for investment. Unless the rate structure shifts 
considerably, this situation is likely to persist. On 
the other hand, it is possible that at some future time 
banks might be less willing to grant lines which in many 
instances are essential in order for the borrower to obtain 
funds in the commercial paper market. 
President Moorhead said that banks were now lending their 
names to make commercial paper marketable when it would not be 
marketable without their names. A good many companies were now 
using the commercial paper market fairly heavily but, as indicated 
in the last sentence of the Council's comment, this situation could 
change if money became easier and banks were in a better position 
to meet customers' demands directly. In response to a question 
from Governor Brimmer as to which of the reasons cited by the 
Council were most important in the growth of commercial paper, 
President Moorhead said that he thought the rate differential in 
favor of commercial paper was probably the overriding consideration. 

3674 
9/19/67 
-18- 3666 
3. Balance of payments. 
A . 
Do Council members expect any significant 
change in the availability of financing 
for U.S. exports in the near future? 
The members of the Council do not expect any sig-
nificant change in the availability of funds for U.S. 
exports in the near future. The somewhat easier position 
of banks suggests that such financing may be more readily 
available. 
B. 
Do Council members expect foreign demands 
for credits from U.S. banks to change sig-
nificantly in the months ahead? 
Foreign demands for credits from U.S. banks continue 
strong and are unlikely to change significantly in the months 
ahead. While the demand changes from time to time in indi-
vidual countries, an over-all strong aggregate demand is 
maintained, reflecting an underlying shortage of capital in 
the world. 
Governor Robertson asked whether any member of the Council 
l- C 
•• i .. • 
.... 
• 
• •• 
knew of any export sales that had been lost for lack of financing. 
No member of the Council indicated that he knew of any 
vV: . 
• • 
< , • 
... ,../ '• 
. > t . 
'. 
such loss of exports, although Mr. Wilkinson commented that there 
• 
• , 
> 
• • > !, ; •' • -,'ii; 
^ 
, < 
... 
was a constant pressure for terms when one got into the export 
guarantee. 
In response to a query by Governor Brimmer as to the 
extent to which the Japanese were seeking loans in the U.S. 
J. ., •. i 
„ 
. ' 
' 
> -.0, 
^ v a 
. 
market, Mr. McNeill responded that they would borrow anything 
'> 
' 
.. 
• 
• > 
U.S. banks would lend them in any amount and on any terms. He 
also said, in reply to a further question from Governor Brimmer, 

367 
9/19/67 
-19-
that demand from Western Europe had picked up as compared with last 
year. His bank was trying to limit these demands, and he thought 
other banks had been trying to do the same. 
Governor Brimmer then asked about the prospects for the 
banks using their full quotas under the voluntary foreign credit 
restraint program, to which Mr. McNeill replied that his bank was 
close to its ceiling and he would be frank to say he was glad to 
have the ceiling. As far as he was concerned there was enough U.S. 
money abroad. However, the program had not worked fairly because 
some of the banks did not have enough at the time the ceiling was 
Put on,, 
Mr. Still noted that Philadelphia banks were just getting 
into the international business at the time the ceiling was fixed 
a
nd they had not been able to expand at all. The program had, as 
a practical matter, limited international business to the large 
hanks that were in it before the ceiling became effective, such 
as those in New York and a few other cities. 
Governor Robertson agreed there was no question about the 
inequity of the program. This was a fact, but to attempt to devise 
a
 Program that would correct this would mean cutting down the quota 
the banks that were already in the business when the program was 
started. 

3676 
9/19/67 
-20- 3666 
Mr. Knight asked whether he understood correctly that 
Governor Robertson's opinion would be that, in spite of the fact 
that foreign loans of banks that previously had been in the inter-
national field were not at their ceilings, the prospects of others 
getting leeway for such credits was not very good, and Governor 
Robertson agreed they were not very good. 
Chairman Martin then asked what the members of the Council 
would suggest be done about the balance of payments. 
Mr. Mayer remarked that if everyone concerned with the 
balance of payments had functioned as well as the banks, the 
problem would be much less. However, that had not been true of 
the non-bank program under the Department of Commerce or of some 
other important factors. 
In response to a question from Governor Brimmer as to why 
U.S. banks establishing overseas branches seemed anxious to get 
into London, Mr. Mayer said it became apparent to his bank in 
trying to solve the problem of expansion overseas that London was 
the first place it should have a branch. No matter what was said, 
outside of New York London was the world capital market. It was 
quite clear that if his bank wanted to take care of its overseas 
customers it should be close to them and that could not be done 
without a London branch. It had been found extremely useful. 

9/19/67 
-21-
3877 
C. Is the recent rapid growth in Euro-dollar 
borrowings through foreign branches of U.S. 
banks likely to continue in the near future? 
The rapid growth in Euro-dollar borrowings through 
foreign branches of U.S. banks reflects the continued con-
cern of the money center banks about their ability to meet 
anticipated loan demands. While the volume of borrowing 
may fluctuate from time to time, money center banks are 
likely to utilize the Euro-dollar market as a source of 
funds so long as the funds may be advantageously used. 
President Moorhead commented that what the Council was 
trying to say was that, although use of Euro-dollars would fluctuate 
depending upon market rates, that market was here to stay as a source 
of funds. 
Governor Maisel asked whether the Council had any feeling 
as to how much the use of Euro-dollars by U.S. banks would have 
developed even if London had not been having its difficulties. 
President Moorhead asked Mr. Prochnow to comment on this 
question. 
« 
Mr. Prochnow first referred to the previous question, 
stating that his bank was one of those that had recently established 
a
 branch in London. The bank had long had overseas customers, and 
it had had a policy that it must do business only through the best 
banks in the countries concerned. It found that it was losing con-
tact with its customers, however, and it started in London with a 
representative office but later changed to a branch. Switching to 
0 
a
 branch was one of the best moves the First National Bank of Chicago 

o O 
f O 
9/19/67 
-22-
had made, not just for prestige but because it provided a much 
better means for serving the large corporate customers with which 
it did business. It also now had a branch in Frankfurt, which was 
proving valuable. 
On the Euro-dollar question, Mr. Prochnow said that his bank 
used Euro-dollars whenever it found it advantageous to do so. It 
had used them last year even at a loss because it had to protect its 
position. It bought Euro-dollars this year because it anticipated 
a very large demand for credit. 
Governor Sherrill inquired how many of the banks represented 
in the room were now active in the Euro-dollar market, and responses 
indicated that there were at least three. 
4. What are the Council's views on monetary and credit 
policy under current circumstances? 
••oro.- 
:Y 
? 
r. 
The Council believes that monetary and credit policy 
so far this year has been helpful in cushioning the adjust-
ments that have taken place in the private sector, while at 
the same time permitting corporations and financial institu-
tions to rebuild liquidity and the Treasury to finance the 
deficit. However, while recognizing the necessity of financ-
ing the Treasury, the Council believes that monetary policy 
should now be somewhat less expansive. The Council feels 
very strongly that fiscal policy should be considerably 
less expansive. This necessitates a prompt cutback in 
expenditures and an increase in taxes on personal income 
and corporate profits. 
Chairman Martin said the Board would like some discussion 
°f what was meant by the Council's suggestion that monetary policy 
a 
should"now be somewhat less expansive." 

8679 
9/19/67 
-23-
President Moorhead said that the Council felt that open 
market operations should be somewhat less expansive than they have 
been. The Council could not say to cut the money supply by so many 
dollars; it was a matter of feeling one's way. Some members thought 
there was reason to wait to see what action was taken on the tax 
bill, but perhaps the time was here when the Fed should start cutting 
down on the rate of expansion. 
Mr. Still said that some of the Council felt that leaving 
free reserves at about their recent level in the face of seasonal 
increases in demand for loans would result in a somewhat less 
expansive Federal Reserve policy. 
Governor Robertson asked to what extent the increase in the 
money supply represented larger compensating balances required of 
corporations--a means used by banks for increasing interest costs. 
Mr. Bodman said that he did not think this had had a 
measurable effect. Actually, business loans were down. He thought 
the purchase of securities by the Federal Reserve had contributed 
to the increase in demand deposits that was reflected to some extent 
in la rger compensating balances of corporations. 
Governor Maisel commented that logically the corporations, 
rather than the banks, might buy Government tax bills by taking 
their balances out of the banks. It was a question whether the 
e
conomy would be better off by having the Government debt bought 

ftS'RO 
9/19/67 
-24- 3666 
directly by corporaLions rather than through the banks. He supposed 
the banks might say that corporations would be less likely to spend 
the money if the funds were tied up in tax bills rather than being 
held in the form of negotiable CD's. 
Mr. Bodman thought it would be an impossible undertaking 
for the Government to tell the banks how to allocate their assets. 
However, he would not think Governor Maisel's suggestion would make 
a great deal of difference to the banks. So far as the corporation 
was concerned, the funds were equally liquid whether in Treasury 
bills or CD's of a comparable quality and maturity. He cited the 
case of a corporation such as a utility which had the proceeds of 
a bond issue to be disbursed over a period of time, and in the mean-
time it wanted the funds in a safe place at some return. He did not 
think it would maki- much difference to the corporation which market-
able instrument was used, so long as it was of a comparable quality 
and the corporation knew that the money would be available as its 
construction schedule required disbursement of the funds. 
Governor Daane recalled that Mr. Still had suggested he 
would translate a "less expansive" policy as one that might maintain 
about the present level of free reserves while accommodating the fall 
s
easonal demands. He did not see how that could be considered less 
expansive. 

3 G R 1 
9/19/67 
-25-
Mr. Still responded that he visualized a policy that would 
let the normal fall seasonal demands for credit press against the 
existing level of free reserves, that the Federal Reserve would 
supply some reserves to meet those demands, but that he was sug-
gesting that the amount supplied not be increased as rapidly as 
the credit demands rose. He agreed with comments by Governors 
Robertson and Daane that this would mean some reduction in the 
net amount of free reserves. 
Mr. Larkin posed the question whether, having had the 1966 
experience and if the Fed felt that it was desirable policy now to 
s
low things down, it might be running the risk of starting a move 
°n the part of corporate treasurers to take money down from their 
lines of credit at banks in order to be sure they got the funds they 
m
ight need. If the Fed really were to put the banks under pressure, 
he did not feel they were very far from another crunch. He would 
Prefer to wait a little to see how the automobile strikes and some 
other important items developed. He did not differ fundamentally 
from the Council view, but he did differ a little on the timing for 
a
 move toward tightening. 
Governor Brimmer asked whether the Council had discussed in 
specific terms the question of timing. 
President Moorhead reported that the Council thought that 
lessening of expansion should begin right away. However, a minority 
o f
 Perhaps two held a different view. 

9/19/67 
-26-
Governor Maisel wondered whether the Council felt that enough 
demand had built up so that, if the Federal Reserve did nothing in 
the present liquidity situation, the demand for funds would drop. 
He was not talking of an absolute drop but of a reduction in the 
rate of increase--from a 9 or 10 per cent annual rate of growth over 
the past six months to, say, 6 or 7 per cent. In other words, would 
the rate of growth drop as a result of people being satisfied with 
the amount of liquidity they had built up? 
President Moorhead said that both banks and borrowers antic-
ipated some kind of action, and anything confirming that would make 
the situation worrisome. 
Governor Mitchell said that if the Council's comments reflected 
the attitude and tone of the banking community as a whole, it was 
sufficiently cautious and apprehensive about the future that banks 
were not going to do anything that required any particular restraint 
on the part of the Federal Reserve. Professor Friedman would say, of 
course, that an 8-1/2 per cent rate of increase in the money supply 
was too much and would produce inflation. To Governor Mitchell, it 
would not seem that pulling back on the banks a little at this time 
would do more than make them, more cautious than the comments suggested 
they already were. Furthermore, their customers did not seem likely 
to do anything that would require restraint, judging from the rather 
slow demand that had been indicated for loans. Looking at this picture, 
Governor Mitchell thought there was some inconsistency between the 

9/19/67 
-27- 
3683 
comments that the ceiling on large CD's should be raised and the 
recommendation for a move by the Federal Reserve toward tighter 
conditions. 
Mr. Mayer observed that he was more or less with Mr. Larkin. 
He could not help being bothered by the rapid expansion of the money 
supply, but the situation was highly delicate. He did not know how 
to quantify the difference between where banks were now and what 
could trigger another crunch. If he were doing it, he would move 
very gently and a very little bit, matching closely and maybe pulling 
back if there was any adverse reaction. 
Mr. Wilkinson wondered if the Federal Reserve was caught in 
the dilemma where any restraint would contribute to a downturn. It 
didn't want another credit crunch, but it was trying to bring down 
demand. It was forced to supply enough reserves to give the banks 
adequate liquidity at the new higher level of demand that would come 
as the economy found a new equilibrium. 
Governor Mitchell agreed that liquidity had to be rebuilt. 
The question was whether that had gone far enough, and from the 
Council's comments he did not know the answer. 
Chairman Martin commented that since a year ago there was a 
new approach to liquidity. The accelerated tax payments and the fear 
of what might come about required a liquidity judgment factor that 
was very difficult to appraise. 

9/19/67 
-28- 3666 
Mr. Fleming said he interpreted the Council's discussion 
as indicating that business was beginning to move upward. 
Savings 
were increasing and there was no question but that wages and prices 
were moving up. The money supply was at an all time high level. A 
tax increase was not at 
all certain. He thought the Council was 
afraid of the inflationary implications of all of those things. 
Just what should be done to correct the situation he did not know. 
Everyone would like to see a tax increase, but that might not be in 
the cards at the moment. As an individual banker, he would like to 
have more money and more customers, but looking at the situation 
for the good of the country as a whole he was sure something had to 
be done. 
Governor Sherrill asked whether as a banker Mr. Fleming did 
not feel that there was tight money now. Normally, banks were out 
looking for loans, but apparently only two of this group were seeking 
loans at present. 
Mr. Fleming replied that maybe his bank could increase its 
loan ratio a little, but it did not know what demand was going to 
come in from customers. Last year was just yesterday to him. 
His 
bank was not about to take a-chance on getting out on a limb; it 
did not want to be loaned up at the moment. 
Mr. McNeill was of the opinion that there was a tight money 
Market now, and this made banks feel uncomforable with the loan 
portfolios many were carrying. 

9/19/67 
-29-
Governor Sherrill remarked that tight money was a matter of 
judgment. However, if conditions were already tight, then what the 
Council was asking for was a tighter money market. The uneasiness 
that the Council expressed was not a matter of statistical measure-
ment, yet the feeling described was probably keeping banks from 
doing much more than meeting a minimum demand. 
Mr. Still said one reason given for not doing something now 
was the fear of a crunch. He wondered, however, when something would 
be done. ' If business dropped off, there would not be much reason for 
tightening; and if it got better and better the possible effects of 
a tightening action and the fear of a credit crunch would have to 
be considered. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the objective was that the 
banking system feel about as tight as it could. That feeling should 
help slow the expansion. He thought Governor Sherrill was suggesting 
that the System keep the feeling of tightness and not worry too much 
about the statistics. 
Mr. Wilkinson said it appeared that the Board wanted in this 
environment for banks to feel tight and to stay about where they were. 
Mr. Fleming felt the.problem was not so much where banks were 
now but the direction in which they were going. At the moment the 
situation seemed fairly comfortable but bankers did not like the 
direction in which the economy was going. The Federal Reserve was 
to be commended on the job it had done the past year, and the question 
now was whether a safe balance could be maintained. 

9/19/67 
-30- 
-
 
f 
Mr. Mayer said he did not feel too comfortable. As 
Mr. McNeill had pointed out earlier, banks were pretty well 
loaned up and much of that was based on funds of a very short-
term character. He (Mr. Mayer) could not help feeling jittery. 
That was the nature of banking and he doubted that it was about 
to change. 
Chairman Martin asked how much impact the Council thought 
the tax increase, assuming it was passed, would have on business. 
He noted that this was a case of complementary tax and monetary 
policy, and the Council had come out strongly for a considerably 
less expansive fiscal policy. 
Mr. Wilkinson said there might be a difference between the 
effects on consumers and corporations. The consumer might not 
immediately cut back but in time the new taxes would have an effect 
and would slow down the vigor of consumer purchasing. 
President Moorhead added that the Council did not feel the 
tax program would have much effect on prices because the economy was 
in a cost-price push and even with a tax boost there would be a 
large deficit in the Federal Government's budget. 
Going back to Governor Sherrill's comment on loans, Mr. Knight 
said he was sure the Council would not wish to leave the impression 
that banks were actually turning down good loans. Many banks were 
out for certain types of business as in the consumer loan and credit 
card fields. 

9/19/67 
-31- 
3 * > 9 V 
Chairman Martin said he assumed every member of the Council 
was in favor of the tax program that had been proposed. 
No member of the Council indicated disagreement, although 
! 
Mr. Bodman said he favored it, provided the program was accompanied 
by a maximum reduction in Federal expenditures. President Moorhead 
added that he thought the Council was in favor of the program anyway. 
Mr. Mayer thought the Treasury made a serious error by 
including some tax reform measures rather than sticking to a straight 
surtax. This had created a feeling of real distrust. 
If a tax reform 
bill was to be undertaken, it should be done out in the open. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Federal Advisory 
s 
Council would be held November 20-21, 1967. 
, • 
. - 
> 
The meeting then adjourned. 
i - " ' . - y v u r 
.U-U 
a;, 11 > rvyUJ 
< ' 
• 
'
 
:
 •" • 
P ) 
Secretary 
