MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 19, 1972 

2534 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, September 19, 1972. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 1:30 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
Regulation J. The Board unanimously ratified the sending of 
a letter to Reavis, Pogue, Neal & Rose denying their petition for recon-
sideration of the amendments to Regulation J, Collection of Checks and 
Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks, that were to become effective 
beginning September 21, 1972. This response had previously been agreed 
uPon individually by the available members of the Board. 
A copy of the letter sent to Reavis, Pogue, Neal & Rose is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
"9 
Secretary 

2 5 " V 
BOARD OF 
GOVERNORS 
ovV'ow-V. 
Dl" T H C 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
9/19/72 
IS 
WASHINGTON, D. C. P.OGUI 
ADDREBB DFriCIAI. rDRHESPDNDCUCE 
T O T KC G O A R D 
September 18, 1972 
«>\1 I'V-i"1-• '' 
T° THC C O A R D 
Reavis, Pogue, Neal & Rose 
1100Connecticut Avenue, N, W. 
Washinston, D. C. 20036 
Attention: Mr. Peter Work 
GentlemenJ 
This is in response to a petition for reconsideration 
filed by you on September 1, 1972, on behalf of a "group of 
banks that will be adversely affected if the. Board implements 
its amendments to Regulation J without granting the relief 
requested herein." Pursuant to a request made by Board staff, bv 
letter dated September 7, 1972, you revealed that the only banks 
that had :in fact, authorized you to represent them were a group 
of named 34 banks located in California. 
As summarized on. page 3 of the petition, you argue that 
there are three defects in the Board's plan to put into place 
the amendments to Regulation J: 
. . .First, the plan was developed without 
sufficient factual data to determine 
whether it was appropriate in light of the 
strong possibility of 
to individual 
hanks. Second, it conspicuously ignored 
the undeniable need of non-member banks 
for protection. And, finally, it contained 
no articulation of the findings and 
reasoning underlying several of its 
critica1 aspects, 
I, 
The assertion that the Board acted without sufficient 
fa ctual data to determine .whether the action was appropriate is 
without basis in f a c t and is wholly lacking in merit. An 
enormous nwouni. of staff effort was expended in compiling and 
analyzing data on nearly every bank in the country. The Federal 
Reserve Banks collect checks on virtually all commercial banks 
3-tt the country, and information was collected on the amounts 
checks Jrav/u on such banks, both member and nonmember. 
Because 
the ke.-erv: Banks have been sending checks to these banks for a 
Period of many years, they were able to view the amounts cr 
Elections jy\ the perspective of considerable experience, 

2536 
jr. . 
f 
' 
' 
2 
Contrary to the petition's allegation that "the Board's efforts 
to ascertain the impact of its amendments were significantly 
impaired by its ultimate reliance on aggregate data" and that 
"it did not develop comprehensive data on the actual impact or 
range of impacts on all banks individually", the fact: is that 
computer listings were prepared with data on virtually every 
bank in the country; this information was not included in the 
1, 
public file since the Board regards individual bank data as 
j 
conf identia1. 
The statistical data represented only a part of the 
information-gathering effort regarding the effect on individual 
banks of the Regulation J amendments. The proposed changes were 
i 
published in the Federal Register, and a copy of the- Federal 
Register notice, together v/ith a great deal of explanatory 
materia], was sent to every commercial bank in the country. 
All banks were given an opportunity to comment on the effect 
of the changes cn their particular situation. During this 
comment period, the staffs of the Reserve Banks conducted 
educational campaigns to inform all banks of the best method 
to calculate the effects of the changes. Seme of the letters 
of complaint that .rare received by the Board were based on an 
incorrect understanding of the exact nature of the proposed 
changes, and the Reserve Banks contacted most of these .banks 
to determine, the exact nature of the problem and to explain 
further both the proposed changes and their objectives, 
!i, 
. • 
During the planning period, Board and Reserve Bank 
Representatives conferred with several thousand bankers, as 
Wei 1 as with groups such as the AmericaiT Bankers Association 
s' find the Independent Bankers Association of America. 
Information 
Obtained from these sources was forwarded to the Board and 
considered by the Board in its final decisional process. 
As an additional basis for decision, the Board 
considered the experience of the Federal Reserve Banks and 
that of member and nonmember banks in instituting regional 
check clearing arrangements, since such clearing arrangements 
effect participating banks in a way quite similar to that 
of the effect: of the Regulation J amendments on banks that 
are currently paying checks on a deferred basis. In no case 
among the more than 1,300 banks covered by such regional 
clearing arrangements has there been evidence of a significant 
Ktui-i.city problem or a diminution of a bank's viability due 
to the implementation of a system of same-day payment of checks. 
Your petition contains no information of a nature not 
arej u\ 1 y considered by the Board in making its decision. 
Vhe 
0f r.lw petition consists of copies of letters 
L • c.stained an the Board's public file, each of which was 

thoroughly digested by the Board's staff, and its substance, 
individually or in collective form, presented to the Board. 
In sum, the Board believes it has developed and 
utilized sufficient relevant data enabling it to make an informed 
decision on the consequences of the amendments to Regulation J. 
It sees nothing in your petition that would reasonably challenge 
this belief. 
You also allege that the Board "conspicuously ignored 
the undeniable need of nonmember banks for piotection." 
As we have noted before, the checks for both member 
and nonmember banks are collected through the Federal Reserve 
System, and, as a result, we were able to obtain and evaluate 
data on the effects of the amendments on both classes of 
banks. Thus, i.t is not true that we ignored the effects on 
nonmember banks. 
Secondly, we found that, for the most part, the 
effects of the amendments on smaller banks--number and 
nonmember-~wouId be. a loss of investable funds amounting to 
less than 0.5 per cent of an individual bank's deposits. 
In 
the case of larger banks, the effects would be somewhat 
greater5 but for any institution, it would rarely exceed 
4 per cent of the bank's total deposits. These figures 
should be read against the background of a total growth 
in bank deposits last year of 11 per cent. Thus, we do 
not agree that there is an "undeniable need" to protect 
nonmember banks from the effects of the-Regulation J amendments. 
Finally, we would address the assumption you have 
made that your clients have a right to be heid free of air/ 
loss that might be incurred as a result of tie implementation 
ef the Regulation J proposals. 
In this connection, your 
attention is directed to United States v. Willow River 
Power Co., 324 U.S. 499 (1945)7 wherein the" Supreme Court 
states: 
"...[N]ot all economic interests are 
'property rights'; only those economic 
interests are 'rights' which, have the 
law back of them, and only when they 
are so organized may courts compel 
others to forbear from interfering 
with them or to compensate for their 
•invasion." 324 U.S. at 502. 

2S3S 
-4-
The Board recognizes that many banks have an economic interest in 
preventing or delaying the speed-up and modernization of the 
nation's check collection system; that having received for many 
years the benefits of Federal Reserve float, their interest impels 
efforts to prevent the Board's prompt and effective achievement of 
its payments mechanism goals. However, in. view of the rapidly 
mounting volume of checks, :h: is extremely urgent-that there be 
achieved a prompt speed-up of check payments, laying the groundwork 
r°r an electronic payments mechanism. 
Regarding the general allegation that the need of some 
sort of protection for nonmember banks was ignored, the Board as 
you know, is not in a position to reduce reserve requirements for 
nonmember banks or to waive penalties on their reserve deficiencies. 
Under present Federal law, nonmember banks do not maintain reserve 
accounts with the Federal Reserve. 
Despite the lack of evidence of significant harm to any 
«ank, as a result of the Regulation J implementation, should the 
amendment to Regulation J create a significant impairment of 
liquidity in any nonmember brnk, or impair any nonmember bank's 
ability to serve its community, we are prepared, through June 30, 
i97,/<> to provide Federal Reserve credit on. substantially the same 
to.rms as applicable to credit extensions to member banks-for such 
Periods as are necessary to offer reasonable assurance against 
serj,ous adverse consequences.1/' 
III. 
You also assert that the Board gave "no articulation of 
N 
tlle findings and reasoning underlying several of its critical 
j^Vcets." The only "critical aspect" as to which you assert the 
°«vd did not address itself is its "reasons for not collecting 
arifj analyzing individual bank data and for disregarding the 
^-•iRht of nonmember banks." As established in sections 1 and II 
above, the underlying premise for this allegation—failure i:o 
c'°llect and study individual bank data—is erroneous. The Board 
Co^piled and analyzed individual bank data in the manner previ-
ously stated from both member and nonmember banks, and carefully 
c°nsidered the economic positions of nonmember banks. 
See let:tor to Reserve Banks dated September 18, 1972, attached. 

IV. 
Your three suggestions for "long-term relief" also 
warrant special mention. 
First, you present the following suggestion: 
. . .During tho first year, banks could 
be required to pay one-third of Federal 
Reserve cash letters in Immediately 
available funds with the remaining 
two-thirds being paid the following-
day. In the second year, the immediate 
payment requirement would cover two-, 
thirds of cash letters, and in the 
third year it would cover the entire 
amount. 
As noted in your petition, a similar proposal was presented 
by the American Bankers Association ("ABA") during the period . 
for public comment. The petition states that " fpetitioners 
fts a group regard this as a highly feasible approach. . ." 
and that it "offers the distinctly important advantage of 
administrative expediency." The Board and Its staff, however, 
considered phasing-in and same-day payment provisions as proposed 
by the ABA and others and determined this approach to be neither 
feasible nor administrativcly expedient. The various methods by 
which such a phase-in could be accomplished were all rejected 
because of one or more of the following obstacles: 
1) the creation of an unacceptable level 
of Federal Reserve float; 
2) impediments to passing to banks and 
their customers the benefits of 
faster check collection; 
3) excessive operating costs; or 
4) delays in the presentment of checks. 
Secondly, you propose, as an alternative, that the Board 
''establish a system of exemptions which could be made available 
L'o individual banks upon application"; this alternative, you 
state, "would offer the great, if slightly burdensome, advantage 
°f being geared to individual bank losses," As noted earlier, 
'•c arc prepared to preside Federal Reserve credit, during a 
Phase-in period, for the few banks, member or nonmember, 
that might expe.r.'.ence such loss of invest able funds as to result in 
':< significant impairment of liquidity or of the bank's ability to 
Seive its community, finch a plan, believed by the Board to be 

2540 
-fi-
lar more workable than your proposal, offers tlie same advantage of 
being geared to individual bank losses. 
Thirdly, you propose, as an alternative, suspension of 
"the effectiveness of the amendments for a period of at least one 
year in states requiring action by state legislatures in order to 
give those states the opportunity to adjust reserve requirements." 
In this connection, we note that California wherein the 34 banks 
which you have identified as your clients are located, is not a 
state that requires action by the legislature in order to reduce state 
imposed reserve requirements. Rather, it appears that such reduc-
tion lies in the discretionary authority of the State Banking Com-
missioner. 
In this regard, we understand that the Banking Commissioner 
has made known his intention to reduce reserve requirements tor non-
member banks within a week to ten days after September 21; we also 
understand that the Commissioner is considering a waiver of: penalties 
°n reserve deficiencies similar to that afforded member banks. 
It may be that many state legislatures will act to reduce 
Reserve requirements for nonmember banks, while other legislatures 
coula not further reduce reserve requirements for nonmember banks, 
since it appears that nonmember bank reserve requirements are now 
Row?cal'ly lower than those for member banks. In any event, any 
no run ember bank that wishes to assure itself a position of competitive 
^quality with member banks may wish to consider joining the Federal 
&eserve System. 
In conclusion, the Board has considered the arguments, 
allegations and proposals contained in your petition for reconsidera-
tion of the amended Regulation J, and, for the reasons stated above, 
the petition is hereby denied. 
_ 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
