FR 609 
Minutes for 
January 4 , 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chm. Martin 
Gov. Robertson 
Gov. Shepardson 
Gov. Mitchell 
Gov. Daane 
Gov. Maisel 
Gov. Brimmer 

17 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, January 4 , 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
M r . Robertson, Vice Chairman 
M r . Shepardson 
M r . Mitchell 
M r . Daane 
M r . Maisel 
M r . Brimmer 
M r . Sherman, Secretary 
M r . Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
M r . Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
M r . Holland, Adviser to the Board 
M r . Molony, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Hackley, General Counsel 
M r . Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
M r . Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
M r . Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
M r . 0
1
Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
M r . Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
M r . Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
M r . Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
M r . Spencer, Staff Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Forrestal and Via, Senior Attorneys, 
Legal Division 
M r . Golden, Senior Economist, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
M r . Lyon, Supervisory Review Examiner, Division 
of Examinations 
M r . Goodfellow, Review Examiner, Division of 
Examinations 
Approved letters. 
The following letters, copies of which are 
attached to these minutes under the respective item numbers indicated, 

18 
1/4/67 
-2-
were approved unanimously after consideration of background material 
that had been made available to the Board: 
Item No. 
Letter to The Farmers and Citizens Bank, 
1 
Trotwood, Ohio, granting an extension of 
time to establish a branch in Madison 
Township. 
Letter to Wells Fargo Bank International 
2 
Corporation, San Francisco, California, 
approving an amendment to its articles of 
association to permit the removal of the 
home office of the corporation from San 
Francisco to New York, New York. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
3 
New York approving changes in the clerical 
and non-clerical employee salary structures 
at the Buffalo Branch. 
With respect to Item No. 1, it was noted that Farmers and 
Citizens Bank had been granted a six-month extension of time to establish 
its proposed branch, following the original approval by the Board on 
June 30, 1965. Thus, the six-month extension being granted today would 
permit the bank a two-year period in which to open the branch. 
The 
Board was of the view that sufficient time had now been allotted and 
that the bank should make definite plans toward establishment of the 
branch within the next six months. Accordingly, it was understood that 
the letter to the bank would reflect this view. 
Condition report form. There had been distributed a memorandum 
dated December 22, 1966, from the Division of Examinations submitting a 
proposed revision of the form (F.R. 314) used by corporations operating 

19 
1/4/67 
-2-
under the provisions of sections 25 and 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act in submitting reports of condition. 
The memorandum pointed out that in June 1966 an abbreviated 
report form was used, at which time it was indicated that a more detailed 
report would be requested at year-end. 
The memorandum went on to describe 
the proposed revisions, which contemplated a simpler and more uniform 
presentation than in the past and considerably reduced the amount of data 
requested. Attached to the memorandum was a listing of items of informa-
tion that had been deleted, and a proposed letter of transmittal to the 
corporations concerned. 
M r . Goodfellow described the changes that were recommended and 
reviewed the kinds of information requested in the past that would be 
omitted when the new form and supporting schedules were used. He noted 
that they had been patterned generally after the report of condition for 
State member banks, with certain modifications in line with the nature 
of the operations of the corporations and their subsidiaries. 
Governor Mitchell agreed for the most part with the proposed 
deletions but expressed the view that the form should provide a means 
for ascertaining a particular corporation's position with respect to 
assets and liabilities denominated in the various foreign currencies. 
This was an area where some risk was involved, and it was important to 
determine a corporation's exposure to foreign exchange loss. 
There ensued a discussion relating to the use of the call report 
as a supervisory instrument, as contrasted with its use for statistical 

1/4/67 
-4-
purposes. Members of the staff brought out that the reports rendered 
in the past were not in such form as to lend themselves to statistical 
tabulation, and it was hoped that some progress could be made along 
those lines. 
They also cited types of supervisory information that 
could be obtained satisfactorily only through examinations of the Edge 
and agreement corporations. At the same time, agreement was expressed 
with the view of members of the Board that the potential value of the 
call reports for supervisory purposes should not be disregarded in 
devising forms for use by the reporting corporations. 
The call reports 
might identify certain problem areas, one of which, it was suggested, 
could be an overexposure to foreign exchange risks. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the revised form was 
approved for use in calling for condition reports as of December 31, 
1966, but with the understanding that the staff would then give further 
consideration to modifications in the form in light of the views expressed 
at this meeting. 
Study of loopholes in Holding Company Act. There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated December 23, 1966, from Governor Brimmer 
regarding personnel requirements for a study relating to the closing of 
loopholes in the Bank Holding Company Act. Attached was a memorandum 
of December 21, 1966, from the Legal and Examinations Divisions regarding 
tentative conclusions that had been reached with respect to the appropri-
ate scope of the study and the nature of possible legislative action that 
might be recommended. 
It pointed out that considerable time and effort 

21 
1/4/67 
-2-
would be required to test the tentative conclusions and to explore 
related ramifications. 
Governor Brimmer recommended that authorization be given to 
obtain Reserve Bank personnel who could be assigned to the study to 
supplement the Board's staff working on this project. 
It was his 
judgment that two examiners and two lawyers might initially be needed 
for a period of three to six months. 
At the outset of discussion, Governor Brimmer pointed out the 
need for flexibility regarding the number of persons who might be 
required to work on the study. 
Governor Brimmer referred to the possibility, mentioned in the 
December 21 memorandum, of exploring the information on ownership of 
member banks collected for Congressman Patman several years ago. 
Gover-
nor Mitchell suggested that such a project would appear to require the 
services of economists and statisticians. Looking forward to the like-
lihood of Congressional hearings on bank holding company legislation, 
he commented on the prospective need for information at a relatively 
early date and inquired about the extent of data available on one-bank 
holding company situations. M r . O'Connell indicated that he thought 
the number of such situations was fairly well established, although the 
information on file should be brought up to date. 
Governor Maisel spoke of the importance of probing all facets 
of the one-bank holding company concept, including compilation of infor-
mation concerning corporations that controlled one bank and other nonbank 

22 
1/4/67 
-2-
financial institutions, and also data on chain banking through the use 
of corporate intermediaries--for example, an individual controlling 10 
corporations each of which, in turn, controlled one bank. 
Governor Robertson agreed that it was important to analyze 
available information, and obtain more data, to the extent necessary 
to pick out situations such as had been referred to by Governor Maisel 
that involved a concentration of banking control. 
In this connection, 
he suggested the desirability of having the Banking Markets Section of 
the Division of Research and Statistics join in the study. With such 
data in hand, the Board would be able to establish a fall-back position, 
as Governor Maisel had suggested, and recommend additional legislation 
to deal with the more troublesome areas if the Congress was not favorably 
disposed toward a revised holding company definition comprehending all 
one-bank cases. 
Governor Brimmer said that he was glad to have had this discus-
sion, which established a priority for one part of the study, and that 
he would have in mind the apparent need for the services of economists 
and statisticians in considering the personnel requirements. 
At the conclusion of further discussion, the Board authorized 
steps to secure the services of such personnel as might be required to 
carry the study forward. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 

23 
1/4/67 
-2-
Balance of payments. Governor Daane, who along with Governor 
Brimmer had been participating in meetings of the Executive Committee 
of the Cabinet Committee on the Balance of Payments, summarized for 
the Board's information the program recommendations that were being 
submitted to the Cabinet Committee for dealing with the U.S. balance 
of payments problem. 
Governor Robertson then outlined the nature of comments that 
he proposed to make at the Cabinet Committee meeting on the various 
recommendations. 
Other members of the Board concurred generally with 
the appropriateness of such comments, except that Governor Brimmer 
indicated he would be more favorably inclined toward the recommendations 
of the Executive Committee in the area of tourism. 
Study of loopholes in Holding Company Act. With further regard 
to the preceding discussion of the study of loopholes in the Bank 
Holding Company Act, M r . Hackley commented on his understanding as to 
the scope of study contemplated. 
He pointed out that the number of 
lawyers at the Federal Reserve Banks was quite limited and that the 
Banks might be reluctant to release available lawyers for an extended 
period to assist with a study of this kind. He further pointed out 
that the Board's legal staff was currently involved in a number of 
projects to which a high degree of priority had been assigned by the 
Board. 
It was suggested that the services of analysts, rather than 
lawyers, would seem to be required in the earlier stages of the study 

24 
1/4/67 
-2-
and that the principal legal questions were not likely to arise until 
after the analytical work had been completed. Comment also was made 
that the part of the study seeming to be most urgent was the portion 
that would develop useful information if the Board should be called 
upon to testify on proposed legislation relating to bank holding com-
panies. A general understanding was expressed with the problem 
confronting the legal staff, and it was agreed that that factor would 
have to be taken into account. Augmentation of the staff to cope with 
the current and prospective workload was urged. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O . C . 205S1 
25 
Item No. 1 
1/4/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 4 , 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Farmers and Citizens Bank, 
Trotwood, Ohio, 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System extends to June 30, 1967, the time 
within
1
 which The Farmers and Citizens Bank, 
Trotwood, Ohio, may establish a branch at the inter-
section of Shiloh Springs Road and Denlinger Road, 
Madison Township-, Montgomery County, Ohio* 
It is noted this branch was originally 
approved on June 30, 1965, and this is the second 
six-month extension granted. The Board would 
expect that definite plans toward the establishment 
of this branch Will be formulated within the next 
six months* 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E . Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary* 

2 6 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
V W 
Wells Fargo Bank 
International Corporation, 
464 California Street, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to a letter dated December 8, 
1966, from counsel of your Corporation enclosing a Consent 
signed under date of November 10, 1966, on behalf of Wells 
Fargo Bank, sole shareholder of your Corporation, consenting 
to the amendment of the Articles of Association of Wells 
Fargo Bank.International Corporation removing the home office 
of your Corporation from San Francisco, California, to New 
York, New York. 
The Board of Governors approves the amendment to 
Article THIRD. Please advise the Board, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the home office is removed 
to New York, furnishing information as to the exact location 
of the office. 
W A S H I N G T O N , O . C . 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THI BOARD 
January 4, 1967 
Very truly yours > 
(Signed) Karl E . Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary 

27 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
OF THE 
item No. 3 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1/4/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C . 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 4 , 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. William F. Treiber, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Treiber: 
As requested in your letter of December 15, the 
Board of Governors approves the following minimum and maxi' 
mum salaries for Salary Grades indicated in the structures 
applicable to employees at the Buffalo Branch, effective 
January 1, 1967: 
CLERICAL 
Grade 
Minimum 
Maximum 
1 
$ 3,120 
$ 3,768 
2 
3,270 
4,169 
N0N-CLERICAL 
Grade 
Minimum 
Maximum 
1 
$ 3,120 
$ 4,163 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
