Minutes for A P r i l ll> 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, April 11, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant to the Board 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Miss Eaton and Mrs. Winkler of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Sigel, 
Wernick, Eckert, Keir, Baker, Burns, Ettin, 
Fry, Kelty, and Kichline, and Miss Stockwell 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Reynolds, Ghiardi, Hersey, Norwood, 
Gemmill, Altmann, Bradshaw, Bryant, Gekker, 
and Stem, and Mrs. Junz of the Division of 
International Finance 
Money market review. Today's usual weekly review included 
reports by Mr. Baker on the Government securities market, by Mr. Fry 
on bank credit, and by Mr. Bradshaw on the foreign exchange and gold 

1260 
4/11/69 
-2-
markets. 
Copies of the documentation prepared for the purpose of 
today's review have been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Brill, 
Partee, and Reynolds then withdrew, as did Mr. Broida and Miss Eaton, 
and the following entered: 
Messrs. Hexter, O'Connell, Shay, and Mertz of 
the Legal Division 
Messrs. Farrell and Ring of the Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on April 10, 1969, of the rates 
on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
sent to those Banks. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
fa ctors involved in the proposed merger of Mount Vernon National Bank 
and Trust Company of Fairfax County, Annandale, Virginia, with Old 
Dominion Bank, Arlington, Virginia, and Falls Church Bank, Falls Church, 
Virginia, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion stating that consum-
mation of the proposed merger (involving subsidiary banks of the same 
holding company) would have no adverse competitive effects. 

1260 
4/11/69 
-3-
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Piedmont Bank, Greenville, South Carolina, with First 
Piedmont Bank and Trust Company, Greenville, South Carolina, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, the conclusion stating that consummation of the proposed 
merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Citizens and Southern National Bank of South Carolina, 
Charleston, South Carolina, with Citizens National Bank, Charleston, 
South Carolina, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion stating that consummation 
of the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Prudential Savings Bank, New York, New York, into West 
Side Savings Bank, New York, New York, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the con-
clusion reading as follows: 
There is some competition between West Side Savings 
Bank and The Prudential Savings Bank, headquartered in 
the Boroughs of Manhattan and Brooklyn, New York City, 
respectively. 
In addition, through the establishment of 
additional de novo branches, there is potential for greater 
competition. However, in view of the substantial number 
and variety of financial institutions offering convenient 
facilities for savings banks' customers, the competition 
that would be eliminated by the proposal would not appear 
to be such as to cause the overall effect on competition 
to be more than slightly adverse. 

JL.i'W 
4/11/69 
-4-
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made 
available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective num-
bers indicated. 
Item No. 
Memorandum from Messrs. Holland and Farrell 
1 
requesting authorization for Messrs. Kiley, 
Ring, and Bilby to attend a meeting of discount 
officers scheduled for May 6, 1969, at the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Letter to Chairman Patman of the House 
2 
Committee on Banking and Currency concerning 
H.R. 2, a bill to provide an independent 
Federal agency for the supervision of Federally-
chartered credit unions. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
3 
authorizing that Bank to make available to the 
United States Attorney certain data involving 
specified banks. 
The following entered at this point: 
Messrs. Solomon and Olin of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Rowe of the Division of Data Processing 
Messrs. Raices and Nathan, Vice Presidents 
of Ruder & Finn 
Creditor film strip. The representatives of Ruder & Finn 
presented, with a view to obtaining comments and suggestions, a film 
strip designed to supply information to creditors on their responsi-
bilities under Regulation Z, Truth in Lending. 
It was contemplated 

4/11/69 
-5-
that the film strip would be made available to various creditor groups 
•lUt,'" 
to assist them in advising their members. 
• Sii'wi I 
After presentation of the film strip, members of the Board 
offered a number of comments and suggestions, which it was understood 
would be taken into consideration in the preparation of the final 
tv C . ' 
version of the film strip. 
At Governor Robertson's request, Mr. Raices commented on how 
a second film strip, geared to supply information to consumers, might 
be developed, and members of the Board again offered views. 
At Chairman Martin's suggestion, further discussion of Mr. 
Olin's memorandum of April 7, 1969, regarding the providing of infor-
mation to consumers on truth in lending was deferred until next 
Tuesday, at which time additional Board members would be present. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
A« 
. . , 
, 
, 
tiffany 
Deputy Secretary / 

1264 
Item No. 1 
4/11/69 
April 8, 1969. 
SUBJECT: Meeting of Discount 
Officers - May 6, 1969. 
This memorandum proposes that the Board authorize three staff 
members to attend a meeting of discount officers scheduled for May 6, 1969, 
at the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, as their representatives. 
Certain questions have arisen, first in the March 27 telephone 
conference call and also in subsequent correspondence among discount 
officers, regarding appropriate discount administration policy in light 
of the current monetary restraints. These issues are described briefly 
in the attached letter and accompanying telegram from Mr. A. B. Merritt, 
First Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and 
Chairman of the Conference of Presidents Subcommittee on Discounts and 
Credits. 
As reported in Mr. Merritt's letter, a one-day meeting of 
discount officers to discuss current practices in the administration of 
the discount window has been scheduled for May 6, 1969,. at the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Mr. Merritt invites the Board to send 
representatives to this meeting. We feel that such representation 
would be appropriate and useful, and we therefore recommend that the 
Board authorize Mr. John N. Kiley, Jr. and Mr. P. D. Ring, of the 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations, and Mr. Harold A. Bilby, 
Consultant on discount matters, as the staff members most directly con-
cerned with day-to-day discount operations, to attend the May 6 meeting. 
to'iW ••• 
TO: 
Board of Governors 
FROM: Robert C. Holland 
John R. Farre11 
Attachment 

•pOfCOw 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
4/11/69 
Q F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
April 14, 1969 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your letter of March 11, 1969, 
requesting the Board's views on H.R. 2, "To amend the Federal 
Credit Union Act so as to provide for an independent Federal agency 
for the supervision of federally chartered credit unions, and for 
other purposes." 
The Board understands that this bill is essentially the 
same as H.R. 14030 which you introduced in the last Congress, the 
major purpose of which was to spin off the Bureau of Federal Credit 
Unions from the Department of Health, Education and Welfare. 
As 
in the case of the earlier bill, the reorganizational proposal of 
H.R. 2 does not relate to the Board's area of responsibility, and, 
accordingly, we have no comments to offer for your consideration. 
Sincerely yours 
(signed) Wm. McC. Martin,Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr 

1 2 h 6 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N C J R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
4/11/69 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
April 11, 1969 
Mr. Wilbur H. Isbell, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 
63166 
Dear Mr. Isbell: 
This acknowledges your letter of April 7, 1969, and 
previous correspondence relating to certain transactions developed 
during an examination of Peoples State Bank of Richmond Height?, 
Richmond Heights, Missouri, as of the close of business February 24, 
1969, concerning which you transmitted a report to United States 
Attorney James E. Reeves (E. D. Mo.) on March 28, 1969. In addition 
to the aforementioned correspondence, it is understood that you 
have discussed the subject transactions with Messrs. Fred Solomon 
and Brent Leavitt of the Board's Division of Supervision and 
Regulation. 
The subject of your correspondence, conversations, and 
report to Mr. Reeves, was the circumstances surrounding certain 
transactions occurring in the Peoples State Bank, and apparently 
related transactions noted in the State Bank & Trust Company of 
Wells ton, Wells ton, Missouri; Cass Bank & Trust Company, St. Louis, 
Missouri; and Boatmen's National Bank, St. Louis, Missouri. The 
transactions involved, and the data relating thereto, are discussed 
and identified in your letters of April 7 and March 28, 1969, to 
the Board, memoranda originated by Examiner A. Melvin Carr of your 
staff and yourself dated March 25 and March 26, 1969, and your 
March 28 report to the United States Attorney. 
Your letter of April 7 concludes with a request that 
cne Board authorize action by you to permit the United States 
Attorney access to such data and information in your Bank's posses-
sion as discussed in the aforementioned communications, to the 
extent that they related to alleged actions by and involving 
Messrs. Norman Barken, Fred T. Lowy, Michael B. Barken, Will Hartmann, 
and Albert A. Sacks. Also included in your request for access are 

1267 
Mr. Wilbur H. Isbell 
-2-
the data and information mentioned in the subject correspondence 
relating to and involving the four banks aforementioned, Continental 
Bancshares Corporation, Fred T. Lowy Linoleum and Rug Company, 
American Telephone and Telegraph Company, Contour Equipment Company, 
and Shar-Mark Enterprises Inc. 
The Board has authorized access by United States Attorney 
Reeves or assigned members of his staff, at a location designated 
by you within the Reserve Bank, to any of the documents, including 
reproductions of bank records, and memoranda which you have dis-
cussed in your letters. It is to be understood that the authoriza-
tion herein granted contemplates both access by and the furnishing 
of copies to the United States Attorney for investigative purposes 
only. In the event that the United States Attorney determines that 
any aspect of this investigation should be presented to a Federal 
grand jury, it will be necessary for him to subpoena all documents 
intended to be used before the grand jury. Similarly, and at a 
subsequent date, if any aspect of this matter becomes the subject 
of a trial instituted by the United States Government, similar sub-
poena process will be necessary before documents* to which the United 
States Attorney has been given access will be permitted to be used 
at trial. 
You are advised that telephone conversations have been 
had by Mr. Leavitt of the Board's staff with Deputy Comptroller of 
the Currency Watson, Mr. Edward J. Roddy, Deputy Chief of the 
Division of Examinations, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and Superintendent C. W. Culley of the State of Missouri Banking 
Department, and that each has authorized, assuming similar approval 
action by the Board, access by the United States Attorney to copies 
of the documents in your possession which have their source in banks 
subject to the respective jurisdictions of the supervisory authorities 
named. It is our understanding that the two Federal supervisory 
representatives contacted have placed a similar restriction as con-
tained herein with respect to use of documents before a grand jury 
or at the trial of any case that may be instituted. 
Any questions regarding the Board's authorization herein 
can be discussed with either Mr. Leavitt or Mr. O'Connell of the 
Board's staff. 
, 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
