tf 
17? 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 27, 1969 
il 

294 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, January 27, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adivser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Bernard of the Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Fry of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Monetary policy. At the suggestion of the Chairman, the Board 
directed its attention to a memorandum dated January 25, 1969, from 
Division of Research and Statistics (Messrs. Brill and Axilrod) 
outlining monetary policy alternatives over the next few weeks. 
The Board discussion reflected general agreement with the 
view expressed in the staff memorandum, as supported by the Manager 

285 
1/27/69 
-2-
of the System Open Market Account in comments reported by Mr. Holland, 
that the Treasury's mid-February refunding was too close at hand to 
permit a monetary policy move at this particular time. 
As noted in their memorandum, Messrs. Brill and Axilrod also 
believed that in any event there was no urgent need for a further 
tightening of monetary policy at present. Some Board members tended 
to concur in that view, although indicating that after the Treasury 
financing was out of the way they would be agreeable to studying the 
situation in depth in the light of developments as they had by then 
unfolded. Other Board members were inclined to feel that within a 
few weeks the situation was likely to call for some additional move 
toward monetary restraint, whether through a change in member bank 
reserve requirements or through action on the discount rate coupled with 
open market operations, but they indicated that their current views 
were tentative in nature. One member (Governor Robertson) expressed 
the view that an additional move toward restraint would be appropriate 
at this juncture if it were not for the constraint imposed by the 
Treasury financing. 
Although the Brill-Axilrod memorandum suggested that any 
significant move toward additional monetary restraint would appear to 
call for consideration of adjusting the ceiling interest rates 
applicable to large-denomination negotiable certificates of deposit, 
no Board member other than Chairman Martin indicated that he would be 
sympathetic to such action. 

286 
1/27/69 
-2-
One member (Governor Brimmer), while expressing himself 
as quite well satisfied with the current posture of monetary policy, 
nevertheless urged that the Board move as promptly as possible to 
restrict the access of large member banks to Eurodollar borrowings. 
It was his impression that the availability of this source of funds 
to a relatively small number of banks was creating an appearance that 
the Federal Reserve was not being as restrictive as it claimed. 
„Av •; • 
Governor Robertson also expressed the opinion that the Board and its 
staff should be studying the Eurodollar aspect intensively, with the 
. i. i 
objective of developing a regulatory procedure that would deter the use 
°f such funds by large banks in a manner such as to thwart the impact 
of monetary policy. Chairman Martin, on the other hand, suggested 
that the Board proceed cautiously in this area, since he doubted that 
enough was known concerning it to enable the Board to proceed with assur-
ance that its action would be effective and would not produce undesired 
consequences. 
As the discussion concluded, it remained clearly the general 
view of the Board that no monetary policy action would be appropriate 
at this juncture in view of the imminence of the Treasury financing. 
It was understood, however, that the situation would be reviewed at 
the February 4 meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee and 
again by the Board of Governors after the end of the even-keel period 
associated with the financing. 

287 
1/27/69 
-2-
Discount rate. On January 23, 1969, the executive committee 
of the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis had 
acted, subject to the approval of the Board of Governors, to establish 
a rate of 6 per cent (rather than the existing 5-1/2 per cent) on 
discounts for and advances to member banks under the provisions of 
sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act, along with appropriately 
corresponding subsidiary rates under other sections of the Act. The 
anticipated letter presenting reasons for the action taken by the 
executive committee had not yet been received. However, on the basis 
°f a telephone conversation with President Francis, Mr. Holland reported 
that the reasons were apparently similar to those that had caused the 
St. Louis directors to propose an increase in the discount rate last 
December. The directors were aware, of course, that the Treasury was 
on the threshold of a financing, a factor that might militate against 
a discount rate change at this time, and also that a new Administration 
had just come into office, which again might constitute a deterring 
mfluence. Accordingly, they would understand and be prepared to 
accept a decision by the Board not to approve the proposed rate increase 
at this time. 
It was the unanimous view of the Board that an increase in 
the discount rate at this juncture would not be appropriate in light 
the imminent Treasury refinancing. Additionally, a number of Board 
members expressed doubt as to whether a discount rate increase, 
Particularly an increase of as much as 1/2 of one per cent, was called 
for by prevailing economic and financial conditions. 

2 8 8 
1/27/69 
-2-
Consideration then was given to whether disapproval of the 
St. Louis proposal would be preferable to tabling the matter, and it 
was the consensus that disapproval would be the better course. 
Accordingly, the action taken by the executive committee of the Board 
of Directors of the St. Louis bank was disapproved by unanimous vote, 
with the understanding that a letter reflecting the Board's decision 
would be sent to the Reserve Bank after having been cleared with the 
members of the Board. 
(Note: A copy of the letter sent to the Bank on January 28, 
1969, is attached as Item No. 1.) 
The following staff members entered at this point: 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Via of the Legal Division 
Mr. Cleaver of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
fa ctors involved in the proposed merger of Ridge Banking Company, 
Johnston, South Carolina, into State Bank and Trust Company, Greenwood, 
South Carolina, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal 
i oruii .-v.ir-'v 
Deposit Insurance Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of State 
Bank and Trust Company, Greenwood, and Ridge Banking 
Company, Johnston, will eliminate existing competition 
between the two banks. The overall competitive effect 
would be adverse. 

289 
1/27/69 
-2-
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of North Augusta Banking Company, North Augusta, South Carolina, 
into State Bank and Trust Company, Greenwood, South Carolina, was 
approved for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Governor Robertson dissenting. The conclusion read as follows: 
In view of the long standing close relationship 
between State Bank and Trust Company, Greenwood, and 
North Augusta Banking Company there is no effective 
competition between them. However, some potential for 
competition exists if this close relationship were 
terminated. The overall competitive effect would be 
slightly adverse. 
Governor Robertson agreed with the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond that the overall competitive effect would be adverse because 
consummation of the proposed merger would not only foreclose the possi-
bility of greater competition between the two banks but would further 
increase the concentration of banking resources in Aiken County. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of State Bank and Trust Company, Greenwood, South Carolina, 
with The Southern National Bank of Orangeburg, Orangeburg, South Carolina, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is little existing competition between State 
Bank and Trust Company, Greenwood, and The Southern 
National Bank of Orangeburg, although there is some 
potential for increased competition through de novo 
branching. The overall competitive effect would be 
slightly adverse. 

290 
1/27/69 
-2-
Delegation of authority. With a memorandum dated January 23, 
1969, the Legal Division submitted proposed amendments to the Board's 
Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority that would (1) delegate to 
the Federal Reserve Banks authority to administer Regulation P, 
Minimum Security Devices and Procedures for Federal Reserve Banks and 
State Member Banks, as it related to State member banks; (2) delegate 
to the Director of the Division of Supervision and Regulation authority 
to require State member banks to file reports on security devices and 
special reports pursuant to Regulation P, along with authority to 
exercise the other functions delegated to the Federal Reserve under 
Regulation P in those cases where a Reserve Bank concluded, because 
of unusual considerations or for some other good reason, that it should 
• , 
. . . • 
. 
. 
not act; and (3) delegate to the Director of the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations authority to administer Regulation P as it 
related to Federal Reserve Banks and branches. 
After Governor Robertson expressed his concurrence in the 
proposals, the amendments to the Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority 
were approved unanimously, effective immediately. A copy of the amend-
ments, in Federal Register form, is attached as Item No. 2. 
Annex building. Governor Sherrill read the names of several 
persons who had been suggested by the Board's architect for service 
in a consulting capacity in connection with the selection of art for 
the new Board annex building. 

291 
1/27/69 
-2-
When no order of preference among the persons mentioned 
was expressed by Board members, Governor Sherrill said that he would 
consult with Governor Mitchell on the matter and probably approach 
the parties according to the order in which their names were listed by 
the architect. 
Governor Sherrill further stated that it was hoped that it 
would be possible to obtain the desired services on a voluntary basis. 
At his request, however, the payment of a per diem to such extent as 
might develop to be appropriate was authorized. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

232 
Item No. 1 
1/27/69 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
C. 
3 0 5 5 I 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
January 28, 1969. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Frederic M. Peirce, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
P. 0. Box 442, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 63166 
Dear Fred: 
This will acknowledge and thank you for your letter of 
January 23 containing information with respect to the reasons 
underlying the previously-reported action by the Executive Com-
mittee of your Board of Directors on that day to increase the 
discount rate from 5-1/2 to 6 per cent, subject to the approval 
of the Board of Governors. 
After careful consideration the Board of Governors 
has concluded that an increase in the discount rate at this 
juncture would not be appropriate, in light of the imminent 
Treasury refinancing, the terms of which will undoubtedly be 
announced within the next few days. Apart from the Treasury 
refinancing, members of the Board have reservations as to 
whether a discount rate increase particularly of as much as 1/2 
of 1 per cent is called for at this time by prevailing and 
prospective economic and financial conditions. The Board felt, 
therefore, that in the circumstances the most appropriate action 
for it to take was to disapprove the proposed 6 per cent rate, 
and this is to advise that the Board has acted accordingly. 

233 
Mr. Frederic M. Peirce 
-2-
»j 
' 
r '.' '• ' ' 
-.I.-". 
f : 
This action, of coarse, should not be construed as 
indicating that the Board would not be prepared at a later 
date to consider whatever discount rate action the Directors 
of your Bank may believe to be justified, depending on all of 
the circumstances then existing. If there appears to be a 
need for further monetary tightening, an adjustment could be 
made through use of one or more of the several instruments of 
monetary policy, including perhaps the discount rate. The 
Board will be considering these possibilities as developments 
unfold, as, no doubt, will the Federal Open Market Committee 
at its next meeting. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

Item No. 2 
TtTLfc 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
1/27/69 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS CF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265 - RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
1. Effective immediately § 265.2(c) is amended by adding 
subparagraph (12) as follows: 
i'i:— 
I 
> 
. 
; 
w 265.2 Specific functions delegated to Board employees and Federal 
Reserve banks, 
* * * 
(c) The Director of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
(°r, in his absence, the Acting Director) is authorized: 
* * * 
(12) To exercise the functions described in subparagraphs 
(l5)(i) and (ii) of paragraph (f); and to exercise the functions de-
scribed in subparagraph (15)(iii) of paragraph (f) in those cases in 
which the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank concludes that, because of 
unusual considerations, or for other good cause, it should not take 
action. 
2. Effective immediately, the title of § 265.2(d) is amended 
t o read as shown below, and the following subparagraph (4) is added to 
Paragraph (d): 
(d) The Director of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations (or, in his absence, the Acting Director) is authorized: 
* * * 

(4) Under the provisions of §§ 216.5(b), 216.5(d), and 216.6 
this chapter (Regulation P), with respect to Federal Reserve Banks 
iiiri ' 
and branches: (i) to require reports on security devices; (ii) to 
&1UU.V; 
require special reports; and (iii) to determine, in view of the provisions 
§§ 216.3 and 216.4, whether security devices and procedures are 
Tty 
deficient 
in meeting the requirements of Part 216, to determine whether 
8^ch requirements should be varied in the circumstances of a particular 
banking office, and to require corrective action. 
3. Effective immediately, § 265.2(f) is amended -by adding 
subparagraph (15) as follows: 
(f) Each Federal Reserve Bank is authorized, as to member 
banks or other indicated organizations headquartered in its district: 
rt * * 
(15) Under the provisions of §§ 216.5(b), 216.5(d), and 216.6 
this chapter (Regulation P), with respect to State member banks only: 
to require reports on security devices; (ii) to require special 
reports; and (iii) to determine, in view cf the provisions of 
216.3 and 216.4, whether security devices and procedures are deficient 
^ meeting the requirements of Part 216, to determine whether such 
requirements should be varied in the circumstances of a particular 
banking office, and to require corrective action. 
4a. The purpose of these amendments is to delegate certain 
functions of the Board relating to the administration of its Regulation P, 
Minimum Security Devices and Procedures for Federal Reserve Banks and 
St*te Member Banks". 

-3-
296 
b. The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States 
Code, relating to notice and public participation and to deferred 
effective dates, were not followed in connection with the adoption of 
these amendments, because the rules contained therein are procedural 
in nature and accordingly do not constitute substantive rules subject 
to the requirements of such section. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 27th day of January, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
( S E AL) 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
