MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 2, 1970 

33SE4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, December 2, 1970. The Board met in the Special 
Library at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
• ., • 
•• i-,.: • 
' •. . " ' 
. - • ' ^ 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Report on competitive factors. The transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation of a report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of The First Federal Savings and Loan 
Association of Niagara County, Niagara Falls, New York, into The Western 
New York Savings Bank, Buffalo, New York, was approved, Governor Robertson 
dissenting because he agreed with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
that the overall effect on competition would be adverse. 
The conclusion 
of the report, as transmitted, read as follows: 

33G5 
12/2/70 
-2-
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Western 
New York Savings Bank, Buffalo, and The First Federal 
Savings and Loan Association of Niagara County, Niagara 
Falls, would eliminate some competition which exists 
between them while potential for increased competition 
between them is limited. The overall effect of the 
proposed merger on competition would be slightly adverse. 
Fidelity Union Bancorporation. The Board authorized the issuance 
of an order and statement reflecting its action on November 19, 1970, 
approving the application of Fidelity Union Bancorporation, Newark, 
New Jersey, to become a bank holding company through acquisition of 
the voting shares of Fidelity Union Trust Company, Newark, New Jersey, 
and Bank of West Jersey, Delran, New Jersey, and the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to The 
National Bank of New Jersey, New Brunswick, New Jersey. Copies of the 
order and statement are attached under Item No. 1. 
It was noted that the Board had received an objection to the 
proposed transaction from a shareholder of Fidelity Union Trust Company, 
but that the objection appeared to be based on matters outside the 
jurisdiction of the Board. 
Chemical Bank and Trust Company. Chemical Bank and Trust Company, 
Midland, Michigan, had applied for permission to consolidate with Gladwin 
County Bank, Beaverton, Michigan, and The Commercial Savings Bank of 
Saint Louis, Saint Louis, Michigan. In a related matter, Citizens Bank 
and Trust Company, Clare, Michigan, had applied for permission to consol-
idate with The Farwell State Savings Bank, Farwell, Michigan. 
Reserve 

HJiiii 
12/2/70 
-3-
Bank and Board staff recommendations were favorable only with respect 
to the Saint Louis proposal, and in a letter dated December 1, 1970, 
the Department of Justice had commented unfavorably with respect to 
two of the proposed mergers. 
Several Board members commented that they had not yet had an 
opportunity to study the applications carefully and that the proposals 
appeared to be of some significance because of the range of issues 
involved. 
It was agreed that the applicants should be given an opportunity 
to respond to the report from the Justice Department and that the staff 
would prepare an analysis of the relationship of these cases to the 
banking situation in the Saginaw, Michigan, area, following which the 
applications would be considered by the Board. 
United Tennessee Bancshares. The Board approved unanimously 
applications of United Tennessee Bancshares Corporation, Johnson City, 
Tennessee, to acquire additional shares of First Peoples Bank, Johnson 
City, Tennessee, and to acquire shares of National Bank of Commerce, 
Memphis, Tennessee, and authorized the issuance of orders reflecting 
those decisions. Copies are attached as Items 2 and 3, respectively. 
Chase Manhattan. Further consideration was given to an appli-
cation by Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, 
for permission to acquire shares of a medium-term bank to be formed in 
the United Kingdom and tentatively known as Orion Termbank, along with 

3 3 f > 7 
12/2/70 
-4-
shares of a management service corporation, also to be formed in the 
United Kingdom and tentatively known as Orion Management Limited, in 
the light of assurances regarding the operations of Orion Bank Limited, 
a proposed merchant bank to be owned by The Chase Manhattan Corporation, 
that were contained in a letter from Chase dated November 30, 1970. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to Chase Manhattan 
Overseas Banking Corporation in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
Request for technical assistance. 
In a memorandum dated 
November 30, 1970, the Director of the Division of International Finance 
advised that the Central Bank of Nicaragua had asked the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York for the services of a Federal Reserve official to advise 
on the regulation of interest rates in Nicaragua. Such services were 
desired for a period of up to one week beginning later this month, and 
the Central Bank was willing to pay travel and other expenses. 
It was 
recommended that the Federal Reserve try to find a suitable adviser to 
meet this request, and Board approval to approach possible candidates 
was requested. 
The Board authorized the undertaking of efforts to find a 
suitable candidate. 
At the suggestion of the Chairman, it was agreed that in the 
future matters of this kind should be handled by Governor Sherrill on 
behalf of the Board. 

3368 
12/2/70 
-5-
Contingency planning for emergency lending. 
In a memorandum 
dated November 5, 1970, Mr. Holland advised that the contingency 
planning documents distributed to the Board with his memorandum of 
August 10, 1970, had been sent to the Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks with a transmittal letter stating that the Board had not had an 
opportunity to consider the revised documents, that the documents were 
still under review, and that additional Reserve Bank comments would 
be welcome. 
In a subsequent telephone conference call a majority of 
the Reserve Bank discount officers had expressed reservations with 
respect to the procedure for participating loans made under the third 
paragraph of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act. The Reserve Banks 
were concerned that they would not have an opportunity to exercise their 
own credit judgment and that the loans would be made outside the purview 
of their credit or discount committees and their Boards of Directors. 
The Reserve Banks recognized that the capital structure of an 
individual Bank might be impaired if a large loan went bad, but it was 
suggested that that could be guarded against by an extension of the 
existing Loss Sharing Agreement to cover possible losses. 
The Board's contingency planning staff group had concluded that, 
while an extension of the Loss Sharing Agreement would meet the objective 
of distributing the risks of paragraph 3 loans, that would not solve 
the problem of showing on the balance sheet of a Reserve Bank direct 
loans that might substantially exceed the capital and surplus of the Bank. 

3369 
12/2/70 
-6-
The group concluded that both an extension of the Loss Sharing Agreement 
and the participation procedure were appropriate measures to be included 
in contingency plans. The group also concluded that minimum limits for 
participations were appropriate and suggested that paragraph 3 loans be 
participated when the total of such loans on the books of an individual 
Bank exceed 50 per cent of the Bank's capital and surplus or $50 million. 
The limitation on the aggregate amount of direct loans that could be 
made by a Reserve Bank to a single borrower without the Board's permission 
also would be set at $50 million. 
The staff group suggested that the Board ask the Conference of 
Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks to consider possible procedures 
for participating loans that might alleviate the concern expressed by 
the Reserve Banks and that the Board ask the Chairman of the Conference 
3 
f i A 
to assign to the Insurance Committee of the Reserve Banks the task of 
drafting an amendment to the Loss Sharing Agreement. The group also 
suggested that the revised planning documents be distributed again to 
the Presidents for comment, that the Board and the Presidents might want 
to discuss them at a joint meeting, and that in the meantime the documents 
could be considered to be in place for approval if needed, subject to 
continuing refinement. 
Mr. Holland reviewed the current status of the contingency 
Planning documents, stating that, as indicated in his memorandum the 

3370 
12/2/70 
-7-
only policy problem appeared to be that of participating paragraph 3 
loans among Federal Reserve Banks. He felt that some of the objection 
was coming from Boards of Directors of the Reserve Banks, who probably 
felt some uneasiness about the prospect of having loans placed on their 
Banks' books without an opportunity to consider the creditworthiness of 
the borrower. 
Mr. Holland suggested that the Board could proceed by putting 
the staff documents in place and sending them to the Presidents of the 
Reserve Banks. The Conference of Presidents could be asked to undertake 
the suggested amendment of the Loss Sharing Agreement and could also be 
asked to appoint a task force to consider how the credit analysis of 
large loans might be participated in order that System judgment could be 
brought to bear. 
He added that the Board had authority to require the 
Reserve Banks to participate in such loans, but that the task force 
approach would permit use of the best credit people in the System. 
Governor Robertson inquired why the participation procedure was 
necessary, since an amendment of the Loss Sharing Agreement would seem 
sufficient. Mr. Holland agreed that that would be sufficient to keep 
the capital and surplus of a Reserve Bank from being wiped out. 
However, 
there was concern, in addition, about the effect on public confidence 
if a loan in excess of a Bank's capital and surplus appeared on the 
Bank's books. 

3371 
12/2/70 
-8-
Governor Robertson suggested that the public probably would 
consider that the System had made the loan, not an individual Bank. 
It 
appeared to him that if loans were participated, control over them 
might be diluted. Each Reserve Bank would have to rely on people at 
the originating Bank. Amendment of the Loss Sharing Agreement would 
indicate that the resources of the entire System were behind such loans. 
Chairman Burns thought that there was a psychological factor 
involved as far as the Boards of Directors of individual Reserve Banks 
were concerned. He suggested that loans of this character might be 
handled through some System committee. 
Governor Brimmer referred to a memorandum he had submitted 
earlier suggesting a pooling arrangement for large paragraph 3 loans. 
He felt that such loans should be looked upon as System responsibilities, 
with management centered in the Board or in a System committee. He would 
be reluctant to ask individual Reserve Banks to put such loans on their 
books. 
Governor Sherrill felt that amendment of the Loss Sharing 
Agreement was critical; after that, other things could be considered, 
drawing on the best staff throughout the System. However, he felt that 
one single Board of Directors ought to make the final decision on a 
loan after the credit analysis had been completed. 
Chairman Burns observed that the directors of individual Reserve 
Banks should have more confidence if a System committee did the financial 
analysis rather than one Bank. 

3 3 7 2 
12/2/70 
-9-
Governor Mitchell observed that objections probably came from 
directors of Reserve Banks who did not want to make paragraph 3 loans 
and that the committee approach would not alter that circumstance. 
Mr. Holland agreed that the only Reserve Banks who at this stage appar-
ently favored participation were New York and Philadelphia; he believed 
that other Banks had objected with the possibility of a loan to Penn 
Central in mind. He felt that an additional educational effort might 
be needed. 
Governor Robertson noted that the Board was far from reaching 
a conclusion on this matter. He suggested that the documents be sent 
out to the Presidents for comment and that the Presidents be asked to 
discuss the documents with their Boards of Directors. The directors 
would then know what the situation was, and that would give them some 
sense of participation. 
After further discussion, agreement was expressed with such a 
procedure, it being understood that steps to effect an amendment of the 
Loss Sharing Agreement also would be put in motion. 
Gallat in Trust and Savings Bank. 
In a memorandum dated November 10 
1970, Governor Robertson had presented for the Board's consideration a 
proposed letter to the Board of Directors of Gallatin Trust and Savings 
Bank, Bozeman, Montana, demanding that the bank cancel its management 
service contract with its one-bank holding company and making available 
to the bank the Board's consent cease and desist order procedure. 
Also 

3373 
12/2/70 
-10-
presented was a proposed notice of charges that would be issued in the 
event the bank declined to consent to a cease and desist order. 
If the 
bank did consent, it was anticipated that an abbreviated notice of 
charges would issue simultaneously with the order, reflecting charges 
having to do solely with the management contract. Governor Robertson 
recommended that the procedures proposed in the memorandum be instituted. 
In discussion of the matter, a view was expressed that the 
Board should not proceed in this case in such manner as to suggest that 
it was necessarily an unsafe and unsound practice for a bank to enter 
into a management contract with a holding company. A view was also 
expressed that it was not clear that in this instance the terms of the 
management contract were such as to provide sufficient grounds for a 
demand for its cancellation. There was discussion of certain management 
practices that were believed to have been unsound and to have contributed 
to a deterioration in the condition of the member bank, but it was 
suggested by some Board members that a way should be found of requiring 
the cessation of such practices without attacking the management contract 
per se. 
In light of these comments, Mr. O'Connell suggested that the 
staff might reexamine the entire record of the case in an effort to 
specify the unsafe and unsound banking practices that were believed to 
exist and to make less specific the allegation that entering into the 

3374 
12/2/70 
-11-
management service contract was in itself an unsafe and unsound 
practice on which action against the bank would be based. At the 
same time, the staff would attempt to define what it saw wrong about 
the management contract and to specify why the bank would be asked to 
terminate that contract. 
It was noted that the Chairman of the Bozeman bank also was 
associated with a number of national banks and nonmember insured banks 
in Montana, and question was raised regarding the position of the bank 
supervisors. 
Staff indicated that the Comptroller of the Currency had 
reached agreement with the national banks involved to terminate, as 
they matured each year, contracts entered into by them similar to the 
contract entered into by the Bozeman bank. The Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation was reported to be awaiting word that the Board had taken 
action in the matter of the Bozeman bank, with the thought of taking 
similar action with respect to the nonmember insured banks. 
After further discussion, it was understood that the staff would 
review the matter along the lines suggested by Mr. O'Connell. 
Reorganization proposals. 
In a letter dated November 18, 1970, 
the Off 
ice of Management and Budget had invited the Board to propose 
changes in the organization of the Government that it believed would 
improve the organization and management of agencies and functions of 
the Executive Branch. Such proposals would be effected under the author-
ity contained in Chapter 9 of Title 5 of the United States Code (Executive 
Reorganization), as amended. 

3 3 7 5 
12/2/70 
-12-
A draft of reply referred to the action taken in February 
of th is year delegating to the Chairman of the Board the administrative 
responsibilities of the Board, subject to stated limitations, and to 
the fact that specific responsibilities had been delegated in turn by 
the Chairman to individual Board members. The draft reply indicated 
that, in the Board's judgment, that action had precluded the need for 
further immediate changes. 
The proposed reply also stated that the Board would continue 
its appraisal of the organization and management of agencies of the 
Executive Branch with a view to the possible formulation of reorganization 
recommendations. 
There was some discussion of the reasons for inclusion of the 
foregoing language during which the Chairman commented that he felt it 
was desirable for the Board to evidence a positive attitude of cooperation 
on matters of this kind when its suggestionswere invited, even though 
at any given time it might have no specific recommendations. 
He said 
he had requested Mr. O'Connell to set up procedures for continuing staff 
study so that the Board would be better prepared if similar requests were 
received in the future. 
It was noted that the Board was not a part of the Executive 
Branch of the Government but that its operations were specifically included 
within the scope of the Reorganization Act. A minor change in the language 

3376 
12/2/70 
-13-
of the proposed reply to refer to agencies and functions subject to 
the Reorganization Act rather than agencies of the Executive Branch 
was agreed upon. 
Unanimous approval then was given to a letter to the Office 
of Management and Budget in the form attached as Item No. 5. 
Printing grade schedule. Governor Sherrill referred to a 
proposed adjustment in the grade schedule applicable to printing jobs 
wiith in the Board's organization and said that he proposed to approve 
the new schedule on behalf of the Board. No objection was indicated. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

3377 
Item No. 1 
12/2/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIDELITY UNION BANCO RPORATION, 
Newark, New Jersey, 
for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the 
voting shares of (1) Fidelity Union 
Trust Company, Newark, New Jersey, and 
(2) Bank of West Jersey, Delran, New 
Jersey; and 100 per cent of the voting 
shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the successor by merger to 
The National Bank of New Jersey, 
New Brunswick, New Jersey. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Fidelity Union Bancorporation, 
Newark, New Jersey, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
Applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
of 100 per cent of the voting shares of (1) Fidelity Union Trust 
Company, Newark, New Jersey, and (2) Bank of West Jersey, Delran, 

3 3 7 8 
- 2 -
New Jersey; and 100 per cent of the voting shares (leds ditectors
1 
qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to The National Bank 
of New Jersey, New Brunswick, New Jersey. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and the Commissioner of Banking of the State of New 
/ 
Jersey, and requested their views and recoirmendations. Both the 
Comptroller and the Commissioner recommended approval of the 
application.. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 6, 1970 (35 Federal Register 15659), 
which provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit 
comment8 and views with respect to the proposed transaction, 
A 
copy of the application was forx>;arded to the United States Department 
of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing comments and 
views has expired and all those received have been considered by 
the Board. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 

I 
Order, unless such period is extended for gobd caiise by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 2 , 1970. 
Voting for this action: 
Vice Chairman Robertson 
and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns 
and Governors 
Daane and Brimmer. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth /:. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 
3 3 7 9 

3 3 8 0 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIDELITY UNION BANCORPORATION, NEWARK, NEW JERSEY, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Fidelity Union Bancorporation, Newark, New Jersey 
("Applicant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 
3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application 
for approval of action to become a registered bank holding company 
through the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares of (1) 
Fidelity Union Trust Company, Newark, New Jersey ('fidelity Union") 
and (2) Bank of West Jersey, Delran, New Jersey ("West Jersey Bank"); 
and 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the successor by merger to The National Bank of New 
Jersey ("New Jersey National"). 
The bank into which New Jersey National is to be merged 
has no significance except as a vehicle for the acquisition of the 
voting shares of New Jersey National. Accordingly, the proposed 
acquisition of the shares of the successor organization is treated 
as a proposed acquisition of the shares of Ne\7 Jersey National. 

3 3 s l 
-2-
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and 
the Commissioner of Banking of the State of New Jersey, and requested 
their views and recommendations. Both the Comptroller and the 
Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States, Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
t h e transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consid-
eration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The ten 
largest banking organizations in New Jersey control 39.2 per cent of 
the deposits in the S t a t e d 
Upon consummation of the proposal, 
y 
All deposit data are as of December 31, 1969, and banking office data 
a r e as of September 30, 1970, and reflect all holding company formations 
approved by the Board to date. 

3 3 « 2 
-3-
Applicant would become the third largest banking organization and bank 
holding company, with control of 5,1 per cent of State-wide deposits. 
Fidelity Union ($606 million deposits), the third largest 
bank in New Jersey, with 4.4 per cent of State-wide deposits, operates 
18 of its 20 offices in the Greater Newark market area, consisting of 
Essex County, Union County (except Plainfield), and portions of western 
Hudson County and eastern Morris County. It is the second largest of 
the 33 banks in the market, by virtue of its control of almost 18 per 
cent of market deposits. 
New Jersey National ($64 million deposits) operates five 
offices in the New Brunswick market, consisting mainly of Middlesex 
County, where it is the fourth largest of 22 banks, and controls 
9 . 5 per cent of market deposits. It also has an office in the 
Plainfield market; that office controls less than 1 per cent of the 
deposits in its market. 
West Jersey Bank ($22 million deposits), with three offices 
a n d 1.3 per cent of market deposits, is the tenth largest of the 23 
hanks i n the Camden market, consisting of Camden County, the south-
a s t e r n portion of Burlington County, and almost all of Gloucester 
County, xt also has an office in the Burlington market; that office 
controls about 3 per cent of the deposits in its market. 
On the basis of the facts of record, it appears that consumma-
n of the proposal will not have a substantial adverse effect on 
l i s t i n g competition nor foreclose potential competition. Each proposed 

u>4* 
3 3 8 3 
subsidiary is in a different banking district and serves a fairly 
distinct and separate market. Considerable distances separate the 
banks, the closest offices of any two of the proposed subsidiaries 
being about 15 miles apart, with numerous banking offices in the 
intervening areas. 
Nor does consummation of the proposal appear to present 
a reasonable likelihood of precluding potential competition. 
Under 
New Jersey law, none of the proposed subsidiaries can expand, either 
by merger or de novo branching, into another
!s banking district. 
West Jersey Bank is not regarded as an existing or potential competitor 
of either of the other proposed subsidiaries. There is some potential 
for competition between Fidelity Union and New Jersey National because 
the latter is authorized to branch into Union County, which is part 
of Fidelity Union's market. However, the possibility of such 
branching is considered remote since Union County is heavily banked 
and highly competitive, and prospects for the future growth of 
Union County are not as good as those of some other counties in 
New Jersey National's banking district. 
In general, the principal competitive effect of the trans-
action would seem to be to enable New Jersey National and West 
Jersey Bank to compete more aggressively with the larger banks in 
their respective markets. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly 

3381 
* 5* 
nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to 
monopolize thfe business of banking in any area, and would not restrain 
trade, substantially lessen competition, nor tend to create a monopoly 
ih any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant would begin operations in satisfactory financial condition. 
Its management, which is virtually identical to that of Fidelity Union, 
is regarded as competent, and its prospects, which would be dependent 
upon those of its proposed subsidiaries, appear to be favorable. 
All three of Applicant's proposed subsidiaries are in 
generally satisfactory condition, with competent managements and 
favorable prospects. Applicant would be able to solve any management 
succession problem that might arise in any of its subsidiary banks. 
The banking factors, as they relate to Applicant and its 
proposed subsidiaries, are consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Fidelity 
Union is a full-service commercial bank, providing both retail and 
wholesale banking services. Consummation of the proposal would not 
result in the introduction or improvement of any banking services not 
already available in the Newark area. 
Neither of the other proposed subsidiaries provides the 
complete range of banking services or financial assistance required by 
the communities where they are located. Through affiliation with 
Applicant, these banks would be able to introduce or expand credit 

3 3 8 5 
u6« 
card programs, data jtfOcessitlg Servicesj investment services, trust 
services, and international banking services, and would have capability 
for making larger loans through participations with affiliates. 
These improvements would make the banks more meaningful alternatives 
in their respective markets. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
communities involved lend some weight toward approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth 
in section 3(c) of the A c t , it is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that the 
application should be approved. 
December 2, 1970 

Item No. 24 
12/2/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Ilatter of the Application of
 
1 
UNITED TENNESSEE BANCSHARES CORPORATION,
 
1 
Johnson City, Tennessee,
 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 48.02
 
1 
per cent or more of the voting shares
 
1 
of First Peoples Bank, Johnson City,
 
1 
Tennessee.
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of United Tennessee Bancshares 
Corporation, Johnson City, Tennessee ("Applicant"), a registered 
bank holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisi-
tion of 48.02 per cent or more of the voting shares of First Peoples 
Bank, Johnson City, Tennessee ("Bank"). Applicant presently owns 
31.93 per cent of the voting shares of Bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Tennessee 

3 3 8 7 
Superintendent of Banks, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Superintendent responded that he does not object to the trans-
action. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 17, 1970 (35 Federal Register 16346), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit conments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Bank is one of two banks controlled by Applicant. 
These 
two subsidiaries have combined deposits of $54 million, which represent 
only .0 per cent of the deposits in Tennessee, 
(All banking data 
are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company forma-
tions and acquisitions approved by the Board to date). 
Acquisition 
by Applicant of additional voting shares of Bank will not increase 
Applicant's share of State-wide deposits because Applicant is regarded 
as already controlling all of Bank's deposits. 

3388 
' 
i i * i • 
First Peoples Bank ($37 million deposits) operates six 
offices in Washington County. Applicaht'a Othet subsidiary, 
located in contiguous Carter County, operates four oifficfes* the 
closest of which is located five miles from Bank's main office. 
Four other banking organizations, with 12 offices, compete in the 
Washington-Carter Counties area. Applicant is slightly the largest 
banking organization in this market with control of 37 per cent of 
market deposits. This proposal would solidify the affiliate 
relationship of Applicant's subsidiaries, but the possibility that 
a party other than Applicant could gain control of Bank and make 
it a competitor of Applicant's subsidiary in Carter County is remote. 
Therefore, it appears that consummation of the proposal will neither 
eliminate existing competition nor foreclose potential competition. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse 
effect on competition in any relevant area. The banking factors, 
as they relate to Applicant, Bank,and Applicant's other subsidiary, 
are consistent with approval of the application. The convenience 
and needs of the communities involved will be unaffected by the 
transaction. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the 
proposed transaction is in the public interest, and that the appli-
cation should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 

3 3 5 9 
A 4* 
, 
i 
j 
calendar day following the date of this Order 6* (b) later than three 
months after the date of this Order, unless such time be extended for 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
pursuant to delegated authority.. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 2 , 1970. 
Voting for this action:- Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, liitchell, Daane,.. liaisel, Brinmer and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

3390 
Item No. 3 
12/2/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
UNITED TENNESSEE BANCSHARES CORPORATION,
1 
Johnson City, Tennessee,
 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
' 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
' 
National Bank of Commerce, Memphis,
 
1 
Tennessee.
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)) an application by United Tennessee Bancshares 
Corporation, Johnson City, Tennessee ("Applicant"), a registered 
bank holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of National Bank of 
Commerce, Memphis, Tennessee ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 

3 3 9 1 
- 2 -
the Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 17, 1970 (35 Federal Register 16346), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Upon 
such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant controls two banks with combined deposits of 
$54 million, which represent only ,8 per cent of the deposits in 
Tennessee. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to 
reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the 
Board to date.) 
Upon acquisition of Bank, Applicant would increase 
Its share of State-wide deposits by 3.1 percentage points and would 
become the State's seventh largest banking organization. 

33<*2 
- 3 
-
Bank ($205 million deposits) is the nihth largest banking 
organization in the State and the third largest of 14 banks in the 
Memphis metropolitan area, the relevant market. Bank controls 13 per 
cent of market deposits. Applicant's two subsidiaries are located 
more than 500 miles from Bank. 
In view of this great distance, it 
appears that consummation of the proposal will neither eliminate 
existing competition nor foreclose potential competition. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse 
effect on competition in any relevant area. The banking factors 
lend weight to approval of the application because the addition of 
Commerce Bank to Applicant's system should provide Applicant and its 
present subsidiaries with greater management depth and the ability 
to raise additional capital as needed. Furthermore, inclusion of 
Bank in 
Applicant's system should lead to improvement in the ability 
of Applicant's present subsidiaries to offer specialized services 
and accommodate large borrowers in the Washington-Carter Counties 
area. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed 
transaction is in the public interest and that the application should 
b
e approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 

3 3 f ) 3 
- 4 -
action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
i 
calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than 
three months after the date of this Order, unless such time be 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 2, 1970, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brirrmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A , Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

^LRES^t-
B D A R D • F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
12/2/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
December 2, 1970 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Eanking Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 16, 1970, the 
...Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("CM.OBC") 
to purchase and hold up to one-third of the shares of a medium-
term bank to be formed in the United Kingdom and tentatively known 
as Orion Termbank ("OT"), at a cost of approximately $8,000,000 
and one-third of the shares of a management service corporation to 
be formed in the United Kingdom and tentatively known as Orion 
Management Limited, at a cost of approximately $L00, provided that 
one-third of the total investment is made within one year from the 
date of this letter. In this connection, the purchase and holding 
of shares of CT in excess of 15 per cent of CMOBC's capital and sur-
plus is also approved. 
This consent is granted with the understanding and subject 
to the condition that ownership by The Chase Manhattan Corporation 
of the shares of Orion Bank Limited, the proposed merchant bank, and 
the activities of said Orion Bank Limited will be continued and con-
ducted in the manner, and subject to the commitment set forth in the 
telegram and letter from The Chase Manhattan Corporation to the Board 
dated November 30, 1970, namely that " . . . Corporation will dispose 
of its share in Or ion Bank Limited as Dromptly as practicable if 
Or ion Bank Limited should (i) engage in the business of underwriting, 
selling or distributing securities in the United States or (ii) trans-
act business in the United States except such as in the judgment of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may be incidental 
to its international or foreign business." 
Your letter also requested a ruling as to whether Section 23A 
of the Federal Reserve Act would be applicable with respect to loans 

3 3 9 5 
- 2 -
that The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. might make to OT or the proposed 
merchant bank. 
Under the present law, except for loans by a member 
bank that is a subsidiary of a registered bank holding company, 
Section 23A applies only to majority-control affiliate situations 
and hence would not apply to loans by Chase to either of the two 
institutions mentioned. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
The Chase Manhatt an Bank, N.A. and its other subsidiaries, and that 
due consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

3 3 < ) 6 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item N o . 5 
12/2/70 
December A, 1970 
M r . Dwight A . Ink 
Assistant Director 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear M r . Ink: 
I am writing in response to your letter of November 18, 
1970, inviting the Board to propose changes in the organization 
of the Government that it believes would improve the organization 
and management of agencies and functions subject to the Reorgani-
zation Act. 
It is understood that such proposals would be effected 
under the authority contained in Chapter 9 of Title 5 of the 
United States Code, as amended. 
In February of this year, in furtherance of the pro-
vision of lav; that the "chairman of the Board, subject to its 
supervision shall be its active executive officer", the Board 
delegated to me as Chairman of the Board the administrative res-
ponsibilities of the Board, subject to stated limitations. 
In turn, 
I have delegated specific responsibilities to individual Board 
Members. Thus, by delegation the Board has effected a structural 
and functional reorganization of a scope and nature that, in the 
Board's judgment, precludes the need for further immediate changes. 
As for recommendations with respect to proposals for re-
organization plan action, the Board, as an independent agency of 
the Government, is aware of its responsibility in this regard, and 
will continue its appraisal of the organization and management of 
the aforementioned agencies and functions with a view toward pos-
sible reorganization recommendations. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F . Burns 
