MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 7, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
Required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 8 Amendments to VFCR Guidelines. 

3188 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, November 7, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
a t 10:15 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Layton, Director of Equal Employment 
Opportunity 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Burke, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Miss Stockwell, Assistant Adviser, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Althausen, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 

8189 
11/7/72 
-2-
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on October 30 and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, Kansas City, 
and San Francisco on November 2, 1972, of the rates on discounts and 
advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those 
Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
Bank of Puerto Rico, Hato Rey, Puerto Rico, for membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached 
a s Item No, 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First at 
Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire shares of Community 
National Bank and Trust Company, Bal Harbour, Florida, and authorized 
Issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved for transmittal to the Comptrol-
ler of the Currency a report on the competitive factors involved in 

3130 
11/7/72 
-3-
the proposed merger of Suburban Trust Company, Westfield, New Jersey, 
and The National Bank of New Jersey, New Brunswick, New Jersey, the 
conclusion reading as follows: 
There is some competition existing between Suburban Trust 
Company, Westfield, and The National Bank of New Jersey, New 
Brunswick, a subsidiary of Fidelity Union Bancorporation, Newark, 
a bank holding company. Further, there is some competition 
existing between the holding company's lead bank and Suburban 
Trust Company. 
In view of the size of proponents there is poten-
tial for an increase in competition between the two banks through 
de novo branching. Overall, the effect of the proposed merger 
on competition would be adverse. 
The Board unanimously approved for transmittal to the Comptrol-
ler of the Currency a report on the competitive factors involved in 
the proposed merger of Citizens Bank and Trust Company, Henderson, 
North Carolina, into North Carolina National Bank, Charlotte, North 
Carolina, the conclusion reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Citizens Bank and Trust 
Company, Henderson, North Carolina, into North Carolina National 
Bank, Charlotte, North Carolina, would eliminate virtually no 
present or potential competition between the two banks. However, 
it would eliminate the only locally headquartered bank in Vance 
County, which holds more than 50 per cent of the market area 
deposits, while further increasing the concentration of deposits 
in the State's second largest bank. Overall, the effect of the 
proposal on competition would be adverse. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval 
°n October 26, 1972, of the application of Bank of Idaho, Boise, Idaho, 
to merge Cassia National Bank, Burley, Idaho. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 3, along with a copy of the dissenting statement 
of Governor Robertson. 

3 1 3 
H/7/72 
-4-
The Board unanimously approved a request by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis for six additional positions in its 1972 employment 
ceiling. A copy of the telegram sent to the Bank is attached as 
Item No. 4, 
The Board unanimously approved a request by the Federal Reserve 
fiank of Atlanta for 35 additional positions in its 1972 employment 
ceiling. A copy of the telegram sent to the Bank is attached as 
•l£em No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved a request by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco for five additional positions in its 1972 employ-
ment ceiling. A copy of the telegram sent to the Bank is attached as 
Item No. 6. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Report on litigation. Mr. O'Connell reported that Gravois 
Bank, St. Louis County, Missouri, had filed a petition in the Court 
of 
Appeals for the Eighth Circuit for review of approval by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis under delegated authority of an 
application by Manchester Financial Corporation, St. Louis, Missouri, 
tc> acquire shares of The National Bank of Affton, Affton, Missouri, 
a proposed new bank. Prior to approval of the application Gravois 
Bank had filed objections with the Reserve Bank contending that approval 
o f the application would contravene Missouri branch banking provisions. 

31.92 
U/7/72 
-5-
The petitioner had moved in the suit to require the Reserve Bank to 
include in the record the Reserve Bank staff summary, recommendations, 
and general report. Mr. O'Connell proposed furnishing the memorandum 
in return for a withdrawal of the motion in order to avoid a possible 
adverse decision having wide effects. 
Some members of the Board indicated that they were reluctant 
t o furnish internal documents, and questions were raised whether this 
Would set a precedent that might require similar disclosures of infor-
mation in other cases. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board expressed 
agreement with Mr. O'Connell's proposal. 
Regulation J. Mr. O'Connell reported that the Independent 
Bankers Association of America had filed an appeal to the October 19, 
1^72, decision of the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia 
denying a motion for a preliminary injunction of implementation of 
amendments to Regulation J, Collection of Checks and Other Items by 
federal Reserve Banks. 
Equal Employment Opportunity Act. 
In a memorandum dated 
October 31, 1972, the Legal Division discussed the applicability of 
the Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972 (EEO Act) to the Board 
°f Governors and concluded that there was significant legal basis for 
the Board to take the position that it was not one of the agencies 

3133 
11/7/72 
-6-
covered by the EEO Act. Attached to the memorandum was a draft letter 
to the Civil Service Commission stating that conclusion and transmitting 
copies of the Board's Equal Employment Opportunity Regulations and 
Procedures and the Board's 1972 Affirmative Action Program. Also 
attached to the memorandum were proposed amendments to the Board's 
Equal Employment Opportunity Regulations and Procedures. 
In a memo-
randum dated November 3, 1972, the Legal Division suggested that the 
Board might wish to defer action on the proposed amendments. 
It was 
understood that the Civil Service Commission planned to adopt amendments 
to its Equal Opportunity regulations, and the Division thought that the 
Board might wish to revise its regulations accordingly. 
Today's discussion indicated agreement with the Legal Division's 
conclusion regarding the applicability of the EEO Act to the Board and 
with the suggestion that action on the proposed amendments be deferred 
U n til after the Civil Service Commission had adopted revised regulations. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the proposed amendments be 
revised to include the establishment of a panel similar to the Labor 
delations Panel to allow a final appeal by an employee with a grievance. 
Further discussion included several suggestions for revision 
the letter to the Civil Service Commission. 
The Board approved the letter, with the understanding that it 
would be revised in light of today's discussion. A copy of the letter 
iu the form sent to the Commission is attached as Item No. 7. Action 
the proposed amendments was deferred. 

3 1 3 4 
H/7/72 
-7-
Equal Employment Opportunity Report. With a memorandum dated 
November 3, 1972, Mr. Melnicoff submitted the Third Semiannual Report 
of the Director of Equal Employment Opportunity. 
After brief comments by Mr. Layton, the Board accepted the 
report. A copy of the report has been placed in the Board's files. 
First Railroad & Banking Company of Georgia. 
In memoranda dated 
October 2 and September 22, 19 72, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
and the Banking Markets Section, respectively, recommended denial of the 
application of First Railroad & Banking Company of Georgia, Augusta, 
Georgia, to acquire the mortgage banking assets of Southern Finance Corpo-
ration, also of Augusta. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta had recom-
mended approval. 
After discussion the Board unanimously denied the application, 
with the understanding that an order reflecting that decision would be 
Prepared for the Board's consideration. 
First Railroad & Banking Company of Georgia had also requested 
that it be allowed a period of 18 to 24 months within which to divest its 
interest in Lofco, Inc., a land development company that the holding 
company's mortgage banking subsidiary had acquired without prior Board 
approval. 
In a memorandum dated November 1, 1972, the Legal Division 
discussed the request and recommended that the holding company be allowed 
an 18-month period for divestiture. A draft letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta was attached. 

3 1 3 5 
11/7/72 
-8-
The letter was approved unanimously. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 8. 
Letter to Comptroller of the Currency. 
In a letter dated 
September 19, 1972, Comptroller of the Currency Camp had commented 
°n the Board's review of the capital position of First National City 
Bank, New York, New York. There had been distributed with a memo-
randum from Mr. Leavitt dated November 2, 1972, a draft response to 
Mr* Camp elaborating on the Board's views regarding its responsibilities 
with respect to the capital positions of national banks. 
After a brief discussion during which there were several sug-
gestions for revisions, the letter was approved unanimously in the 
f°rm attached as Item No. 9. 
Amendments to VFCR Guidelines. 
In a memorandum dated Nov em-
b e r 3, 1972, Governor Brimmer proposed several clarifying amendments 
to the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines. The proposed 
amendments were essentially administrative and were designed to be 
neutral with respect to capital outflows under the Guidelines. They 
w°uld not affect the foreign lending and investment ceilings of banks 
and other financial institutions. One of the amendments would extend 
to nonbank domestic subsidiaries of bank holding companies the oppor-
tunity to reduce the amount of foreign assets charged against bank 
lending ceilings by the amount of outstanding borrowings they had made 

315JC 
11/7/72 
-9-
from foreigners for minimum maturities of three years in order to 
invest abroad. 
The Board unanimously approved the amendments. 
Copies of the 
press release subsequently issued and of the amendments are attached 
under Item No. 10. 
Richmond building. 
In a memorandum dated November 1, 1972, 
the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans 
recommended approval of the schematic design concept of the proposed 
new building of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
In a memorandum 
to the Committee dated October 16, 1972, the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations had recommended that the Bank be requested to 
further explore the cost implications of locating the semi-industrial 
functions in a below-grade location. However, it was the opinion of 
the Committee that the building design and planning aspects were well-
conceived as presented and that additional expenditures to explore 
alternative solutions were not warranted. 
Governor Brimmer thought that the possibility of relocating 
some of the functions planned for the tower structure in a below-grade 
location should be explored further. However, other members of the 
Board concurred in the Committee's recommendation. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, Governor Brimmer's view 
having been noted, the Board approved the schematic design concept, 

31.537 
H/7/72 
-10-
the revised space program, and the revised project budget. A copy 
of the letter sent to the Richmond Bank is attached as Item No. 11. 
Jacksonville Branch. The Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
had requested authorization to proceed with the development of detailed 
site information for eventual acquisition of property owned by the 
st. Joe Paper Company for a future new Jacksonville Branch building. 
Iri a memorandum dated October 16, 1972, the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations recommended that the Reserve Bank should not 
become involved in any transactions with the St. Joe Paper Company 
o r its affiliate, duPont Trust and Charter Company, since the Board was 
presently investigating compliance of the duPont Trust with the Bank 
Holding Company Act; therefore, the Bank should not pursue the develop-
ment of information on the proposed property. The Committee on Organi-
sation, Compensation, and Building Plans and the Legal Division concurred 
the recommendation. 
Discussion indicated no opposition to granting the request of 
the Reserve Bank. 
It was felt that the transaction should be allowed 
i f proper safeguards were taken and if alternative sites were carefully 
explored. 
The Board approved transmittal of a letter authorizing the 
Reserve Bank to proceed with the development of detailed site informa-
tion on the property. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 12. 

3 1 3 8 
H/7/72 
- 1 1 -
Th e meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Emergency relocation center. As recommended by the Committee 
on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans in a memorandum 
dated November 3, 1972, the Board authorized the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston to acquire an existing underground building at Amherst, 
Massachusetts, for use as an emergency relocation center and duplicate 
records storage center. A copy of the letter sent to the Bank is 
attached as Item No. 13. 
Officer salary guidelines. 
In a memorandum dated November 2, 
1972, Governor Sheehan recommended that the 1973 salary guidelines 
for Reserve Bank officers be amended to prohibit across-the-board 
salary increases. The Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans concurred in the recommendation. 
The Board unanimously approved the recommendation. A copy of 
the letter sent to the Chairmen and Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks is attached as Item No. 14. 
Director appointment. 
It was agreed to ascertain through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago whether Tom Killefer, Vice President 
and General Counsel, Chrysler Corporation, Detroit, Michigan, would 
accept appointment if tendered as a director of the Detroit Branch 

3 1 9 9 
H/7/72 
-12-
for the unexpired portion of the term expiring December 31, 1974, with 
the understanding that if it were found that he would accept, the 
appointment would be made. 
(Note: 
It having been ascertained that an 
acceptance would be forthcoming, an appointment telegram was sent to 
M r- Killefer on November 29, 1972.) 
Boston building. 
In a memorandum dated November 6, 1972, the 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans recom-
mended approval of proposed plans to construct additional space for 
c°in operations at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. The proposed 
building would be a temporary, relatively low-cost structure. 
It was 
noted that construction of the temporary building would be more 
economical than leasing space elsewhere. The Committee recommended 
that if the Board approved the temporary building, the Bank's proposal 
to construct a minimum security vault of steel sheets or metal mesh 
also should be approved. 
It was felt that a minimum security vault 
would be sufficient, since the building would be adjacent to the present 
Bank building. 
After a brief discussion during which several questions were 
raised about alternative solutions, the Board unanimously approved 
the 
recommendation. A copy of the letter sent to the Bank is attached as 

3 2 0 0 
H/7/72 
-13-
Th e meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room 
a t 3:30 p.m., with Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Brimmer, 
Sheehan, and Bucher present and the following staff in attendance: 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr, O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Regulations D and J. Mr. Holland reported that the Indepen-
dent Bankers Association of America and the Western Independent Bankers 
Association had petitioned the United States Court of Appeals for the 
District of Columbia for emergency consideration of a motion to reverse 
a lower court's denial of a preliminary injunction against implementa-
tion of changes in Regulation J, Collection of Checks and Other Items 
by 
Federal Reserve Banks. The changes were scheduled to go into effect 
November 9, 1972, concurrently with changes in Regulation D, Reserves 
°f Member Banks, that were intended to release reserves to offset the 

Kjf^.JjL 
U/7/72 
-14-
decline in reserve levels expected to result from the Regulation J 
amendments. 
In the absence of further action by the Board, the 
Regu lation D changes would take effect even if the court stayed 
implementation of the Regulation J amendments. 
Under the Federal 
Reserve Act, affirmative votes by at least four members of the Board 
a re required for any action relating to changes in reserve require-
ments. 
Because of expected absences of members of the Board, it 
appeared that it would be impossible to meet that requirement tomorrow, 
when the court might act, and therefore the question was raised whether 
the Board wanted to take action today to defer the Regulation D changes 
only in the event the court should again enjoin implementation of the 
Regulation J changes. 
Discussion indicated a predominant view of reluctance to take 
a contingency action. 
Comments were made on the desirability of main-
taining the changes in Regulations D and J as concurrent and offsetting 
actions. 
However, it was also observed that member banks had twice 
been given the expectation that the Regulation D changes would release 
reserves, and it was probable that they had geared their operations 
accordingly; another deferral might intensify the problem of erosion 
°f membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
There was discussion 
°f the court processes involved and the implications for open market 
operations and interest rates if the court should grant the petition. 

320^ 
H/7/72 
-15-
After further discussion during which members of the Board 
indicated willingness to change their plans that would have made them 
unavailable tomorrow, it was agreed unanimously that no contingency 
action should be taken at this time. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3 2 0 3 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
nr .HE 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
11/7/72 
i i i i f i f p ^ 
NY 
hu 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
2.0551 
' > ; V > 3 » - " J F ' ' ' " 
AOONR.ss OFFICIAL CUHREBPQNDENCE 
. <7,- 
' 
TD rut BOAND 
November 7, 1972 
Board of Directors 
National Bank of Puerto Rico 
Hato R Gy, Puerto Rico 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of First National Bank of Puerto Rico, 
"ato Rcy. Puerto Ric.o, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set 
forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board, of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
In connection with foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
hereof. 
A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
Accentance of the conditions of membership contained in 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Boara 
directors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy of 

3204 
X' • 
National Bank of Puerto Rico 
- 2 ~ 
such resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. 
The 
Board of Directors should also adopt a resolution ratifying the 
action which has been taken in the bank's behalf in making applica-
^l0ri for membership with a certified copy of such resolution to be 
tiled wir.h the Federal Reserve Bank. Arrangements will thereupon 
be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of Federal 
Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required reserve 
balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank 
«tock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
J-s limited to 30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank 
applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the 
Board is advised that all of the requirements have been complied 
vn.th and that the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock 
has been issued to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a 
formal certificate of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act national banks 
located in an insular possession of the United States may "with the 
consent of the Board •'« * * become member banks of any one of the 
ifcserve districts." While your bank's application for stock in the 
Inderal Reserve Bank of New York is being approved at this time, the 
Board reserves the right to require the surrender of such stock by 
your bank and the purchase of an equivalent amount of stock in 
another Federal Reserve Bank in the event the Board should hereafter 
determine that the services of the Federal Reserve System may be 
ro-ade more effectively and more conveniently available through such 
°ther Federal Reserve Bank; but it should be understood that the 
Board would not take such action without first discussing the matter 
^ t h you and affording you a reasonable period within which to express 
views. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
^mbership in the System beneficial and your relations with the 
serve Bank pleasant. 
The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will 
S-lad to assist you in establishing your relationships with the 
Federal Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives 
your bank means for making the services of the System most useful 
to you, 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

3 2 0 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m No- 2 
11/7/72 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, a bank hold-
in8 company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
^ Z (a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
immunity National Bank and Trust Company, Bal Harbour, Florida ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Pe*sons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
^(b) of the Act, The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and n 
1 
none has been timely received. The Board has considered the appli-
Cation in iight of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 26 banks with aggregate deposits of $904.6 
1 0n, representing 5.6 per cent of the deposits held by commercial 
banks -t 
in Florida. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, and 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
thr 
Ur°ugh August 
31, 1972.) Applicant has three subsidiary banks (aggregate 
ePosits of $88.6 million) located in the Miami banking market, approximated 
Dade 
Cent of the total commercial bank deposits therein. Applicant pre-
nt-ly ranks as the twelfth largest of the 50 banking organizations in 
market. Bank ($42.6 million in deposits) also operates in the 
County and the southern third of Broward County, and holds 2.2 
Per 
t h e Miami 
banking market and holds 1.0 per cent of total market deposits, 

3 2 0 8 
- 2 -
thereby ranking as the 27th largest of the 90 banks in the market and 
n d largest of the 50 banking organizations in the market. Upon con-
summation of the proposed transaction, Applicant would become the 
m a r ^ e t ? s eighth largest banking organization and would control 3.3 per 
C e n t o f deposits therein. Applicant's subsidiary bank closest to Bank 
s located in downtown Miami, fourteen miles southwest of Bank. The 
S e rvi C e areas of the two banks slightly overlap; however, it does not 
aPpear that a significant amount of existing competition would be eliminated 
b y c°nsummation of the proposed transaction. 
Although the three largest banking organizations in the Miami 
Market 
there 
five 
control approximately 41 per cent of the deposits in that market, 
a re, in addition to Bank, twenty-eight unaffiliated banks, including 
» each with deposits exceeding $35 million, operating in the market. 
each of these is a vehicle for potential entry, removal of Bank as an 
alt ernative means of entry is not likely to significantly lessen oppor-
es for other bank holding companies, not represented in the market 
eiU*er the Miami area. Furthermore, consummation of the proposed trans-
ition -f 
J-s unlikely to have an adverse effect on potential competition in 
the Market due to the existence of several banks in the intervening areas 
W Gen Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries, Florida's restrictive branching 
laws 
J 
» and the existence of Biscayne Bay physically separating Bank from 
cant's Miami subsidiaries. On the basis of the foregoing and the 
facts nf 
o r record, the Board concludes that the competitive considerations 
With respect to Applicant's proposal are consistent with approval of the 
^Plication. 

-3-
3207 
The financial conditions of Applicant and its sub-
sidiaries are considered to be generally satisfactory in view 
o f applicant's commitment to increase the equity capital positions 
of 
°ertain of its subsidiary banks. 
(See Board's Order of 
ePtember 26, 1972, approving Applicant's applications to acquire 
scares of The City Bank and Trust Company of St. Petersburg and 
T h e Suncoast City Bank of St. Petersburg.) The managerial resources 
a n d future prospects of Applicant and its subsidiaries are con-
i^ered satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. 
The 
same conclusions apply generally with respect to the financial 
and m anagerial resources and future prospects of Bank. The bank-
in 
needs of the communities are being adequately served at present, 
consummation of the proposed transaction x^ould not result in 
the availability of any new services. However, consummation is 
Pected to enhance Bank's ability to compete with the larger 
king organizations operating in the market. Accordingly, 
erations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
munities to be served are consistent with approval of the 
Plication, it is the Board's judgment that consummation of 
* Pr°P°sed transaction would be in the public interest and 
that 
th* 
u ne application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is 
approved * 
cor the reasons summarized above. The transaction 
n°t be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 

3208 
-4-
^ 
fo3-lowing the effective date of this Order or (b) later 
t h a n t h r e e months after the effective date of this Order, 
un^ggg 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to 
l e g a t e d authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,i/ effective November 7, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
fSEAL] 
i / V ^ t i ^ r - — r — 
this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^heehan, and Bucher, Absent and not voting: Governors 
lltchell and Daane. 

3 2 0 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
11/7/72 
BANK OF IDAHO 
Order Approving Application for Merger of Banks 
Bank of Idaho, Boise, Idaho ("Boise Bank"), a member State 
bank of the Federal Reserve System, has applied for the Board's approval 
Pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) of the merger of 
that bank with Cassia National Bank, Burley, Idaho ("Cassia Bank"), 
under the charter and title of Boise Bank. As an incident to the mer-
geri the three present offices of Cassia Bank and an approved but un-
°Pened branch would become branches of the resulting bank. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in 
f°rm approved by the Board, has been published, and the Board has 
guested reports on competitive factors from the Attorney General, 
t h e Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
C°rPoration. 
The Department of Justice commented on the proposed trans-
ition, concluding that it might have an adverse competitive effect. 
Justice stated that it believed that the merger would not eliminate 
significant existing competition. However, Justice declared 
Boise Bank would be eliminated as the most likely potential 
entrant into the Burley area and, further, that acquisition of Cassia 
Bank by Boise Bank would lead to further concentration at the State-
wide level. Boise Bank responded to Justice's comments by arguing 
^at the Burley area was unattractive for cte novo entry. Moreover, 

-2-
Boise Bank stated that the proposed merger could enhance competition in 
Burley area by making Cassia Bank a more positive competitive force 
B°ise Bank concluded by indicating its belief that consummation of the 
roerger would have little effect on Statewide concentration and would 
n°t serve as a precedent for future mergers that might lead to undue 
concentration in Idaho. 
The Board has considered the application and all comments 
and reports received in the light of the factors set forth in the Act, 
a n d finds that: 
Boise Bank (deposits of about $205 million) operates 25 
inking offices throughout Idaho and controls about 12 per cent of 
^ e deposits of commercial banks in the State. 
(Boise Bank is a sub-
sidiary 0 f Western Bancorporation which, as of March 31, 1972, con-
t r°Ued 23 banks in 11 western States with aggregate resources of 
billio 
n.) Acquisition of Cassia Bank (deposits of about 
Million) would add about 1 per cent to Boise Bank's share of 
Statewide deposits and would not result in a significant increase 
in t-k 
-
LI»e concentration of banking resources in Idaho. 
Cassia Bank ranks third among four banks in Burley, as 
^asured by area deposits, with approximately 22 per cent of such 
Posits. There is no existing substantial competition between 
to . 
S e Bank and Cassia Bank, nor does there seem to be a reasonable 
l a b i l i t y of significant potential competition developing between 
th 
G two. The closest banking office of Boise Bank to the Burley 
Banking data are as of December 3J, 1971, while market data for 
e Burley area are as of June 30, 1970. 

a r e a is about 39 miles away and there are banks in the intervening 
a r e a* 
The closest banking office of Boise Bank to Lava Hot Springs, 
where Cassia Bank has a branch, is 38 miles north and west of Lava 
Springs in Pocatello. The area between Pocatello and Lava Hot 
Springs is sparsely populated and is not an attractive area for an 
additional bank or branch. Boise Bank has attempted within the last 
0 years to establish a de novo branch in Burley, but was turned 
ao»n by 
the Board due to the Board's belief that the Burley area 
c°uld not economically support an additional banking office. 
Sub-
quent to the Board's decision, an additional branch by another 
inking organization was established in Burley so that it seems even 
ni0re unlikely now that Boise Bank would be permitted to establish a 
(Jg n 
• 
branch in Burley. Because of these several factors the Board 
c°ncludes that the merger would not have an adverse effect upon con-
d i t i o n in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources of Boise Bank are 
^neraliy satisfactory, and the prospects for the resulting bank 
aPpear favorable, particularly in light of Boise Bank's commitment 
to add $4 million in equity capital within the next four months, 
Co 
liberations relating to the convenience and needs of the communi-
*"ea to be served lend some weight toward approval since Boise Bank 
lls to considerably expand real estate loans in the Burley area, 
service that Cassia Bank has not provided to a significant degree. 
^ sed upon the foregoing it is the Board's judgment that consummation 
O f 
n e proposal would be in the public interest and that the application 
be approved. 

JL. 
-4. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
'he Reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
( a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
^ls Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
Or by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 7, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
2/ 
J 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
immer, and Sheehan. Present and abstaining: Governor Bucher. Voting 
Sainst this action: Governor Robertson, 

121^ 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
I dissent from the approval of the merger of the tenth largest 
b*nk in Idaho into the third largest bank located in the State. Con-
Ce»tration of banking resources in Idaho is extremely high with the 
toP three banks controlling almost 80 per cent of aggregate deposits 
of 
commercial banks in the State. Given that Idaho is a small State, 
with a relatively stable population in recent years, we cannot expect 
Substantial additional entry into commercial banking as a reasonable 
probability for the foreseeable future. Therefore, extreme care must be 
takcn to ensure that the already high concentration within the State is 
n°t increased by mergers or acquisitions. 
Part of the underlying philosophy of this country is manifested 
in section 7 of the Clayton Act and a basic premise of that law is embodied 
i n 
^ e concept " . . . that competition will be most vital 'when there 
a r e many sellers, none of which has any significant market share.'" 
^ ^ I S t a t e s v. Alcoa 3/7 U.S. 271, 280 (1964). The other side of the 
C°itl is that as the Supreme Court put it in the same case, also at 
pa6e 280, the greater the concentration in the market " . . . the greater 
S 
likelihood that parallel policies of mutual advantage, not com-
Petition, will emerge." 
Approval of this merger will serve as a precedent that will 
Ilk 
K e ly lead to the second situation postulated by the Supreme Court, 
will be three large banks confronting each other in the various 
markets in Idaho with few other substantial competitors in 
t h 
° 8 e markets. You need not be a cynic to believe that accommodation 
tather than competition may flow from such a situation. I cannot assent 
to such a result. 

As a final footnote, my view is that permitting Western 
incorporation to expand its banking operations in Idaho through the 
mechanism 0 f allowing Bank of Idaho to merge with other Idaho banks 
violates the spirit of section 3(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Se?ction 3(d) limits acquisitions of additional banks by bank holding 
c°mpanies to banks located in the State where the holding company's 
hanking subsidiaries principally conduct their business unless certain 
conditions not applicable in this case are met. Western Bancorporation' 
Principal banking business is conducted in California. 
However, I 
recognize the authority to the contrary and do not rely on this point 
a s a basis of my dissent. 
November 7, 1972 

3215 
T E L E G R A M 
i t e m No. 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E COMMUNICATIONS S Y S T E M 
11/7/72 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S O F T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON 
November 7, 1972 
F R A N C I S 
- 
S T . 
L O U I S 
•frie Board has approved the six additional positions at the Little Rock 
Br*oc.h as requested in Mr. Silva's letter of September 19, 1972. 
Accordingly; the St. Louis District is authorized a December 31, 1972, 
Manpower level of 1,454 full-time positions. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
G R E E N S P A N 

^ x S 
T E L E G R A M 
item No. 5 
11/7/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S O F T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON 
November 7, 1972 
K*MBREL - ATLANTA 
Th n 
10 Board hay approved the 35 additional positions requested in 
Mr 
P 
-possum's letter of September 11, 1972. 
Accordingly, the Atlanta 
S t r i c t is authorized a December 31, 1972, manpower level of 2,190 
*ul3--time positions. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
GREENSPAN 

3 2 1 7 
T E L E G R A M 
I t e m NO. 6 
11/7/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S O F T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON 
November 7, 1972 
}1ERRITT - SAN FRANCISCO 
Board has approved the five additional positions requested in 
your letter of September 1, 1972., in order to facilitate improvements 
•n the quality and timeliness of the data flow underlying the 
Monetary aggregates. Accordingly, the San Francisco District is 
ailthorized a December 31, 1972 manpower level of 1,838 full-time 
Positions. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
GREENSPAN 

32-18 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 7 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1 1 / 7 / 7 2 
iliUste: 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
2055*. 
A O O R E H S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 8, 1972 
Mr, Bernard Rosen 
E*ecut.ivn Director 
Office of Federal 
Equal Employment Opportunity 
Suited States Civil Service Commission 
Washington, D. C. 20413 
Dc:<r Mr, Rosen: 
Civil Service Bulletin No. 713-25, "Equal Employment 
Opportunity Flans" directs agencies covered under Executive Order 
H478 and the Equal Employment Opportunity Act of 1972 ("EEO Act") 
Submit annually to the Commission copies of their Equal 
~'lnployment Opportunity plans. 
As you may know, the Board of Governors has previously 
taken the position that, although it is not: subject to Executive • 
Order 11478, it would comply with the spirit of the nondiscrimination 
1:^quireroents of that Order. While, in our judgment, the Federal 
Reserve's status has not changed as a result of the passage of the 
Act, the Board subscribes fully to the basic goals of the Act 
intends to make such amendments to its Equal Opportunity pro-
Skams and procedures as nu,y be appropriate to implement the Act's 
P r o v i s i o n s . 
We plan to keep you fully advised of the Board's 
actions in this regard and a r e , at this time, enclosing for your 
Jr> format ion a copy of t\vi board's 1972 Affirmative Action Program. 
A copy of the Board's 1973 Affirmative Action Program w i l l be 
-ocwarded to you a^ soon as it has been approved by the Board. 
Also enclosed for your information, is a copy of the 
board's Equal Employment. Opportunity regulations and procedures as 
Pvecent.].y in effect. We expect to make appropriate revisions to 
tHose regulations in light of the amendments to your agency's 

32L3 
Bernard Roser 
-2-
KflUaX Opportunity regulations which were announced November 3 and 
a copy w n x be forwarded to you as soon as such revisions arc 
op ted. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
^closures 

3220 
B O A R D 
LlF G O V E R N • R 5 
,.';**"••. 
NR VHP 
Item No. 8 
r- IT R\ TR A A J p r q P* P \/ R R V P5 T F M 
11/7/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
2055 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O N R C C F S P O N O E N C E 
-VwfefcfSS^-' • 
to T H E 
B O A R D 
(•, ^ 
- - v -
November 7, 1972 
ft* • Robe r t P. Fo rr e s ta 1 
'General Counsel 
Federal Reserve Bank, of Atlanta 
Atlanta, Georgia 
30303 
Dear Mr. Forrestal: 
This letter refers to the request of First Railroad and 
Banking Company of Georgia, Augusta, Georgia, for an extension of 
time in which to divest its interest in Lofco, Inc. It is the 
Board's understanding that Lofco was acquired by First Railroad s 
mortgage banking subsidiary at a time when First Railroad was un-
aware that such acquisition required the Board's prior approval. 
Further, it appears that the business of Lofco in some respects 
i s similar to activities of First Railroad conducted prior to 
June 30, 19 68, and that immediate divestiture of Lofco would 
c^eate severe problems of valuation and possible loss to First 
R a i l r o a d . 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board will not 
interpose an objection to First Railroad's continued holding of 
its interest: in Lofco for such time as may be necessary to effect 
a sale on a reasonable basis, such period not to exceed 18 months. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

oicoV/.. 
m; 
B O A R D rjF G O V E R N O R S 
«F' T H E 
Item No. 9 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
11/7/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20351 
/ U D H E B G 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R C S P O N D E N H E 
T D 
T H E 
B C J A R D 
November 8, 1972 
The Honorable William B. Camp 
Comptroller of the. Currency 
Washington, D.C. 
20220 
Dp-ar Mr. Comptroller: 
The Board has given careful consideration to the views 
expressed in your letter of September 19, 1972, on the subject of 
the capital positions of national banks. 
It takes this opportunity 
to elaborate on its views with respect to its responsibilities in 
this area of mutual concern. 
The Board is inescapably concerned with the capital posi-
tion of those national banks which either have pending foreign 
hanking applications or which are subsidiaries of bank holding 
companies" that have filed applications with the Board. A problem 
may arise when the capital position, of the subsidiary banks of a 
holding company appears to be lower than desirable, especially if, 
that holding company pursues a policy of aggressive expansion of its 
nonbanking or foreign operations. 
In such circumstances, consumma-
tion of a° holding company's plans for expansion might ultimately have 
a significantly adverse effect upon the affairs of its subsidiary 
hanks. Thus, if it sees what it regards as a serious weakness 
developing in the capital position of bank subsidiaries (particularly 
the leading bank subsidiary) of a holding company, the Board believes 
that its responsibility is to withhold approval of further major 
expansion of the bank holding company until it is satisfied that the 
situation will be corrected. 
The Board realizes that the question of capital adequacy 
in any given situation is a matter of interpretation and judgment, 
and that opinions may reasonably differ in this respect among govern-
ment agencies that: src> concerned with the problem. 
The Board recognizee ana respects the jurisdiction of ycur 
office as the primary re-jularor of rational banks by virtue of the 
chartering and*supervisory authority granted tc your office by the_ 
Congress. The Board neither intends nor regards its withholding o 1; 

•Che Honorable William B. Camp 
- 2 -
approval of individual applications on account of the weakness of 
the capital position of any national bank as an intrusion upon the 
authority of your office. 
The Board's responsibilities under the 
Bank Holding Company Act and the Federal Reserve Act with respect 
to bank holding company and foreign banking operations are independent 
of the Comptroller's jurisdiction over national banks and require the 
Board to exercise its own judgment as to the possible effect of expand-
ing operations of this nature upon the affairs of national banks. 
fulfilling such responsibilities, the Board makes regular use of 
examination reports of national banks furnished by your office and 
gives significant weight to your views regarding the capital adequacy 
of particular national banks. 
In this manner, it is hoped that sit-
uations in which there may arise differences between our agencies will 
be kept to a minimum. 
In the spirit of cooperation, the Board's Program Director 
for Banking Structure, Mr. Brenton C. Leavitt, has contacted your 
staff on several occasions in connection with applications which, in 
his judgment, raise an issue as to the capital adequacy of any national 
bank. However, this practice has not been followed in every case. 
The 
Board has determined that this practice should be a regular part of its 
procedures in connection with such applications and accordingly has 
instructed its staff to consult with your staff in advance of Board 
action upon any application which appears to raise an issue as to the 
capital adequacy of any national bank, 
in this way, there will be 
assurance that your views will be considered by the Board in acting upon 
the application. Furthermore, the Board will advise you promptly 111^ 
every case where the Board takes the position that the capital position 
of a national bank must be strengthened as a condition to the Board's 
approval of any application. The Board understands that Mr. Leavitt has 
already discussed this matter with First Deputy Comptroller of the 
Currency Justiu Watson. 
The number of banks that the Board has asked to strengthen 
their capital positions as a condition to its approval of applications 
has been quite small. Moreover, the Board believes that its actions have 
noc caused hardship to any institution, since those banks affected were 
given adequate time to work out a solution to their capital problems. 
Recent discussions with you on the general subject covered 
by this letter have been especially helpful in formulating a satisfac-
tory approach to the problems confronting the Board in this area. 
The 
Board has been concerned with strengthening the equity capital position 
of banks in holding company systems because, with few exceptions, they 
usually provide the central unit of strength of such systems. 
In the 

32**3 
The Honorable William B. Camp 
- 3 -
Board's judgment, if such banks are strong, it is likely that the 
holding company systems of which they are members will also be 
strong. The Board is gratified that this attitude is common to 
hoth our agencies and looks forward to working together with you 
in the hope of developing a mutually agreeable approach toward 
that objective. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary _of the Board 
t 

• , .«>-- „'••: v. • 
• , 
1 • ' 
' 
i 
• , . 
: 
• 
Jl: iW- 
- 
^ 
-J 
- • -i - 
- 
' 
' 
* " 
m 
. fi, - • - - . <£* .. 
Item No. 10 
11/7/72 
"p(V. . 
, 
November 7, 1972 
0 *> turned i a t c r e 1 c a s e 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
to<3ay t:he adoption of several clarifying amendments to the Voluntary 
*oratgn Credit Restraint (VFCR) Guidelines. The revisions do not affect 
t h * f o r e i g n lending and investment ceilings of banks and other financial 
^titutions. 
The amendments are. essentially administrative and arc 
SsnlZixo.6 to be neutral with respect to capital outflows under the Guide-
One charge extends to nonbank domestic subsidiaries of T.-nnU 
^ ^ i n g companies an opportunity already afforded to domestic subsidiaries 
Edfco Act Corporations. That opportunity would now permit those holding 
company subsidiaries to reduce the amount of foreign assets charged 
gainst bank lending ceilings by the amount of outstanding borrowings 
th.y have m a d e from foreigners for minimum maturities of three years in 
or,{nr to invest abroad. 
In amending the provision, the Board recoSnizcd that some banks 
Wow ufilize domestic subsidiaries of their holding companies to make 
investments in the same manner as banks have been using domestic 
Su&&idinries of Edge Act Corporations. 
The Boerd aloe amended the Guidelines to incorporate several 
*i*srpre.t:ationB mad a since the present CuideHr.es were revised and re-
lesuo<t f,a November 11, 1971. Those amendments wi 
1 1 . 

U 1, e c i f y h
w banks that have come into being since the end of: 
197'0 are to calculate Ul^ir 'iend ins ceiling; 
• V • , 
1-hp cV<Tnc t er i s t i c s of real estate invest-
2) distinguish netue.cn tne uia.."Clll j.s> 
, 
, 
.c ronhauk financial institutions for pur-
i,rwste that arc to be treated as nonbanx n u u 
the Guidelines and those, that are not; 
3) ntnte that tarito without ceiling, may hold foreign asset* up 
to $700,000 or In some cases a lower amount; 
e p i a n that only those trust funds over which trustees have 
InvssCiwnt dIteration and that are not separately reported by the 
,,,,„„„. ,,, t e * 
treated a, sublet to the restraints a p p l i e d , to those 
Mwtifcutiosxs; 
bv a nonbaik financial 
5) state that equity sccurxLi.ec I S . U L O 
U, 
i«*M,„Ho« and sold to, and held by, foreigners in developed countries 
tJiy 
c o w t c , „ Offsets to foreign assets under cellos in the same way 
t h a t K o r r W l u * , f « » such f o r e i g n e r s have been t r e a t e d as o f f s e t s ; 
. •> 1' 
fnr investments in foreign 
6) wake clear that special adjustments ..or 
• 
on 1 v to i n v e s t m e n t s made before 1965; and 
-ttsi»rnric« ventures i s iim.Lv.ea only 
^ 
-A 
j nd l cntc that foreign tariffs are net to be considered as part 
of t h c e o ? t of U.S. exports for cUe purpose of determining an export credit. 
i 
»., Kniviffp effect ive immediately. 
Th?. amen^^ants necotue 
^U'tuchivi.- vit: 
Tent. o£ amendments 
.0-

Attachment 
Amendments to Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines 
l 
Underscoring indicates language to bo inserted; square brackets indicate 
deletions. 
Section II-A-7 
7 
, 
Foreign Borrowings 
* 
>v 
* 
* 
* 
O . 
B A N K S , 
M
M
M
I
E
D
G
E 
A C T 
C O R P O R A T I O N S , 
A N D 
I 
AGREEMENT CORPORATIONS. /. bank, a j ^ k j i o i ^ 
m i " E d g e A c t " 
5 
Corporaticn, or an "Agreement" Corporation may not count its borrowings 
from, or its other liabilities to, foreigners as offsets co its claims 
on foreigners and other foreign assets. 
: 
b. DOMESTIC SUBSIDIARIES. A domestically chartered nonbank 
subsidiary (for example, a so-called Delaware subsidiary) ofj^bank 
holding company, of an Edge Act Corporation, or of an Agreement Corpor-
ation may count the outstanding amount of its borrowings from foreigner, 
as offsets to its claims on foreigners and to its other foreign assets, 
provided those borrowings are of an original maturity of 3 years or 
wore ,,. 
- ,, t 
. 
ri..v()i!nr 
oce Federal Reserve Bulletin, November 
Not*: For full text t>i Gwot-.^^Cc, see rtj.t<- -
""""" 
19/1, pp. 906-916, c.Dd March 1972, p. 321. 

Section II-A-2 
2. Calculation of Ceilings 
A bank will have a ceiling which will be the greatest of the 
following: 
•.v 
* 
* 
* 
* 
c. 
2 per cent of in total assets, as cf December 31, 1970 L j s 
except Jor_a bank established on a subse_g^nt^at^ 
total assets, month by month, un t U J ^ J ^ t g g n J ^ 
i o n o n e 
— 
ca 1 sndjr^ear and thereafter 2 
^jthat f_lrsl ful 1 _calcndarj; ear_?J_o^£tj_on. 
Section II-E Confoemity with Objectives of Guidelines 
^' 
nks without ceilings 
A 
has not adopted a celUng_wi,n be acting InjeggggBift 
vith t.ho oblectivftfi of the Sidelines 
it 
its 
hnMijaJOSSS^SLSBSS. 
w, 
dr, not exceed the lcr,se_r_oiJil_$MJ 0 0 o r ( l t ) 2 
^ 
.1070 total assets and (b) if t h o g ^ J ^ ^ j ^ i S ^ J " : * 
otherwise in conformity with the Guidelines,_for.„example, wi th _the_reauost: 
£gat»,st hold lag funds 
in liould f e w except for n e c e ? 8 a r x j « g M l & 
l^^lanc e s. 
Section III-A 
A, Applicability to Financial Institutions 
* 
* 
*i\ca1 estate investment trusts whose assets consist primarily 
of real property 
H a o are rot covered by these Guidelines, 

3 2 2 8 
Section III-D 
•k 
>v 
Investments M d * by trust departments of c < ^ « l £ L £ S i g - a L t e 
funds over 
hasjjt 1 — * son* influence over 
i r ^ ^ g L j a j ^ a i ^ L J a ^ - S & 
?_ejn>rted by another ^financial situation.. 
H. Investments in Certain Foreign Insurance Ventures 
Net investment in foreign insurance ventures should be reported, 
/"wherever possible. 
If the net investment cannot be segregated, the 
U.S. insurance company 
exclude from its foreign assets (1) investments 
WU.i,. the foreign country involved ir amounts up to 110 per cent of 
reserves accumulated on insurance sold to residents of that country, or 
(?) (if it is larger than 110 per cent of the reserves) the. minimum deposit 
Of „ s h or securities required as a condition of doing insurance business 
W i t h i n f e a t country . J 
I n 
H
j
e
^
^
X
-
O
l
i
J
^
S
i
i
l
^
^
^
^
^
1 
I n t,hl g|, . U.S. nonbank f i n a n c i a l i n s t i t u t i o n 
} » i _ s U S S S S S e ! L * S ^ S . 
" ^ j j ^ i r . ' ' 1 i " - * * ™* " - t h e l a t t e r 
excludejroajtgjorcifen 
- M . M . subject to calling the aggrepat* of th» larger of the JoUowtSS. 
In «. c h torelfn 
Xa). 
h u l d l n t h e 
0 8 
r g 8 c r v -
s o l d t o r e a i ^ L ^ l J t o t j c C ' . ' . ' . " ' - ^ * 
t h e 

- 4 
h h c m l» l a i» m d e p o s l r o f c a s h o r 8 e c u r l t - ^ s 
r e ti u l r e d 
^"'Htion of 
frfa^fflgBSfcJS^.W" 
l n 
^ 
£ouritrv 
Section H I - J 
Covered Assets in Excess of Ceilings 
1. 
... /fcjovered investments of nonbank financial institutions 
may b e permitted to exceed the Guideline ceiling to the extent that the 
funds for such investment are (a) borrowed abroad for investment In the 
same country or in countries that are subject to the same or more liberal 
Guideline restraint f . J 
o r ^ J J L l * ^ 
held b Y £orei^*n^ 
— 
c ow.tr ies .) Thus , 
Section IV-3 Third paragraph 
The cost of freight in connection with exportation ... may be 
included in the cost: of export for the purpose of determining the amount 
of credit that is to be considered export credit. 

3 2 3 0 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF T H E 
Item No. 11 
11/7/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
?.05B1 
A D D R E S S 
D r T i n i A l 
C U K R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
I j O A H D 
November 8, 1972 
Mr. Aubrey N. Heflin, President 
Federal Reserve Bank o!" Richmond 
Richmond. Virginia 
23261 
Dear Mr. Heflin: 
In response to your letter of August 3, 1972, the 
Board approves the schematic design concept of the proposed 
new Richmond Reserve Bank building; the revised space program 
con si r ting of-1,160,000 square feet of gross area, of which 
577,000 square feet is usable space; and the revised project 
budget c-f $53 million (bc-sed on third quarter 1972 prices in 
lUcbivior.d) including fees, artwork allowance, and a contingency, 
but exclusive of abnormal foundations or other structural con-
ditions not known at this time. 
It is the Board's understanding that: the circulation 
difficulties existing in the present design of the secure areas 
will be resolved with the Board's security consultant. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
MicVi.r.el A. Greenspan 
A s s i f tc n t: Sec r e tary 

- R ^ Q ? ' 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20DU1 
v.%j i>;:"' . - ; i.; * 
iS'Ui 
• H A R D 
• F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 12 
t l l i S v 
F E D E R A L . R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
11/7/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O ^ O C K C E 
T D 
T H F 
B U A R D 
November 8, 1972 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Atlanta, Georgia 
30303 
Dear Mr. Kimbrel: 
The Board has considered your request and authorizes 
the Bank to proceed with the development of detailed information 
on the proposed property as a site for the Jacksonville Branch, 
as described in your letter of September 18, 1972. 
In proceeding with the property evaluation, it is 
requested that the Bank proceed cautiously in evaluating the 
proposed property to determine the suitability of the site and 
explore the possibilities of alternative properties. 
Every 
effort should be made to obtain the services of the best qualified 
professional appraiser to determine the fair market value of the 
property with an indication of prevailing prices for real estate 
in the Jacksonville area. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

322^ 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 13 
<)Gf CoI.. •. 
i-'r i i-it. 
item INO 
•0f 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
11/7/72 
f i l l 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
205S1 
A D D R E S S 
O f ' K I C I A L 
C D R H E 5 P D tJ D F . N O E 
A ^ ' . - v 
;•. > ' a ' • 
T O 
T H C 
B O A R D 
rtyimfy 
November 8, 1972 
Mr, Frank E. Morris, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Dear Mr, Morris; 
The Board has considered your request to acquire the 
Amherst:, Massachusetts, facility for use by your Bank, and 
possibly the New York Reserve Bank for an emergency relocation 
and duplicate records storage center as described in your letter 
of October 30, 1972 .3x1 d supporting material. 
The Board approves an expenditure of not to exceed 
•$210,000 for acquisition of the proposed property ($60,000) 
and to proceed with the necessary repairs to the existing mechanical 
and electrical systems ($150,000). 
It is recommended that a master plan be developed with 
the New York Reserve Bank to determine the time schedules, 
necessary alterations> manpower requirements, etc.,, and associated 
expenditures to utilize the facility as an emergency relocation 
and duplicate records storage center. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A, Greenspan 
A s s i s t aiit Secret ary 

3233 
SHARD 
O F 
G O V E R N O R ; 
A R T H F . 
Item No. 14 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
11/7/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 205i»t 
A D D R t J t ' i 
H F f I C I A L . 
C D S R i : S P C ) M ' J E N C £ 
' • 
• 
* 
T U 
T H E 
B O A R D 
• fx w; -' 
Novem'b e r 3.0. 19 7 2 
PMSONAL.and confidential (FR) 
The Officer Salary Increase Guidelines for 1973 
ttmphr.nised the use of performance appraisal in developing 
officer salary adjustment proposals for the coming year. 
While i;he. failure of the Guidelines to mention across-ths-
board salary increases was not unintentional, the Board of 
Governors feels that in the interest: of clarity, the Guide-
lines should be amended to specifically Convey the Board's 
position, that officer salary adjustments--other than promo-
tional--should be based exclusive).y on merit as a function 
of performance appraisal„ 
Very truly yours. 
. 
-
V, 
</J cu c I t - f / ' t 
* 
/ Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
TO THE CPAir.Mt-/«M AND PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE K.AHKS 

\'o.\ 
V 
V 
B O A R D CIF G O V E R N O R S 
OR THC 
Item NO. 15 
F E D E I 3 A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
11/7/72 
WAILMI N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
2C!I£>1 
•;<t/. 
APDHKSB n FIICIAU CQRRfSPOsnE 
^ .* 
"ICJ TMC BOARD 
November 8, 1972 
Mr. Frank E. Morris, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Bos(on, Massachusotts 02106 
Dear Mr. Morris: 
The Board has considered the Bank's proposal to 
provide additional space for its coin and currency operations. 
The Bank is authorised to proceed with the recommended 
proposal to construct a temporary structure on the property 
adjacent to the Bank building, with the minimum cost vault' 
enclosure of steel plate, at a total construction expenditure 
not to exceed $546,000 including fees and a 5 per cent contingency 
allowance. 
It is requested that the security aspects of the 
Project be reviewed by the Board's security consultant at an 
early date and the construction document and cost estimate be 
submitted for Board review prior to soliciting bids. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
