MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 14, 1970 

31.33 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, December 14, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics _1,/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance If 
Miss Ormsby and Miss Ryon of the Office of the 
Secretary 
An economic and financial review of the kind offered prior to 
meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee was presented. Copies 
of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been placed 
in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then commented on pertinent legislative matters 
pending before the Congress. 
Staff members who had been present for the purpose of the 
economic and financial review then withdrew. Staff members who entered 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

3434 
12/14/70 
-2-
the meeting at this point included Messrs. Hackley and Hexter, 
Assistants to the Board; O'Connell, General Counsel; Sanders, Assistant 
General Counsel; and Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta on December 2, by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis on December 7, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Cleveland, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Dallas on December 10, 1970, of 
the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
With respect to the rate on advances to individuals, partner-
ships, and corporations other than member banks under the last paragraph 
of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act, Mr. Holland noted that eight 
Reserve Banks were maintaining a rate of 7 per cent, one had a rate of 
7-1/4 per cent, and the other three had a rate of 7-1/2 per cent. He 
raised the question whether a letter should be sent to the Presidents 
suggesting that steps be initiated with a view to restoring a uniform 
rate on such advances. 
After discussion of alternatives, the Board authorized the 
Secretary to pursue the matter with the discount officers of the 
Federal Reserve Banks, such procedure to be in lieu of addressing a 
letter to the Presidents. It was the view that in the meantime the 

3435 
12/14/70 
-3-
Board should continue to approve the reestablishment of existing rates 
by the respective Banks. 
Helena Branch. The Board considered recommendations contained 
in a memorandum from the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
dated December 10, 1970, regarding a proposed real estate purchase for 
the Helena Branch and approved unanimously a telegram to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis in the form attached as Item No. 1. 
Interlocking relationships. The Board discussed a memorandum 
from the Legal Division dated November 30, 1970, regarding questions 
raised by Chairman Patman of the House Banking and Currency Committee 
concerning interlocking relationships between banks and other financial 
institutions. 
Several suggestions were made for changes in the reply that 
had been drafted, after which the Board approved unanimously the sending 
of a reply in the form attached as Item No. 2. This was with the under-
standing that additional points on which a position was not taken in 
the letter might be covered later in testimony before the Committee. 
State legislation. The Board gave consideration to a revised 
draft of letter to the Office of Management and Budget regarding legis-
lative proposals that might be suggested for consideration by State 
legislatures. 
It: w a s decided that the sending of the letter would be delayed 
until it could be determined that there were no State laws still in 

3436 
12/14/70 
-4-
existence, such as the one in Tennessee, that had restricted the 
payment of interest on time and savings accounts to levels below 
those prescribed under Federal law for member and nonmember insured 
banks. If it was found that such State laws still existed, the thought 
was that the Board might suggest consideration of remedial State legis-
lation. (Note: Staff review indicated that a problem no longer existed. 
Accordingly, the letter was sent to 0MB; a copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
State of the Union Message. There was discussion of a proposed 
response to a request from the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget for legislative proposals that the Board might want to suggest 
for inclusion in the State of the Union Message. The draft reply stated 
that the Board recommended enactment of three legislative proposals in 
the financial area and that it would welcome reference to them in the 
President's Message. The first proposal had to do with standby authority 
to provide loan guarantees in emergency situations. The second had to 
do with extending reserve requirements to nonmember insured banks and 
facilitating the introduction of a system of graduated requirements. 
The third had to do with repeal of provisions of the Federal Reserve Act 
relating to the eligibility of paper for discount at the Reserve Banks. 
It was noted that this was apparently the first time that a 
request for suggestions regarding legislative proposals for inclusion 
in the State of the Union Message had been received. With respect to 

3137 
12/14/70 
-5-
the second two of the three proposals mentioned in the draft reply, 
question was raised whether the Board should not adhere to its usual 
practice of submitting recommendations direct to the appropriate 
committees of the Congress. It was the consensus, after some discussion 
of that question, that it would be appropriate to point out to the 
Office of Management and Budget that these were subjects on which the 
Board had made recommendations to the Congress and that in the Board's 
view the problems involved were of sufficient importance to the national 
interest to warrant reference in the State of the Union Message in 
support of the Board's recommendations. However, upon further consider-
ation, it was concluded that the question of repeal of the provisions of 
the Federal Reserve Act relating to the eligibility of paper for discount 
was too technical in nature to warrant inclusion in the State of the 
Union Message. It was also concluded that it seemed unnecessary to 
submit to 0MB, at least at this stage, detailed memoranda relating to 
the two remaining proposals suggested for inclusion in the Message. 
The Board then approved the sending of a reply incorporating 
changes to take account of the suggestions that had been agreed upon. 
A copy of the response, as sent, is attached as Item No. 4. 
Availability of information. The Board unanimously approved 
the recommendation contained in a memorandum from Mr. Frederic Solomon 
dated December 9, 1970, regarding the question of making information 
regarding certain loans by United California Bank, Los Angeles, California, 

3138 
12/14/70 
-6-
available to the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. A copy of the memorandum 
is attached as Item No . 5. 
Coordinating Committee. Governor Mitchell reported briefly 
on discussion by the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regu-
lation relating generally to coordination among the supervisory agencies 
on matters affecting their responsibilities. He indicated that a 
proposal by the Home Loan Bank Board for exchange of certain information 
on mortgage loans might be presented for consideration in due course. 
All staff members except Mr. Holland withdrew at this point. 
Chairman Burns discussed with the Board members the announcement 
of the appointment of Mr. John B.. Connally as successor to Secretary of 
the Treasury Kennedy, effective February 1971. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3130 
Item No.1 
12/14/70 
T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
B O A R D OF GOVERNORS OF T H E F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
December 14, 1970 
ii i 
Strothman - Minneapolis 
•J COlICc. CH.!. fii " Kil . { . 
ID:* V ' ., i i 
- 
' . • 
Reurlet December 4, 1970, Board approves Bank's purchase of 
lots PM-15 and PM-16 adjoining Helena Branch building site 
to alleviate need for additional automobile parking space, 
and authorizes expenditure not to exceed $40,650 for that 
purpose. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenyon 

C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
3 1 
Item No. ! 
12/14/70 
December 16 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking and Currency 
House of Representatives 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in further reply to your letter of June 1, 
1970 concerning interlocking relationships with member banks under 
section 8 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 19). 
Affiliations of officers, directors, and employees of 
member banks that might conflict with section 8 of the Clayton Act 
are regularly reviewed by the Federal Reserve System as part of 
the examinations of State member banks, and by the Comptroller of 
the Currency with respect to national banks. This is a continuing 
process, and where violations are found to exist the parties con-
cerned are requested to terminate the prohibited relationships. 
On receipt of your letter, we asked the Federal Reserve 
Banks to make a special review of interlocking personnel relation-
ships in their Districts in order to ascertain if any existed that 
were not permissible or were of questionable legality. This review 
disclosed twelve cases of interlocks in apparent violation of 
section 8. Two of these cases were already in the process of 
investigation as part of the Reserve Banks' general review process, 
and five had arisen shortly before the special review as a result 
of an interpretation concerning interlocking relationships with 
bank holding companies that the Board issued May 12, 1970. Steps 
have been taken to dissolve the prohibited interlocking relation-
ships, by the Reserve Banks directly where State member banks are 
involved, and through the Comptroller of the Currency's office 
where national banks are involved. 
In accordance with your request, the Board has also con-
sidered the adequacy of the present provisions of the Clayton Act 
affecting interlocking relationships. 

3111 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
The statutory prohibitions against interlocking relation-
ships in section 8 involve two sets of considerations. On the one 
hand, interlocking relationships may seriously impair competition 
between firms in the same line of business. On the other hand, 
economic benefits flow from a high standard of performance by 
corporate boards of directors. This entails a free interchange of 
advice, ideas, and experiences among directors of varied backgrounds. 
Bankers often have experience and expertise that qualify them to 
render valuable service in this role. Interlocking directorates, in 
other words, are not inherently wrong. They may be good for the 
corporations involved and the public they serve. The problem is to 
define those situations where the risk of abuse outweighs the 
expectation of benefit. 
Section 8 now prohibits interlocks between two ordinary 
business corporations where they are competitors by virtue of their 
business and location, so that elimination of competition between 
them by agreement would violate the antitrust laws. In prohibiting 
interlocks between a member bank and another bank, section 8 employs 
a test that is more easily applied—whether the two banks are in the 
same, adjacent, or contiguous cities, toras, or villages--for the 
same purpose of identifying market situations where interlocks might 
pose too great a threat of diminishing competition. 
We see no reason to suppose that this risk of diminishing 
competition is any greater where an interlock involves a member 
bank than where it involves any other insured bank, and we would 
therefore recommend broadening the statute so that it applies to 
insured commercial banks, not just to member banks. 
We also believe that the types of interlocking service 
that are prohibited should be re-examined. For member banks, 
section 8 now prohibits interlocking service as a "director, officer, 
or employee" whereas for other corporations the prohibition applies 
only to service as a director. In order to confine the prohibition 
to those banking situations that raise serious questions about 
diminishing competition, the Board recommends adoption of the 
approach advanced in 1965 by Representative Celler. His bill, 
H. R. 11572, 89th Congress, would have amended section 8 to apply 
to service as "a director, officer, or employee with management 
functions," and to "representatives or nominees" of such persons. 
Section 8 now exempts interlocks between banks under 
common control. Obviously, there is no threat to competition in 
such instances. But this exemption as presently written is too 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-3-
broad, since it applies wherever the same "persons" own 50 per cent 
of the stock of each institution and the statute fails to give any 
specific content to the term "persons". As a result, to take the 
simplest example, where one person owns 90 per cent of the stock of 
Bank A and another owns 90 per cent of the stock of Bank B, the two 
may exchange single shares of stock of their respective banks and 
thereby come within the statutory exemption, since together they 
are "persons" owning 50 per cent or more of the stock of both banks. 
Thereaft er, under the present law, there may be interlocks between 
the two banks even if they are located across the street from each 
other and in direct competition. This loophole should be eliminated. 
The Board recommends, further, that the prohibitions 
relating to interlocks between commercial banks should be broadened 
to cover all depository institutions--commercial banks, savings and 
loan associations, savings banks, building and loan associations, 
homestead associations, and cooperative banks. While there are 
some lines of activity in which institutions in one class do not 
compete with those in another, there is sufficient overlapping of 
functions among all kinds of depository institutions to support a 
general presumption that those in the same community are in competi-
tion, particularly in view of the increasing powers of savings and 
loan associations. 
In this connection, you may wish to consider extending 
coverage to all depository institutions, whether insured or not. 
Exempting uninsured institutions has little effect for commercial 
banks, since less than 200 banks with less than 1 per cent of total 
deposits are uninsured. About a third of all mutual savings banks 
and a fourth of all savings and loan associations, however, are 
uninsured, and they hold about 18 per cent and 4 per cent, respec-
tively, of total deposits. Some of these noninsured institutions 
are, or could be, significant competitive forces in their local 
areas. 
The fifth clause in section 8 presently exempts from the 
statute's coverage interlocking relationships between banks not in 
the same, contiguous, or adjacent cities, towns, or villages. 
Although the exemption is believed to have been intended to recognize 
the generally regional nature of banking which existed in 1935 (the 
date of the last amendment to the statute), interlocking relat ion-
ships between and among several of the larger banks, which compete on 
a nationwide basis, may also come within this exemption. In the 
Board's judgment such interlocking relationships seem questionable. 

3143 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
-4-
We are not persuaded that a case has been made for further 
broadening of the restrictions in section 8 on interlocks with banks. 
It should be borne in mind that in addition to the provisions 
specifically relating to banks, section 8 includes a general prohibi-
tion against interlocking directorates between corporations engaged 
in commerce which are "by virtue of their business and location of 
operation, competitors, so that the elimination of competition by 
agreement between them would constitute a violation of any of the 
antitrust laws." Although its applicability in the case of inter-
locks between banks and nonbank businesses is not entirely clear, 
this provision would seem to offer additional protection against such 
interlocks where the anti-competitive effects are sufficiently strong. 
In considering any further tightening of the prohibitions of section 8, 
Congress should use caution, so as not to inhibit corporations--
particularly the newer and smaller ones — in their search for directors 
of the highest caliber available. 
Finally, the Board recommends that any legislation amending 
the statute along the lines suggested in this letter should provide 
that individuals who now serve in capacities that would be prohibited 
by the new legislation may continue to serve for a five-year period 
to allow a gradual phasing out of prohibited interlocks. In view of 
the difficulties of finding replacements, it could prove needlessly 
disruptive to concentrate the search within a shorter period. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 

3444 
Item No. 3 
12/14/70 
21, 1970 
Mr. Dwight A. Ink 
Assistant Director 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Ink: 
I am V7riting in response to your request of November 16, 
1970, in which you invited the Board of Governors to submit pro-
posals for consideration by State legislatures. 
The Board proposes that State legislatures consider 
relaxing or eliminating (1) interest rate ceilings on State and 
local government securities, and (2) usury rate ceilings as they 
affect mortgage lending. Progress has been made in some States 
in bringing about such changes, but more, can be clone. 
Many statutes on these matters were enacted at a time 
when prevailing market interest rates were much lower than they 
have been in recent years. The low ceilings have the effect 
of distorting the flow of capital funds during periods of high 
interest rates and tend to deprive key sectors of the economy 
from ready access to such funds during those periods. 
Because the Board's proposals do not lend themselves 
to uniform legislative provisions, we are following your sugges-
tion and submitting draft statements on these problems. The 
approach to their solution would, of course, be repeal or 
modification of existing statutes. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
' De 
Enclosures 

3445 
Rate ceilings on State and local 
government securities 
Since the fall of 1969, as the attached table shows, there has 
been a marked decrease in the number of States with effective interest 
rate ceilings of 6 per cent or less. There are still 10 States, however, 
which prohibit the sale of general obligation bonds with interest rates 
higher than 7 per cent. Furthermore, in at least 4 States, ceilings 
effective now revert to their previous lower levels at some time during 
1971. The situation is more complex for local governments, but in many 
cases the local units have more restrictive ceilings than those on the 
State's 
obligations. Therefore, in spite of this liberalization of rate 
ceilings and the sharp decline in municipal yields since mid-1970, the 
ceilings now in existence (as of November 1970) bar many lower-rated and 
small borrowers from the market. 
In order to promote efficient allocation of funds in the State 
and local sector of the capital markets, it is suggested that all govern-
ment units be encouraged to eliminate interest rate ceilings or make it 
feasible to vary them quickly to meet market conditions. The experience 
°f the past year shows that not only do* arbitrary ceilings hinder access 
to 
the market by small units or those which borrow infrequently, but they 
c^n also prevent bond issues by even'iarge, highly rated borrowers which 
have socially desirable projects for which they are willing and able 
t o pay market rates of interest. In addition, the inability to market 
long-term bonds under statutory ceilings has resulted in a shift to sales 
short-term municipal securities, and in many jurisdictions there are 

3146 
- 2 -
limits on the number of times such short-term securities may be rolled 
over. In a prolonged period of high interest rates, therefore, such 
borrowers could find themselves in serious financial difficulties. 

-3-
Number of States With Interest Rate 
Ceilings on State and Local 
Government Securities 
1/ 
As of 2/ 
A s o f 
Statutory Interest Rate Ceilings~ 
Fall 19 69 
November 1970 
5 per cent or under 
4 
0 
5 per cent to 6 per cent 
13 
5 
6 per cent to 7 per cent 
7 
10 
7 per cent to 10 per cent 
1 
7 
3/ 
No ceiling 
24 
2_6~ 
4/ 
Total- 
48 
48 
1/ Inclusive of upper rate shown on line. 
2/ Data published as of September 25, 1969. 
3/ Includes 2 states where maximum interest rate must be 
specified on ballot. 
4/ One State has variable rates and one State issues no 
long-term debt. 
.. • - 
i
- 
• . 
..... 
i 
• 
• f 
i 
t 
r 
i 
• \
i; 
! 

3148 
Usury rate ceilings on mortgage loans 
To stimulate lending on home mortgages and thereby help to 
finance an important type of private domestic investment, numerous 
States during recent years have raised or removed, at least temporarily, 
their usury ceilings. This step has been taken, of course, in order to 
allow yields on home mortgages to become more attractive relative to 
returns available on other outlets for funds. However, at a time when 
the national average for yields on home mortgages still exceeds 8-1/4 
per cent, some 15 States and the District of Columbia retain usury 
ceilings of 8 per cent or less, mostly applicable to conventional loans 
which are the major form of this type of credit. Although these limits 
were originally designed to protect borrowers, it should be recognized 
that economic conditions change, and that interest rate ceilings which 
prove at some later time to be below the market have the effect of dis-
criminating against borrowers by denying them access to sources of 
credit available at going market rates. For this reason, it is sug-
gested that these artificial barriers to competitive rates on mortgages 
\ 
should be lifted permanently, or at the very least, administered flexibly. 
Since the Truth in Lending Act requires that every affected borrower be 
given a complete statement of all charges involved, potential borrowers 
should have no difficulty in appraising the effective costs of mortgage 
fi nancmg. 

3449 
Item No. 4 
12/14/70 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
December 18, 1970 
The Honorable George Shultz 
Director 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear George: 
I a m writing on behalf of the Board of Governors to 
respond to your request for suggestions for inclusion in the State 
°f the Union Message or other Presidential Messages. There are 
two legislative proposals in the financial area that the Board has 
already recommended to the Congress which are important from 
the standpoint of the national interest and the Board would welcome 
a reference to them in a Presidential Message as an indication of 
Administration support. 
First, we feel that standby authority is needed to 
provide loan guarantees in emergency situations. I a m enclosing 
a letter to Chairman Magnuson of the Senate Committee on C o m m e r c e 
which I recommended enactment of legislation granting such 
authority. This recommendation might be summarized in a 
-^residential Message as follows: 
"The performance of our financial markets in 1970 
demonstrated their ability to withstand severe strains. 
Nevertheless, at mid-year there was widespread concern 
that we might find ourselves in the grip of a liquidity crisis --
a situation in which creditworthy borrowers could not raise 
funds in the money and capital markets to meet legitimate 
needs for credit. Fortunately, no such breakdown occurred; 
the markets proved equal to the challenge. But action should 
be taken now to help ensure against a possible future emergency. 
Congress should enact standby authority to guarantee loans 

The Honorable George Shultz 
- 2 -
to basically sound firms when such assistance appears to 
be the only practical way to avoid a national financial 
crisis or to enable such firms to continue activities 
essential in the national interest. The authority should 
be vested in a Loan Guarantee Board composed of the 
Secretary of the Treasury, as chairman, the Secretary 
of Commerce, and the Chairman of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System. Since the authority is 
needed only to cope with emergency situations, it could 
be administered with a small staff assigned temporarily 
for that purpose if the need arose. In each instance, the 
Congress should be informed before a guarantee is issued. " 
Second, we believe that the laws relating to the 
reserves that commercial banks that are members of the Federal 
Reserve System are required to maintain should be revised, as 
recommended in the enclosed letter to Chairman Sparkman of the 
Senate Committee on Banking and Currency. For the purposes 
a Presidential Message, the essential features of this recom-
mendation could be covered in this fashion: 
"Almost sixty years have passed since the Congress 
established the Federal Reserve System. In that period we 
have learned much about the contribution that a sound banking 
system can make to a healthy and growing economy. This 
experience has demonstrated, among other things, that 
variations in the rate of growth of the money supply can 
vitally affect growth in aggregate demand. Yet a significant 
portion of the money supply consists of deposits in commercial 
banks that are not m e m b e r s of the Federal Reserve System, 
and so are not subject to reserve requirements established 
to effectuate national monetary policy. As a matter of equity, 
the burden of compliance with reserve requirements should 
be borne by all banks, not just those that are m e m b e r s of 
the System. More importantly, we should not risk impairment 
of the effectiveness of monetary policy by allowing a gradual 
drop in the proportion of bank deposits subject to reserve 
requirements. Yet this is happening now. Demand deposits 
are, of course, the major component of the money supply. 
At the end of 1961 about 18 per cent of the demand deposits 
in the money supply were held by nonmember banks, and thus 
were not subject to reserve requirements. This percentage 
has been slowly rising; by mid-1970 it had grown to about 
22 per cent. The time has come for Congress to apply 

• 
w
m 
gpr^ijj 
The Honorable George Shultz 
- 3 -
reserve requirements to all insured banks. 
At the same 
time, insured nonmember banks should be given a c c e s s 
to Reserve Bank credit on the same terms as member banks, 
3151 
"In extending reserve requirements to all insured 
banks, Congress should also do away with the present 
distinctions between ' r e s e r v e city' banks and 'country' 
banks, which have grown increasingly arbitrary. 
The law 
should be changed to facilitate the introduction of a system 
of graduated reserves geared to size of deposits, not 
geographical location. 
Under the graduated system, all 
banks of the same size in terms of deposits would carry 
equal r e s e r v e s . " 
I should point out that the enclosed letter to Senator 
Spa rkman recommends that if Congress does not extend reserve 
requirements to all insured banks, it should nevertheless take the 
**iore modest step relating to graduated reserves. 
We are not, 
however, suggesting that this fall-back position be reflected in 
any remarks the President might care to make on the subject. 
Sincerely yours, 
U-< 
Arthur F. Burns 
h ». v : . 
Enclosures 

1 3 D A R D O F G D V E R i N ' Q R S 
t i ' l i j j S 
or t h c , 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
I t e m 
N o • 
5 
n 
T 
12/14/70 
L o r r e s p o n d i e n c e 
D a l f t December 9, 1970 
of Governors 
^ 
Subject: Availability of Information 
ejeric Solomon 
<f\ 
CONFIDENTIAL FR 
1 received a telephone request from Eric L. Stattin, Jr., 
Director} Office of Examination and Supervision of the Federal Home 
Loan Bank Board for information regarding loans made by United 
California Bank, Los Angeles, California, the proceeds of which may 
nave been used in the takeover of several savings and loan associations 
information is requested in connection with the FHLBB's investiga-
tion of a possible violation of the Savings and Loan Holding Company 
W e h a v G b c e n provided information concerning the loans bv 
the San Francisco Reserve Bank whose examiners happened to bo in the 
Process of an examination of United California Bank. 
The Board's Rules Regarding Availability of Information 
Section 261.6(b) provides: "A copy of each report of examination' 
oi. each State member bank and of each bank holding company is made 
available by the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank to the bank or 
company examined. Such reports or other appropriate information 
Relating to such a bank or company are made available, upon request 
/ 
L h G Director of the Board's Division of Supervision and Relation 
to the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
orporation, and by the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank to the 
Regional Comptroller of the Currency, the regional representative of 
ie federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the State governmental 
uthonty having general supervision of such bank or company. Such 
cports and other information may be made available bv the Board to 
Uier agencies of the United States for use where necessary in the 
Performance of their official duties. . 
I n this instance it is believed appropriate for the Board 
j,0 
the information in our possession to the Federal Home Loan 
*|nk Board. It is hoped that this can be accomplished on an informal 
without supplying the examination report to that agency; 
icwever, it is conceivable that it may be necessary to reveal'relevant 
P°rtions of the examination report at some later time. It is therefore 
ccornmended that the Board authorize the availability to the FHLBB 
the information in our possession relevant to that Agency's inquiry. 
