Minutes for 
June 16, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
I f you were not present, your initials will indicate 
0nly that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Rober 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

2484 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, June 16, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Uft J 
Uv, -r 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Advis er to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members1 
Offices 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Sigel, Eckert, 
Bernard, Ettin, Fry, Keir, and Kelty of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Katz, Reynolds, Wood, 
Baker, Pizer, and Ruckdeschel of the 
Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Today's review included reports by Mr. 
on 
bV Mr. 
Kelty 
7 on the Government securities market, by Mr. Ettin on bank credit, 
- Keir on the corporate and municipal bond markets, and by Mr. 
Ruck^ , 
Schel on the foreign exchange and gold markets. Copies of the 

6/16/67 
-i2-
2485 
several charts and tables distributed for the purpose of this review 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Brill and 
Solomon then withdrew, as did Mr. Morgan, Miss Eaton, and Miss 
o f~ 
McWhirter, and the following entered: 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mes srs. Noble and Shuter of the Legal Division 
Mr. Golden of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ring of the Division of Bank Operations 
Mes srs. Kline and Rumbarger of the Division of Examinations 
>» . • . . , 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Fed-
eral Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, Minneapolis, 
ar*d San Francisco on June 15, 1967, of the rates on discounts and 
advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with 
th 
e understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following letters were approved unani-
m° u s ly after consideration of background information that had been 
e available to the members of the Board. Copies are attached under 
the y 
respective item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Lg f- 4. 
r t o Bankers International Corporation, 
New York, granting permission for 
n a
w h o lly-owned subsidiary, Bankers Inter-
a d d
 o n a l (Luxembourg) S. A., to acquire 
Ltd t i o n a l shares of Rodo Investment Trust 
•> London, England. 

2438 
6/16/67 
-i3-
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
9 
Francisco interposing no objection to accep-
tance of the low bid received for proposed 
electrical improvements in the head office 
building and authorizing a total expenditure 
of $368,000 for the project instead of $272,200, 
as authorized by the Board on October 5, 1966. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in 
the proposed merger of The Williamsburgh Savings Bank, New York, New 
Y°rk, into Central Savings Bank in the City of New York, New York, New 
Y°rk, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation, the 
conclusion reading as follows: 
The competition existing between The Williamsburgh 
Savings Bank, New York, and Central Savings Bank in the 
City of New York is not significant, and the number and 
variety of financial institutions offering convenient 
facilities for savings banks' customers are substantial. 
The overall competitive effect of the proposed transac-
tion would be slightly adverse. 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
^actors involved in the proposed merger of Concord National Bank, 
Concord, California, into Central Valley National Bank, Oakland, 
Galifornia, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptrol-
lgy • 
l n a form in which the conclusion read as follows: 
There is a small amount of competition existing 
between Concord National Bank and Central Valley Na-
tional Bank. When Central Valley's approved but 
unopened Walnut Creek Branch is opened there will be 
® Partial overlap with the area presently served by 
Concord Bank. The overall competitive effect of the 
merger is adverse. 

248? 
6/16/67 
-i4-
It was agreed, at the suggestion of Governor Brimmer, that the 
ratings adopted by the Board on May 24, 1967, for use in connection 
with competitive factor reports be transmitted to the Federal Reserve 
Banks for the ir information, along with the explanations for the 
respective terms, with notation that the uniform use of such ratings 
had been proposed to the other Federal bank supervisory agencies, 
whose comments were being awaited. 
Application of Hawkeye Bancorporation. On February 14, 1967, 
the Board considered an application of Hawkeye Bancorporation, Red Oak, 
Iowa, to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
per cent or more of the voting shares of Houghton State Bank, Red 
ak, Iowa. (Applicant already owned 97.4 per cent of the shares of 
Lyon County State Bank, Rock Rapids, Iowa.) 
The Division of Examinations originally recommended that the 
Pplication be denied, primarily because of the management policies 
J 
practices of Mr. Paul D. Dunlap, chief executive and control-owner 
°f Houghton State Bank and the key figure in the proposed holding com-
any- 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago also recommended denial. 
Q j , - he other hand, the Iowa Department of Banking interposed no objec-
11 
n to the proposal and the management of Houghton State Bank was 
0risidered satisfactory by the examiner for the Federal Deposit Insur-
n c e Corporation who prepared the report from which the Division of 
p minations obtained the bulk of its information. 

4M;m 
6/16/67 
-i5-
The Board requested the staff to arrange an oral presentation 
in order to resolve, if possible, the apparent conflicts of opinion 
among the supervisory agencies regarding the management of Houghton 
State Bank. However, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation opposed 
the use of its report of examination in such a presentation, as re-
ported to the Board on February 20, 1967, and arrangements then were 
made for the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago to conduct a joint exami-
nation of Houghton State Bank with the Iowa Department of Banking. 
Such an examination was made as of March 20, 1967. 
In a memorandum dated May 15, 1967, the Chicago Reserve Bank 
noted that the asset condition of Houghton State Bank had improved and 
that net loan losses were nominal. It pointed out, however, that 
H°ughton State Bank's capital continued to be inadequate and that there 
W a s n o evidence of any major change in the policies and practices of 
Dunlap. The Reserve Bank was of the opinion that Mr. Dunlap would 
c°ntinue to need high compensation in order to service his large indebt 
edness and believed that if the holding company application should be 
aPproved the subsidiary banks would continue to be under pressure to 
pr°vide funds for this purpose. The Reserve Bank continued to feel 
th 
approval of the application would not be justified. 
In a letter to the Board dated April 19, 1967, the Superinten-
n t °f the Iowa State Department of Banking reiterated the Department1 
c°mmendation that the application be approved. 

52439 
6/16/67 
-i6-
In a memorandum dated June 12, 1967, the Division of Examina-
tions recommended that the application be approved but suggested advis-
ing the applicant that the Board had noted that $400,000 would be added 
to Houghton State Bank's capital structure through sale of common stock 
by January 1, 1968. The Division expressed the view that an oral pre-
sentation was no longer necessary and recommended that the Board pro-
ceed to act on the application on the basis of the record before it. 
A memorandum from the Legal Division dated June 12, 1967, 
expressed the opinion that the Board now had an adequate factual basis 
which to determine the relevant issues. The conflicting recommenda-
tions of the Division of Examinations and the Chicago Reserve Bank 
appeared to reflect differences in judgment rather than a deficiency 
basic information. 
At the Board's request Mr. Leavitt reviewed the reasons why 
the Division of Examinations originally recommended that the applica-
tion be denied, the circumstances that had prompted the Board to 
request that arrangements be made for an oral presentation, subsequent 
evelopments, and the reasons why the Division now recommended that 
t h e aPplication be approved. 
* t„ 
. Mr. Leavitt also stated that in a telephone conversation this 
morni 
n8 Vice President Ross of the Chicago Reserve Bank had reiterated 
view that the application should be denied, principally because he 
felt th 
nat the heavy indebtedness of Mr. Dunlap, both direct and indirect 

2 4 4 H 
6/16/67 
-i7-
might cause him to make demands upon the subsidiary banks. However, 
Mr. Ross felt that the proposed injection of additional capital would 
materially improve the condition of Houghton State Bank and that the 
bank's condition would be reasonably satisfactory. 
Mr. Leavitt suggested that, if the application were approved 
by the Board, approval might be conditioned on the injection of an 
additional $400,000 of capital by sale of common stock by January 1, 
!968. He observed that the Board also might want to advise the appli-
cant that in the Board's opinion it would be advisable for the holding 
company to wait for a certain period of time, perhaps a year, before 
submitting any applications to expand the holding company system. 
Mr. O'Connell expressed concern about conditioning approval of 
e application on the injection of additional capital funds. He 
recalled that in other somewhat similar cases the Board had simply made 
cIear to the applicant its understanding that additional capital would 
b e Provided. In his view the Board should follow the same course if 
It 
V pproved the present application. He felt satisfied from the evi-
^ e < 6 t h a n d i n this case that the additional capital would be provided. 
Governor Brimmer agreed that it might be sufficient to say that 
the Board 
Q understood additional capital would be provided and encour-
aged m 
ctle taking of such action. 
Governor Brimmer then raised the question how the Board would 
kggp 
rack of the condition of Houghton State Bank if the application 

244:1 
6/16/67 
-i8-
were approved. He understood that the Board had the right to examine 
each bank holding company and its subsidiaries. Ordinarily it would 
rely on examinations by the Comptroller of the Currency and the Fed-
eral Deposit Insurance Corporation in the case of subsidiary banks 
that were national banks or nonmember insured banks, respectively. 
In 
this case, however, he thought that it would be desirable for the Board 
t©< request the Chicago Reserve Bank to watch developments closely and 
Perhaps make an examination of Houghton State Bank at an appropriate 
time, in any event, he would suggest that Houghton State Bank be 
regarded as equivalent to a problem bank, with close review of reports 
o f examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to deter-
mine whether direct surveillance by the Federal Reserve was indicated. 
Governor Brimmer then asked Mr. Golden whether the Banking 
ets Section had any comments, particularly in light of the remarks 
l n the letter from the State Superintendent of Banking about the Iowa 
anking structure and use of the holding company device as a vehicle 
r developing larger banking organizations to meet growing credit 
needs 
T 
• it appeared that the Superintendent had in mind that the organi-
n of Hawkeye Bancorporation would be a step in that direction. 
Mr. Golden said that the Banking Markets Section had not made 
nvestigat ion of the Iowa banking structure. The Section had con-
cluded th 
at in this particular case there appeared to be no adverse 
•'^tj^i-fei 
1 V e factors. ' On the other hand, he could not see that the 

2442 
6/16/67 
-i9-
formation of this holding company would contribute materially toward 
achieving the objective mentioned by the Superintendent of Banking. 
Governor Maisel called attention to the portion of the Super-
intendent's letter in which it was noted that the report of examination 
of Houghton State Bank reflected several loans to corporations in which 
Mr. Dunlap was interested and to individuals, associates, and incorpo-
rated interests who or which were also directly or indirectly interested, 
either as investors or borrowers. The Superintendent then referred to 
legislation enacted in the 89th Congress making section 23A of the 
Federal Reserve Act applicable to nonmember insured banks and to cer-
tain provisions of the 1966 Code of Iowa relating to loans by a bank 
t o directors, officers, and employees. 
Governor Maisel turned next to the definition of the term 
affiliate" contained in section 2 of the Banking Act of 1933, as 
tended by the Act of July 1, 1966, and related that definition to the 
U 8 e Of the term "affiliate" in section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. 
The 
question that he raised concerned the relevance of section 23A, now 
d e applicabie to nonmember insured banks, to loans by the proposed 
subside 
lary banks of Hawkeye Bancorporation to companies in which Mr. 
D U n l a p was interested. 
niter some discussion it was agreed that further consideration 
of 
aPplication of Hawkeye Bancorporation would await review by the 
staff 
f Governor Maisel's question and a report by the staff to the 
Bc>ard. 

244 tt 
6/16/67 
-i0-
Open Market Committee policy record entries. In light of the 
discussion at the Board meeting on June 13, 1967, there had been dis-
tributed a memorandum from Mr. Holland dated June 15 submitting a 
revised draft of prefatory statement to the record of policy actions 
of the Federal Open Market Committee and discussing questions that had 
been raised, particularly by Governor Mitchell, with regard to the 
draft of policy record entry for the Committee meeting on April 4, 1967. 
The memorandum reported that subsequent to the June 13 meeting 
Governor Mitchell had advised the staff that he was prepared to stand 
his memorandum to the Open Market Committee of May 22, 1967, in 
regard to the April 4 entry. The staff was still inclined to feel 
that the language incorporated in the revised draft entry transmitted 
t o the Board with Mr. Holland's memorandum of June 12, 1967, was the 
m° S t reasonable summary statement of the consensus as reflected in the 
minutes of the meeting. However, if the Board wished to go further in 
reconciling the consensus and the language of the current economic 
P°licy directive, it might want to consider certain wording, as quoted, 
l o n8 lines suggested by Governor Maisel. 
Governor Robertson suggested that the questions raised in the 
June is memorandum be held over for discussion at the Board meeting on 
Mondav 
t 
yi June 19, when Chairman Martin was expected to be present, and 
it was 
a agreed that that would be done. 

2444 
6/16/67 
-i11-
Governor Daane, who was to be out of the country next week, 
commented that after reviewing the revised draft policy record entry 
for the April 4 Committee meeting, he would be inclined to use the 
language incorporated in the entry in its distributed form. 
Governor Daane also referred to a second memorandum from Mr. 
Holland, likewise dated June 15, that dealt in part with a question 
raised by a Board member after the June 13 meeting, namely, whether 
after Board approval of Open Market Committee policy record entries 
for inclusion in the Annual Report, the entries should be subject to 
additional review shortly before publication for the purpose of deter-
mining whether any material in an entry was likely to prove prejudicial 
to the conduct of open market operations. Governor Daane said he 
agreed that such a review before publication would be advisable. 
Routing numbers in connection with credit card operations. 
Governor Brimmer referred to a memorandum from the Presidents' Confer-
ence Subcommittee on Collections that was to be discussed at the meet-
ing of the Conference on June 19, 1967, with regard to the question of 
assignment of American Bankers Association routing numbers to associa-
tions of two or more banks or corporations owned by two or more banks 
connection with their credit card operations. He said he had been 
informed by Mr. Fauver that at least one member of the press was anxious 
to K 
i°htain information on the subject. However, it was his view that 
do euments of the kind in question, prepared in relation to the work of 

244 5 
6/16/67 
-i12-
the Presidents' Conference, should be considered intra-agency documents 
that would not come within the purview of the Freedom of Information 
Act. 
Governor Robertson agreed that it would not appear appropriate 
for representatives of the Presidents' Conference to discuss with the 
Press matters taken up by the Conference that involved recommendations 
to the Board, at least until a decision on such recommendations had 
been reached by the Board. However, he felt that it would be appro-
priate for the Board to consider the basic question raised by Governor 
Brimmer, which related to the status of Presidents' Conference mate-
rials under the Freedom of Information Act. 
Annex building. Governor Sherrill reported to the Board on a 
-'* v.. 
conference that he and Mr. Shepardson had had with representatives of 
the Department of the Interior, pursuant to the understanding at the 
B°ard meeting on June 6? 1967, with further regard to possibilities 
f°r constructing a so-called north garage under land owned by the 
y 
department between C Street and Virginia Avenue. He said the discus-
sion had been encouraging, with three alternatives for construction of 
Su°h a garage seeming possible. First, the Interior Department felt 
fch a commercial operator who was now studying the matter was likely 
! 
make an offer to build a garage and operate it under a plan that 
w°uld require no contribution of funds on the part of the Board. If, 
however, it developed that such a project was not considered economi-
feasible in view of the size of the investment, the Board might 

6/16/67 
-i13-
2446 
want to consider making some contribution to the cost of construction 
in return for space in the garage and as a site development cost. As 
a third possible alternative, the Department of the Interior might 
grant to the Board subsurface rights to the area in question, and the 
Board could then itself construct the garage and lease it on a commer-
cial basis. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administration dated 
June 13, 1967, recommending that the number of positions provided for 
under this year's Youth Opportunity Program be increased from 10 to 11. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
A n _ 
. 
•gEBQintments under Youth Opportunity Program 
Appointment of the following persons as Summer Trainees, with com-
pensation at the rate of $1.40 per hour, effective the respective dates 
° entrance upon duty, with the understanding that they would be assigned 
LO the Divi sions indicated but that, for budgetary and payroll purposes, 
ey would be carried in the Special Project-Youth Opportunity Program 
n the Division of Administrative Services: 
Administrative Services 
Research and Statistics 
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
^ 
•J-lfca i ; 
Margaret Boulware 
Herbert A. Lewis 
Philip Etzel 
Michael T. Thomas 
Leroy Gardner, Jr. 
Sheila D. Jackson 
International Finance 
r Kenneth C. Lyles 
ii 
Fv n Andrew McClain, Jr. 
Luther Peterson 
Personnel Administration 
Data Processing 
Julia M. Frager 
Jerome Perry 

2447 
6/16/67 
-i14-
Appointments 
Margaret Sue Redden as Clerk-Typist, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,269, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Rita Louise Stewart as Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Admin-
istration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,925, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases, effective June 18, 1967 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Board Members' Offices 
I' , 
Margaret N. Muehlhaus, Secretary to 
$11,426 
$11,741 
Chairman Martin 
Dorothy S. Mooney, Secretary to 
11,111 
11,426 
Governor Robertson 
• it 
Office of the Secretary 
Helen B, Wolcott, Technical Assistant 
11,111 
11,426 
Legal 
Jacqueline L. Gillmore, Secretary 
5,331 
5,507 
Research and Statistics 
* % U i s A. Carson, Secretary 
5,867 
6,065 
Linda L. Cochran, Secretary 
5,331 
5,507 
jj°hn L. Stone, Economist 
15,113 
16,152 
Natalie C. Strader, Survey Statistician 
9,851 
10,166 
(Economics) 
* 
, 
• 
International Finance 
Ann C. Corrado, Secretary 
5,867 
6,065 
Robert F. Gemmill, Chief, Special Studies 
18,157 
18,764 
and Operations Section 

244 • < 
6/16/67 
-15-
. 
-
Salary increases, effective June 18, 1967 
(continued) 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Examinations 
Dorothy A. Crutcher, Secretary 
$7,055 
$7,253 
Don E. Kline, Assistant Review Examiner 
9,221 
9,536 
Douglas L. Orre, Assistant Federal Reserve 
9,221 
9,536 
Examiner 
Administrative Services 
Carol R. Harig, Assistant Manager, Cafeteria 
5,331 
5,867 
("Trainee" deleted from title) 
Jean Myers, Publications Clerk 
6,739 
6,915 
Ernest R. Thomas, Messenger 
3,609 
3,731 
Data Processing 
Patricia L. DePietro, Electronic Accounting 
4,936 
5,096 
Machine Operator 
wilhelmina K. Steele, Electronic Accounting 
5,896 
6,387 
Machine Operator 
Agceptance of resignations 
Sara E. Cross, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
effective the close of business July 7, 1967. 
Russell H. Tharp, Programmer, Division of Data Processing, effec-
I V e the close of business July 7, 1967. 
feSBjssion to engage in outside activities 
Robert M. Fisher, Senior Economist, Division of Research and 
atistics, to teach a graduate course in Land Planning and Use at 
^erican University. 
Neva Van Peski, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
N e w W y ^ t e 
3 
c o m P u t e r 
P^gram for First Boston Corporation, New York, 

24 f ?' 
B D A R D O F G D V E R N D R 5 
Item No. 1 
a F T H E 
6/16/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2* 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
MJ * 
• 
r> * 
• 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
. 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 16, 1967. 
Bankers International Corporation, 
16 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of May 26, 1967, the 
Board of Governors grants consent to Bankers International 
(Luxembourg) S.A. ("BILSA"), to purchase and hold up to 
933,743 additional share s of Rodo Investment Trust Ltd. 
("RODO"), London, England, at a cost of approximately US$784,345 
(equivalent), provided such shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. In this connection, the Board 
also approves the purchase and holding of shares of RODO within 
the terms of the above consent in excess of 10 per cent of 
your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
It is noted that the above investment will be financed 
with part of the proceeds of BILSA's $20,000,000 European bond 
issue. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Hit 
24. S O 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
6/16/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A B O H E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 16, 1967 
I 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120. 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
This refers to your letter of June 1, 1967, concern-
ing bids received in connection with the proposed electrical 
„_( improvements in the head office building of the San Francisco 
Reserve Bank. 
The Board will interpose no objection to your Bank's 
i, acceptance of the low bid received in connection with the 
improvements referred to in your letter, and authorizes a total 
expenditure of $368,000 for this project, instead of $272,200, 
which was authorized by the Board on October 5, 1966. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
