MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 20, 1972 

1823 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, July 20, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, and Dallas on July 13, 1972, of the rates on advances and 
discounts in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval, 
on June 26, 1972, of the application of American Fletcher Corporation, 

1824 
7/20/72 
-2-
Indianapolis, Indiana, to acquire shares of Local Finance Corporation, 
Marion, Indiana. Attached under Item No. 1 is a copy of the order, 
along with a copy of the dissenting statement of Governors Robertson 
and Brimmer. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of First 
American Bancshares, Inc., St. Joseph, Missouri, through merger with 
two other bank holding companies to acquire additional shares of the 
following Missouri banks: First National Bank of Stewartsville; Bank 
of Skidmore; First National Bank of Plattsburg; and Bank of Edgerton. 
The Board also authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Western 
Kansas Investment Corporation, Inc., Winona, Kansas, (1) to become 
a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of Farmers State 
Bank, Winona, and (2) to acquire shares of Western Kansas Credit Corpo-
ration, also of Winona. The Board also authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting these decisions. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
Pursuant to a recommendation by the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation in a memorandum of July 19, 1972, the Board unanimously 
approved publishing for comment proposed amendments to Regulation Z, 
Truth in Lending, that would require disclosures of credit terms at 
least 10 days prior to settlement in real estate transactions. A copy 

1 8 2 3 
7/20/72 
-3-
of the notice published in the Federal Register is attached as 
Item No. 4. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Report on competitive factors. Approval was given to a report, 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Bay State National Bank, 
Lawrence, Massachusetts, and First Bank and Trust Company of Haverhill, 
Massachusetts, with and into Second Bay State National Bank, Lawrence, 
Massachusetts. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the merger of Bay State National Bank, 
Lawrence, Massachusetts, and First Bank and Trust Company 
of Haverhill, Massachusetts, with and into Second Bay State 
National Bank, Lawrence, Massachusetts, would eliminate very 
little present or potential competition. While it would 
increase slightly the already high concentration of bank 
deposits in the area, the increase is minimal and there would 
remain an adequate number of alternative sources of banking 
services. The overall effect on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissented from this action because 
they agreed with the analysis by the Research Department of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston, which concluded that the competitive effect 
would be adverse. 
American Bancorporation. In a memorandum of July 10, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the application of American Bancorporation, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire 

1 S 2 G 
7/20/72 
-4-
shares of The Farmers State Bank of McClure, Ohio, McClure, Ohio. The 
Banking Markets Section also recommended approval. In a memorandum of 
July 18, Mr. Leavitt indicated that the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
had changed its adverse recommendation to approval because of improve-
ments related to the banking factors. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order reflecting this decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration. 
Manufacturers Hanover Corporation. In a memorandum of June 28, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of the application of Manufacturers Hanover Corporation, New York, New 
York, to acquire shares of the successor by merger to First National 
Bank of Bay Shore, Bay Shore, New York. Other recommendations were 
also favorable. 
The application was approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
dissenting, and the Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision. Attached under Item No. 5 is a copy of the order, along 
with a copy of the dissenting statement of Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer. 
Seilon, Inc. At the meeting on June 26, 1972, the Board reached 
a tentative decision to deny the application of Seilon, Inc., Toledo, 
Ohio, to acquire additional shares of First Bancorporation, Reno, Nevada. 

18Z7 
7/20/72 
-5-
Consideration was given also to permitting withdrawal of the appli-
cation rather than have a public denial based on the financial and 
managerial resources of the applicant. The Board requested that docu-
ments to implement a denial decision be drafted to assist the Board 
in determining whether or not to permit withdrawal of the application. 
Such draft documents had been submitted by the Legal Division with a 
memorandum of July 19. 
At today's meeting Governors Brimmer and Sheehan expressed 
objection to permitting withdrawal of the application. Governor Brimmer 
commented that not only did he believe that the Board should issue a 
strong statement such as had been drafted, but if authority were avail-
able, he would advocate that the Board require that Seilon, Inc., divest 
its present interest in First Bancorporation. He understood that under 
present law the Board did not have such authority, and he suggested 
that the staff explore the possibility of recommending legislation that 
would provide it. 
Other members of the Board expressed reluctance to issue a 
statement in terms derogatory to management of the holding company if 
there was any possibility that damage might accrue to the bank. Staff 
comments indicated that there was little or no likelihood of such 
damage, and that in the absence of such likelihood there was an obli-
gation upon the Board to apprise the public of the full reasons for 

1828 
7/20/72 
-6-
its action in order to promote awareness of the standards by which 
applications were judged. However, a preference was expressed by 
members of the Board to delete portions of the statement elaborating 
upon managerial inadequacies. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board authorized 
issuance of an order and statement in the form attached under Item No. 6. 
Michigan National Corporation. On June 21, 1972, the Board 
unanimously approved the application of Michigan National Corporation, 
Lansing, Michigan, to form a bank holding company through acquisition 
of shares of five banks in Michigan and the indirect interest held by 
the profit sharing trust of one of those banks in seven other Michigan 
banks. Draft documents to implement that decision were prepared. 
However, it subsequently became apparent that approval of the application 
might have been based in part on an understanding that the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago had changed its original position and no longer 
objected to competitive aspects of the application, whereas in fact 
the Reserve Bank continued to recommend denial on those grounds. Supple-
mental staff documentation was summarized by the Office of the Secretary 
in a memorandum of July 19, which suggested that the Board might wish 
to reconsider the case. The Legal Division had made it clear that 
the Board would be approving acquisition of the stock held indirectly 
in seven small banks and could not subsequently require its divestiture. 

1829 
7/20/72 
-7-
The Banking Markets Section recommended approval without requiring 
divestiture of the minority holdings in the seven banks. The Division 
of Supervision and Regulation continued to recommend approval. 
At today's meeting the Board agreed to reconsider the case. 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer indicated a disposition to 
approve formation of the holding company and of the acquisition of 
shares of the five primary banks, but on condition of divestiture of 
the indirect interest in the seven small banks held in trust. During 
the ensuing discussion of means by which divestiture might be accom-
plished it was brought out that the anti-competitive effects to which 
the Chicago Reserve Bank objected related to only four of the banks. 
Questions were raised regarding the propriety of the profit sharing 
trust acquiring the bank shares and the need to protect the interests 
of the beneficiaries of the trust. 
It having been noted that whereas the original decision of 
approval had been unanimous with all members of the Board present, 
the members present today did not seem to be of one opinion, action 
w a s deferred until all members could again participate. 
Trust Company of New Jersey. Wilshire Oil Company of Texas, 
New York, New York, became a bank holding company on December 31, 1970, 
by virtue of its ownership of shares of The Trust Company of New Jersey, 

1830 
7/20/72 
-8-
Jersey City, New Jersey, and had requested a determination by the 
Board that it possessed "grandfather rights" with respect to the 
continuation of its nonbanking activities, on the ground that its 
relationship with the Trust Company constituted control on June 30, 
1968. If the Board determined that question in the negative, the 
Company requested an opportunity for a hearing. In a memorandum of 
July 10, 1972, the Legal Division, with the concurrence of the Banking 
Markets Section, recommended a negative determination. The Division 
also recommended denial of the request for a hearing. 
The Trust Company of New Jersey had applied for approval of 
a merger into The New Trust Company of New Jersey, Jersey City, New 
Jersey, a non-operating bank. In a memorandum of July 6, 1972, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial, noting that 
the primary purpose of the proposed merger appeared to be to facilitate 
the acquisition by Wilshire Oil Company of Texas of the remaining 
shares of The Trust Company of Mew Jersey by forcing out minority 
shareholders. Other recommendations were also adverse. 
At today's meeting the Board unanimously determined that Wilshire 
Oil Company of Texas did not exercise control of The Trust Company of 
New Jersey on June 30, 1968, in such a manner as to qualify for grand-
father rights with respect to its nonbanking interests. The Board also 
denied the Company's request for a hearing on that question. The Board 

1831 
7/20/72 
-9-
unanimously denied the merger application of The Trust Company of 
New Jersey. It was understood that documents to implement these 
decisions would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
NCNB Corporation. In a memorandum of July 7, 1972, the Divi-
sion of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the appli-
cation of NCNB Corporation, Charlotte, North Carolina, to acquire 
C. Douglas Wilson & Co., Inc., Greenville, South Carolina, a mortgage 
servicing company. The Banking Markets Section also recommended 
approval, as had the Examining Department of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Richmond. The Bank's Research and Legal Departments, however, 
recommended denial. 
The application was approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
dissenting. It was understood that implementing documents would be 
prepared for the Board's consideration. 
In a memorandum of July 7, 1972, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation recommended approval of the application of NCNB Corpo-
ration, Charlotte, North Carolina, to acquire shares of Trust Company 
of Florida, Orlando, Florida. Other recommendations were also favorable. 
The application was approved, Governor Robertson dissenting 
on the same grounds he had cited with respect to the application of 
Nortrust Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to acquire shares of Security 

1832 
7/20/72 
-10-
Trust Company, Miami, Florida (approved by order dated December 7, 1971). 
It was understood that an order reflecting this decision would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration. 
Request for Mississippi Branch. The Mississippi Bankers 
Association had requested that a Federal Reserve Bank Branch be estab-
lished in Jackson, Mississippi. In a memorandum of July 18, 1972, the 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended that the request 
be denied on the basis that the organizational structure of the Federal 
Reserve System was adequate to serve the needs of bankers in that part 
of the country. A draft letter was attached. 
After a discussion during which Governor Brimmer suggested 
that a somewhat different approach be taken, it was understood that he 
would work with the staff to revise the letter along the lines he 
mentioned, and the sending of the letter in that revised form was 
approved unanimously. A copy of the letter subsequently transmitted 
is attached as Item No. 7. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Melnicoff, Smith, and 
Halley then withdrew and Messrs. Dittbrenner of the Division of Personnel 
Administration and Hildebeidel of the Office of the Controller entered 
the room. 
Board employment ceiling. In a memorandum of July 5, 1972, 
Governor Sheehan recommended that (1) the Office of Management and 
Budget be informed that the Board had fulfilled its commitment to reduce 

1833 
7/20/72 
-li-
the number of its employees by at least 5 per cent on June 30, 1972, 
from the previously planned level, in support of the new economic 
program, and (2) the Board continue to constrain its full-time perma-
nent employment on December 31, 1972, to a total of 1,188 persons. A 
draft letter to the Office of Management and Budget was attached. 
After a discussion during which there was agreement with 
changes in the draft letter suggested by Chairman Burns, the letter 
W a s approved unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 8. 
All staff members then withdrew except Mr. Melnicoff. 
Appointment of Reserve Bank President. In a memorandum of 
July 19, 1972, Governor Sheehan stated that the Board of Directors 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco had voted, subject to 
approval of the Board of Governors, to appoint Dr. John J. Balles as 
President of the Bank for the unexpired portion of the five-year term 
ending February 29, 1976, with salary at the rate of $70,000 a year. 
The Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans 
unanimously recommended that the appointment be approved. 
The Board unanimously approved the appointment of Dr. Balles 
and payment to him of salary at the rate fixed by the Bank's Board. 
It was understood that Dr. Balles would assume his duties at a mutually 
agreeable time. A copy of the letter sent to Chairman Wilson of the 

1834 
7/20/72 
-12-
Pederal Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant to this action is 
attached as Item No. 9. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/20/72 
AMERICAN FLETCHER CORPORATION, INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA 
Order Approving Acquisition of Local Finance Corporation 
American Fletcher Corporation, Indianapolis, Indiana, a 
bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act, 
a s amended, has applied for the Board's approval, under 5 4(c)(8) 
°f the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire 
all of the voting shares of Local Finance Corporation, Marion, 
Indiana ("Local"). Notice of the application affording opportunity 
for interested persons to submit comments and views has expired and 
those received have been considered. 
Applicant's banking subsidiary, American Fletcher National 
Bank ("Bank"), is the second largest bank in Indiana with deposits 
°f $1 billion, representing 8.7 per cent of State deposits. (All 
deposit data are as of December 31, 1971, whereas all market share 
data are as of June 30, 1971.) Bank operates 44 offices, all in 
Marion County. Indiana law prohibits a bank from branching outside 
°f the county where its head office is located. 
Local is a consumer finance holding company, its sub-
sidiaries specializing in making personal loans, normally without 
collateral, and purchasing installment sales finance contracts. 
Guardian Agency, Inc. ("Guardian"), a wholly-ox*ned subsidiary of 
Local engages in the sale, at offices of Local, of credit life 
and credit disability insurance coverage to borrowers from Local's 
finance company subsidiaries under group policies. In Indiana only, 

-2-
1836 
the insurance sales activities of Guardian include the sale of 
casualty insurance on collateral securing credit extended by 
those subsidiaries. Further, Guardian sells various forms of 
casualty, liability, and fidelity insurance to Local and its 
subsidiaries and, in Indiana only, automobile property damage and 
homeowners insurance to employees and customers of Local and its 
subsidiaries as a matter of convenience to those purchasers. 
Guardian's premium income from these sales to such employees and 
customers does not constitute a significant portion of its 
aggregate insurance premium income. Local operates 63 offices, 
°f which 46 are in the northern two-thirds of Indiana and 17 in 
southern Michigan. None of these offices are in Marion County 
where Bank's offices are located. With total assets of $36.5 
million, Local ranks 39th among finance companies in the nation 
and accounts for approximately 2.0 per cent of the approximately 
$1.8 billion of the outstanding personal loans in Indiana as of 
December 31, 1970. 
The proposed acquisition would have only a slightly 
adverse effect on existing competition since Bank does not 
Maintain offices in any geographic market served by Local. It 
is estimated that Bank's volume of consumer loans and purchases of 
installment sales finance contracts in the four counties contiguous 
to Marion County, in which Local has offices, amounts to approximately 
$150,000 per year. To this slight extent, existing competition 
would be eliminated by consummation of the proposed acquisition. 

As the second largest banking organization in Indiana, 
Applicant has the capital resources to enter markets served by 
Local and possibly other midwest States de novo, either directly 
through a recently-established subsidiary, American Fletcher 
Finance Corporation. However, Applicant does not appear to be 
°ne of the most likely entrants into Local's markets or these 
other States, the most likely entrants being the major existing 
consumer finance and sales finance companies. Even if, contrary 
to Applicant's own statement that it has no intention of entering 
these markets de novo, Applicant were to be deemed one of the 
m°st likely entrants into these markets, the unconcentrated 
character of those markets coupled with the relatively small 
Market shares held by Local, forces the conclusion that any 
adverse effects of this acquisition upon potential competition 
a*e slight. Further, there does not appear to be any substantial 
Possibility that the acquisition of Local by Applicant will have 
any significant adverse effects on credit presently made available 
to independent finance companies by Bank. 
Access to Applicant's financial resources would permit 
Local to extend its services to additional geographic markets. 
In addition, Applicant states that Local will expand its services 
Presently being offered by initiating the financing of new and 
used automobiles, mobile homes, property improvements, recreational 
articles and farm equipment as well as dealer financing of consumer 
durables. 

-4-
1838 
These expanded services would add to the public's convenience, as 
well as increase competition and, in the Board's judgment, outweigh 
the slightly adverse competitive effects of the acquisition. 
In its consideration of the application the Hoard noted 
that the equity capital of Bank is somewhat lower than that of 
most other banks with similar deposit liabilities, Applicant is, 
however, aware of the situation and has agreed to contribute an 
additional $15 million in equity capital to the Bank in the near 
future. The Board assumes that this improved capital level will 
he maintained. 
Based on the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board hereby approves the application. This 
determination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 
225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require 
such modification or termination of the activities of a holding 
company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary 
to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act 
and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to 
prevent evasions thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ effective juiy 20, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
t SEAL] 
TTvoting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Daane, Sheehan, and 
Bucher. Voting against this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governor Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

„ 1833 
DISSENTING STATEfet Of GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
lie would not approve the acquisition of a large and well-
established finance company by a banking organization which is the 
second largest in its State and is a likely potential de novo entrant 
into the consumer finance business. The fact that Applicant possesses 
the economic and managerial resources for de novo entry into markets 
served by Local is beyond dispute. Equally clear is the presence of 
a sufficient economic incentive for such entry. As the second largest 
banking organization in Indiana, Applicant maintains a unique relation-
ship, through its reputation and contacts, with various financial and 
geographic markets in that State and a presumed desire to sustain its 
competitive position. Both are shared with few others. Further, the 
mere act of filing this application signifies a certain interest on 
the part of Applicant in entry into northern and central Indiana 
consumer finance markets. Therefore, we are not persuaded by Appli-
cant's declaration that it would not enter these markets de novo. 
Bank is one of several alternative sources of credit to 
independent finance companies, and we agree with the majority that 
consummation of this proposal will not have any significant adverse 
effect on credit presently being made available to such independent 
companies. However, approval of this application would establish 
a precedent for other bank holding company acquisitions of independent 
finance companies in Applicant's market area with cumulative adverse 
effects on existing competition, virtually devoid of public benefits 
as in the case of this acquisition. Although the possibility of 

-2-
1840 
credit foreclosure exists if bank holding companies entered con-
sumer finance markets de novo, such entry would at least present 
the compensating features of increased competition and public 
convenience deriving from the resultant increase in the number 
of competitors in those markets. Accordingly, we do not favor 
approval of the acquisition of an existing finance company by a 
bank holding company which is one of the most likely entrants into 
the market. 
In our opinion, there are virtually no public benefits 
Presented by this application. Rather, it appears that Applicant 
Would be the sole beneficiary of the acquisition. 
Given the adverse effect on potential competition and 
concentration of resources presented here, accompanied by the virtual 
absence of any public benefits, we would deny the application. 
July 20, 1972. 

1841 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
7/20/72 
FIRST AMERICAN BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Mergers of Bank Holding Companies 
First American Bancshares, Inc., St. Joseph, Missouri, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, has filed separate applications for the Board's 
aPproval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to 
acquire additional voting shares of the following banks: (1) 238 
the voting shares of First National Bank of Stewartsville, 
Stewartsville, Missouri ("Stewartsville Bank") ($3.4 million of 
^posits); (2) 352 of the voting shares of Bank of Skidmore, 
skidmore, Missouri (;iSkidmore Bank") ($3.2 million of deposits); 
(3) 454 of the voting shares of First National Bank of Plattsburg, 
plattsburg, Missouri ("Plattsburg Bank") ($8.4 million of deposits); 
a n d (4) 836 of the voting shares of Bank of Edgerton, Edgerton, 
Missouri ("Edgerton Bank") ($2.6 million of deposits). 
The proposed acquisitions are to be accomplished by 
m®ans of mergers with Applicant of two other bank holding companies 
under common control with Applicant, namely, First Bancorporation, 
and Missouri Bancorporation, Inc., each located in St. Joseph, 
Missouri. A merger between two or more bank holding companies 
involves a reduction in the number of bank holding companies in a 
State. The Board regards the applications as falling under section 
3<a)(5) of the Act, which requires the Board's prior approval "for 
any bank holding company to merge or consolidate with any other bank 
Elding company." The Board has considered the applications on this 
basis. 

-2-
1842 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and viettfs has expired, and the Board has considered the applications 
and all comments received in light of the factors set forth in 3 3(c) 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1042(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, a one-bank holding company by virtue of its 
ownership of 50.6 per cent of the outstanding voting shares of 
First American Bank of Union Star (formerly, Farmers State and 
Copies Bank), Union Star, Missouri ($3.4 million of deposits) 
also holds between 21 and 23 per cent of the outstanding voting 
shares of the four subject banks. Upon consummation of the 
Proposal, Applicant would hold: 69.4 per cent of the outstanding 
v°ting shares of Stewartsville Bank; 92 per cent of the outstanding 
v°ting shares of Skidmore Bank; 68.3 per cent of the outstanding 
v°ting shares of Plattsburg bank; and 63.7 per cent of the out-
atanding voting shares of Edgerton Bank. 
First Bancorporation and Missouri Bancorporation are bank 
holding companies by virtue of the fact that each owns more than 
y 
° Per cent of the voting shares of the Skidmore Bank, 
Applicant 
and such bank holding companies are small banking organizations 
in the competitive structure of Missouri banking. Upon consummation 
o f the proposal herein Applicant *;ould become the seventeenth largest 
o f eighteen multi-bank holding companies in Missouri and its share 
i/ First Bancorporation holds 23.8 per cent of Stewartsville Bank; 26.2 
p e r cent of Skidmore bank- 23.9 per cent of Plattsburg Bank and; 23.0 per 
Jjent of Edgerton Bank. Missouri Bancorporation holds 23.8 per cent of 
tewartsville Bank; 44.2 per cent of Skidmore Bank; 21.5 per cent of 
lattsburg Bank and 17.9 per cent of Edgerton Bank. 

1843 
- 3 -
deposits of commercial banks in the State would increase from .03 
to -17 per cent and thus concentration of banking resources therein 
v°uld not be significantly affected. 
Applicant, First Bancorporation and Missouri Bancorporation 
are under common control by one person who exercises control not only 
0^er First American Bank of Union Star and Slcidmore Bank, but also 
2/ 
°Ve* the other subject banks, as if they were a single banking group. 
Each of the banks whose shares are to be acquired by Applicant is located 
in a small community in northwest Missouri and primarily serves the 
tesidents of its immediate community. Each bank is the only bank located 
j 
n its respective community. The closest proximity of each such bank to 
any °ther such bank or to Applicant's present subsidiary is 12 road miles 
and there does not appear to be a significant overlap in the areas primarily 
Served by these banks. Moreover, due to their operation under common con-
tr°l and the fact that the prospect of a change in this relationship appears 
teinote» it does not seem that any significant competition among such banks 
*°uld develop in the future. It therefore appears that approval of the 
plications would not eliminate significant present or potential com-
Petition, and the Board concludes that competitive considerations are 
d i s t e n t with such approval. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant, 
toSether with the two bank holding companies to be merged with Applicant, 
a n « 
°f the banks that are or will thereby become subsidiaries of Applicant, 
considered satisfactory. The future prospects of Applicant and each 
^•r 
JgJ^-1 three bank holding companies were organized between 1956 and 
coiti b y Applicant's president and associated individuals and these 
Panies acquired control of the subject banks between 1956 and 1968. 

-4-
1844 
Such subsidiary bank appear favorable. Consolidation of the structure 
Under which the subject banks are being operated may conceivably improve 
Eternal operating efficiency of the banking group of which they are, 
ln effect 
members. Unification of the group may contribute to its 
ability as a regional banking organization to meet competition from the 
*arger Statewide multi-bank holding companies. It appears that consum-
ption of Applicant's proposal would not have any immediate effects on 
^e convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Considerations 
Elating to such convenience and needs are deemed to be consistent with 
aPproval of the applications. It is the Board's judgment that the pro-
Posed transactions are consistent with the public interest and should 
be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
th 
e reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
tlw 
l s Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
thj 
s Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
Qr by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July ?0, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[sSAL] 
3/ ^ t i 
Mam. 
® f o r t h i s action- Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
o 
- 
I . W J . C 
O V V . X W U . 
v j u o i i m a u 
JJUJ- n o 
a n u 
v - u v c i n u i a 
' v u u e i 
L S U I l , 
[ 
sheehan, Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 
ane. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
l t e m iN0- -
7/20/72 
WESTERN KANSAS INVESTMENT CORPORATION, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
and Request for Determination under Section 4(c)(8) 
Western Kansas Investment Corporation, Inc., Winona, 
Kansas, has applied for the Board's approval under 5 3(a)(1) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) to become a 
bank holding company through the acquisition of 100 per cent of 
the voting shares of Farmers State Bank, Uinona, Kansas ("Bank"). 
Applicant has also applied for the Board's approval 
under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 5 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's 
Regulation Y to engage, through the acquisition of 100 per cent 
of 
the shares of Western Kansas Credit Corporation, Winona, Kansas 
("Credit"), in the activity of agricultural lending. Such activity 
has been determined by the Board to be closely related to banking 
controlling or managing banks (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in accordance with 50 3(b) and 4(c)(8) of the Act. The time for 
filing comments and views has expired, and the Board has considered 
the applications and all comments received in light of the factors 
set forth in §§ 3(c) and 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c) and 
1843(c)(8)). 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
Purpose of acquiring Bank. Upon acquisition of Bank ($3.7 million 
in deposits as of December 31, 1971), Applicant would not control 

-2-
1846 
a significant portion of the total deposits in commercial banks 
in Kansas. As the proposed transaction represents a restructuring 
of the ownership of Bank and Credit, consummation would not eliminate 
any existing or potential banking competition and would not result 
in any increase in the concentration of commercial banking resources 
in any relevant area. Bank's financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects are consistent with approval, as are those 
of Applicant, dependent as they will be upon those of Bank. Appli-
cant is planning no new services for Bank. Approval of the proposed 
transaction, therefore, would have no effect on convenience and 
needs in the Winona banking market. Applicant has made an equal 
exchange offer to all shareholders of Bank. 
Credit, with its sole office located on the premises of 
Bank, engages in the making of agricultural loans to local farmers 
and ranchers and rediscounting the majority of such loans with the 
Federal Intermediate Credit Bank. As of January 31, 1972, Credit 
had loans outstanding of approximately $400,000. Credit was 
established de novo by Bank in 1967. Subsequently, the shares of 
Credit were distributed on a pro rata basis to the shareholders 
of Bank. The shares of Credit are still held by all shareholders 
of Bank in amounts equivalent to each shareholder's holding of 
shares of Bank. The formation of Credit, and its affiliation with 
Bank, has enabled each institution to accommodate a larger number 

1847 
-3-
°f farmers and ranchers in the area than could be served by Bank 
alone. The Board concludes that continuation of this affiliation 
be in the public interest. 
On the basis of the foregoing and other facts reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the considerations 
affecting the factors enumerated in section 3(c) of the Act 
and the balance of the public interest factors the Board must 
consider under section 4(c)(8) in permitting a holding company to 
enSage in an activity on the basis that it is closely related to 
hanking both favor approval of the Applicant's proposal. 
Accordingly, the applications are approved for the reasons 
summarized above. The Board's determination in connection with the 
aPplication to acquire Credit is subject to the conditions set forth 
in section 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to 
Squire such modification or termination of the activities of a hold-
in8 company or any of its subsidiaries as the Beard finds necessary 
tn 
assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act 
a a d the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to 
^event evasion thereof. The acquisition of Bank shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective 
^ate of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 

-4-
1848 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ effective July 20, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
trimmer, Sheehan, Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 
and Daane, 

18-19 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o > 4 
7/20/72 
[12 CFR PART 226] 
[Reg. Z) 
TRUTH Its LENDING 
Credit 
EL*7S}A 
1. Pursuant to the authority contained in the Truth In 
Act <15 U.3.C. 1601 et. seq.) the Board of Governors proposes 
emend Part 226 (Regulation Z), in the manner and for the reasons 
s-t forth below: 
6 226.8(a) would he emended and § 226.8(q) would bo added 
to read as follow-: 
5 220,8.,.CREDIT OTHER THAN OPEN El©—SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 
(a) General M a . 
Any creditor when extending credit other 
Mian open end credit shall., in accordance with 5 226.6 and to the extent 
applicable, make the disclosures required by this section with respect to 
any u-;n,.,action consulted on or after July 1, 1869. Except as otherwise 
Provided in this section, such disclosures shall bo -u.de before the 
transection is consulted. At the time disclosures are made, the 
eteditor shall furnish the customer with a duplicate of the instrument 
o v a statement by which the r e q u i r e d disclosures are n.adc and on which 
the creditor is identified. Except as provided in paragraph <«,) of this 
Action, all of the disclosures shall be made together on either 

1850 
-2-
(1) The iu.ce or other Instrument evidencing the obligation on 
«* s « 8 side of the page and above or adjacent to the place for the 
^stocer1 s signature; or 
(2) One Side of a separate statement which identifies the 
tr*nsaction. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(q) ^ n s e or acquisition of iftglling. 
transaction 
Evolving the purchase or acquisition of a dwelling or subsequent 
financing of such transaction, the disclosures required by this section 
8 h*U be delivered to the customer before consummation of the transaction 
W 
act less than 10 business days^'before the date on which the customer 
Scutes the note or other evidence of debt, Notwithstanding the provisions 
of Paragraph (a) of this section, such disclosures may, at the creditor's 
option, be made on single sides of a multipaged statement which identifies 
th, transaction. In the event of a bona fide personal emergency, the 
^ t o ^ may waive all or a portion of the minimum 10 day period by 
W i s h i n g the creditor with a separate dated and signed personal state-
ment ascribing the personal emergency and stating the number of days 
fcetng; waived. The use of: printed forms for such a waiver is prohibited. 
S £ T ~ P o T 7 h T - o ^ ^ e T F T h i s section, a business day is any calendar 
% 
except Sunday and those legal public holidays svec.fxad in 
Action 6103(a) of Title 3 of the United States 
^ M ^ c . r 
Washington1 s Birthday, Memorial Day, I n d e p e n d e n c e Day Labor 
Coiumbuo Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day and Cmletma- D-.y). 

i s s : 
-3-
2, The amendment to § 226.8(a) involves merely technical 
Ganges to accommodate the addition of the new paragraph $ 226.8<q). 
3. The new paragraph, § 226.8<q), relates only to a consumer 
Cte*lt transaction involving the purchase, acquisition or refinancing of 
a Celling. Section 226.8(a) would provide that the required disclosures 
be made before consummation of the transaction but not less than 
10 business days before the customer executes a note or other evidence 
debt. Presently, many creditors follow the practice of making 
dl8cloSurtB at the time of settlement, which usually does not enable 
the customer to shop for more favorable credit terms. Under the 
P r ° P * ' J a l , the customer would have a reasonable period to compare credit 
^ 
before becoming obligated. The proposal would permit the customer 
to reduce or waive the 10 day disclosure period in bona fide personal 
Agencies. The proposal would also allow creditors in such trans-
itions to use a multipage statement in making the disclosures. 
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) of Title 5, 
Ur>Uc.<l States Code, and § 262.2(a) of the Rules of Procedure of the 
U°ard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 262.2(a)). 
To oin in the consideration of these matters by the Board, 
C r e s t e d persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or 
^merits. Any such material should be submitted in writing to the 

1852 
.4-
Ser-retary, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Washington, D. C. 20551, or to any Federal Reserve Bank for trans-
mittal to the Board, to be received at the Board not later than 
S*Ptember 8, 1972. Such material will be made available for inspection 
®n'd copying upon request, except as provided in § 261.6(a) of the 
B°arcrs Rules Regarding Availability of Information. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 20, 1972. 
(signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

1853 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
7/20/72 
MANUFACTURERS HANOVER CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Manufacturers Hanover Corporation, New York, New York, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
^ct> has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to 
Pirst National Bank of Bay Shore, Bay Shore, New York ("FNB"). The 
kank into which FNB is to be merged has no significance except as a 
means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of FNB. 
Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor 
Organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the 
shares of FNB. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for in-
vested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
Accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
3nd all comments received in light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls one bank, Manufacturers Hanover Trust 
cotnpany ("MHTC"), with deposits of $9.8 billion, representing 10.4 
cent of total commercial bank deposits in the State of New York, 

1854 
-2-
and ranks as the third largest banking system in the State. (All 
data are as of December 31, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions through June 30, 1972.) The 
acquisition of FNB with deposits of $59.9 million would not change 
Applicant's present rank among State banking organizations nor 
significantly increase the concentration of banking resources in 
any relevant areas. 
FNB is located in the Village of Bay Shore in southwestern 
Suffolk County; is the thirteenth largest of 32 banks headquartered 
in New York's First Banking District and ranks fourth largest among 
the 16 banks located in the Babylon-Islip Market. Eight New York 
City based holding companies are represented in the Market. The 
nearest subsidiary banking office of MHTC to an FNB branch is the 
Massapequa office located in Nassau County, a distance of nine 
miles from the West Islip office of FNB, and the offices of 22 
financial institutions are located in the intervening area. 
These institutions compete in separate banking markets and con-
summation of the proposed acquisition would not eliminate any 
meaningful amount of existing competition between these or other 
°ffices of MHTC and FNB. 
Although some potential competition could be eliminated 
bV consummation of the present proposal, it appears that such corn-
Petition would not be of a substantial nature. Applicant could 
enter Suffolk County de novo or by acquisition of a smaller bank. 

1855 
-3-
However, State banking laws restrict the branching operations of newly-
chartered banks t?y holding companies until January 1976, and it appears 
that the acquisition of one of the nine remaining, somewhat smaller, 
Suffolk County banks would not be significantly less anticompetitive 
than the present proposal. The proposed affiliation could serve to 
Emulate competition since consummation would remove home office 
protection afforded by State law to Bay Shore. Two applications are 
Pending to establish new branches in Bay Shore at the present time 
ubJect to approval of this application. It appears that consumma-
n of the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect any com-
PC? 11 
nS bank nor act as a deterrent to entry into the area by other 
anking institutions. Competitive considerations are consistent with 
aPProval of the application. 
Considerations relating to the financial condition of 
App ] j 
icant, MHTC, and FNB are considered to be satisfactory, the 
bements of each are deemed capable, and their prospects appear 
v°rable. Banking factors are consistent with approval of the 
Nation. Although the major banking needs of the area are 
attsfactorily served at the present time, Applicant proposes to 
Ssist FNB in providing new services in international banking and 
a s e financing. Considerations relating to the convenience and 
Heed 
s of the communities to be served are consistent with and lend 
suPP0rt to approval of the application. It is the Board's 
S^ent that the proposed transaction is in the public interest 
j - L 
cnat the application should be approved. 

. 1856 
-4-
0 n the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
<a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
th-S 
ls Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
th * 
ls Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
0r by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 25, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
y 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Sheehan and 
Sucher. Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
Sent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

185?' 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
We would deny the application on the grounds that consummation 
the acquisition would result in adverse effects on competition which 
would not be offset by any special benefits to the public. 
In this case, we are confronted again with a proposal by a 
1 T 
drge banking system (deposits of $9.8 billion) to acquire a strong 
dependent bank, the fourth largest in i'ts market area. FNB operates 
i n a rapidly developing area in Suffolk County, approximately 55 miles 
e a s t °f New York City, and serves the local area through its seven 
offices, all located in Suffolk County. FNB was established as a 
national bank in 1911, and its earnings in recent years have been well 
above the average for other area banks of comparable size. It has 
recently received approval to establish two additional branches in 
Suffolk County. Prospects for the continued expansion and growth of 
fNb appear assured - even without affiliation with Applicant. 
We are gravely concerned in this case, not so much by 
Removal of existing competition, but by the restriction of future 
^Petition which would result from consummation of this proposal. 
Applicant is one of the most likely entrants into the area, and, 
v,ith enormous resources, is capable of entering Suffolk County de 
Additionally, the establishment of a new bank would have 
P^oeompetitive effects on banking in the area. We are also con-
duced that FNB is capable of operating successfully in the area, 
ei-ther as an independent bank or as an affiliate with a smaller 
banking system. Either of these alternatives is more desirable 
*-han its capture (as here) by a multi-billion dollar banking 
°rSanization. 

185S 
-37-
All of the major banking needs of the area are apparently satisfied 
3 e r v l c e s presently available at existing institutions. Applicant proposes 
6nal>U FNB to offer a fairly full range of banking services, to include 
3etvices in lease financing and international banking. However, there 
0ta to be no present need for these new services in the area. Under the 
3tances presented here, we can find no need or public benefit that 
N d 
e®anate from consummation of the proposed acquisition to outweigh the 
6 effect that consummation of the proposal would have on competition 
1* 
r i 
celated communities. 
In weighing the options open to Applicant for entry into Suffolk 
nty> 
at the same time ccgnizant of the projected growth and expanding 
this area, we are convinced that the public interest would 
b 3erv®d by the Board's denial of this application. 
S 25, 1972 

1859 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 6 
7/20/72 
SEILON, INC. 
Otd 
• er Denying Approval of Acquisition of Shares of a Bank Holding Company 
Seilon, Inc., Toledo, Ohio, has applied for the Board's 
aPProval under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 
l8«2(a)(3)) to acquire up to an additional 63.5 per cent of the 
v°ting shares of First Bancorporation, Reno, Nevada, a one-bank holding 
eompany owning 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of Nevada National Bank, Reno, Nevada. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
a n d all comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
On the basis of the record, the application is denied for 
fche reasons set forth in the Board's Statement of this date. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective juiy 20, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
P~~^oting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
^itchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
^airman Burns. 

1860 
STATEMENT BY 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REGARDING APPLICATION BY 
SEILON, INC., TOLEDO, OHIO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF ADDITIONAL 
SHARES OF A BANK HOLDING COItPANY 
Seilon, Inc., Toledo, Ohio, a registered bank holding 
company has applied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 
3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), 
f°r prior approval of the acquisition of up to an additional 63.5 per 
cent of the voting shares of First Bancorporation, Reno, Nevada, a 
°ne-bank holding company that owns 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of Nevada National Bank, Reno, 
Nevada ("Bank") and engages in no other activity. Applicant presently 
36.5 per cent of the outstanding shares of First Bancorporation. 
Sta^utorvconsiderations. - Applicant, an Ohio based company, 
has engaged in a variety of corporate activities since incorporation 
1921 (including the plastics, wire and cable, and footwear businesses), 
bl*t presently limits its activities to ownership of 36.5 per cent of the 
v°ting shares of First Bancorporation, a one-bank holding company owning 
100 per cent of the shares of Bank, and ownership of a wholly-owned 
subsidiary, Thompson International Company, engaged in the manufacture 
and sale of farm machinery directly and through subsidiaries. 
Bank ($114.2 million of deposits), which is headquartered 
in Reno and operates nineteen branches throughout Nevada, is the fourth 
largeSt of eight commercial banks in the State and controls approximately 
9 Per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
Appli-
cant has no other banking subsidiary and the proposal herein represents 
i/ Banking data are as of June 30, 1°71. 

1861 
- 2 -
a n increase in Applicant's already substantial (over 25 per cent) interest 
Bank. Consummation of Applicant's proposal would not alter any 
listing banking competition nor foreclose potential competition, 
n°r have adverse effects on any competing bank in any relevant area. 
N o r d°es it appear that the convenience and needs of the communities 
involved would be materially affected as a result of consummation of 
Applicant's proposal. The Board concludes that considerations re-
nting to competition and convenience and needs are consistent with, 
lend no x^eight toward, approval of the application. 
In acting on any application under the Bank Holding Company 
the Board's consideration must include an examination of the 
fin 
nancial and managerial resources and prospects of the holding 
C°mPany and the banks involved. In evaluating those factors in the 
Resent proposal, the Board finds that a denial of the application is 
W a n t e d . 
Applicant's record of operations lacks a showing of financial 
strength and profitability. During the late 1960's, Applicant dis-
c e d of several of its nonbanking subsidiaries, apparently because of 
their failure to generate earnings and a need on the part of Applicant 
to 
Satisfy debt obligations. Except for 1971, Applicant has incurred 
s*8nifleant operating losses during the last five years and its 
derating profit in 1971 was due solely to its investment in First 
^corporation. 

. 1862 
- 3 -
The Board has previously stressed the importance of financial 
strength of a bank holding company so that it can assist its subsidiaries 
With capital if the need arises. Given the present state of Applicant's 
financial condition, it is unlikely that Applicant would be able 
to provide meaningful financial assistance to Bank in the reasonably 
near future. Only the earnings of the Bank give Applicant an operating 
Profit; Applicant's nonbanking activities have been operated at a loss. 
Consummation of the proposal herein would give Applicant majority con-
trol of First Bancorporation and Bank and would position Applicant to 
endeavor to improve its financial condition at the expense of Bank 
through 
liberal or excessive dividends or management fees drawn from 
Bank. Such a program could put an undue strain on Bank's financial 
condition. 
The Board has additional and serious reservations with respect 
to the managerial resources of Seilon. Applicant, headquartered in 
Ohio, acquired its interest in First Bancorporation, a Nevada corporation, 
in 1963 and 1969 
At the present time only one of Applicant's five 
directors is a resident of Nevada. Absentee management of the nature 
involved in Applicant's structure is regarded by the Board as less than 
desirable, certainly substantially less effective than on-the-scene-
tnanagement, which is usually better able to react quickly when and 
if financial, operational, or managerial difficulties arise in a sub-
sidiary bank. Further, on-the-scene-management is more attuned to 
local banking needs than absentee management. 
a p p l i c a n t became a bank holding company subject to the jurisdiction 
5*' the Board as a result of the enactment of the 1970 Amendments to the 
Sank Holding Company Act: Applicant's original acquisition of shares or 
First Bancorporation did not require prior Board approval. 

1S63 
-4-
Further supporting denial of Applicant's proposal, in 
the 
e Board's judgment, is the fact that Applicant's board of directors 
has n 
n o member with in-depth banking experience. The Board is unable 
to conclude that the general interest of the public and the particular 
nterests of the community served by Bank would be benefited or served 
Permitting Applicant to expand its control over First Bancorporation 
nt thJ-s time. 
The Board is also concerned about the fairness of the 
Change offer contemplated by Applicant. The present holders of 
*lti 
Off 
e<* 5-1/2 per cent non-cumulative convertible preference stock 
st Bancorporation common stock (other than Applicant) would be 
i 
Applicant. Applicant would not be required to pay dividends on 
Preferred stock even if there are current earnings. Such an 
rai*gement invites problems. Dividends on the preferred stock could 
Passed for a number of years, after which a dividend of 5-1/2 per 
c^nt Q n ., 
the preferred stock could be paid followed by a payout of 
aj- years' accumulated earnings to common stockholders. The ex-
Plan would enable Applicant to take dividends out of First 
^ncor 
rPoration x/ithout having to give a share of them to the holders of 
Preferred stock (who are now holders of common stock of First Ban-
ration). Moreover, since the non-cumulative preferred stock would 
carry voting rights - unless Applicant refrained from paying dividends 
th 
nree consecutive years - the present shareholders of First Bancor-
p°ratin who exchange their common shares for said preferred stock would 

1864 
- 5 -
h a v e no vote in the policies of Applicant for at least three years. 
T 
n the Board's view, such an exchange offer is adverse to the interests 
of the present shareholders of First Bancorporation other than Applicant. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
c°ntained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in 
Action 3(c) of the Act, noting particularly the present financial con-
ation and managerial resources of Applicant, it is the Board's judgment 
that consummation of the proposal would not be in the public interest 
that the application should be denied. 
M y 20, 1972. 

1865 
B O A R D 
• F 
G D V E R N D R S 
..'-oVco--. 
OF T H E 
Item No. 7 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
V20/72 
* 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
it® [[fifVWj'r' 
ADDRESS arnr.lAL CC1 k Rf-SJ PD N OF N C E 
' * 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 4, 1972 
llx> John R. Hubbard 
Executive Director 
Mississippi Bankers Association 
11« 0. Box 37 
Jackson, Mississippi 39205 
Dear Mr. Hubbard: 
The Board has considered the request contained in the 
May 23, 1972, resolution of the Mississippi Bankers Association 
that a Federal Reserve Bank Branch be established in Jackson, 
Mississippi. 
Federal Reserve services in Jackson have been reviewed, 
atlrl the results indicate that the objectives you have in mind 
(fcnd which we share) can be accomplished by means other than cs-
taMisInnent; of a branch. 
The Board is currently engaged in a program to improve, 
Modernize, and equalise Federal Reserve services throughout the 
country, and a number of definitive actions have already been taken. 
As you know, the Board has adopted measures (to become effective 
in the fall) (1) to redefine reserve cities, (2) to restructure 
reserve requirements according to size of bank, and (3) to require 
a H banks to settle for cash letters on an immediate basis. More-
°ver, plans to be implemented in the near future include establishment 
additional regional check processing centers to speed the check 
c ° i 1 e c t i o n p r o c e s s. 
In connection with this effort, the specific needs of the 
Jackson area are under study in the Sixth Federal Reserve District, 
arid the Board will encourage pn.no.pt implementation of improvements 
in services as they become feasible. However, the Board, feels that 
ftny such changes can be implemented within the existing organiza-
tional structure of the System. The Board, the Federal Reserve Bank 
Atlanta, and its Branch in 
Or leans will make every effort to 
a«sifit in the continued economic and financial growth of the Jackson 
area. 
Very truly yo??rs, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smtth 
Secretary of the liocsrd 

;
•
•
M
F
E
• 
E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
7 / 2 0 / 7 2 
• <®< 11 f T if V • -'h ' 
WASHINGTON, n.f. i?DBGI 
1 / •» /"» 
O 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF-THf 
I t e m 
No 
ilMMSV 
^TrT^ 
OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN 
July 24, 1972 
Honorable Caspar W. Weinberger 
Erector 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 
Dear Caspar: 
In your letter dated September 20, 1971, you urged the 
°ard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to support in 
every possible way the President's effort to stabilize the economy 
under the New Economic Program that he had announced on 
^ugust 15, 1971, and particularly emphasized the need to reduce 
federal full-time civilian employment by 5% by June 30, 1972* I 
assured you in my latter dated October 21, 1971 as well as in our 
feting on October 22, 1971 that the Board would cooperate in 
achieving the President's goals and that our on-board employment 
ttould be reduced by at least 5% on June 30, 1972 from previously 
planned levels. 
I am pleased to inform you that as the result of 
Managerial actions in support of our commitment, the Board's full-time 
Permanent employment on June 30, 1972 was 1,153 people. This 
employment level was 8.5% below where it could have been if all 
authorized vacancies had been filled and 13% below the level 
cr*fcicipated in October 1971. Thus, we have been able to reduce 
cur on-board employment by more than the 5%.requested by the 
"Resident despite the growth in the number and variety of demands 
upon our staff. We shall continue to hold our expenditures and 
employment to the minimum levels necessary to discharge the 
responsibilities pi.ace.d upon us. 
1 wish you every success in your effort to achieve 
fiscal restraint. 
Sincerely, 
Arthur F, E urn s 

July 23, 1972 
1867 
•'ioS^HHfyV. 
i'lo^tfii^b*. 
• r^AL H'--'-' ,. * 
Item No. 9 
7/20/72 
CHAIRMAN' O F T H E B O A R D O F GOVERNORS 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 205'J» 
0. Meredith Wilson, Chairman 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
c/o Center for Advanced Study-
in the Behavioral Sciences 
202 .Junipero Serra Boulevard 
Stanford, California 94305 
Bear Meredith: 
She Board of Governors today accepted the recommendation of the Directors 
°f the Federal Reserve Bank of. Sari Francisco that Dr. John J. Balles be 
pPpoj.iUed as President of the Bank at a saiary of £70,000 a year. Xhc 
other terms and conditions of Dr. Balles1 appointment are to be consis-
tent v.'ith those of other Federal Reserve Bank Presidents, and the Board 
staff will be happy to assist you in preparation c£ a definitive employ-
ment contract. 
The Beard has noted and discussed your comments on A. B. Merritt and 
the general question of official salary administration. As you know, 
the Conference of Chairmen and the Conference of Presidents have com-
mittees at work on this matter 5n cooperation with the Board's Commit-
tee on Organisation, Compensation and Building Plans. 1 am hopeful 
that before many months pass we shall have a sound basis on which to 
restructure Federal Reserve officer compensation. In the meantime, 
3 special study is beinconducted to give us guidance on salaries for 
U'73. 
I know that you have been in touch with Governor Sheehan concerning a 
salary adjustment for Mr. Merritt:. He will keep me informed of develop-
Merits bearins, on this question and will, I am sure, brinj it before the 
at the earliest possible time. 
Si nc e re1y yours, 
Arthur F* Burns 
