609 
Minutes for 
May 5. 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

14 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
tem on Monday, May 5, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Messrs. Mertz, Noble, Plotkin, and Via of the 
Legal Division 

2 
5/5/69 
-10-
Messrs. Cleaver, Ducy, Lawrence, and Schweitzer 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Achor, Burton, Cloth, Harris, Kline, 
Maguire, and Sanford, and Misses Greene 
and McShane of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Application of Bankers Trust New York Corporation (Items 1 
a n d 2). There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement 
reflecting the Board's approval on April 15, 1969, of the application 
of Bankers Trust New York Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire 
shares of Peoples Bank of Long Island, National Association, Patchogue, 
New York. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 1 and 2. 
Application of First at Orlando Corporation (Items 3 and 4). 
There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on April 7, 1969, of the application of First at 
Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire at least 80 per cent 
of the voting shares of St. Lucie County Bank, Fort Pierce, Florida. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 3 and 4. 
Applications of Girard Trust Bank and South Penn Square Bank 
(Items 5-7). There had been distributed a memorandum dated March 19, 
1969, from the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Legal 
Division regarding the application of Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, to merge with South Penn Square Bank, also of Philadelphia, 

1449 
5/5/69 
-10-
a newly-organized bank not yet in operation, and the application of 
South Penn Square Bank for membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The proposed merger was one step in a plan of corporate reorganization 
designed to bring into being a one-bank holding company. 
The merger and membership applications were approved unanimously. 
The issuance of the proposed order and statement was authorized; copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 5 and 6. A copy of 
the letter sent to South Penn Square Bank approving its application for 
membership in the Federal Reserve System is attached as Item No. 7. 
Application of Bank of Las Vegas. A memorandum from the Divi-
sion of Supervision and Regulation dated April 10, 1969, and other 
pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an application 
of Bank of Las Vegas, Las Vegas, Nevada, for permission to merge with 
Valley Bank of Nevada, Reno, Nevada. The title of the resulting bank 
would be Valley Bank of Las Vegas. The recommendations were favorable. 
Following comments by Mr. Egertson in supplementation of the 
material that had been distributed, the application was approved unani-
mously, with the understanding that an appropriate order and statement 
would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Bank holding company applications. On the basis of staff 
material that had been distributed, including favorable recommenda-
tions, and following oral summaries regarding each case, the following 
bank holding company applications were approved unanimously: 

1.450 
5/5/69 
-4-
Application of Dominion Bankshares Corporation, Roanoke, 
Virginia, to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Security National Bank, Baileys Cross Roads, 
Falls Church, Virginia. 
Applications of Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, 
Missouri, to acquire more than 80 per cent of the out-
standing voting shares of Delmar Bank of University 
City, University City, The Kirkwood Bank, Kirkwood, and 
Union State Bank, St. Charles, all in Missouri. 
Application of Affiliated Bank Corporation, Madison, 
Wisconsin, to become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Bank of Madison and Hilldale State Bank, 
both of Madison, Wisconsin. 
Application of Midwest Bancorporation, Inc., Kansas City, 
Missouri, to become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of over 80 per cent of the voting shares of 
Laurel Bank, Raytown, Missouri, and Platte Woods Bank, 
Platte Woods, Missouri. 
It was understood that orders and statements reflecting these 
decisions would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Proposed amendment to Regulation U (Items 8 and 9). There had 
been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation dated April 17, 1969, recommending an amendment to Regula-
tion U, Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying 
Registered Stocks, that would provide an exemption for bank credit 
extended to firms performing a market-making function in the "third 
market." This would closely parallel the proposal published for com-
ment on February 10, 1969, to provide a similar exemption for firms 
making a market in over-the-counter stocks. Both would involve surveil-
lance and enforcement by the Securities and Exchange Commission; they 
had been cleared with SEC staff although not formally by the Commission. 

1451 
5/5/69 
-10-
The memorandum brought out that the question of the exemption 
had been raised over a period of time by Mr. Emil J. Pattberg, Jr., 
Chairman of The First Boston Corporation, initially in 1967. The New 
York Reserve Bank had recommended that such an exemption be deferred 
pending a thorough study of the market-making function in the various 
securities markets. In July 1968 Mr. Pattberg renewed his request, 
and later that year Mr. Alan Weeden, President of Weeden 6c Co., sug-
gested criteria for determining whether such an exemption was being 
abused. Messrs. Pattberg and Weeden appeared in support of their 
requests at a meeting held in December 1968, at which Governors Maisel 
and Brimmer were present. 
Attached to the memorandum was a proposed letter to Mr. 
Pattberg that would assure him that any further comments he wished to 
submit would be considered by the Board in reaching a final determina-
tion with regard to the proposed amendment. A similar letter would be 
sent to Mr. Weeden. 
Following discussion, the publication of the amendment in the 
Federal Register as a notice of proposed rule making was approved 
unanimously. A copy of the letter sent to Mr. Pattberg is attached as 
Item No. 8. A copy of the press release subsequently issued is 
attached as Item No. 9. 
Los Angeles Branch building (Item No. 10). Unanimous approval 
was given to a telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 

1452 
5/5/69 
-10-
interposing no objection to the purchase of certain property (area 
about 9,600 square feet) adjoining the Los Angeles Branch building. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 10. 
Cincinnati Branch building program. There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated April 17, 1969, from the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations relating to the Cincinnati Branch building program, the 
final plans for which had been sent to the Board for review. On the 
basis of a revised cost estimate it was apparent that the proposed 
building would be one of the most expensive thus far constructed. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland reflecting the recommendation of the Division 
that the plans and specifications be reviewed with a view to effecting 
economies. 
Mr. Mcintosh pointed out that unallocated funds available for 
construction of other Reserve Bank branch buildings would be reduced 
to a point which suggested that it might be prudent to request that 
the ceiling set by statute on the aggregate amount that could be 
obligated for the construction of branch buildings be raised or 
abolished. He also noted that the estimated cost of the Cincinnati 
program exceeded any previous branch project, which might call for 
explanation if the Board testified in support of such legislation. 
Mr. Farrell observed that a portion of the cost might be 
attributed to inclusion of built-in plans for future expansion, which 

1453 
5/5/69 
raised the question to what extent such a principle could be justified 
at current prices. 
At the suggestion of Chairman Martin the matter was referred 
to the Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building 
Plans for exploration with the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland prior 
to further consideration by the Board. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Policy on unionization and collective bargaining (Items 11 
— 
l2l' 
T h e r e h a d been distributed copies of the most recent draft 
of a document entitled "Policy on Unionization and Collective Bargain-
ing for the Federal Reserve Banks." This had been discussed by the 
Board with the Reserve Bank Presidents on April 29, 1969, at which 
time President Galusha referred to certain changes that were being 
recommended in the document. The changes to which President Galusha 
referred had subsequently been made available to the Board members, 
who had also been furnished copies of a press statement that would be 
released Friday afternoon, May 9, announcing the adoption of the 
Policy statement. 
Governor Sherrill said that he had talked with President 
Coldwell about the adverse reaction of the Dallas directors to the 
Proposed policy, as reported to the Board by letter. President 
Coldwell stated that the views presented reflected his own position 

9 
5/5/69 
-10-
as well as that of his directors. Governor Sherrill had explained to 
him the difficulties involved in turning back at this stage for full-
scale reconsideration of the issue, and President Coldwell recognized 
that fact. 
Governor Sherrill said that in his opinion it would now be 
appropriate for the Board to adopt the proposed policy statement. 
Governor Brimmer agreed that the Board should move forward. 
He raised a question, however, about the timing of the press release. 
Mr. Molony said he thought there was a rather universal desire 
to avoid undue publicity. There had at one stage been objection by 
some Presidents to issuing any press release from the Board's offices. 
But there was a greater risk if no such statement should be released. 
The policy statement would have to be made available upon request in 
any event. The Friday afternoon release time had been suggested with 
a view to playing the matter down. The deferred release date would 
also enable the Board to have the policy statement in the hands of all 
°f the Reserve Banks. 
Governor Brimmer observed that President Swan should not be 
put in an embarrassing position in dealing with the union representa-
tives. He also raised the question whether press relations might be 
damaged by releasing the statement on Friday afternoon. 
Mr. Molony replied that the effect would be that papers partic-
ularly concerned with Federal Reserve affairs that did not publish on 

1455 
5/5/69 
-10-
Saturday probably would carry a story in their Monday editions. He 
went on to point out that the Presidents had recommended eliminating 
a clause from the policy statement stating that it had been adopted by 
the Board "following consultation with the Federal Reserve Banks." 
However, he proposed that the press release say that the policy state-
ment had been adopted "following discussion with the Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks." That would simply be a recital of fact, but it 
would make it clear that the policy statement had not been issued by 
the Board "out of the blue." He had called Mr. Scanlon, Chairman of 
the Presidents' Conference, and read the draft press release, drawing 
attention particularly to the clause to which he had referred. Presi-
dent Scanlon said it was agreeable to him, although he thought directors 
of a couple of the Reserve Banks probably would be happier if the 
release did not contain such a clause. If an explanation was desired 
of the circumstances under which it had been recommended that the 
original clause be dropped from the policy statement, it would be neces-
sary to get in touch with President Galusha, Chairman of the Committee 
on Management and Personnel. Mr. Molony had not done that, however, 
because he felt the Board's consideration of the question might be 
prejudiced. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the press statement 
would be of limited interest and that the plan to release it on Friday 
afternoon was acceptable. In response to a question, Mr. Molony said 

1456 
5/5/69 
-10-
it was hard to judge whether the announcement would be given much 
attention in the press even if the release date was changed. 
Governor Maisel considered it appropriate to include the 
clause referred to by Mr. Molony in the press release. He thought 
the proposed timing of the release would be satisfactory unless it 
involved some complication for President Swan. 
Mr. O'Connell said he had talked with President Swan last 
Friday. Mr. Swan had cautioned union representatives that the state-
ment of policy might not be available until the last day of this week 
and the union representatives had made no protest. President Swan had 
stated that he would not be placed in an awkward position if he could 
not make the policy statement available to the union until Friday. 
Governors Brimmer and Maisel then indicated that Mr. O'Connell's 
report was satisfactory to them. Governor Brimmer agreed with the view 
that the clause indicating that the policy statement had been adopted 
following discussion with the Federal Reserve Bank Presidents should be 
included in the press release. 
Mr. Johnson pointed out that the language now included in the 
policy statement indicating that supervisory personnel of a Reserve Bank 
(among certain other categories) could not be members of any labor orga-
nization meant that a great many of the employees of a Bank would be 
excluded. 
This point was discussed, and it was the view of the Board that no 
adjustment of the language should be made at this time. Governor Sherrill 

1457 
5/5/69 
-10-
said he felt sure that a number of questions would arise and that they 
would have to be worked out in due course. 
The policy statement was thereupon adopted by unanimous vote 
in the form attached as Item No. 11, and it was agreed that a press 
release would be issued Friday afternoon in the form attached as 
Item No. 12. 
Legal fees (Item No. 13). Reference was made to a memorandum 
from the Legal Division dated May 2, 1969, concerning a request from 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco for approval of the payment 
of outside legal fees for which the Bank had or might become obligated 
during and after the current labor negotiations. The Bank was unable 
to estimate the approximate amount of expense that might eventually be 
incurred for such services; consequently, its request was beyond the 
> 
area in which the Board's General Counsel was authorized to act under 
delegated authority. 
Mr. Hexter pointed out that the draft of reply to the Reserve 
Bank authorizing the employment of outside counsel for the purposes 
described stated that all bills received by the Bank should be sub-
mitted to the Board for approval prior to payment. An alternative 
would be to advise the Bank in terms that the bills could be paid by 
the Bank unless, on any occasion, the Board should object. 
The alternative language was favored. Accordingly, unanimous 
approval was given to a letter in the form attached as Item No. 13. 

1458 
5/5/69 
-10-
Services of Judge Pierce. Governor Sherrill stated that Judge 
Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., who had been retained as a consultant in connec-
tion with the preparation of the policy statement on unionization and 
collective bargaining, had asked to be relieved of the requirement to 
fill out certain financial forms normally required of consultants. 
Governor Sherrill explained why he felt that a waiver would be appro-
priate in this case, and the other members of the Board agreed. 
Legal expertise on labor matters. Mr. Hexter said there was 
at hand an application for employment from a lawyer with considerable 
labor experience. He raised the question whether the Board felt that 
some effort should be made to develop that kind of expertise within 
the Board's legal staff since it might minimize the need for each 
Reserve Bank to employ outside counsel at considerable expense. 
Chairman Martin suggested that Mr. Hexter discuss the matter 
with Governor Sherrill. 
Question raised by President Galusha. Chairman Martin said 
that President Galusha of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis was 
in receipt of an invitation to serve as a director of a publishing 
firm, which service would be subject to an agreement that President 
Galusha would receive no compensation and would have nothing to do 
with the firm's financial arrangements. 
Mr. Hackley said that there was nothing in the statute to 
preclude such service and that it was entirely a matter of policy. In 

14 
5/5/69 
-10-
the past the Board had taken positions with regard to Reserve Bank 
Presidents serving in certain public or quasi-public capacities, but 
he could recall no permissive ruling on a question of this particular 
kind. Involved in the policy decision were questions of the possibil-
ity, although perhaps remote, of embarrassment to the Federal Reserve 
System or conflict of interests. 
Governor Maisel observed that the broad question was where to 
draw a line, and Chairman Martin noted that the Board had followed a 
hard-and-fast rule against affiliation with a profit-making operation. 
However, he suggested that President Galusha's question be studied by 
the staff prior to Board consideration at another meeting. 
Assistance to Treasury. Mr. Holland reported that the Treasury 
had asked to borrow the services of Mr. Keir of the Board's staff and 
Mr. Meek of the New York Reserve Bank three days a week for the next 
few weeks to work on some of the economic questions involved in a 
prospective request by the Treasury to the Congress to raise the statu-
tory interest rate ceiling on longer-term Treasury securities. 
Governor Maisel said his reaction was adverse. Until the 
Board had adopted a policy position on the issue, he felt it would be 
a mistake for members of the Federal Reserve staff to participate. 
Certainly he would not want to see staff members engaged in political 
activity. Whether the Congress would remove the ceiling might well 
depend on the arguments used. He gathered that Messrs. Keir and Meek 

1460 
5/5/69 
-10-
would be asked to work on the relationship of monetary policy to this 
issue, and he would want to see the arguments listed. 
Chairman Mart in recalled that the issue of the ceiling had 
come up repeatedly over the years and that he had testified several 
years ago in favor of its removal. It was his offhand reaction to the 
Treasury request that it involved the kind of problem on which the 
Federal Reserve would agree to help the Treasury, under any Administra-
tion, in terms of providing technical assistance. 
Governor Mitchell said he understood that the two men would 
function as technicians who would make reports based on their own 
competence and that they would not attempt to present a Federal Reserve 
view. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that much could be done, by way of 
interagency understanding, to make sure that the role played by Messrs. 
Keir and Meek was consistent with their status as members of the 
Federal Reserve staff. He could visualize that they would examine 
technical questions and that their output would go to Treasury policy 
officials for the latter's use. The linkage to a political campaign 
disturbed him, but not so much that he would reject the Treasury 
request. 
Chairman Martin noted that Governor Maisel had pointed up the 
Problem, which involved drawing a line, but he felt it would be diffi-
cult to refuse the Treasury when it needed manpower for re-examination 
°f such an important issue. 

1461 
( 
5/5/69 
-15-
Governor Maisel then said that he would not object if the 
Treasury wanted to borrow personnel from the Federal Reserve simply 
to advise Treasury officials on technical matters. He was concerned, 
however, about the borrowing of staff on an assumption that certain 
relationships between monetary and debt management policy existed, 
because that was an area where there was possibility of debate. He 
would certainly object, as he had said, if the men concerned were to 
be used for political purposes. 
... s • , 
Mr. Holland said he would transmit the points that had been 
made to the Treasury as warnings to be kept in mind, and Chairman 
Martin noted that the Treasury should not expect to have the services 
of Messrs. Keir and Meek available indefinitely. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

i4t;2 
Item No. 1 
5/5/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEk 
• 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORPORATION, 
New York, New York 
for approval of acquisition of all 
of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of 
Peoples Bank of Long Island, National Association, 
Patchogue, New York. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(!2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Bankers Trust 
New York Corporation, New York, New York, a registered bank holding 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of all 
the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of Peoples 
Bank of Long Island, National Association, Patchogue, New York. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
the application. 

-5-
1463 
As discussed in the accompanying Statement, the New York 
State Banking Board approved an application involving the same pro-
posal in accordance with the recommendation of the New York State 
Superintendent of Banks, and advised this Board of its action. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 27, 1969 (34 Federal Register 2696), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
aPPlication was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
at*d all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, 
0 r (t>) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 5th day of May, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
(Signed) T.obert P. Forrestal 
S 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1464 
Item No. 2 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
5/5/69 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
PEOPLES BANK OF LONG ISLAND, 
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, PATCHOGUE, NEW YORK 
STATEMENT 
Bankers Trust New York Corporation, New York, New York 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to 
the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior 
approval of the acquisition of all of the voting shares (except for 
directors' qualifying shares) of Peoples Bank of Long Island, National 
Association, Patchogue, New York ("Peoples Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and re-
quested his views and recommendation thereon. The Comptroller rec-
ommended approval of the application. 
Pursuant to the requirements of Article III-A of the New 
Banking Law, Applicant submitted an application involving the 
same proposal to the New York State Banking Board, The Banking Board 

1465 
-5-
approved the application on February 6, 1969, in accordance with 
the recommendation of the New York State Superintendent of Banks, 
and transmitted a copy thereof to the Board of Governors. 
Statutory considerations; - Section 3(c) of the Act 
provides that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would 
result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination 
or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business 
°f banking in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board 
approve any other proposed acquisition the effect of which, in any 
section of the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, 
to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would 
be in 
restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompet-
itive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in 
the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in 
meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In 
each case the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding 
company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant, the 
largest bank holding company and sixth largest banking organization in 
the State of New York, controls four banks which have aggregate deposits 

-5-
Of $5.4 billion, representing about 7.2 per cent of the deposits held 
by all commercial banks in the S t a t e d 
It is one of 12 banking organi-
zations in the State which control over $1 billion in deposits each. 
Acquisition of Peoples Bank, which controls less than .1 per cent of 
the deposits held by the State's commercial banks, would not signifi-
cantly affect the present level of State-wide banking concentration. 
Peoples Bank, which has eight offices and deposits of 
$59 million, is headquartered in Patchogue, a village with a population 
of 10,000, located in the Town of Brookhaven in Suffolk County. In 
addition to Peoples Bank, Patchogue is served by a branch of Security 
National Bank of Long Island ($608 million deposits), the largest bank 
headquartered in Suffolk County; by a branch of Tinker National Bank 
of East Setauket ($85 million deposits), acquisition of which by Marine 
Midland Banks, Inc., a registered bank holding company, was recently 
approved by tha Board; and by two offices of Island State Bank ($70 mil-
lion 
deposits), the head office of which, upon consummation of its re-
cently approved merger of First National Bank of Bay Shore, will be 
located at Bay Shore. Three of Peoples Bank's offices are located in 
the Patchogue area, and all are located in the central and southern 
Portions of Brookhaven, 
Peoples Bank is the fourth largest of 15 banks headquartered 
in Suffolk County, and the tenth largest of 22 banks with offices in 
U All banking data are as of June 29, 1968, adjusted to reflect 
mergers and holding company acquisitions approved by supervisory 
authorities to date. 

22 
-5-
the county. In Peoples Bank's service area, which encompasses most of 
Brookhaven and parts of Smithtown and Islip, there are nine banks, only 
two of which (with deposits of $28 million and $38 million, respectively) 
are smaller than Peoples Bank. Although it is reasonably anticipated 
that Peoples Bank, under Applicant's control, will be a more aggressive 
competitor than it has been in the past, it does not appear that undue 
adverse effects on competing banks will result. Rather, the anticipated 
increase in the bank's aggressiveness, and the fact that Patchogue, 
which is presently closed to de novo branching because of the "home 
office protection" feature of the New York branching law, will be opened 
to such branching, are regarded as favorable considerations with respect 
to the present application. 
It does not appear that any significant competition would be 
eliminated by consummation of Applicant's proposal. Of Applicant's 
present subsidiaries, only its New York City subsidiary, Bankers Trust 
Company, derives any measurable amount of business from the area served 
by Peoples Bank. Such business, equal in amount to only about 1 per cent 
of the deposits and 2 per cent of the loans of Peoples Bank, is insignifi-
cant in relation to the total business of Bankers Trust Company. Peoples 
Bank, on the other hand, derives over 90 per cent of its deposits from 
its service area, and less than 2 per cent of its deposits and loans 
originate in New York City and Nassau County. 
With respect to potential competition, none of Applicant's 
subsidiary banks is located in an area from which it may legally branch 
into Suffolk County. Although the law would permit Peoples Bank to branch 

-5-
into Nassau County and New York City areas within New York's First 
Banking District which are served by Bankers Trust Company, it does 
not appear likely that it would do so in the light of its past branch-
ing pattern, its limited resources as compared with those of the large 
banks in those areas, and the more immediate opportunities likely to 
be 
presented by the anticipated continued growth of Suffolk County. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Board concludes that consummation 
of Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in further-
ance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the busi-
ness of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen compe-
tition or tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant's financial condition and management are satisfactory, and 
its 
prospects are considered favorable. 
Peoples Bank is in good financial condition, with competent 
management. In part, it appears, because of the conservatism of its 
managment, the bank's rate of growth has been considerably below that 
e*perienced by most other banks in the county, the growth of which has 
been very rapid, as has that of the population and economy of the county. 
Nevertheless, the bank's growth has been good by any normal standards, 
flnd, although the prospects of Peoples Bank would be improved as a 
Result of Applicant's proposal, they would be regarded as favorable in 
any event. 
Considerations under the banking factors are consistent with 
approval of the application. 

±W3 
-6-
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
„ 
v" » , .) - ' fv-V f 5- V 
,-j, f 
if ' 
, - - ; 
, 
4 
Consummation of the present proposal would not affect the convenience 
or needs of customers served by Applicant's present subsidiary banks. 
Rapid economic development and population growth in Suffolk 
County during the past decade has created a demand for a broader range 
.. yv . . 
of banking services than Peoples Bank presently provides. The banking 
needs of the area are presently being adequately served by the largest 
banks in the area; acquisition of Peoples Bank by Applicant, however, 
would provide the area with an additional full-service alternative. 
In particular, consummation of the proposal would enable Peoples Bank 
to offer a full range of trust and investment services, to expand its 
loan and credit services and to respond to demands for higher credit 
lines than it can now provide, to offer international services, and 
to particiapte more fully in municipal bond underwriting and advisory 
services. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
community served by Peoples Bank provide some weight in favor of approval 
of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
May 
5, 1969. 

117 7 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARb OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, 
Orlando, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of at least 
80 per cent of the voting shares of St, Lucie 
County Bank, Fort Pierce, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK SHARES BY 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First at Orlando 
Corporation, Orlando, Florida, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of at least SO per 
cent of the voting shares of St. Lucie County Bank, Fort Pierce, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Florida Commissioner of Banking of receipt of the application and 
requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner recommended 
approval of the application. 
Item No. 5 
5/5/69 
SYSTEM 

1171 
-5-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 4, 1969 (34 Federal Register 1708), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
Is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 5th day of May, 1969, 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

i n 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 4 
5/5/69 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, ORLANDO, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
ST. LUCIE COUNTY BANK, FORT PIERCE, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acqui-
sition of at least 80 per cent of the voting shares of St. Lucie 
County Bank, Fort Pierce, Florida ("St. Lucie Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Florida 
Commissioner of Banking of receipt of the application and requested 
bis views and recommendation thereon. The Commissioner recommended 
approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

1173 
-5-
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in Florida control 36.7 per cent of the deposits 
held by banks located in the S t a t e d 
Applicant, the fifth largest 
banking organization in the State, has seven subsidiary banks, which 
h°ld total deposits of $278 million, representing 2.8 per cent of the 
deposits held by Florida banks. Acquisition of St. Lucie Bank, which 
accounts for only .3 per cent 0f such deposits, would not significantly 
affect State-wide concentration, and would not change Applicant's position 
among the largest banking organizations in the State. 
St. Lucie Bank, which has deposits of $27 million, is located 
i n Fort Pierce, Florida, about 50 miles north of Palm Beach on Florida's 
i/ All banking data are as of June 29, 1968, unless otherwise noted, 
'Justed to reflect all holding company acquisitions approved by the 
°ard to date. 

1174 
-5-
east coast. It is the largest of three banks in Fort Pierce, and the 
third largest of nine banks located in the coastal area which it serves. 
Applicant would become the second bank holding company with a subsidiary 
bank in the area; the smallest bank in Fort Pierce and one of the 
smaller banks located in the larger service area are both subsidiaries 
of the same bank holding company. It does not appear that consummation 
of the proposal would have any undue adverse effect on the competing 
banks in Fort Pierce or in the larger area. 
Applicant's closest subsidiary to Fort Pierce is in Cocoa, 
70 miles north. Five of the present subsidiary banks are located in 
Orlando, 125 miles northwest of Fort Pierce, and Applicant's seventh 
subsidiary is located in Leesburg, 165 miles northwest. No significant 
competition appears to exist between the present subsidiaries and 
St. Lucie Bank and, in view of the distances involved and the pro-
hibition against branching under Florida law, it does not appear that 
such competition is likely to develop in the future. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly, and would not 
restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to create a 
monopoly in any section of the country. 
Financial qnd managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant and its present subsidiary banks are in satisfactory financial 
condition, with competent management and favorable prospects. 
St. Lucie Bank is in sound financial condition, and senior 
Management of the bank is experienced and competent. However, the two 

1175 
senior officers of the bank are approaching the usual retirement age, 
and a lack of management depth will necessitate going outside the bank's 
staff to find replacements. It does not appear that it would be impossible 
for the bank to obtain competent replacements without assistance, and 
therefore St. Lucie Bank's prospects are regarded as favorable regardless 
of whether the present proposal is consummated. Acquisition by Appli-
cant, which has a formal management training program, would assure satis-
factory solution of any management succession problems which might de-
velop, however, and this consideration provides some weight in favor 
of approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of the present proposal would not affect the convenience 
or needs of customers served by Applicant's present subsidiary banks. 
The population of the area served by St. Lucie Bank is esti-
mated at 81,000. The area's economy is based on agriculture and related 
industries, with principal emphasis on the growing and processing of 
citrus products. Banking needs of the area appear to be adequately 
served by the nine banks located there, and Applicant does not contend 
that any major services are not available in the area. However, it is 
contended that the expertise which Applicant's Orlando subsidiaries have 
developed in providing needed services to the citrus industry can be 
employed to the advantage of customers in the Fort Pierce area, and it 
also appears that the availability of Applicant's automation services 
would provide some internal economies to St. Lucie Bank which could 
indirectly benefit the public which it serves. 

1476 
-5-
Considerations bearing on the convenience and needs of 
customers served by St. Lucie Bank provide some support for approval 
of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved, 
• 
May 5, 1969. 

117 7 
Item No. 5 
5/5/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
GIRARD TRUST BANK 
for approval of merger with 
South Penn Square Bank 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Girard Trust Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve 
System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank with 
South Penn Square Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, under the charter of 
fche latter and the title of Girard Trust Bank. Notice of the proposed 
^rger, in form approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to said 
Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of the 
factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
Proposed merger, 

1478 
-5-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than 
three months after the date of this Order unless such period is extended 
for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 5th day of May, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Daane. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

117 7 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY GIRARD TRUST BANK 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER UITH 
SOUTH PENN SQUARE BANK 
STATEMENT 
The Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ("Applicant"), 
with total deposits of about $1.3 billion, has applied pursuant to the Bank 
Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1320(c)) for the Board's prior approval of the 
merger of that bank with South Penn Square Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
("South Penn"), which is a newly organized bank not in operation. The 
banks would merge under the charter of South Penn and name of Applicant, 
which is a member of the Federal Reserve System, 
The proposed merger is one step in a plan of corporate re-
organization whereby The Girard Company, a newly organized Pennsylvania 
corporation, would become a one-bank holding company. The Girard Company 
Presently owns all the stock of South Penn; upon the merger of Applicant 
with South Penn, stock of The Girard Company will be exchanged for stock 
°f the resulting bank, which is to be a member of the Federal Reserve 
System, 
Use of a merger transaction in Applicant's plan to form a one-
bank holding company would assure to The Girard Company the ability to 
acquire, except for directors' qualifying shares, all the outstanding 
stock of the banking subsidiary. 
Item No. 5 
5/5/69 

-5-
1480 
Statutory considerations. - From the record before the Board, 
the proposed merger of Applicant and South Penn--the latter being a banlc 
with no operating history, formed solely to facilitate the corporate 
reorganization plan described above--would itself have no effect on either 
competition or the banking convenience and needs of any relevant area. 
Nor would it appear that the proposal would have any adverse consequences 
relative to the financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant or South Penn, 
Accordingly, and in light of all of the standards set forth in 
the Bank Merger Act, the Board concludes that the application should be 
approved. 
Hay 5, 1969. 

BOARD • F GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 36 
5/5/69 • 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 8, 1969 
Board of Directors, 
South Penn Square Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application of South Penn Square Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, for 
stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, subject to the numbered 
conditions hereinafter set forth: 
(1) Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of its 
depositors, and, except with the permission of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such bank 
shall not cause or permit any change to be made in the 
general character of its business or in the scope of the 
corporate powers exercised by it at the time of admission 
to membership. 
(2) The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of its 
assets and to its deposit liabilities and other corporate 
powers. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding that 
South Penn Square Bank will not conduct a banking business with the public 
until it has merged with Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's Regulation H, 
regarding membership of State banking institutions in the Federal Reserve 
System, with special reference to Section 208.7 thereof. A copy of the 
Regulation is enclosed. 

Board of Directors 
- 2 -
1482 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter is 
made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing copies of 
any documents involved, in order that it may be determined whether such 
change affects in any way the bank's status as a member of the Federal Reserve 
System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors 
of South Penn Square Bank. A certified copy of such resolution should be 
transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal Reserve 
System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited to 60 days from 
the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to the Board and obtains an 
extension of time. When the Board is advised that all of the requirements 
have been complied with and that the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve 
stock has been issued to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal 
certificate of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosures. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
1483 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 38 
5/5/69 • 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
f«4L RES^ 
May 12, 1969 
Mr. Emil J. Pattberg, Jr., 
Chairman of the Board, 
The First Boston Corporation, 
20 Exchange Place, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Dear Mr. Pattberg: 
Enclosed you will find a proposed amendment to the Board of 
Governors' Regulation U, to provide an exemption for credit extended 
by banks to firms making a market in the "Third Market," which the 
Board is publishing in the Federal Register for comment. As you will 
see, the proposed language is closely parallel to that of the proposed 
new section 221.3(w) of Regulation U, to provide a similar exemption 
for credit extended by banks to firms making markets in over-the-counter 
securities included in the Board's list of "OTC margin stocks." 
The Board notes that in a letter of March 27, 1969, commenting 
on section 221.3(w), First Boston Corporation expressed the belief that 
the proposed standards would not prove sufficiently flexible to serve 
their intended purpose of facilitating operation of the over-the-counter 
market, while discouraging the use of exempt credit for purposes other 
than that intended. You may be sure that your comments, and any further 
comments you wish to submit in connection with the present proposal, 
together with all comments and suggestions received by the Board in this 
connection, will be fully taken into consideration when the Board finally 
determines this matter. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
For immediate release, 
Item No, 
5/5/69 
May 15, 1969. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
issued for comment a proposal to exempt so-called ''Third market makers" 
from margin requirements for credit they obtain from banks to carry on 
their market making activity. 
Third market makers are firms that are not members of a stock 
exchange but make a market in stocks listed on exchanges. Loans to 
exchange specialists making a market in registered stocks are already 
exempt from margin requirements and the Board has under consideration 
a proposal to exempt bank credit to firms which make markets in over-
the-counter stocks that would become subject to margin requirements. 
The proposal is in the form of an amendment to Regulation U 
entitled "Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying 
Registered Stocks." Third market makers normally obtain credit from 
banks. 
Comments on the proposal should be submitted to the Board 
through the Federal Reserve Banks by June 16, 1969. A copy of the 
proposal is attached. 
- 0 -
Attachment. 

— • 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
Item No. 10 
5/5/69 
1185 
May 5, 1969 
Swan—San Francisco 
Board will interpose no objection to purchase of property adjoining 
Los Angeles Branch building, as described in Mr. Merritt's letter 
of April 11, and authorizes an expenditure of $125,000 for that 
purpose. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
FORRESTAL 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
POLICY ON UNIONIZATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 
FOR THE FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Preamble 
WHEREAS the Labor Management Relations Act of 1947, as 
amended, expressly excludes Federal Reserve Banks from the 
definition of "employer" (29 U.S.C. §152 (2)), and excludes 
employees of said Banks from coverage under that Act [29 U.S.C. 
§152 (3)] ; and 
WHEREAS Executive Order 10988 concerning employee-
management relations in the Federal service is inapplicable to 
Federal Reserve Banks and employees of Federal Reserve Banks; and 
WHEREAS Federal Reserve Banks are corporations duly 
organized, created and existing under and by virtue of the laws 
of the United States, viz., the Federal Reserve Act, approved 
December 23, 1913 (12 U.S.C. §221, et se£.); and 
WHEREAS the Federal Reserve Banks are charged by law 
with responsibility for the performance of essential government 
functions; and 
WHEREAS a statement of the respective rights and obliga-
tions of employees, labor organizations and managements of Federal 
Reserve Banks, patterned after Executive Order 10988, but taking 
into account the unique status of Federal Reserve Banks, would 
I486 
Item No. 11 
5/5/69 

.2. 
1487 
contribute to continued effective employee-management relations 
at the Federal Reserve Banks; 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System has adopted the following policies to govern 
employee-management relations between and among Federal Reserve 
Banks, their employees, and organizations representing such 
employees. 
A. Definition of a Labor Organization 
When used in this document, the term "labor organization" 
means any lawful organization of any kind, or any employee repre-
sentation group, which exists for the purpose, in whole or in part, 
of dealings with any Federal Reserve Bank concerning grievances, 
personnel policies and practices, or other matters affecting the 
working conditions of its employees, but the term shall not include 
any organization, (1) which asserts the right to strike against 
the Government of the United States, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, or any Federal Reserve Bank, or to 
assist or participate in any such strike, or which imposes a duty 
or obligation to conduct, assist or participate in any such 
strike, or (2) which fails to agree to refrain from seeking or 
accepting support from any organization which employs coercive 
tactics affecting any Reserve Bank's operations, or (3) which 
advocates the overthrow of the constitutional form of the 

Government in the United States, or (4) which discriminates with 
regard to the terms or conditions of membership because of race, 
color, sex, creed, or national origin. 
B. Membership in a Labor Organization 
(1) Any employee of any Federal Reserve Bank (herein-
after referred to as "Bank") is free to join and assist any 
existing labor organization or to participate in the formation of 
a new labor organization, or to refrain from any such activities, 
except however, executive and supervisory personnel, secretaries 
to executives, administrative or confidential assistants to 
executives, and employees engaged in personnel work shall not be 
represented in the bank by any labor organization. 
(2) The rights described in Section B(l) do not extend 
to participation in the management of a labor organization, or 
acting as a representative of any such organization, where such 
participation or activity would be incompatible with law or the 
official duties of an employee. 
(3) Notwithstanding anything stated in Section B(l), 
professional employees of a Bank shall not be represented by a 
labor organization which represents other employees of the Bank 
unless a majority of the professional employees eligible to vote 
specifically elect to be represented by such labor organization. 

-5-
1489 
However, the professional employees of a Bank may, if they so 
choose, be represented by a separate labor organization of their 
own, or by no labor organization at all. 
(4) Notwithstanding anything stated in Section B(l), 
the guards of a Bank shall not be members of a labor organization 
which represents other employees of the Bank. However, the guards 
of a Bank may, if they so choose, be represented by a separate 
labor organization of their own, or by no labor organization at all. 
C. Recognition of a Labor Organization and its 
Relationship to a Federal Reserve Bank 
(1) Any labor organization shall be recognized as the 
exclusive bargaining representative of the employees in an appro-
priate unit of a Bank when that organization has been selected by 
the employees in said unit pursuant to the procedure set forth in 
Section E. A unit may be established in a Bank on any basis which 
will ensure a clear and identifiable community of interest among 
the employees concerned, and will promote effective dealings and 
the efficiency of the Bank's operations, but no unit shall be 
established solely on the basis of the extent to which employees 
in the proposed unit have organized. • 
(2) When a labor organization has been recognized as 
the exclusive representative of employees in an appropriate unit, 
it shall be entitled to act for and to negotiate agreements 

-5-
1490 
covering all employees in the unit and it shall be responsible for 
representing the interests of all such employees without discrimina-
tion and without regard to whether they are members of that labor 
organization or not. Such labor organization shall have the 
opportunity to be represented at discussions between management and 
employees or employee representatives concerning grievances, 
personnel policies and practices, or other matters affecting general 
working conditions of employees in the unit. A Bank, through 
appropriate officials, shall have the obligation to meet at 
reasonable times with representatives of a recognized labor organi-
zation to negotiate with respect to personnel policy and practices 
and matters affecting general working conditions, but not with 
respect to such areas of discretion and policy as the purposes and 
functions of the Bank, the compensation of and hours worked by 
employees of the Bank, its budget, its retirement system or any 
life, health or accident insurance, its organization and assignment 
of personnel and of work to a particular job, or the technology of 
performing its work. However, a Bank, through appropriate 
officials, may consult with representatives of a recognized labor 
organization on any personnel policy or practice, or any matter 
affecting general working conditions. 
(3) Any labor organization seeking recognition shall 
submit to the Bank a roster of its officers and representatives, 
a copy of its constitution and bylaws, and a statement of its 
objectives. 

1 . 1 S 1 
-5-
(4) The exclusive recognition of a labor organization 
shall not preclude any employee, regardless of labor organization 
membership, from bringing matters of personal concern to the 
attention of appropriate officials in accordance with applicable 
law, rule, regulation, or established Bank policy, or from choosing 
his own representative in a grievance or appellate action. 
D. Determination of Appropriate Bargaining Unit 
The Bank will be responsible for determining, in accord-
ance with the guidelines previously set forth in Section C, whether 
a unit is appropriate for purposes of exclusive recognition. However, 
after a labor organization shows that it holds cards requesting 
a representation election signed by at least 30 per cent of the 
employees in the unit which that organization considers to be an 
appropriate bargaining unit, either the labor organization or the 
Bank may request the American Arbitration Association (hereinafter 
referred to as "Association" or "AAA") to nominate from its 
National Panel of Labor Arbitrators a qualified Arbitrator who 
will investigate the facts and issue a decision as to the appro-
priateness of the unit for purposes of exclusive recognition and 
as to related issues submitted for consideration. The expenses 
for this proceeding, including the fees of the Association and of 
the Arbitrator, shall be borne equally by the parties. If either 
the Bank or the labor organization should disagree with the 

-7-
1492 
Arbitrator's decision, the party in disagreement may appeal his 
decision to the Federal Reserve System's Labor Relations Panel 
(the purposes and functions of which are discussed in Section J), 
and the decision of the Panel shall be final and binding on the 
parties. 
E. Elections 
(1) Once there has been a determination of an appro-
priate bargaining unit and a showing by a labor organization that 
it has cards signed by at least 30 per cent of the employees in 
the unit requesting a representation election, such an election 
shall be held. A labor organization shall be recognized as the 
exclusive bargaining representative of the unit if at least 
per 
cent of the employees eligible to vote do so, and the labor 
organization is selected by a majority of those who vote. 
(2) If there is any dispute as to whether a labor 
organization holds cards signed by at least 30 per cent of the 
employees in a unit, the dispute shall be resolved by an 
Arbitrator selected by the AAA and the expenses of such procedure, 
including the Arbitrator's fee, shall be borne equally by the 
parties. The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and 
binding on the parties to the dispute. 
(3) The election shall be held under the auspices of 
the AAA and shall be subject to its election rules and regulations. 
However, if there should be any conflict between such rules and 

n 
- U" 
1193 
regulations, and the provisions of this document, the terms and 
conditions of this document will control. The fees charged by 
the AAA for this service shall be paid by the Bank. 
(4) An election to determine whether a labor organiza-
tion should continue as the exclusive bargaining representative 
of a particular unit shall be held when requested by a petition 
or a showing in cards by at least 30 per cent of the employees of 
that unit. Any dispute as to whether at least 3J per cent of the 
employees requested such an election shall be resolved by the 
same procedure as that set forth in Section E(2). The election 
shall be held under the auspices of the AAA in the same manner 
described in Section E(3). The recognition of a labor organization 
as the exclusive bargaining representative of a unit shall be 
discontinued if at least 60 per cent of the employees eligible 
to vote do so, and a majority of those vote for discontinuance. 
(5) Regardless of anything previously stated, only one 
election may be held in any unit in a twelve month period to 
determine whether a labor organization should become, or continue 
to be recognized as, the exclusive representative of the employees 
in that unit. 
F. Unfair Labor Practices 
(1) It shall be an unfair labor practice for a Banlc: 
(a) to interfere with, restrain, or coerce employees in the 

1494 
exercise of the rights guaranteed in Section B(l); (b) to dominate 
or interfere with the formation or administration of any labor 
organization, or to contribute financial or other support to it; 
(c) to encourage or discourage membership in any labor organization 
by discrimination in regard to hire or tenure of employment or any 
term or condition of employment; (d) to refuse to bargain collec-
tively with the representatives of its employees subject to the 
provisions of C(2). 
(2) It shall be an unfair labor practice for a labor 
organization, its agents or representatives: 
(a) to restrain or 
coerce employees in the exercise of the rights guaranteed in 
Section B(l); (b) to cause or attempt to cause the Bank to dis-
criminate against an employee in violation of subsection (l)(c); 
(c) to refuse to bargain collectively with the Bank, provided the 
labor organization is the representative of its employees. 
(3) Notwithstanding anything previously stated in this 
Section, the expression of any view, argument, or opinion, or the 
dissemination thereof, whether in written, printed, graphic, or 
visual form, shall not constitute or be evidence of an unfair 
labor practice, if such expression contains no threat of reprisal 
or force, or promise of benefit. 
(4) The Federal Reserve System Labor Relations Panel 
may promulgate rules and regulations, including penalties, to 
remedy or prevent the unfair labor practices listed herein. 

-10-
1435 
G. Approval of Agreement and Required Contents 
(1) Any basic or initial agreement entered into with 
a labor organization as the exclusive representative of employees 
in a unit must be approved by the President of the Bank or by a 
duly authorized officer. All agreements with labor organizations 
shall also be subject to the following requirements, which shall 
be expressly stated in the initial or basic agreement and shall 
be applicable to all supplemental, implementing, subsidiary or 
informal agreements between the Bank and the organization: 
(a) The administration of all matters covered by 
the agreement shall be governed by the provisions of 
applicable laws and Federal Reserve rules and regula-
tions, and the agreement shall at all times be applied 
subject to such laws and regulations. 
(b) The management of the Bank shall retain the 
right in accordance with applicable laws and regula-
tions: to direct employees of the Bank; to hire, 
promote, transfer, assign, and retain employees in 
positions within the Bank, and to suspend, demote, 
discharge, or take other disciplinary action against 
employees; to relieve employees from duties because 
of lack of work or for other legitimate reasons; to 
maintain the efficiency of the operations entrusted 
to management; to determine the methods, means and 

1196 
personnel by which such operations are to be conducted; 
and to take whatever actions may be necessary to carry 
out the functions of the Bank in situations of emergency. 
H. Grievance Procedures 
(1) An agreement entered into with a labor organization 
as the exclusive representative of employees in a unit may contain 
provisions, applicable only to employees in the unit, concerning 
grievance procedures. However, these procedures may not in any 
manner diminish or impair any rights which would otherwise be 
available to any employee in the absence of an agreement providing 
for such procedures. 
r 
(2) Procedures established by an agreement may include 
provisions for the arbitration of grievances. However, such 
arbitration (a) shall be advisory in nature, with any decisions 
or recommendations subject to the approval of the President or a 
duly authorized officer of the Bank; (b) shall extend only to the 
interpretation and application of agreements or the Bank s labor 
policy, and not to changes in or proposed changes in agreements 
or such policy; and (c) shall be invoked only with the approval 
of the individual employee or employees concerned. 
I. Time for Internal Labor Organization 
Business» Consultations and Negotiations 
Solicitation of memberships, dues or other internal 
employee organization business shall be conducted during the 

-12-
1497 
non-duty hours of the employees concerned. Officially requested 
or approved consultation betv;een management executives and repre-
sentatives of labor organizations shall, whenever practicable, be 
conducted on official time, but the President or a duly authorized 
officer of a Ban'.; may require that negotiations with a labor 
organization be conducted during the non-duty hours of the BanI:. 
J. Federal Reserve System Labor Relations Panel 
(1) There shall be established a Federal Reserve System 
Labor Relations Panel which shall consist of three members: two 
members of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
and one public member, all of whom shall be selected by the Board. 
(2) In addition to the duties set forth in this Section, 
the Panel shall be responsible for the duties assigned to it in 
Sections D and F(4) of this document. Upon the request of a party, 
the Panel way, in its discretion, issue decisions in any disputed 
matters, which shall be final and binding upon the parties. The 
Panel may advise the Board of Governors and the Banks regarding 
rules for financial reporting and disclosure, and bonding require-
ments for labor organizations recognized or seeking recognition 
under this document. The Panel may also undertake any other tasks 
in the area of labor relations which may be referred to it by 
the Board or a Bank. 

1488 
-13-
K. Amendment 
This document may be amended without notice provided 
all labor organizations recognized, or seeking recognition, under 
this document are immediately informed of each change. In no 
instance shall an amendment be applied retroactively. 
May 3, 1SSQ. 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
For irr,mediate release 
Item No. 12 
5/5/69 
May 9, 1969. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
issued the attached statement of policies to be followed in employee-
management relations among Federal Reserve Banks, their employees, and 
any organizations that might represent employees. 
The statement was adopted, following discussion with the 
Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks, to clarify the status of 
Federal Reserve Banks and Branches relative to unionization and collec-
tive bargaining as well as to "contribute to continued effective em-
ployee- management relations" within the System. It deals with personnel 
policies and practices, settlement of grievances, and other matters 
affecting working conditions. 
The Board's policy statement is patterned after Executive 
Order 10988, which governs employee-management relations in the Federal 
service, in outlining the respective rights and obligations of employees, 
labor organizations, and managements of Federal Reserve Banks, but it 
takes into account the special responsibilities of the System under 
terms of the Federal Reserve Act and related Federal statutes (for 
instance, the distribution and redemption of currency and obligations 
of the U. S. Government). 
The statement affirms the right of employees of Federal Reserve 
Banks (with the exception of employees in executive, supervisory, and 
certain other specified positions) to join, and to assist existing labor 
organizations, or to participate in the formation of new labor organi-
zations, or to refrain from any such activities. 

. ft? 
•4 
••i'&Z 
mmM 
- 
A:-' 
1 5 0 i 
- 2 -
The statement outlines procedure for recognition of labor 
organizations, for determination of appropriate bargaining units, and 
. 'i 
for handling elections. It identifies and forbids unfair labor prac-
tices and prescribes procedures for dealing with employees' grievances. 
-0-
i . 

I S C 1 
••f^rst^. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 13 
5/5/69 • 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 5, 1969 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
This is in response to your letters of January 18 and 
April 15, in which you request authority to retain the law firm 
of Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison in connection with the Bank's 
current negotiations with the Professional, Office and Industrial 
Union affiliated with MEBA (AFL-CIO). The services of that firm 
may be needed by the Bank in the event that labor organizers 
attempt to apply "economic sanctions involving the interruption of 
cash and securities shipments to and from the Bank and other dis-
turbances." If, on the other hand, the union accepts the "Policy 
on Unionization and Collective Bargaining for the Federal Reserve 
Banks," adopted by the Board today, the Bank will need the services 
of the firm in advising employees regarding the union's assertions, 
determination of an appropriate bargaining unit, and associated 
questions. If the union should be elected the exclusive bargaining 
representative for a group of employees, the Bank would expect the 
firm to handle the subsequent negotiations aimed at an agreement with 
the union. 
The Bank is unable to estimate the extent to which services 
of Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison may be required. Accordingly, the 
Bank requests the Board's consent to continue to retain that firm in 
connection with this labor-management matter without prescribing a 
maximum amount of expense to be incurred. You point out that the 
proposed arrangement is similar to that under which the same firm 
represented the Bank in legal matters arising from the closing of 
the San Francisco National Bank. 
The Board authorizes employment of Brobeck, Phleger & 
Harrison for the purposes you have described. As indicated in your 
letter of April 15, the Bank is to be billed by that firm not less 
frequently than quarterly. Copies of all bills received by the 
Bank should be forwarded to the Board for its information. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
