Minutes for 
January 11, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

31 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, January 11, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Assistant Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Rowe, Chief, Economic Graphics Section, 
Division of Data Processing 
Private pension funds. There had been distributed a memorandum 
dated January 10, 1968, from Mr. Partee, who had attended in place of 
Chairman Martin a recent meeting of the President's Committee on Pen-
sion Funds at which certain legislative proposals developed by a task 
force were received. Basically these proposals contemplated (1) a 

1/11/68 
-2-
minimum standard of vesting of retirement benefits after 10 years' 
service after age 25, (2) a minimum standard of funding of the amounts 
vested in order to assure accumulation of assets in line with liabili-
ties, and (3) a system of mutual insurance to assure payment of the 
unfunded portion of vested benefits in cases of plan termination 
caused by financial difficulties. 
Attached to Mr. Partee's memorandum was a draft of memorandum 
that Secretary of Labor Wirtz, as Chairman of the President's Commit-
tee, proposed to send to the White House requesting sponsorship by the 
Administration of the legislative proposals. The draft memorandum 
included a statement that all of the agencies concerned, including the 
Federal Reserve, joined in recommending that the proposals receive 
high priority in the Administration's 1968 legislative program. Com-
ments on the draft memorandum had been requested by Secretary Wirtz. 
Mr. Partee reviewed language changes in the draft memorandum 
that he had proposed, the degree to which he had been successful in 
negotiating them, and certain others that he would suggest. He was 
concerned, among other things, that the memorandum refer to endorse-
ment of the proposals only in principle, since the specifics of the 
proposed legislation had not been fully agreed upon and legislative 
draft language had not yet been prepared. 
Discussion indicated that the members of the Board were gener-
ally sympathetic to legislation along the lines contemplated to 

f?3 
1/11/68 
-3-
establish minimum requirements for private pension funds. The view 
was expressed that the proposals seemed modest. However, it was recog-
nized that they were likely to encounter considerable resistance from 
industry and that an attempt at this stage to obtain stronger legisla-
tion probably would be unsuccessful. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that the 
changes Mr. Partee had suggested with respect to the draft memorandum 
were appropriate and that they should be made known to the Secretary 
of Labor. No other objection was indicated to the transmittal of the 
proposed memorandum to the White House. It was noted that the Board 
presumably would have an opportunity to comment on draft legislation 
when it became available. 
Film of chart show. Pursuant to the understanding at the 
Board meeting on May 15, 1967, the chart show on postwar monetary 
policy presented by the staff at a monetary symposium sponsored by the 
American Bankers Association in April 1967 had been converted into a 
film. The film was shown yesterday to the members of the Board in 
order to afford them an opportunity to form opinions on whether the 
film was suitable for distribution. 
Comments at today's meeting by members of the Board and the 
staff took into account the fact that the film was experimental and 
that somewhat different techniques would be envisaged if a similar 
project was undertaken again. However, it was generally agreed that 

1/11/68 
-4-
the subject matter had been handled reasonably well and that the film 
might be helpful both in portraying major economic trends during the 
postwar period and in suggesting the extent to which economic and 
financial data were analyzed in the formulation of monetary policy. 
It was suggested that audiences might benefit if the showing 
of the film was preceded by introductory background comments, and Mr. 
Gramley said it was planned to make available, with the film, copies 
of the explanatory reprint from the May 1967 Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
It was also suggested that a Federal Reserve representative be present, 
whenever possible, to answer questions following the showing of the 
film. 
The consensus was that it would be appropriate to purchase 
prints of the film for distribution through the Federal Reserve Banks 
as well as the Board's offices. 
Mr. Gramley noted that the contract for production of the film 
had been in an amount only slightly in excess of $5,000, but that an 
additional charge of $175 had been incurred to correct minor technical 
errors. The Board approved the additional expenditure. 
Mr. Gramley then suggested that 13 prints of the film be 
ordered, one of which would be supplied to each Federal Reserve Bank. 
His understanding was that the cost of the prints would be reduced 
from about $280 each to about $250 each if such an order was placed. 
A suggestion was made by staff that Reserve Banks might be 
interested in having additional copies of the film and, if so, that 

1/11/68 
-5-
the prints probably would be available at a lower price. It was then 
noted that Mr. Molony would be attending in the near future a meeting 
of System personnel interested in education and public relations. It 
was suggested that Mr. Molony arrange to show the film at that time to 
determine the reaction of the Reserve Bank representatives. 
There was agreement with this suggestion, and it was understood 
that the question of the number of prints to be ordered would be con-
sidered again by the Board on the basis of the reactions obtained by 
Mr. Molony. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Holland then withdrew from 
the meeting. 
Dinner for Governor O'Brien. The Board authorized payment of 
the cost of a small dinner at the Federal Reserve Building on the 
evening of Thursday, February 15, 1968, in honor of Governor O'Brien 
of the Bank of England, it being understood that the guest list would 
include the wives of the invited officials. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Kenneth Armitage as Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $9,657, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Fred Taylor as Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $9,657, effective the date of entrance 
upon duty. 

1/11/68 
-6-
Appointment 
Jacqueline Ann Curtis as Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel 
Administration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,615, 
effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increase 
Hampton L. Logan, Supply Clerk, Division of Administrative 
Services, from $4,793 to $4,930 per annum, effective January 14, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Constance Hall, Research Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business February 2, 1968. 
Jo Ann Shaw, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, effective the close of business January 12, 1968. 
On January 11, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated : 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
approving the appointment of Jackson L. Blanton, 
Arthur J. Zohab, Jr., and R. Bruce Valley as 
examiners. 
1 
Letter to Union Bank, Los Angeles, California, 
approving the establishment of a branch in the 
Century Square Shopping Center. 
2 
Letter to State Bank of Wilbur, Wilbur, Washington, 
approving an investment in bank premises. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
3 
Letter to Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, granting an 
extension of time within which to establish 
a branch in Burlington, Alamance County. 
4 
Secretary 

2*. 
I ' 
* * 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
1/11/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CQRBESPDNOENCE 
TD THE BOARD 
January 12, 1968 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the requests contained in your 
letters of January 9, 1968, the Director of the Division of 
Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointments of Jackson L. 
Blanton, Arthur J. Zohab, Jr., and R. Bruce Valley, at 
present assistant examiners, as examiners for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond, effective today.. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
I •-i v . -x'*- > - 
... ^ 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 2 
1/11/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 11, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Union Bank, 
Los Angeles, California. 
Gentlemen: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, on behalf 
of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
establishment of a branch by Union Bank, Los Angeles, California, 
in the Century Square Shopping Center, 10250 Santa Monica Boulevard, 
Los Angeles, California, provided the branch is established within 
six months from the date of this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that your bank's management is satisfactory, that the proposed 
branch would serve the convenience and needs of the community, and 
that establishment of the branch would not tend to create an 
undesirable competitive situation. It is understood that you are 
giving close attention to your bank's capital position. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

'' ir i 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
SS 
Item No. 3 
1/11/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 11, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
State Bank of Wilbur, 
Wilbur, Washington. 
Gentlemen: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves an investment in bank premises by 
State Bank of Wilbur, Wilbur, Washington, of $30,000 
for an addition to and remodeling of present banking 
quarters 
,Va 'A. -
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF R I C H M O N D 
RICHMOND, V I R G I N I A 
23213 
Jaumtry 11* 194*. 
Item No. 
1/11/68 
Mr. Ralph K. Frasier, 
Assistant Secretary, 
Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, 
Winston•Salem, North Carolina 27102. 
Dear Ralph: 
The Federal Reserve lenk of Richmond, on behalf 
of and under authority delegated by the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System, has approved your request for 
an extension of the period in which to establish a branch on 
Huffoan Mill Road near the intereection of South Charles 
6treet in Burlington, Alamance County, to be known as the 
Huffman Hill Road Office. The e»ten»ion is for one year from 
the present enpiration date of February 8, 1968, or until 
February 8, 19*9. 
Flease adviee us when a definite date for opening 
the office has been determined* 
Tour* very truly, 
/s/ John L. Nosker 
John L. Nosker, 
Vice President. 
