MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 21, 1972 

1 6 2 5 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, June 21, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
a t 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

1 6 2 8 
6/21/72 
-2-
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on June 12 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and San 
Francisco on June 15, 1972, of the rates on advances and discounts in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
handing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Pan American 
Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Capital National 
Bank of Tampa, Tampa, Florida, and authorized issuance of an order 
Electing this decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved (a) publication for comment of 
Proposed amendments to Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, in two respects 
dealing with disclosures on open-end credit billing statements, and 
(b) amendment of a previously-issued interpretation and issuance of 
a new interpretation of Regulation Z relating to allocation of payments 
open-end accounts. Attached under Items 2 and 3 are copies of press 
releases regarding these actions, along with copies of the proposed 
amendments and the interpretations. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Industrial National Corporation. On June 13, 1972, the Board 
discussed the application of Industrial National Corporation, Provi-
dence, Rhode Island, a bank holding company, to acquire shares of 

1 6 2 7 
6/21/72 
-3-
Continental Factors Corporation, Montreal, Canada, and to retain the 
factoring company's interest in Viva Mills, Ltd., a Canadian knitting 
mill. Views being evenly divided among members of the Board then 
Present, action was deferred and the staff was requested to analyze 
further the question of permissibility of the proposed indirect 
interest in the knitting mill. 
In a memorandum of June 20 the Legal Division brought out that 
o f its 31-2/3 per cent interest in the knitting mill, the factoring 
company held 8-1/3 per cent under a trust arrangement against payment 
o f a loan made to the knitting mill's leading shareholder, whose interest 
in the shares would be forfeited if the debt was not paid by January 1, 
l974. It therefore appeared proper to regard the interest in Viva 
H i U s as 23-1/3 per cent rather than 31-2/3 per cent. Because of this 
and other circumstances set forth in the memorandum, the Division was 
the opinion that the proposed investment was consistent with the 
B°ard's previous rules governing investments by Edge corporations and 
renewed its concurrence with the favorable recommendation of the Division 
o f Supervision and Regulation. However, the Legal Division recommended 
that the letter of consent include a requirement that Continental Factors 
dispose of its interest in the shares held under the trust arrangement 
°n or before January 1, 1974. 

1 6 2 8 
6/21/72 
-4-
Discussion included an expression of view by Governor Brimmer 
that the Board should not continue to permit investments of this nature, 
which he regarded as setting undesirable precedents, prior to receipt 
o f the report of the Foreign Operations Task Force. Governor Bucher 
suggested that the company should be considered to own the shares in 
trust, and that the condition suggested by the Legal Division appeared 
inadequate. 
The application was approved, subject to the requirement 
recommended by the Legal Division, Governors Robertson, Brimmer, and 
^cher dissenting. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is 
attached as Item No. 4. 
Michigan National Corporation. On several occasions, most 
recently on February 22, 1972, the Board had discussed the application 
o f Michigan National Corporation, Lansing, Michigan, to become a bank 
folding company by acquiring shares of the following Michigan banks: 
Hichigan National Bank, Lansing; Michigan Bank, National Association, 
Detroit; Livonia National Bank, Livonia; Troy National Bank, Troy; 
and Oakland National Bank, Southfield. In addition, the corporation 
w°uld acquire indirectly the interest in seven Michigan banks owned 
by The Michigan National Bank Profit Sharing Trust. Staff recommenda-
tions were favorable. 

m
z
d 
6/21/72 
-5-
The Board's principal reservation related to the low capital 
ratios of the proposed bank subsidiaries, in particular the two large 
banks, Michigan National Bank, Lansing; and Michigan Bank, National 
Association, Detroit. Representations by the Board's staff regarding 
need to improve capital had resulted in proposals by the applicant 
f°r an improvement program that, after discussion on February 22, the 
B°ard still considered inadequate. The staff was requested to continue 
efforts looking toward larger injections of capital. 
In a memorandum of April 12 the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation described and commented on the capital improvement program 
t^at had resulted from further negotiations. Michigan National Corpo-
ration now proposed immediately to augment the capital of the five 
banks by $45.8 million through the sale of a $32 million issue of the 
c°rporation's convertible debentures and the private placement of 
CaPital notes by the several banks to make up the remaining amount. 
addition, the applicant would sell $10 million in equity securities 
within 24 months of consummation of the exchange offer, so long as the 
market for equity securities was then near present index levels. The 
Regional Administrator of National Banks and the Michigan Commissioner 
o f Banking had expressed approval of the capital improvement program. 
In a memorandum of June 14 the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation described the results of an analysis of the capital position 

1630 
6/21/72 
-6-
o f all banks in the United States with deposits over $100 million. 
The Division continued to recommend approval. The capital improve-
ment program suggested by the applicant would not raise the level 
o f capital in its banks, particularly the two large banks, to a 
desired point, but it would get them out of the seriously inadequate 
category and raise them to a point where reasonable additional amounts 
would place them at an acceptable level. In the absence of approval 
°f the application, these capital increases would not occur. Other 
Points in favor of approval were the relatively low risk in the assets 
o f the banks and their demonstrated earnings retention programs. 
Other documentation included a memorandum of June 8 in which 
Chase, Associate Director, Division of Research and Statistics, 
commented on the concept of over-leverage in bank capitalization and 
fche appropriate method of analyzing bank capital. 
Discussion indicated general agreement that, although the 
Present capital proposals fell short of the goal the Board had contem-
plated, they represented a major accomplishment for the time being. A 
Plus factor was found in the fact that applications by the holding 
company to acquire additional banks would provide opportunity for 
Pressing for further capital improvement. 
Attention focused on the provision that $10 million in equity 
securities would be issued by the holding company if the market for 

1831 
6/21/72 
-7-
such securities was at or above present index levels. The view was 
expressecl that a slight deterioration in the index should not be used 
to justify departure from this part of the plan; rather, the holding 
company should be required to consult with the Board's staff in determining 
whether or not sufficient deterioration of the market had occurred to 
warrant a change in plans. There was majority agreement with that view, 
although one member advocated specifying a degree of decline that would 
considered an adverse market. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that he would acquiesce in approval 
the assumption of strict adherence to the capital improvement program. 
1Ie did not like the fact that the Michigan banks would enter a holding 
c°mpany system at the lower edge of the capital spectrum, and even with 
expected improvements, they would not be far from the bottom. He 
thought capital should be at a level to allow for growth, which the present 
pr°posals did not. However, he had regard for the need to take action on 
tllis long-pending application. He advocated that a rationale in support 
o f approval be explicit in order to provide instruction to other possible 
aPplicants. 
After further discussion the application was approved unanimously, 
W l th the understanding that implementing documents would be prepared for 
Board's consideration. 
Chairman Burns withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Schroder Banking Corporation. In a memorandum of June 19, 1972, 
t h e Legal Division discussed the request of J. Henry Schroder Banking 

1632 
6/21/72 
-8-
Corporation, an investment company chartered under New York banking law, 
f°r a ruling that it is not a "bank" for purposes of the Bank Holding 
Company Act since it does not accept demand deposits. The Division 
recommended that the Board grant the requested ruling, which would be 
consistent with a ruling in November 1971 that French American Banking 
Corporation, another investment company chartered under New York banking 
law, should not be regarded as a "bank" for purposes of the Act. 
Discussion at today's meeting indicated that members of the Board 
wanted to study related documentation further before acting on the request. 
Governor Brimmer suggested examination of the interrelationships 
this question with the range of issues encompassed by recent conferences 
Covernors Mitchell and Daane had undertaken with European central bankers 
boaring upon the operation in the U.S. of banking offices of foreign 
°rganizations. Also, the Board's Committee on Financial Statistics had 
been working with the staffs of the Board and the New York and San Francisco 
Reserve Banks to assess the economics of foreign branches and agencies in 
t h e U.S., in the course of which the Committee had concluded that "credit 
balances," such as J. Henry Schroder Banking Corporation was permitted to 
accept from its customers, were used in substantially the same way as 
demand deposits. The present request should be weighed in the context 
o f that conclusion. 
Other members of the Board also expressed the view that the 
S:i-gnificance of credit balances in such institutions was a major issue, 
a n d Governor Robertson suggested the possibility that the ruling in the 
Prench American case should be reversed. 

6/21/72 
-9-
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
staff would undertake the additional studies suggested. 
Treasury check credit proposal. In a memorandum dated June 14, 
1^72, the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations discussed a request 
by 
the Treasury Department that a uniform credit practice covering 
Government agency deposits at Federal Reserve Banks be established. The 
Department suggested that Government agencies be permitted to deposit 
unsorted cash letters, regardless of size, with Reserve Banks and receive 
actual calculated availability on the items. The Division believed that 
the request was reasonable, especially since it would allow the Department 
to revert to the maximum possible use of Federal Reserve facilities for 
the processing of Government check collections in the best interest of 
the Government as a whole, while the cost to the Federal Reserve System 
w°uld be negligible. However, for reasons set forth in the memorandum, 
the Division recommended as an alternate practice that one-day (next day) 
Credit be given on all items rather than giving "actual" credit as the 
department proposed. 
Discussion brought out that the Treasury Department had not been 
consulted with respect to the alternate practice recommended by the 
division, principally because the alternate would provide greater advantage 
than the practice the Department had proposed and therefore it was assumed 
that there would be no objection. A view was expressed that nonetheless 
the Department's concurrence should be obtained. 

1634 
6/21/72 
-10-
Subject to concurrence by the Treasury Department, the Board 
unanimously agreed in principle upon the practice recommended by the 
Division. 
(A favorable response having been received from the Department, 
a letter in the form attached as Item No. 5 was subsequently sent to 
request the views of the Conference of First Vice Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks.) 
First United Bancorporation. In a memorandum dated May 5, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
applications of First United Bancorporation, Inc., Fort Worth, Texas, 
(1) to acquire shares of the successor by merger to The First National 
Bank of Fort Worth and (2) to acquire additional shares of Security State 
Bank and Seminary State Bank, both also of Fort Worth (the additional 
shares to be acquired now being held by the pension trust of The First 
National Bank of Fort Worth). Other documentation included a memorandum 
°f June 13 from the Banking Markets Section and the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation submitting information called for by questions members of 
the Board had raised. 
After a discussion during which there was agreement upon changes 
suggested by Governor Mitchell in the draft order that had been distributed, 
the application was approved unanimously and issuance of the revised order 
was authorized. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
Ily-Vee Food Stores. The Board authorized issuance of an order 
^fleeting denial, on June 5, 1972, of the application of Hy-Vee Food 
Stores, Inc., and Hy-Vee Employees' Trust, both of Chariton, Iowa, and 

1 6 3 5 
6/21/72 
-11-
registered bank holding companies, for exemption from the restrictions 
of the Bank Holding Company Act relating to nonbanking activities and 
acquisitions. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 7. 
Independent Bankers Association. The Board had ordered an oral 
Presentation to be held on June 28, 1972, regarding certain aspects 
°f the guidelines issued to the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to 
approvals of formation of one-bank holding companies under delegated 
authority. The Independent Bankers Association of America had petitioned 
that the scope of the presentation be limited to two questions relating 
t o the Board's authority to issue such guidelines. In a memorandum of 
June 20, 1972, the Legal Division recommended that the petition be denied. 
The petition was denied by unanimous vote. A copy of the letter 
Sent to the Association is attached as Item No. 8. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Melnicoff, 
Smith, O'Brien, Rippey, and O'Connell. 
There was a discussion of Senator Proxmire's press statement 
charging the Board with failure to answer satisfactorily his request 
f°r information regarding the source of the $100 Federal Reserve notes 
taken from the suspects in the break-in at the national headquarters of 
the Democratic Party in the Watergate Office Building. 
Subsequently, 
a press release was issued by the Board reviewing its actions in this 
Matter. A copy of the release is attached as Item No. 9. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1 6 3 S 
Item No. 1 
6/21/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PAN AMERICAN BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Pan American Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 50 per cent or more of the voting shares of Capital 
National Bank of Tampa, Tampa, Florida ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a*d the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
i n light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls eight subsidiary banks with $299.6 million 
deposits, representing 2.0 per cent of the total commercial bank 
dePosits in Florida, and ranks as the State's twelfth largest bank holding 
c°mpany. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1971, adjusted to reflect 
h°lding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
Hay 
1972„) As a result of consummation of the proposal herein, Appli-
cant's share of deposits would be increased to approximately 2.3 per cent 
ofthe total commercial bank deposits in the State9 and Applicant would 
becotne the State's tenth largest bank holding company. 
Bank ($40 million deposits) is the fifth largest of twenty-eight 
bar>ks located in the Hillsborough County market, holding about 4 per cent 
o f market deposits. This proposal represents Applicant's initial entry 

1 6 3 7 
-2-
in the Hillsborough County market and, inasmuch as Applicant's subsidiary 
Seated closest to Bank is more than 45 miles south, would not result in 
t h e elimination of any significant existing competition. Nor is it 
Ukely that consummation of the proposal would have any significant 
effects on potential competition betx^een Applicant's present subsidiaries 
and Bank, in light of the large number of banks in the area and the 
^strictive branching law of Florida. On the other hand, as a result 
of this proposal, Bank's competitive position in relation to the larger 
b a nHng organizations already represented in the relevant market should 
be enhanced. It does not appear, therefore, that significant competition 
V7°uld be eliminated or significant potential competition foreclosed by 
Co«summation of Applicant's proposal, or that there would be undue adverse 
effects on any bank in the area involved. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
applicant are regarded as satisfactory and consistent with approval 
of the application. While the same conclusion applies generally to 
applicant's subsidiaries, three of the subsidiary banks have capital 
ratios lower than the Board considers desirable. Applicant states 
that it intends to augment the capital at each of these banks and, with 
t h e injection of additional capital, the prospects of these subsidiaries 
3h°uld be improved. Applicant also proposes to inject additional capital 
l n Bank, as well as to strengthen and broaden Bank's management. Both 
0f these features should enhance Bank's prospects, and thus, lend some 
Wel8ht toward approval of the application. In addition to a stronger 

„ 1 6 3 8 
-3-
financial condition* affiliation with Applicant would enable Bank to 
°ffer increased services such as larger credit lines, international 
banking services, and trust services. These considerations are consistent 
with approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that the 
application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
^) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
tl*is Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-'' effective June 21, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
v<>ting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
tcheli> Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher, 

Item No. 2 
6/21/72 
immediate release 
June 26, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
t o < % announced that: it proposes to amend its Regulation Z (Truth 
Lending) in two respects, dealing with disclosures on open-end 
Cjredit billing statements, such as those issued in connection with 
credit cards and revolving charge accounts. 
The amendments would: 
—Require disclosure oi; a prospective nominal annual 
percentage rale on billing statements although no 
iinance charges are. imposed for the billing period 
represented by the statement-. 
—Require disclosure of minimum finance charges on 
billing statements. 
Interested persons are invited to submit written views or 
ilJ*or&)aticn to the Secretary of the Board, at Washington, D. C. 20551, 
to any Federal Reserve Bank for transmittal to the Board, not 
than July 3J» 1972. 
The test of: the Hoard's proposal is attached. 

1640 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR PART 226] 
fRefi. Z] 
TRUTH IN LEADING 
1. Pursuant to the authority contained in the Truth in Lending 
(15 u.S.C. 1601 ct. seq.) the Board of Governors proposes to amend 
^ 
226 (Regulation Z), in the manner and for the reasons set forth 
^ I o v j : 
$ 226.5(a)(3) would be amended to read as follows: 
S 226.5«DETEIU'aK«\TT.on OF ANNUAL PERCEHTAGH: RATE 
(a) General Rule - open end credit accounts * 
* 
* 
•>< 
* 
V; 
O ) 
Where the finance charge imposed during the billing 
e *•« or includes 
(i) any minimum, fixed, or other charge not due to the appll-
t4tloti of a periodic rate, other than a charge with respect to any specific 
"faction during the billing cycle, by dividing the total finance charge 
°r thf- billing cycle by the amount of the balance(s) to which applicable 
^Itipiving the. quotient (expressed ae a percentage) by the number of 
Mji, 
cycles in a year; or 
i 

1 6 4 1 
-2-
( M ) any charge with reapec.t to any specific transaction 
^riug thf, j ) i l l i n g c y c l o (even if the total finance charge also includes 
other minimum, fixed, or other charge not due to the application of 
Q Periodic rate), by dividing the total finance charge imposed during the 
b lUi ng c y c l e b y r h e t o t a l 
a l l balances and other amounts on which any 
fl*ance charge was imposed during the billing cycle without: duplication 
^multiplying the quotient (expressed as the percentage) by the number 
billing cycles in a y e a r ; ^ except that the annual percentage rate shall 
^ 
less than the largest rate determined by multiplying each periodic 
imposed, during the billing cycle by the number of periods in a year, 
(iii) any minimum, fixed, or other charge not due to the appli-
Cati<>ft of a periodic rate and the total finance charge imposed during the 
^• Uing cycle does not'exceed 50/ for a month3y or longer billing cycle, 
pro tata part of 50/ for a billing cycle shorter than monthly, by 
riJltiPlying each applicable periodic rate by the number of periods in a 
notwithstanding the provisions of subdivisions (!) and (ii) or 
th-' 
V3 subparagraph. 
i'tc/ 
the denominator of the fraction under 5 226.5(a) (3) (ii) 
;«mount will be used more than once when adding the sum of the balances to 
U*h periodic rates apply to the sum of the amounts financed to which 
H e transaction charges apply. In every case the full amount of trans-
to which coecific transaction charges apply shall be included in the 
t
tn°Mn&tov, 
Other balances or parts of balances shall be included according 
£ the manner of determining the'balance to which a periodic rate is applied, 
illustrated in the following examples of accounts on monthly billing 
Previous balance--none 
% 
A specific transaction of $100 occur.! or. first day of the billing cycle, 
average daily balance is $100. A specific transaction charge of 3L is 
footnote So continued on page 3. 

1 6 4 2 
-3-
^Ucabi c r;o the specific transactions. The periodic rate is 1-1/2% applicable 
^ 
average daily balance. The numerator is the amount of the finance charge, 
M , h 
$4.50. The denominator is the amount of the transaction (which is $100), 
th;s
 
a m Cant by which the balance to which the periodic rate applies exceeds 
$l00CK1Ount" o f specific transactions (such excess in this case is 0), totaling 
annual percentage rate is the quotient (which is 4.5%) multiplied by 
h e number of months in a year), i.e., 54%. 
I 
p 
Jfsvtoufs balance—$100 
v 
transaction of $100 occurs at midpoint of the billing cycle. 
*ppijv<ir*6a daily balance is $150. A specific transaction charge of 3% is 
to S C a b l e to the specific transaction. The periodic rate is 1-1 U u applicable 
*hie, Average daily balance. The numerator is the amount of finance charge 
1 s $3.25. The denominator is the amount of the transaction (which is .>100), 
the" t:ho amount by which the balance to which the periodic rate applies exceeus 
$l5o
ylr'OUnte of specific transactions (such excess in this case is $50), totaling 
A'6 ^plained in example 1, the annual percentage rate is 3.5% x 12 « 42%. 
'4 }*> In example 2, the period!a rate applies only to the previous balance, 
is $4.50 and the denoml oator is $200 (the amount of the trans-
^ ftVA *100> Pi us the balance to which only the periodic rate is appliceolc., 
devious balance). As explained in example 1, the annual percentage 
' U 2.25% x 12 - 27%. 
(fcif- in example 2, the periodic rate applies only to an adjusted balance 
h 
;0u« balance. Jess payments and credits) and the customer made a payment of 
m,-dP0int of billing cycle, the numerator is $3.75 and the denominator is 
ftmo"nt of the transaction, $100, plus the balance to which only the 
*ate is applicable, the $50 adjusted balance). As explained in 
^ 
1> the annual percentage rate is 2.5% x 12 = 30%. 
•j) 
A
C vlous balance--$100 
% 
8Pcsci3Eic transaction (check) of $100 occurs at the midpoint of the 
V
J 
cycle. The average daily balance is $150. The specific transaction 
> 
25 cents per check. The periodic rate is 1-1/2% applied to the average 
v^5o 
The numerator is the amount of the finance charge, which is 
arifl includes the 25 cents check charge and the $2.25 resulting from the 
of the periodic rate. The denominator is the full amount of the 
action (which is $100) plus the amount by which the average uaUy 
''I ^ceeds the amount of the specific transaction (which in this case is 
S i ; p a l i n g $150. As explained in example 1, the annual percentage rate 
J 1-2/3% x 12 - 20%. 

1 6 " 3 
§ § 226.7(b)(5), 226.7(b)(6), and 226.7(c) would be amended to 
OS follows: 
§ 226.7—OPEN END C R E D I T ACCOUNTS-SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 
(b) PerUkVIX st:atC4nercts,_xe3u5.red. * * * 
•>v 
(5) Each periodic rote, using the term "periodic rate" (or 
Mjpates"), that may be used to compute the finance charge (whether or not 
aPPlted during the billing cycle), the range of balances to which it is 
aWlcfible, and the corresponding annual percentage rate determined by 
^tiplying the periodic rate by the number of periods in a year. The 
"corresponding annual percentage, rate," "corresponding nominal 
"r'r-UfiX percentage rate," "nominal annual percentage rate" or "annual 
Fi<i'e^nt!igc rate" (or "rates") may bo used to describe the. corresponding 
percentage rate. The requirements of S 226.6(a) of this Part with 
^Pect to disclosing the tern "annual percentage rate" more conspicuously 
other required terminology shall net be. applicable to the disclosure 
under this subparagraph, although such term (or words incorporating 
terra) may, at the creditor's option, be shown as conspicuously as the 
^ittoloay required under subparagraph 6 of this paragraph. Where a 
charge may be applicable to the account, the amount of such minimum 
shall be. disclosed. 
' 
Vio r.uch charge \?111 be imposed 

1 6 4 4 
-5' 
(6) Wheg a finance charge is imposed during the billing cycle, 
annual percentage rate or rates determined under S 226.5(a) using 
^ 
term "annual percentage rate" (or "rates"). 
* 
* 
(c) Locotlon^oOil^iiyiSS' 
The disclosures required by 
S e r a p h (b) of this section shall be made on the face of the periodic 
^utement, except that, at the creditor's option: 
(1) Itemization of the amounts and dates of each extension 
o f credit (or the dates such extensions of credit were debited to the 
^eturu:) required to be disclosed under paragraph (b)(2) and of the 
"credits" disclosed under (3) of this section, and i t e r a t i o n of the 
amount of 
> fiance charge required <:o be disclosed under paragraph (b)(4) 
c,f this section, may be m?de on the reverse side of the periodic statement 
on a separete accompanying statement(s), provided that the totals of such 
^spective amounts ore disclosed on the face of the periodic statement: 
and 
(2) The disclosures required under paragraph (b)(5) oad (b)(8) 
thio section, except the balance on which the finance charge was 
°»puted, may he made on the reverse side of the periodic statement or 
the face of a single supplemental statement which shall accompany the 
r-Kiodic. ptatGment. 
(3) 
I f , the creditor exerciaes any o5 the options provided under 
paras^ph, the face of the periodic statement choll contain one of 
following notices, as applicable: "KOTT.CE: See reverse aide for 
c 
on 

1 6 ' 
-6-
Woktant information" or "NOTICE: Sec accompanying statements(s) for 
important information" or "NOTICE: See reverse side and accompanying 
8^ateaicnt(s) for important, information," and the disclosures shall not be 
g r a t e d so as to confuse or mislead the customer or obscure or detract 
e,:l'ent ion from the information required to be disclosed. 
2. These proposals, in part, are a republication of certain 
**qpG»flia issued for public comment on August 6, 1971. They have been 
R i f l e d on the basis of comments received on them and further study. 
3. The amendment to 6 226.5(a)(3) relocates the formula for 
l u t i n g annual percentage rat«e in the case of finance charges imposed 
V.it-h respect: to specific transactions during the billing cycic.-~.1or 
one time fees on cash advances 
to the section dealing with 
^nuai percentage r*te computation. The formula was previously Contained 
lri G 226.7(b)(6) and Board interpretation 3 226.704. This amendment would 
^so clarify the fact that the Regulation does not require computation of: 
-annual percentage rate by the quotient method when the total finance 
^arge, including charges with respect to specific transactions, does not 
4. A requirement has been added to 3 226.7(b)(5) that the 
responding annual percentage rate for each periodic rate applicable to 
the, account bo shewn on each periodic statement, whether or not: a finance 
^Grge If; imposed during the billing cycle, Many creditors have 
deviously fun da this disclosure, which was permissible, although not 
under Regulation Z. A variety of specified wording may be used 

kO 
i o daacrlbe these m t ^ , i 
l a t s s under the 
7 
^ i o n m wordin>v 
, 
,, 
" 
^ 
e m i t t e d use of 
• 
is t.o allow -rctHfrv . 
to 
maximum freedom ^ 
• 
d i^in 3«iah between r , t c . 
. 
' 
c n o o 8 c ^ d i « g 
hiiv. 
C n W c r e flct«ally appl^H i , 
U i t»S cycle f r - w * - 
^PPi-ed during f.he 
• 
u«ed to be di-ri^ « 
Pl'o* 
^-closed under g W , 
&PPC£ive nominal , a C a s 
^ 
^ - ' W W ) and Che 
v"ierP ,, 
,
r
d 
t 0 h e riiscloGod by 
, , 
, 
optional wcrdin* w i n i 
; 
the , 
' J S e d 1 0 ^tisfy the trrnw, -
««,.„« 
s 
t h e 
t o - m 
• " • P - c u o q s ' 
r e q u i r e m e n t 
o f 
s 
? o r 
r , n 
^rj. 
rnte" will 
i 
r; „ 
not DP anrO f „ lt 
. 
' 8 ««.?(b)(3), j t B U . 
. 
w a c b l e to di«l 0 e t, r e 8 
'-ontinue to a p p i y t o 
. 
., 
.. 
"••asn rate" •:„ ,,, . 
J 
t h e l c l M "annum 
% 
" "» oponine « eel«, a u r e e under n ? , 6 7 , v 
, 
' 2 2 6-10(0, even i f £ h„ ^ . . 
" d * 
^ 
creditor chooses en 
k 
( n K / , ) 
« 
, . 
L l u s terin—g.p- 
4 y 
— P o n d i n , 
p 
|r 
V 
VI n be required by t h , 
H 
t 0 i
 
8,,, 
• 
w
 
f o r 
6 W 
0 8 t h o s e «ho compufn f < r,„ 
, 
(L 
'^8Uon Of cue , 
8 l tVly by 
! ie i„r 
'Jt M r c P^iodic rates na- ,, 

1647 
The new provision also would require, disclosure of minimum 
barges which may be imposed on accounts with balances below a certain 
amount. This new disclosure requirement does not compel creditors to 
close the range of balances to which the minimum charge may be 
applicable; creditors may continue to disclose ranges of balances to 
^ich periodic rates apply under § 226.7(b)(5) without specifically 
de»lgnating the portion of any such range to which the minimum charge, 
l,*stead of the periodic rate, is applicable. For example, disclosure 
be. nsade that "a periodic rate of 1-1/2% per month which is an 
rERCVINTAGE RATE of: 1G7, will be applied to balances from $0 to 
villi s minimum charge of 50/.." 
The amendment to 8 2.26.7(b)(6) consists of the addition of 
*hc opening phrase "when a finance charge is imposed during the billing 
cVcle." Xn addition, the words "and, where there is more than one rate, 
amount of the balance tc which each rate is applicable" have been 
dieted since the applicable requirement is already contained in fi 226.7 
(b>(5) which requires disclosure of the range of balances to which each 
^•e j.c applicable. The amendment is primarily designed to clarify the 
that the annual percentage rate disclosures under this paragraph 
determined by S 226.5(a)) are only required when finance charger, are 
H-Ofifir\ during the billing cycle. Material relating to computation of 
t h c annual percentage rate where transaction charges are imposed during 
hilling cycle has been removed from the provision and incorporated 

1643 
•9-
(6) The amendment of C 226.7(c), vblch deals mtA the 
location of required disclosure, on periodic statements, «o»ld simplify 
Placement of the disclosure in a «8y in which is ejected to be more 
neeoiugful end useful to the customer and minimize confusion. The 
amendment incorporates Board interpretation 8 226.702. 
if the proposed amendments arc adopted, the Board will issue 
the amendments In final form with an appropriate prospective date so as 
to Fev;,„i.t ouch chants in printed forms and procedures as may be necessary 
tor compliance in an orderly manner. 
This notice is published purauant to section 553(b) of Title 5, 
Baited Staves Code, and B 262.2(a) of tin- Rules of. r»ceduce of the -
Boare of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 262.2(a)). 
To aid in the consideration of these matters by the Board, 
W r e s t e d persona are invited to submit relevant data, views, or 
«Wwents. Any such material should be submitted In writina to the 
Secretary, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Waahins-.on, J>. C. 
20551, or to any Federal Reserve Bank for transmittal 
to the Board, to be received at the Board not. later than July 31, 1972. 
Such material will be made available for Inspection and copying upon 
•, • 4,- >; v(-i f,(Vi of the Board's Rules Regarding 
'equest, except as provided in S 2</t,0(J; ox 
Avail.ability of Information. 
By order of the Iioard of Governors, June 21, 1*72. 
•Kchael A. Greenspan 
.... 
—--f"}" Groen s p a n, 
[SEAL) 
'-r-i 
r.sistant Secretary 

Item No. 3 
6/21/72 
For immediate release 
J u n e 2 6 - 197?-
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
today published two interpretations of parts of its Regulation Z 
(Truth in Lending). The interpretations concern the determination 
of the balance that may be used as the basis for a finance charge 
In open-end credit accounts, and the allocation of payments in suel 
accoants. 
Texts of the interpretations arc attached. 

1650 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
StJBCUAPXER A - BOARD 01' GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Z] 
PART 226 - TRUTH IN LENDING 
Mi see 11 o rie ouo In t erp re t a tion s 
Interpretation 0 226.703 is amended to read as follows: 
L £CCOt^rits 
Section 225.7(b)(8) requires that periodic statements for open 
fcad {-.ccountn shall disclose, among other things, "The balance on which 
t-ta finance chains was counted, and a statement of how that balance waa 
In some instances, creditors compute a finance charge on 
the average dally balance by application of a monthly periodic rata. In 
case, this information is adequately disclosed if the statement gives 
amount of the average daily balance on which the finance charge was 
t o u t e d , and also states how the balance is determined. In other 
^stances, the finance charge 19 computed on the balance each day by 
^pHca'-J.on of & daily periodic rate and such charges are accumulated and 
SebUei to the account in a single amount for the billing cycle. The 
^caeiou arises whether the periodic statencnf: must show for each day 
H tho billing cycle a belsiice on which a finance charge was computed, 
If. a daily periodic rate is used, the balance to which it is 
aei>3ica?>!o shall 
stated as foi lows: 
(I) A balance for -each day In the hilling cycle; or 

1651 
-2-
(2) A balance fair ep.ch day In the billing cycle on which 
1-he balance in the account changes; or 
(3) The sum of the daily balances during the billing cycle; or 
(4) The average daily balance during the billing cycle in 
tthlch esse the creditor shall state on the face of the periodic statement, 
U i reverse side, or on an enclosed supplement wording to the eftect 
that.the average daily balance is or can be multiplied by the number of 
in the. billing cycle and the periodic rate applied to the product 
determine the amount of the finance charge, 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 3637) 

~3~ 
226.70a Cpen_end credit>-«H 
Section 2^6,7 (a)(2) provides U m t before the first trans-
ition is made on any open end credit account, the creditor must disclose 
"the method of determining the balance upon which a finance charge may 
irapoaed." Section 226.7(b)(8) requires the creditor to disclose on 
tl*e periodic statement "the balance cn which the finance charge was 
deputed, and a statement of how that balance was determined.'1 The 
^est;ion is raised whether these provisions require a creditor to pro-
description of the manner in which payments or other credits are 
«?PUcd to various portions of the balance or balances on which finance 
etUii*3ci3 r.>,re computed. 
In disclosing, the method of oeteratining the balance Cs) v?o» 
Vi'^ch finance chorees a?*t> coftps.'tea, it U not ntcoassry to ohow. the 
K«f.hod or allocating payments or other credits. For example, explanation 
the. manner in which payments or credits may be applied to late 
^•Wgcs, overdue balances, finance charges, insurance premiums or other 
Portions of balances is not required. Similarly, explanation of the 
Method of allocating such payments between cash advance and purchase 
• ^ m o u a of the. account it? not required. Such explanations in many cases 
involve lengthy and scrapie* descriptions which may unduly complicate 
closures 
Explanation of the allocation method miy be made by creditors 
-'•ro U: can be done in conformity with 8 226.6(c) which authorise* 

"idltioual information or explanations as long as they are not ntated, 
utilised, or placed so as to mislead or confuse the customer or contra-
dict,, obscure, or detract: attention from the required disclosures. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C, 1637) 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 21 1572 
"ichael A. Greenspan 
MichaelK."greonspan 
Assistant S e c r eta ry 

1 
_ 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
1
6
6
4 
0 - ^ ' . 
' 
- 
D F T H E 
Item No. A 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
6/21/72 
U-^-':; 
.
'
l
'
-
W
A
S
H
I
N
G
T
O
N
, 
D , 
C. 
20551 
Ayjrfr 'i^QX; 
X^-)-, V-H/W' 
' 
ADPHESS DI'-ICIAL nDRRCSt'ONDLNCE 
/,. S. 
' 
TO THE OOAR D 
• v-u iu-.^Y; •' 
June 21, 1972 
1 n dust: r i a 1 N: i L i o n a 1 Co r p o r a t: i o n 
H i Westni 1 nster Street 
Providence, Rhode Island 
02903 
Ge ntlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 15, 1972, (further 
clarified in letters of March 7 and April 24, 1972), the Board of 
Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tion 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. as amended, 
filu' Section 223.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your Corporation to purchase 
and hold all of the capital stock oi Continental Factors Corporation 
("CFC"), Montreal, Canada, at a cost of approximately $4,500,000, pro-
vided such shares arc acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. In this connection, the Board also grants permission for your 
Corporation to hold indirectly through CFC 31-2/3 per cent of the shares 
oj- Viva Mills, Ltd, ("Viva") , a Canadian knitting /nil]. 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under Sec-
tion 4(c.) (13), CFC shall confine its activities to international or 
•°rej.gn banking and other international or foreign financial operations. 
this regard, CFC shall confine its factoring activities to financial 
factoring of the typo permitted by Section 225.4(a)(1) of Regulation Y\ 
The consent to the holding of shares of Viva is based on the 
understanding that CFC will reduce its interest in Viva to 23-1/3 per 
ent by January 1, 1974, and is granted subject to the condition that 
CFC will in no way control the operations of Viva and that Viva will 
°oviduct no business in the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

% 
' v<o\ 
Q D A R D 
D F 
G
D
V
E
R
N
•
R
3 
D F T H E 
Item No. 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
6/21/72 
1651 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 
205.M 
ADDRESS QfriCIAL HORRCSf'nNDLNCE 
TO THE BOARD 
June 21, 1972 
1 n d u s I: r i a 1 N a t. i o n a 1 C o r p o r a 11 o n 
H i Westminster P.treeI 
Providence, Rhode 15;land 
02903 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 15, 1972, (further 
clarified in letters of March 7 and April 24, 1972), the Board of 
Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tion 4(c) (13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of ,1956. as amended, 
and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your Corporation to purchase 
snd hold all of the capital slock of Continental Factors Corporation 
O'CFC"*) , Montreal, Canada, at a cost of approximately $4,500,000, pro-
dded such shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. In this connection, the Board also grants permission for your 
Corporation to hold indirectly through CFG 31.-2/3 per cent of the shares 
oj- Viva Mi), is, Ltd. ("Viva"), a Canadian knitting mill . 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under Sec-
tion 4(c)(13), CFC shall confine its activities to international or 
•'•°reign banking and other international or foreign financial operations. 
this regard, CFC shall confine its factoring activities to financial 
factoring of the typo permitted by Section 225.4(a)(1) of Regulation Y. 
The consent to the holding of shares of Viva is based on the 
understanding that CFC will reduce its interest in Viva to 23-1/3 per 
cent by January 1, 1974, and is granted subject to the condition that 
CFC will in no way control the operations of Viva and that Viva will 
conduct no business in the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of: the Board 

1 & 5 5 
B D A R D 
a r C-J • V E R N • R S 
D P 
T H E 
Item No. 5 
6/21/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDREfVD OFFICIAL tinPUIi'Sf ONOKNCC 
TU TH t L'OAKD 
June 2Bj 197 
K r. K y 1 e K . F o s 5 uin. 
Oha i rm.jn 
Conference of First Vice Presidents 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Atlanta, Georgia 
30303 
Bear Mr, Possum: 
Enclosed is a copy of a recent letter from the Treasury 
Department containing a proposal for establishment of a System-
credit: policy for all Government agency deposits at* the 
federal Reserve Banks. 
Also enclosed is a staff report analysing 
the Treasury proposal aria rn alroi.ua t'', Briefly., the Trees'.try ban 
asked for actual calculated credi r ou al i deposits 2nd the ivivic len 
ol Pcderal Reserve Lank Operations has proposed a System-vie a 
one-, day credit policy, which the Treasury has indicated is an 
equal ly acceptable alternative. 
The Board agrees with the Treasury in principle that 
Syi5tem-va.de policy should be established. However, it concurs 
with the Division or Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommendation 
for one-day credit instead of actual credit. The one-day alterna-
tive will be simple for all Banks to administer and will follow 
the trend of RCPC's toward establishment of System-wide one-day 
credit. 
We would appreciate the views of the Conference oa this 
policy. 
Vory tluly yours, 
(signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
M1 e h a (' 1 A , G r e e v. s pan 
Assistant Secretary 

1656 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
6/21/72 
FIRST UNITED BANCORPORATION, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First United Bancorporation, Inc., Fort Worth, Texas, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger Co The First 
National Bank of Fort Worth, Fort Worth, Texas ("First Bank"). The 
bank into which First Sank is to be merged has no significance except 
a s a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of First 
&ank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of the shares of the 
Accessor organization is treated herein as a proposed acquisition of 
shares of First Bank. Applicant has filed separate applications 
f 
i 
approval to acquire 27 per cent of the voting shares of Security 
State Bank, Fort Worth, Texas ("Security Bank") and 24.3 per cent of 
the voting shares of Seminary State Bank, Fort Worth, Texas; which are 
Presently held by First Bank in its pension trust. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
petsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
® 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a n d the Board has considered the applications and all comments received 
l n light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) 
a n d finds that; 

1657 
-2-
Applicant, which has been a trusteed affiliate of First Bank 
since 1929, became a regulated bank holding company as a result of the 
1570 Amendments to the Act. Applicant controls 36.9 per cent of Univer-
sity State Bank ($32.3 million in deposits representing..1 per cent 
°f total deposits of commercial banks in the State). (All banking data 
are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company formations and 
acquisitions through March 31, 1972.) Additionally, Applicant presently 
holds between 24 and 24.9 per cent of voting shares of Security Bank 
($14.2 million in deposits), Seminary Bank ($13.1 million in deposits), 
Gateway National Bank ($12.5 million in deposits) and Great Southwest 
National Bank ($4.0 million in deposits), all located in the Fort Worth 
hanking market. Upon consummation of the proposal herein, Applicant 
Would directly control four subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits 
$498 million representing approximately 28 per cent of total deposits 
°f commercial banks in the Fort Worth area, 1.9 per cent of deposits of 
commercial banks in the State, and would retain control of 24.9 per cent 
of 
the voting shares of Gateway National Bank and Great Southwest 
National Bank. 
First Bank ($438 million in deposits), the second largest 
o f 44 banks in the Fort Worth banking market controls approximately 
per cent of deposits of commercial banks in that area. First Bank 
has been a bank holding company since 1966 and controls, through a 
Pension trust, 27 per cent of the voting shares of Security Bank, and 
p e r c e n t of the voting shares of Seminary Bank. Upon consummation 

1 6 5 8 
-3-
of the proposed acquisitions Applicant would control 51 per cent of 
the voting shares of Security Bank and 48.3 per cent of the voting 
shares of Seminary Bank in addition to virtually all voting shares of 
First Bank. 
All of the banks, shares of which are held by Applicant or 
First Bank, operate in the Fort Worth banking market. These banks were 
organized and chartered between 1950 and 1969 by individuals associated 
with First Bank, and have maintained close working relationships with 
First Bank since their formation. By virtue of these relationships, 
Applicant and its lead bank in fact control not only University, but 
also Security and Seminary banks. First National is a regional bank 
with a substanial amount of nonlocal regional and correspondent banking 
business. At its office in the center of the City it competes with 
two similar Fort Worth and five Dallas banks for larger business, 
Sovernmental, and personal accounts. The other banks involved in the 
application, all neighborhood institutions, would undoubtedly be 
branches of First National if branching were permitted under Texas law. 
These offices are of primary importance to serve the convenience of 
individuals and businesses in their immediate vicinity. This is evident 
from the character of their deposit and loan business. For the great 
majority of these customers, convenience to home or work is the dominant 
factor in their banking choices. Thus it is only in a marginal sense that 
these neighborhood offices can be said to compete with the downtown Fort 

1 6 5 9 
-4-
Uorth institutions. This was the 3oard's finding in its Statement 
concerning the application of First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, 
Florida, to become a bank holding company (1967 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin 235). 
Since the institutions whose artillations.are nere sousnr 
to be consolidated with a holding company are comparatively small and 
arc widely separated from each other, the anticompetitive aspects of 
fche proposal are more than offset by the service advantages growing out 
of the greater efficiencies that are characteristic of a holding company 
af filiation. 
Due to the fact that the instant proposal involves a restruc-
of present affiliations, the Board finds that the proposal would 
have little effect on the banking convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served or on the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of the banks involved. However, these factors are satisfactory 
and consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that consummation 
the proposed transactions is In the public interest and the applications 
sl>°uld be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
^he reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be consummated 
(a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 

I860 
-5-
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Foard, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors," effective June 26, 1P72. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
iSEAL] 
y Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
chairman Burns. 

1661 
Item No. 7 
6/21/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
HY-VEE FOOD STORES, INC., AND HY-VEE EMPLOYEES' TRUST 
Order Denying Exemption from Prohibitions Against Nonbanking Activities 
of Bank Holding Companies 
Hy-Vee Food Stores, Inc. ("Hy-Vee"), and Hy-Vee Employees' 
Trust ("Trust"), both of Chariton, Iowa, are bank holding companies 
within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l84l), by virtue of control of National Bank & Trust Company of 
Chariton, Chariton, Iowa ("Bank"), and have applied to the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to § 4(d) of the Act, for an exemption from the 
Prohibitions of § 4 (relating to nonbanking activities and acquisi-
tions). 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Pederal Register on March 25, 1972 (37 Federal Register 6231). Time 
r filing comments and views has expired. No comments have been 
Reived nor any request for a hearing. 
Section 4(d) of the Act provides that to the extent such 
action would not be substantially at variance with the purposes of the 
and subject to such conditions as the Board considers necessary to 
protect the public interest, the Board may grant an exemption from the 
Provisions of § 4 of the Act to certain one-bank holding companies in 
G r (1) to avoid disrupting business relationships that have existed 
a long period of years without adversely affecting the banks or 
p. 
^unities involved, or (2) to avoid forced sales of small locally 
banks to purchasers not similarly representative of community 

1662 
-2-
interests, or (3) to allow retention of banks that are so small in relation 
to the holding company's total interests and so small in relation to the 
banking market to be served as to minimize the likelihood that the bank's 
powers to grant or deny credit may be influenced by a desire to further 
the holding company's other interests. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in § 4(d) of the Act and finds that: 
Hy-Vee, headquartered at Chariton, Iowa, owns and operates 79 
retail grocery stores and 4 drug stores in Iowa, Minnesota, and Missouri. 
Hy-Vee controls Bank through Trust, a profit-sharing trust continuously 
managed since its inception on July 13, 1960, by trustees, all of whom 
are executive officers of Hy-Vee. The record shows that, on June 14, 
1963, Trust and Hy-Vee acquired control of the voting shares of Bank by 
virtue of section 2(g)(2) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1841(g)(2)). As of the 
time of submission of the application to the Board, Hy-Vee and Trust 
controlled 92.25 per cent of the outstanding voting shares of Bank. The 
facts of record do not indicate that the needs of the community were 
being inadequately served at the time Trust purchased the Bank, nor is there 
evidence of a unique relationship between Applicants and the community 
such as could not exist between another owner of Bank and the community. 
Bank's total assets as of June 30, 1971 ($14.3 million), were 
equal to about 46 per cent of Hy-Vee's total assets (on June 27, 1971) 
and represented over 200 per cent of the total assets of Trust (on 
July 31, 1971). As of year-end 1970, the before tax income of Bank was 
i
t

-3 
16<B3 
7,8 per cent of the before tax income of Hy-Vee and 23.1 per cent of the 
increase in net worth of Trust. Bank's deposits as of June 30, 1971 
($13 million), represented 19.8 per cent of total commercial bank deposits 
in the relevant market, an area within a radius of 15 miles around Chariton. 
On the facts of record, including the length of time the 
relationship has existed, the nature of the origin of the affiliation, 
the needs of the community, and the size of the Bank in relation to the 
holding companies' total interests and in relation to the banking market 
involved, the Board concludes that, while the record contains no evidence 
that ownership of Bank by Trust and Hy-Vee has had an adverse effect on 
the banks or community involved, the Applicants have not demonstrated that 
an exemption is warranted under the provisions of § 4(d) of the Act. 
Based on the foregoing and other considerations reflected in the 
record, the Board has denied the applications of Hy-Vee and Trust for an 
exemption from the Act's restrictions relating to nonbanking activities 
and acquisitions. 
1/ 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective June 21, 1972.-' 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action; Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor 
Brimmer. 
2/ Board action was taken before Governor Bucher was a Board Member. 

1 6 6 4 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
..••^.'coV-'- 
* 
nr YHf. 
Item No. 8 
F E D E R A L R E B E R V E S Y S T E M 
6/21/72 
WASHINGTON, 'X O. POS'JI 
Minfi^i?: 
V' .'• 
ADDRESS QFFICIM. PORRtBPQNO£Nt!U 
TO THE POARD 
June 22. 1972 
Mr. Pershing Boe, Manager 
Washington Office 
Independent Bankers Association of America 
818 - 18th Street, N. W., Suite 550 
Washington, D. C. 20006 
Dear Mr, Boe: 
This is to confirm advice given on June. 2.1, 1972. to 
Mr. Nolle, your Washington counsel, that the Board has denied 
the Petition of your Association for modification of the Board's 
May 26. 1972, notice of an oral presentation on the guidelines 
used by Reserve panics in processing applications for formation 
o£ oc.e~bank holding companies under delegated authority. The 
Board has received your Association's notice of appearance and 
enclosed is a schedule of the order of appearances and partici-
pants for the proceeding. 
You will note that the Board has granted the request 
for an hour for the Association's presentation. The Association 
is free to raise in its presentation those issues which the 
Petition sought lo raise. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
1 c h ae 1 A. G r c i e ns p a n 
A s s is tan t 3 ecr e t ar y 
'finclosur 

1 6 6 5 
ORAL PRESENTATION ON GUIDELINES USED BY 
RESERVE BANKS IN EXERCISE OF DELEGATED 
AUTHORITY 
Schedule of Appearances 
10:00 a.m. 
American Bankers Association 
Mr. Charles R. McNeill 
Executive Director-Government 
Relations 
3.3 20 Connecticut Avenue, N,W. 
Washington, D. C. 
20036 
11:00 a.m. 
Joseph 0. Kostrier, Esq. 
It iirJ ;-;on, O'Uagan, Ehrlich & Frank el 
2OS South LaSa.'lle. Street 
Chicago; Illinois 
60604 
.11: SO a ,tu. 
Mr, Girard L. Stewart, President 
t y Nr. t: i on a 1 Bank 
12 0 \ C1 o q u e t A v e n u e 
Cloquel* j Minnesota 
55720 
22:00 
LUNCH 
2:00 p.m. 
Independent Bankers Association 
of America 
818 .18lb Street, N.W., Suite 550 
Washington, D, C. 
20006 
3:00 p.m. 
Mr. Dean T. Dearinger, President 
Citizens Investment. Company 
Thornton, Colorado 
SO229 
3:30 p.m. 
Howard A. Mick, Esq. 
S tin son, Mag, Thomson, McEvers 
I Fi.i'-J-eU 
TenKain Center, Suite 2100 
Kansas City, Missouri 
64105 
4:00 - 5*00 
'(•* i n n c so t a P» ankc r s A s s o c i a t i on 
332 Baker Building 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
55402 

lilltl 
For immediate release 
?.. 
11 
k 
1668 
• 
Item No. 9 
6/21/72 
June 21j 1972 
In view of incorrect statements made concerning the Federal 
Reserve System in connection with a break-in at the national head-
quarters of the Democratic Party, the Federal Reserve Board today 
made the following statement: 
"The Federal Reserve System is making every effort to 
assist the legally responsible law enforcement agencies 
in ascertaining the facts, 
"The Federal Reserve Banks have supplied them with all perti-
nent information in their possession. 
"We have been advised by the U, S. Attorney for the District 
of Columbia that disclosure at this time of any information 
that may be in our possession could prejudice the conduct of 
the investigation and any subsequent prosecution, and that 
there consequently should be no' disclosure except to the 
responsible law enforcement agencies, 
"We wish to cooperate fully with ell who are interested in 
ascertaining the factsf but we feel that our primary duty at 
this time is to accede to the advice of the legally consti-
tuted enforcement authorities, ar.d we arc doing so. 
A 
Chairman Burns received abetter from Senator Pvoxrd.ro on 
June 19, and he replied the. same day. A copy of Senator Proxmre's 
letter of June 19, which is the only direct communication from the 
^ 
Senator 
the. Board, is attached together with Chairman Burns' reply 
of the same day* 

j«n« 19, 
i m 
Dear W r . Ch&lrmriPt 
I hava your iftticr of Juno i 9 tnd £ ssrx aware of 
aew»pap«r ctosrlee- conccrcing the ov<sat you mcatloaad. 
\V as at the 
have? zta hi^wledg* of fcha Foder&l 
JEUo®rv« buck which loaned fehosu parti cula* BSftaa or a£ the 
commordtti bonk to which they w « r © transferred. 
V/ifchoat 
kbits iaforwatlaa, iiasra Ic uoihtng 
fcbat 
c&a do to comply 
with yew? re^ci:*. 
\Vc tuAwae that Ch* Iftwottffttivo anftbeTlfctof 
feck^a 
wtth jfeepec* fto ftho ftcto?*. 
Upoffi ymp^ea by frha iareftfigtfclvo »i**hc*rifcUB, 
o&cq 
thoy 
ftftck 
i&tomsvUsa «y&ilablct to >i«, mi eh&U ©I 
courso ho glad to 
in every poaoSbta way* 
S i n e w ely yfctasfff, 
Artkur F. Biua® 
'rhc; Wc-siorabU XHUlftsa Proxfair* 
Cfcfif.rr&Jfcw 
Financial Affatew SttbcttcaroStitse 
Jotefc Ecou*vi5i c 
Uftiisd 
tltnUjQ 'dar-sto 
W&ehfcagfcosa, W. C. 
AFBtecrn 

? P O X M I « K . W . T . . C H A I U M . ' H 
^ J , , ' " * 1 " " H C G F F . R.O.MM. 
I F " H U M>'HF?:.Y, M I I I M . 
•V^. . 
FI'-'"S.-N, 
J R . , T . - > . 
• PFAJJFION, K A N K . 
X'>:U'"IVI: OI^CEC- ON 
Congress of t i j c V X n i t t i t States' 
J O I N T E C O N O M I C 
C O M M I T T E R : 
(CRRATUO I>UREUANI TO SCC. 5(H) OF PUOLIC 1 > W 3C4, J«YH CONGRESS) 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 
?.051i0 
June. 19, 1972 
The Honorable Arthur Burns 
Chaiima n 
The Federal Reserve Board 
Constitution Avenue at 20th Street 
Washington, D. C. 2.0551 
W H I S H T P A T M A N 
H S C H A ' O BOU-IN'. 
H A L F NOSGS, L / 
HENRY S. REURS, W I S . 
M A H T H V W . G R I F F I T H S , M I C K . 
W I L L I A M S. MOOFIU^AD 
F A . 
W I L L I A M TI. W'.ONALL, U.J. 
BARBER 13. CONADLT. JR.. N.Y. 
C H R E N C F . J. R.BUW^, O N O 
BEN C. D L A C K D U 3 N , G<». 
J A M E S V/. K N O W L T S , 
O M R C Y S N o r 
RESEARCH 
>»VJPF C H A I R M A N 
Gear Mr. Chairman: 
This letter is t;o confirm the verbal request my administrative 
assistant made cf Mr. Rippey at 10:00 a.m. today for a report to me today 
of the name of the bank or banks Involved in issuing the $100 bills founa 
on the men caught "bugging" the Democratic. National Committee. 
I also 
wish to knot? the name of the person or persons receiving these funds 
(estimated at $6,300), the source of the check or financial instrument 
used to purchase the $100 bills, and other pertinent details. 
This is a most serious matter and must not be swept under the 
riM; or hidden by the Treasury or Secret Service, 
As $100 Federal Reserve notes were involved, as reportedly they 
were in numerical sequence, and as you and the banks keep details of 
transactions of this size, X am asking for the information forthwith. 
With best wishes. 
Sincerely, 
\Tilliam Proxmtre, U.S.a. 
// 
Chairman, Financial Affairs Subcommittee 
V/P:hss 
