MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 18, 1972 

2138 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, August 18, 1972. 
The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finanee 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
were present. 
Consent calendar. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to 
B ank of Utah, Ogden, Utah, granting consent to the issuance of capital 
n°tes. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Request for stay and reconsideration. 
By order dated June 16, 
the Board approved the application of The Royal Trust Company, 
Montreal, Quebec, Canada, to become a bank holding company through the 

2193 
8/18/72 
-2-
acquisition of shares of the successor by merger to Inter National 
Bank of Miami, Miami, Florida. 
In July 1972 the Florida Banking Commis-
sioner, joined by the Florida Bankers Association, requested (a) stay 
of the Board's June 16 order; (b) reconsideration; and (c) denial of 
the application on the grounds that the acquisition was prohibited by 
Florida statutes. 
In a memorandum dated August 17, 1972, the Legal Division 
discussed the matter and presented several alternatives open to the 
Board. 
The Division, however, recommended that the Board deny the 
request on the grounds that it was untimely and without merit, and that 
reconsideration by the Board was unnecessary to resolve the issues 
raised by the protestants. 
During the discussion several opinions were expressed and 
there developed support for granting a temporary stay to permit the 
filing of additional documentation. 
The Board then unanimously approved 
a stay of ten business days, with the understanding that the request 
°f the Banking Commissioner would be reconsidered at the end of that 
Period. 
A copy of the order granting the temporary stay is attached 
a s Item No. 2. 
Alabama Financial Group. 
An application of The Alabama Finan-
cial Group, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to Commercial Guaranty Bank of Mobile, Mobile, Alabama, appeared 

2 2 C 0 
8/18/72 
-3-
on the consent calendar of the Board meeting agenda for August 17, 1972. 
At that time consideration of the application was deferred in view of a 
question raised by Governor Brimmer concerning recent structural changes 
in the Mobile banking market. 
In a memorandum dated August 17, 1972, 
the Banking Markets Section and the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Presented material in response to Governor Brimmer's question. 
At today's meeting Governor Brimmer stated that his question 
had been resolved, and the Board thereupon unanimously approved the 
application and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
Central Bancompany. 
In a memorandum dated July 28, 1972, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of Central Bancompany, Jefferson City, Missouri, to acquire 
shares of The First National Bank of Clayton, Clayton, Missouri. 
In a 
memorandum dated August 14, 1972, the Banking Markets Section also rec-
ommended approval. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
the issuance of an order reflecting tnat decision. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 4. 
Citizens Investment Company. The Board authorized the issuance 
o f an order reflecting approval on August 17, 1972, of the applications 
o f Citizens Investment Company, Thornton, Colorado, to become a bank 

220 
8/18/72 
-4-
holding company through the acquisition of shares of North Valley 
State Bank, Thornton, Colorado, and to engage in the insurance activ-
ities conducted by North Investment Company, also of Thornton. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

spf cov;.. 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• r THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON > D. C. 2.055; 
2202 
Item No. 1 
8/18/72 
ADDREiJE nrriCIAL nOFiFiESPUNDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
August 18, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Bank of Utah 
°aden5 Utah 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204,1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
1:he Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $700,000 
in subordinated capital notes by Bank of Utah, Ogden, Utah, in the 
•torro submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
This 
aPprova] is given on the condition that the capital notes cannot 
0 0 call ad for redemption prior to maturity without the approval of 
l;lle Federal Reserve Bank. Approval is granted with the understand-
that the sale of these capital debentures will be consummated 
Vr'- thin six-months from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2203 
Item No. 2 
8/18/72 
THE ROYAL TRUST COMPANY 
Order Granting Temporary Stay 
The Honorable Fred 0. Dickinson, Jr., Comptroller and 
Banking Commissioner of the State of Florida and the Florida Bankers 
Association ("Petitioners"), by telegram received July 13, 1972 
and letter dated July 13, 1972, have requested a stay and recon-
sideration of the Board's Order of June 16, 1972, by which order 
Board of Governors approved the application of The Royal Trust 
Co™Pany, Montreal, Quebec, Canada ("Royal"), pursuant to section 
3(a)(l) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), 
prior approval to become a bank holding company by the acquisition 
100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the successor by merger to Inter National Bank of Miami, 
lIiami, Florida ("Inter National"). 
After consideration of the arguments advanced by Petitioners 
at*d Royal, the Board has concluded that further briefs by Petitioners 
Royal may be of assistance to the Board in determining whether 
Consideration of its Order of June 16, 1972, is appropriate. 
Ac 
c°tdingly, the Board hereby stays that Order until the close of 
JL 
' 
siness on September 1, 1972 for the purpose of affording Petitioners 
aaci Pv°yal an opportunity to submit written briefs or other documenta-
tio 
° n in support of their contentions and particularly with respect 
to the following issues: 
(1) whether it contravenes the public policy of 
the State of Florida for a trust company, 
neither chartered nor doing business in the 
L

- 2 -
2204 
State of Florida, to invest in stock in a 
Florida corporation and, more particularly, 
in a national bank and if so, what is such 
public policy; 
(2) whether the Board is precluded from approving 
a holding company formation on the basis that 
it contravenes such State public policy; and 
(3) whether ownership of stock of a national bank 
is "business of a federal nature" so as to be 
excepted from the doctrine that a foreign 
corporation may not exercise its charter powers 
in a State where that exercise contravenes 
the public policy of that State. 
written material to be presented should be received by the Board 
ILh wj 
time for the Board to study the material presented and to reach 
a V i s i o n on the request for reconsideration on or before September 1, 
1972, 
By order of the Board of Governorseffective August 1G, 
1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
(SEAL] 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
g; Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Bu 
Brimmer, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman 
r ns and Governors Daane and Sheehan. 

2205 
Item No. 3 
8/18/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE ALABAMA FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
The Alabama Financial Group, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act» has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire the successor by merger to Commercial 
Guaranty Bank of Mobile, Mobile, Alabama ("Bank"). The bank into which 
Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate 
the acquisition of voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed 
accluisition is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares 
o f Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Arsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a n d none have been timely received. The Board has considered the appli-
Cation in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
( l 2 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls three banks with aggregate deposits of 
^proximately $470 million, representing about 8.1 per cent of deposits 
y 
r commercial banks in Alabama. 
Consummation of this proposal would 
inctease Applicant's share of deposits by only .5 percentage points and 
^ All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, adjusted to reflect 
applicant's acquisition of The First National Bank of Dothan, Dothan, 
Alabatna, and Peoples National Bank of Huntsville, Huntsville, Alabama, 
^Proved by the Board in an Order dated August 17, 1972. 

- 2 -
2206 
w°uld not result in a significant increase in the concentration of 
banking resources in the State. 
Bank (deposits of about $27 million) is the fourth largest 
bank in the Mobile market with control of approximately 4.2 per cent 
o f area deposits. There is no significant existing competition between 
a n y o f Applicant's subsidiary banks and Bank, nor is there a reasonable 
Probability of competition developing in the future due to the distances 
between Bank and Applicant's banking subsidiaries (the closest banking 
Subsidiary is located about 175 miles from Mobile) and Alabama's re-
strictive branching laws. Affiliation by Bank with Applicant could, 
however, enable it to become a stronger alternative competitive force 
in fche concentrated Mobile market, where the top two banking organiza-
tions control over 70 per cent of deposits. The Board concludes that 
c°mpetitive considerations are consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
f Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are regarded as generally 
atisfactory and these considerations are consistent with approval of the 
^Plication. Considerations related to the convenience and needs of 
the community to be served also are consistent with approval of the 
^Plication. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
is 4 
, 
n the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the r o 
*-Gasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
^ 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 

2207 
-3-
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date 
Of this order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to 
^legated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 18, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
mmer, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Vernors Daane and Sheehan. 

2208 
Item No. 4 
8/18/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CENTRAL BANCOMPANY 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Central Bar.coropany, Jefferson City, Missouri, a bank 
holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
U-S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 55 per cent or more of the voting shares 
The First National Bank of Clayton, Clayton, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
ttith § 3(b) Qf 
A C t > 
The time for filing comments and views has 
6*Pii--ed, and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l8*2(c)). 
Applicant, the tenth largest multi-bank holding company in 
ssouri on the basis of deposits, has two subsidiary banks with 
aggregate deposits of $134.1 million, representing 1.1 per cent of 
•.1 
e total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(All banking data 
fly, 
as of December 31, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding company acquisi-
tions and formations approved by the Board through June 30, 1972.) 
Co 
Summation of the proposal herein would increase Applicant's share 
0 f commercial bank deposits in the State by less than 1 per cent, and 
^pPlicant would become the State's ninth largest multi-bank holding 
c°mpa ny. 

22C3 
- 2 -
Bank ($103.1 million deposits), located in Clayton nine miles 
West of downtown St. Louis, is the ninth largest of 108 banks in the 
q. 
* Louis market area, and holds about 1.7 per cent of the deposits 
j 
n that market. There is no significant existing competition between 
Bank and Applicant's present subsidiaries, the closest of which is over 
1 0 0 miles west of Clayton. Furthermore, in light of the distances 
SeParating Applicant's subsidiary banks and Bank, Missouri's restrictive 
br 
Aching laws, and the unlikelihood that Applicant would enter the 
St% L o u i s a r e a de novo, there seems to be little prospect for the 
Velopment of significant competition between Bank and Applicant's 
ubsidiarles. 
It appears, therefore, that consummation of the proposal 
^ r e i n wc>uld not likely have any adverse effects on competition and 
S h° U l d enable Bank to compete more effectively with the larger banks 
in its market. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Appj J 
J-cant and its subsidiaries are regarded as satisfactory and con-
et*t with approval of the application, The same conclusions apply 
respect to Bank's management. With regard to the financial resources 
of Banl 
capital is lower than the Board considers desirable for sub-
idiary banks of a holding company. In view of the Board's concern in 
thi8 a 
ea» Applicant proposes to augment Bank's capital through the 
e o f 
million of Bank's common stock and the initiation of 
a 
dlvidend retention program at Bank. Implementation of these measures 
strengthen Bank's financial condition and enhance its prospects, 

2 £ ± Q 
- 3 -
These considerations lend weight toward approval of the application. 
As a result of its improved financial condition and affiliation with 
Applicant, Bank should be able to improve and expand its range of 
services. Accordingly, considerations relating to convenience and needs 
are consistent with approval of the application. It is the Board's 
Judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the 
Public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
^ e Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 18, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
~~ 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
iTVotinr for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Ttitchell, 
dimmer, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
^aane and Sheehan. 

2211 
Item No. 5 
8/18/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CITIZENS INVESTMENT COMPANY 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
and Performance of Insurance Agency Activities 
Citizens Investment Company, Thornton, Colorado, has applied for 
t h e Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 
U,s-C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through acquisi-
tion of 49 per cent or more of the voting shares of North Valley State 
Bank, Thornton, Colorado ("Bank"). 
At the same time Applicant has applied for the Board's approval 
U n d er § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y 
to conduct the insurance agency business presently conducted by the North 
lnvestment Company, Thornton, Colorado ('"Agency"). 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in accordance 
W1-th sections 3 and 4 of the Act, and the time for filing comments and views 
expired. The Board has considered the applications and all comments 
Reived in the light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act 
U-S.C. 1842(c)), and the considerations specified in section 4(c)(8) 
°f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and finds that: 
Applicant is a non-operating corporation formed for the purpose 
°f acquiring Bank ($8.8 million deposits) and Agency. Applicant's acquisi-
t i o n of Bank arises, in substantial measure, from the exercise of buy-sell 
aSteements by major shareholders of Bank and would not have any adverse 
ef f 
ects on either existing or potential competition. 

2212 
- 2 -
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant, Bank, and the proposed insurance agency subsidiary are consistent 
with approval, as are considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
of the communities to be served. 
The business of Agency is currently being conducted on Bank's 
Premises by the North Investment Company. Applicant proposes to succeed 
to the business of selling credit life, health and accident insurance to 
Bank's customers. Selling credit life, health and accident insurance in 
connection with extensions of credit by a bank or a bank-related firm is 
an activity that the Board has previously determined to be closely related 
t o banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)). 
On the basis of the record, the applications to acquire Bank and 
Agency are approved. The acquisition of Bank shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Order, or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 18, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
Bucher. Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. Absent and 
n°t voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 
