' i ' i 
iCb i 
O 
U' ( . 
jv' h' 
'v' 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 8, 1967 

4764 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, December 8, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal and Miss McWhirter of the 
Office of the Secretary 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials used in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
At the conclusion of the review all members of the research 
divisions except Messrs. Brill and Partee of the Division of Research 
and Statistics and Mr. Solomon of the Division of International 
Finance withdrew from the meeting and the following entered: 
0 
I T Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

. 4765 
12/8/67 
-2-
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Miss Hart of the Legal Division 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Boston and Kansas City on December 4 and 
by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, 
Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Dallas, and San Francisco on 
December 7, 1967, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Policy record entries. With a memorandum of December 6, 
1967, Mr. Holland submitted for final review the policy record 
entry for the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on 
September 12, 1967, proposed for release on Monday, December 11. 
One minor language change having been agreed upon, the 
entry was approved for release on the date indicated. 
With a second memorandum of December 6, 1967, Mr. Holland 
submitted a draft of the policy record entry for the meeting of the 
Committee on October 3, 1967. The entry took account of comments 
received from Committee members and staff following distribution of 
a preliminary draft and was now submitted for approval by the Board, 
with the understanding that it would then be distributed to the 
Reserve Bank Presidents for possible further comments and released 
about January 2, 1968, after final review by the Board. 
£ 

12/8/67 
-2-
Mr. Holland described certain other minor changes in 
language, in the interest of accuracy, that had now been suggested. 
Agreement was reached with respect to them and the entry was then 
approved. (Note: In light of the discussion, two further changes 
were suggested by Mr. Holland in a memorandum dated December 11, 
1967, that was sent to all Board members. No objection to those 
changes was indicated.) 
Mclntyre amendments. Further consideration was given to 
the report to be made to Chairman Sparkman of the Senate Committee 
on Banking and Currency with respect to amendments proposed by 
Senator Mclntyre to S. 1659, a bill to amend the Investment Company 
Act of 1940. As stated at the Board meeting on December 4, a 
principal purpose of the amendments was to change certain provisions 
of Federal law that had been interpreted as impeding and preventing 
banks from establishing and maintaining funds for the collective 
investment of so-called "managing-agency accounts," these being 
similar in major respects to investments in shares of open-end 
investment companies ("mutual funds") as defined in the Investment 
Company Act of 1940. The amendments would also establish the 
authority of national banks to invest collectively funds of retire-
ment trusts for self-employed individuals (so-called "Smathers-
Keogh funds" or "H.R. 10 funds"). Another important aspect of the 
amendments was their effect on the status of collective Smathers-

12/8/67 
-2-
Keogh funds maintained by banks under the Federal securities laws 
and the administration of those laws as they related to such funds. 
The chief question of legislative policy presented by the 
Mclntyre amendments was whether it would be in the public interest 
for banks to be permitted to establish and operate collective funds 
that would be similar to, and would compete with, mutual funds. 
With a memorandum of December 6, 1967, Mr. Hexter had sub-
mitted a revised draft of letter to Chairman Sparkman prepared in 
accordance with suggestions made at the December 4 meeting. The 
modified draft incorporated a number of language changes and 
described in more detail, pursuant to a suggestion by Governor 
Robertson, why the reasons for barring commercial banks from 
investment banking activities were not thought to apply significantly 
to the operation of mutual funds by banks. Also distributed with the 
memorandum was the testimony of Chairman Cohen of the Securities and 
Exchange Coitmission with respect to the Mclntyre amendments. 
In another memorandum, also dated December 6, Mr. Solomon 
(Examinations) presented reasons why some staff members held views 
different from those expressed by Mr. Hexter in his memorandum of 
December 1, 1967, and in the proposed letter to Chairman Sparkman. 
(Note: Copies of all of the foregoing materials have been 
placed in the Board's files.) 
There was an extensive discussion of the matter by the Board, 
a major portion of which was devoted to clarification of the effects 

12/8/67 
-2-
of the Mclntyre amendments, review of the positions that had been 
taken by representatives of the banking community and by the 
Securities and Exchange Commission, and elaboration by Mr. Hexter, 
Mr. Solomon, and others of the views held within the Board's staff. 
From the discussion it developed that Board members were 
not in complete agreement with respect to the manner in which the 
report on the amendments should deal with a number of the primary 
and secondary issues involved. Governor Robertson then suggested 
preparation of a further draft in which a position of general 
support would continue to be taken but in which potential hazards 
seen in the entry of banks into the mutual fund business would be 
recognized. Board members indicated a willingness to review such 
a version of the report, but with the understanding that no com-
mitment existed as to its acceptability. 
With respect to the section of the Mclntyre amendments 
that would prohibit the inclusion of a "sales load" in the public 
offering price of interests in banks' collective managing-agency 
funds, some Board members were inclined to feel that the report 
should omit any reference to that section. However, one member 
(Governor Brimmer) argued in favor of retaining the language of 
the draft letter that questioned the advisability of a statutory 
Prohibition against such charges, and the point was left open for 
further consideration by the Board. 

4 
12/8/67 
-6-
Further, it was noted that Mr. Solomon held a view favorable 
to the provisions of the Mclntyre amendments under which administra-
tion of the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 with respect to banks1 Smathers-Keogh collective funds 
would be vested in the several Federal bank supervisory agencies 
instead of in the Securities and Exchange Commission. However, it 
appeared that Board members favored the opposite position, as 
stated in the draft letter prepared by Mr. Hexter. 
The discussion concluded with an understanding that a 
revised draft of the letter to Chairman Sparkman along the lines 
suggested by Governor Robertson would be prepared and that the 
question of the report to be made would then be considered again. 
Request for data. At its meeting on November 29, 1967, 
the Board decided to authorize the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
to provide certain daily reserve data to Morgan Guaranty Trust 
Company, New York, New York, both for past periods and on a con-
tinuing basis, with the understanding that a charge would be made 
for the cost involved. The bank had requested the data in order 
to complete a working model for forecasting money flows. 
The Board's action also contemplated that the availability 
of such data would be made known through an announcement in the 
Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
A draft of letter that might be sent to the New York Reserve 
Bank had now been distributed for the Board's consideration. 

12/8/67 
-2-
Governor Robertson reported that it had developed that the 
New York Bank held a strong view against making a charge for the 
modest out-of-pocket cost that would be involved, principally on 
the ground that Morgan Guaranty, like many other city banks, filed 
a great deal of information regularly with the Reserve Bank on a 
voluntary basis at considerable cost to themselves. The Reserve 
Bank suggested that if a charge was made for data of the kind 
sought by Morgan Guaranty, the bank might in turn reconsider its 
policy of furnishing data to the Federal Reserve without charge. 
Although some qualms were expressed in terms of the 
establishment of a precedent, Board members commented that this 
particular case did not appear too important in itself in view of 
the small expense involved in furnishing the data. 
It was then agreed to authorize the New York Reserve Bank 
to supply the requested data in this instance without the requirement 
that a charge be made to cover the cost. A copy of the letter sent 
to the Reserve Bank is attached as Item No. 1. 
It was understood that the general policy to be followed in 
handling requests from banks for various kinds of data would be 
studied further. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 

12/8/67 
-2-
Appointment 
Rosalie S. Weinstein as Clerk, Division of International 
Finance, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,269, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increase 
Florence L. Newell, Mailing List Clerk, Division of Admini 
strative Services, from $3,925 to $4,269 per annum, effective 
December 31, 1967. 
Charlotte H. Massey, Secretary, from the Division of 
Personnel Administration to the Division of International Finance, 
effective December 17, 1967. 
On December 8, 1967, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
as indicated: 
Transfer 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
approving the appointment of Frank L . Lentfer 
and Lloyd A. Bawden as examiners. 
2 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
approving the appointment of Robert K. O'Dell as 
assistant examiner. 
3 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
approving the appointment of James V. Chitwood as 
assistant examiner . 
4 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to Bank of Delaware, Wilmington, Delaware, 
5 
approving the establishment of a branch in Brandywine 
Hundred. 

12/8/67 
-2-
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
1 <••' 'K; kfr i tV. v s ' ' 
Letter to Allegheny Valley Bank of Pittsl 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, granting an exl 
sion of time within which to establish a 
branch in Blawnox. 

'WW 
• 4773 
B D A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
• 
F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 ! 
Item No. 1 
12/8/67 
AODRIII arriCIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
December 8, 1967 
Mr. Irving M. Auerbach, 
Manager, 
Statistics Department, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York 10045. 
Dear Mr. Auerbach: 
This refers to the letter addressed to you 
under date of October 13, 1967, by Vice President 
Edward C. Fecht of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company in which 
a request was made that the trust company be furnished daily 
data on four reserve items—Federal Reserve float, currency 
in circulation, currency and coin, and required reserves— 
to complete a working model for forecasting money flows. 
The bank would like to have daily figures covering three to 
five years for the most recent periods available and, in 
addition, would like to obtain the material in the future on 
a continuing basis. 
The Board understands that such data are readily 
available on punch cards, that they can be transmitted with 
relative ease at nominal cost, and that your Bank is willing 
to send the data to Morgan Guaranty. The Board authorizes 
releasing the data to Morgan Guaranty for the years 1962-66 
and also on a current basis, with a six-month or other suitable 
lag. 
Sincerely yours, 
Merritt 
Secretary. 

BOARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
• 
F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 3 5 1 
. 4774 
Item No. 2 
12/8/67 
ADDREBS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
DEC 1 1 1967 
Mr. Leland M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the requests contained in 
your letters of December 5, 1967, the Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the appoint-
ments of Frank L. Lentfer and Lloyd A. Bawden, at present 
assistant examiners, as examiners for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago, effective January 8, 1968. Please advise 
the salary rates. 
Oou-i^v 
••v: ''o i c Ji . iV-' 
,.: 
ly , 
Very truly yours, 
" . 0 i. >: V OU t'h'Jv 
'v". il 
; v 
I' 
' •: *!• \ i.f..; vi'iv: r-f. >: ./C. 
• feed} Bfcsbelli L CsnnlcM 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• 
F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 3 
12/8/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
PEC 1 1 1967 
Mr. 0. 0. Wyrick, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 63166 
Dear Mr. Wyrick: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of December 4, 1967, the Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the appointment of Robert K. O'Dell as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. Please 
advise the effective date of the appointment. 
It is noted that Mr. O'Dell owns director's qualifying 
shares of Wayne County Bank, Fairfield, Illinois. Accordingly, 
the approval of the appointment of Mr. O'Dell is given on the 
condition that he will dispose of the shares prior to the effec-
tive date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
CaiElcfcasi 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4776 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 4 
12/8/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
DEC 11 
Mr. Maurice J. Swords, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 64198 
Dear Mr. Swords: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of December 5, 1967, the Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the appoint-
ment of James V. Chitwood as an assistant examiner for 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. Please advise 
the salary rate and the effective date of the appointment, 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) SIfealisth L. CsnbBa jf > * ^ 
; 
Elizabeth L. Carmichad, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4777 
Item No. 5 
12/8/67 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
OP 
P H I L A D E L P H I A 
P H I L A D E L P H I A , 
P E N N S Y L V A N I A 
19101 
°EpARTMENT of 
AMk Examination 
December 8, 1967 
Board of Directors 
Bank of Delaware 
Wilmington, Delaware 
(f* 
j 
If 
Dear Sirs: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, acting under delegated authority, the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia approves the establish-
ment by the Bank of Delaware, Wilmington, New Castle County, 
Delaware, of an out-of-town branch office in the Talleyville 
Shopping Center on the Northeast Corner of Concord Pike 
(U.S. Route 202) and Silverside Road, Brandywine Hundred, 
New Castle County, Delaware, provided the branch is estab-
lished within one year from the date of this letter. 
This action is taken in view of the following opinions 
and facts: 
1. Capital of your bank presently is regarded 
as adequate. 
2. Management of your bank is regarded as 
adequate. 
3. 
It is believed the convenience and needs 
of the community will be better served 
if the proposed branch is established. 
b. It is believed the establishment of the 
proposed branch will not tend to create 
an undesirable competitive situation 
(either actual or potential). 
5. 
It is believed there are good prospects 
for profitable operations of the proposed 
branch within a reasonable time and the 
bank's earnings are adequate to sustain 
the operational losses of the proposed 
branch until it becomes profitable. 
6. 
Your bank's investment in bank premises 
after the expenditure for the proposed 
branch will be reasonable. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
... 
- 
• 
• 
' • • • • > 
'.. 
. 
• 
• 
•> 
PAGE NO. 2 
TO B o a r d o f Directors 
12/8/67 
7. Counsel for this Reserve Bank considers 
that establishment of the branch would be 
in conformity with the provisions of 
Section 208.8 of Regulation H and Section 
5155 of the revised Statutes. 
8. Establishment of the branch was approved by 
the Board of Bank Incorporation of the State 
of Delaware on December 1, 1967* 
Sincerely yours, 
a. «. 
'V U 
., 
- • k -i • .. Si.' 
; : ' ; ,, r . f J, 
Joseph M. Case 
Assistant Vice President 

. 4779 
Item No. 6 
12/8/67 COPY 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND 
December 8 , 1967 
Mr. K. W. Gundlach 
Executive Vice President 
-Allegheny Valley Bank of Pittsburgh 
Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania 
Dear M r . Oundlach 
'.it h, 
: • 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
vystem, acting under delegated authority, the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f Cleveland has apor^veH your request for a pir-roonths' extension 
of time within which your bank may establish a branch at the northeast 
corner of the intersection of Center Avenue and Freeport Poad, 
Blawnox, 
Allegheny County, Penr s 'lrmnia. 
This extension expires on July 3, 1968. 
On the day operations are started, will you please wire us that 
the branch has been formally opened for business. 
Very truly yours, 
/ 
/ 
H. W. Huning 
Vice President 
