MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 25, 1972 
It is proposed to place iri the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 Amendment to Regulation T, 
Credit by Brokers and Dealers. 

1869 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, July 25, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 1/ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 1/ 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs, Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Senior Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
i./ Attended afternoon session only. 

1870 
7/25/72 
-2-
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Marinaccio, Adviser, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Congressional testimony. The Board discussed a draft of 
testimony to be presented by Chairman Burns before the Joint Economic 
Committee on July 26, 1972. There was general agreement on the overall 
tone and content of the draft. However, a number of suggestions were 
made for minor revisions. 
It was understood that the statement would 
be reviewed in light of these suggestions and that a final version 
would be prepared in a form satisfactory to Chairman Burns. A copy of 
the statement, as presented, has been placed in the Board's files. 
Consent calendar. As recommended in memoranda from the Division 
°f Supervision and Regulation dated July 11 and 12, 1972, the Board 
Unanimously approved, effective September 5, 1972, an amendment to 
section 220.4(k) of Regulation T, Credit By Brokers and Dealers, with 
respect to credit for the combined acquisition of mutual fund shares 
and insurance. A copy of the notice published in the Federal Register 
l s attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Y.B. Corpo-
ration, South Sioux City, Nebraska, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of shares of Nebraska State Bank, South Sioux 

1871 
7/25/72 
-3-
City, Nebraska, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
Bank in Dallas, Dallas, Texas, to acquire indirectly shares of North 
Dallas Bank & Trust Co., Dallas, Texas, through a rights offering, and 
authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
°f the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
As recommended by the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Opera-
tions in a memorandum dated July 14, 1972, the Board unanimously approved 
a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York concurring in its 
Proposal for an interim reimbursement program for costs of currency and 
coin transportation to and from offices of member banks in New York City. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First State 
Bank of Idabel, Idabel, Oklahoma, to issue capital notes. A copy of 
the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Morgan Guaranty 
International Finance Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire addi-
tional shares of Banco Frances del Rio de la Plata S.A., Buenos Aires, 
Argentina. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
ItemNo. 6. 

1 8 •f'rfj 
7/25/72 
-4-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Popular 
Services, Inc., Passaic, New Jersey, to acquire shares of Automatic 
Operations, Inc., Passaic, New Jersey. A copy of the letter sent to 
the applicant is attached as Item No. 7. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations in a memorandum dated July 18, 1972, with which the 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans concurred, 
the Board unanimously approved a request by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston for permission to enter into a contract for an electronic 
security system in the proposed new Bank building. A copy of the letter 
sent to the Bank is attached as Item No. 8. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
First City Bank and Trust Company. 
In a memorandum dated July 10, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
an application of First City Bank and Trust Company, Hopkinsville, 
Kentucky, to issue capital notes. 
Several members of the Board expressed concern that the capital 
notes were to be sold to another bank. Discussion indicated that a 
majority of the members present were inclined to favor approval of the 
Application if the notes were not sold to a bank. 
The Board deferred action on the application and asked the staff 
to confer with the applicant about the possibility of selling the capital 
note issue to a nonbanking corporation. 

1873 
7/25/72 
-5-
C-M Company. Pursuant to a recommendation by the Legal Division 
in a memorandum of July 13, 1972, the Board unanimously approved a letter 
to counsel for C-M Company, Inc., Medicine Lodge, Kansas, determining 
that under Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, the company is not 
authorized to conduct an insurance agency business in Medicine Lodge 
and that an exemption from the regulation is not warranted. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 9. 
First Union. 
In a memorandum dated July 14, 1972, the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation discussed the applications of First Union, 
Incorporated, St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of three Missouri 
banks. The Division recommended approval of the applications to acquire 
shares of The Peoples Bank and Trust Company of Branson, Branson, Missouri, 
and The Bank of Crane, Crane, Missouri, but recommended denial of the 
application to acquire shares of Bank of Taney County, Forsyth, Missouri. 
The Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
concurred in the recommendations. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications to acquire 
The Peoples Bank and Trust Company of Branson and The Bank of Crane, 
and unanimously denied the application to acquire Bank of Taney County. 
It was understood that implementing documents would be prepared for 
the Board's consideration. 

1874 
7/25/72 
-6-
Finartcial Securities Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated July 17, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of 
the applications of Financial Securities Corporation, Lake City, Tennessee, 
(1) to remain a bank holding company by the retention of shares of First 
National Bank of Anderson County, Lake City, Tennessee, and of First 
Farmers Bank, Athens, Tennessee; and (2) to retain additional shares of 
First Farmers Bank acquired after December 31, 1970. 
The Banking Markets 
Section also recommended denial of the applications, while the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta recommended approval. 
The Board unanimously denied the applications, with the under-
standing that implementing documents would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration. 
Justice Department request. 
Mr. O'Connell asked for the Board's 
guidance with regard to a request from the Department of Justice for the 
use of the services of an employee of the Philadelphia Reserve Bank, Dr. 
Jerome Darnell, in connection with its case against Trans Texas Bancorpo-
ration, Inc., El Paso, Texas, a bank holding company whose formation 
had been approved by the Board in February 1972. 
Dr. Darnell was an 
expert on chain banking relationships and the Justice Department wished to 
have his services in preparation of the case and possibly in testimony 
before the court. 
It was explained that President Eastburn of the 
Philadelphia Reserve Bank was somewhat concerned about the loss of Dr. 
Darnell's time. 

1875 
7/25/72 
-7-
The Board agreed that it would be appropriate for the Reserve 
Bank to make Dr. Darnell's services available in the preparation of the 
case, but that it would not be desirable for him to testify since the 
Board's decision on the application might come into question. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
2:30 p.m. with all Board members present except Governor Bucher. The 
following members of the staff also were present: Messrs. Holland, 
Melnicoff, Smith, Anderson, and Halley. 
Plans for Martin Building. Governor Sheehan presented the 
design and occupancy pattern for the second level of the Martin Building 
as described in his memorandum of July 12, 1972. 
It was pointed out 
that this change would eliminate about 75 parking spaces in the Martin 
Building. Some of the Board members expressed concern about this 
although it was indicated it might be possible subsequently to rent 
additional outside space. The proposed change was approved in principle, 
with the understanding that the staff would circulate a revised memo-
randum recommending changes to the first and second garage levels only. 
New architectural contract. Governor Sheehan discussed a 
Proposal for a new architectural contract for rehabilitation of the 
listing Federal Reserve Building and interior design and furnishings 
°f portions of the Martin Building. After discussion it was understood 
the contacts would be made with several architectural firms to submit 

1878 
7/25/72 
-8-
bids for a contract, after which the matter would be brought back to 
the Board. Meanwhile, no decision was made with respect to the existing 
contract in connection with the design and procurement of interior 
furnishings for the Martin Building. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1877 
Item No. 1 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
7/25/72 
CHAPTER XI - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - JiOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg, T] 
PART 220 ~ CREDIT BY BROKERS AND DEALERS 
Credit for 
jComM^ 
of" V:utuaTF'un'dhji^j 
By notice of proposed rule making published in the Federal 
Agister of June 13, 1972 (37 F.R. 11734), the Board of Governors 
Proposed to amend § 220.4 0 0 of Regulation T> "Credit, by Brokers and 
Dealers", pursuant to section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (15 U.3.C. 78g). Following consideration of the comments 
^csivod, the Board has decided that the amendment should be adopted. 
The amendment eliminates from section 2.20.4(k) the require-
ment that} in cider to be eligible for the provisions of that section 
* creditor must be the issuer, or a subsidiary or affiliate of the 
issuer, of programs which combine the acquisition of mutual fund 
shares and insurance, g 220.4(k) is also amended to permit creditors 
Who arrange credit for the acquisition of mutual fund shares and 
insurance to cell mutual fund shares without insurance under the pro-
visionj of § 220.4(c) - Special Cash Account - of Regulation X. 
The designation, of g 220.4 (k) is changed to "Special 
prenr'.um funding account1.1. 
To imp lament, its decision in this matter, the Board has 
sanded § 220.4(h) to read as follows: 

. 1878 
™ 
I. 
5 220,4 - SPECIAL ACCOUNTS 
ft ft ft ft ft 
(k) SpeclaI 1nsuranee premium funding account. In a specia 1 
Irisurance premium funding account a creditor may arrange for the 
^tension or maintenance of credit, not In excess of the premiums on 
insurance policy (plus any applicable interest), on a security 
issued by an investment company registered pursuant to section 8 of 
th« Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8) that serves as 
c°Uateral under a plan, program, or investment contract registered 
the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Act 
Gf 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77), that provides for the acquisition both of a 
s®£urity issued by such investment company and of insurance; Provided, 
such credit; is extended or maintained by a lender subject: to 
207 of this Chapter (Regulation C) or a bank subject to Part 221 
this Chapter (Regulation U). A creditor arranging credit in a 
8Peclal insurance premium funding account shall not. extend, arrange> 
°r maintain credit in the general account or any other special account 
'x $ 220,3 and this section, except for transactions involving the 
P^chase of shares, in the special cash account described in para-
Staph {,:) 0f this section, in investment companies which are so registered. 
Effective date: September 5> 1972. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 25, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
~Michael" A, Greenspan, 
Assistant Secretary of the Board, 

1879 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/25/72 
Y.B. CORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Y.B. Corporation, South Sioux City, Nebraska, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company 
trough acquisition of 81 per cent of the voting shares of Nebraska 
State Bank, South Sioux City, Nebraska ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
^ light of the factors set forth in 5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, a newly organized corporation, was formed by the 
Present management of Bank for the purpose of becoming a bank holding 
company through the purchase of shares of Bank. Upon acquisition of 
Banlc ($11.9 million of deposits), Applicant would control approximately 
per cent of the commercial bank deposits in Nebraska. (All banking 
d*ta are as of December 31, 1971.) As the proposed transaction represents 
a sale of shares of Bank by individuals to a presently nonoperating holding 
company, consummation of the proposal would not eliminate existing or 
Potential competition and would not result in an increase in the con-
futation of banking resources in any relevant area. 
Bank, located in South Sioux City, Nebraska, is the largest 
°f two banks in that city. Bank operates in the Sioux City, Iowa-Nebraska 
Metropolitan area (which approximates its relevant market area). 

1880 
-2-
For a number of years, prior to the assumption of active 
control by Bank's present management in February 1971s Bank's condition 
adversely affected by frequent changes in management (four managing 
officers in seven years) and unprofitable credit policies. Bank's 
financial condition has been substantially improved by the introduction 
°f more profitable loan policies and effective management supervision 
by 
two individuals responsible for Applicant's organization. The 
director of Banking for the State of Nebraska, in recommending approval 
°f the proposed transaction, has expressed confidence in Bank's present 
Management. He has stated, " . . . we feel that they are capable of 
successfully operating the bank involved." 
Upon consummation of the proposed transaction, Applicant x/ould 
be8in operations with a relatively high acquisition debt. Applicant 
Proposes to retire this debt within ten years. Based upon projected 
future earnings of Bank and Applicant's proposals with respect to 
Management and dividend policies of Bank, it appears probable that 
Applicant would be able to retire its acquisition debt within this 
Period. 
On the basis of the facts of record as summarized herein, 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of Bank 
a n d Applicant (which are entirely dependent on the earnings of Bank) 
appear satisfactory and lend some weight toward approval of the appli-
cation. To the extent that formation of the proposed bank holding 

1881 
-3-
company will facilitate the continued provision of sound management 
Policies and thereby enable Bank to provide expanded banking services, 
considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the relevant 
community served by Bank lend weight toward approval of this application. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve 3anlc of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 25, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
•—-
1/ 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
°aane, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Hitchell, Brimmer, 
Bucher. 

1882 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/25/72* 3 
FIRST NATIONAL BANK IN DALLAS 
FIRST NATIONAL SECURITIES COMPANY IN DALLAS 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First National Bank in Dallas, Dallas, Texas, owns 26.41 
1/ 
Per cent of South Oak Cliff Bank, Dallas, Texas, 
is a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, and has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1Q42(a)(3)) to acquire, through a rights offering, 1,036 of the voting 
shares of North Dallas Bank & Trust Co., Dallas, Texas ('Bank"). Appli-
cant states that the proposed acquisition will be made directly by 
pirst National Securities Company in Dallas, Dallas, Texas, Applicant's 
trusteed affiliate, which now controls 24 per cent of the outstanding 
shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
s 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
And none has been timely received. The Board has considered the 
Application in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant with its one subsidiary bank controls total deposits 
$1.69 billiona representing 5.7 per cent of the total commercial 
i T r h T interest in South Oak Cliff Bank was acquired in 1066 in satis-
*Action of a debt previously contracted. 

1SS3 
-2-
bank deposits in the State, and is the second largest banking organiza-
tion in the Dallas S11SA and in Texas. Through its trusteed affiliate 
Applicant now controls 2A per cent of the shares of Bank ($23." million 
deposits), one of the smaller banks in the Dallas banking market. Appli-
cant proposes to have its trusteed affiliate acquire 1,036 shares of 
Bank through a rights offering. Applicant's trusteed affiliate will 
be acquiring less than its proportionate interest in the offering, with 
the result that Applicant's interest in Bank will drop to 2.3,7 per cent 
of the outstanding shares. The transaction involves neither an expan-
sion of Applicant nor an increase in the banking resources controlled 
by it. Consummation of the proposal would eliminate neither existing 
nor potential competition nor does it appear that there would be any 
adverse effects on any bank in the area. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of Appli-
cant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are regarded as satisfactory and con-
sistent with approval of the application. The convenience and needs of 
the area involved would not be affected by consummation of Applicant's 
Proposal. It is the Board's judgment that the application should be 
approved. 
iTApplicant's trusteed affiliate controls more than 5 per cent but less 
than 25 per cent of each of twelve other Texas banks 
The Board s action 
herein does not constitute a determination that any of the banks in which 
Applicant's trusteed affiliate owns shares is or may become a subsidiary 
°f Applicant- nor does the action herein indicate that the Board would 
in the future permit Applicant to acquire directly or indirectly any 
additional shares of any of said banks. However, the determination 
herein does not preclude the Board from determining that Applicant 
exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of any 
of said banks within the meaning of § 2(a)(2)(C) of the Act. 

1884 
-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Doard, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
V 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective juiy 25, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
l/~Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
°aane, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, 
Brimmer, and Bucher. 

±885 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
* 
'He- 
. 
. 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C, 20551 
4 D O R E S 5 
a r ' F I C I A C 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
July 26, 1972 
Mr. William F. Treiber 
first Vice President 
federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 
10045 
Dear Mr. Treiber: 
The Board has reviewed your proposal for establishment of 
a partial reimbursement program to city member banks for currency 
and coin transportation costs, and concurs in its interim use while 
direct services are being developed. The Board expects, however, 
that the program will terminate as schcJuled not later than September 
1073. 
The method of computing reimbursement which you have out-
lined is acceptable with the understanding that particular caution 
should be exercised to ensure that precedents are not established 
during this interim program which you would find unacceptable when 
direct service is initiated. For example, banks should not be 
reimbursed for more frequent, se-rvi.ee than is justified by your 
applied guidelines, nor when simultaneous withdrawals and deposits 
require excessive processing. 
In order that, the Board may keep abreast of your progress 
in developing direct service, a report of ycur progress would be 
appreciated at the beginning of each calendar quarter. Any plans 
for establishing similar service at the Buffalo Branch and wrapped 
coin service for the District would also be of interest. The Division 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations has been directed to monitor your 
Progress in providing currency and coin services, and to render any 
P o s s i b I e a s s i s t a n c. e. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

1885 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E 
Item No. 5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
7/25/72 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D O R E R S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E i j P D N D E N C E 
T O THE: 
B O A R D 
July 26, 1972 
Board of Directors 
?irst State Bank of Idabel 
-dabel, Oklahoma 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $500,000 
•in subordinated capital notes by First State Bank of Idabel, Idabel, 
Oklahoma, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
the condition that the capital notes cannot be called for redemption 
Prior to maturity without the approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Approval is granted with the understanding that the sale of these 
capital notes will be consummated within six months from the date of 
this letter and subject to the conditions set forth hereinafter in 
t^is letter. 
Any advertising with respect to the above described obligations 
V7i11, in additier to being in compliance with the provisions of section 
217.6 of Regulation Q, clearly distinguish the nature of the obligation 
from a deposit, including by setting forth in bold face type that the 
ligation is subordinated to the claims of depositors and not insured 
ky the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
I 
In granting approval to the issuance of these subordinated 
caplr.al notes, the Board considered the need for strengthening your bank's 
capital position. Upon issuance of the subordinated capital notes, an 
proportion of capital funds will be represented by debt obligations. 
There is a further need, therefore, to augment: the bank's capital funds 
tarough the sale of new common stock. This should receive your immediate 
attention. 
The 1972 examination of your bank revealed a fairly heavy volume 
loans including a substantial number subject to criticism. It was also 
that your investment portfolio include.; a heavy concentration of 
long-term municipal securities. In ^iew of the foregoing your application 
f°r the issuance of these subordinated capita) notes lias been approved 
kUoiect to the following conditions: 
i mm 

1887 
Board of Directors 
_ 2 -
1. The bank shall not declare, set aside funds for 
payment of or pay any dividend upon its capital stock 
without the prior written approval of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas. 
2. The bank's aggregate amount of (a) loans and (b) 
obligations of State and political subdivisions shall 
not exceed on any day the sum of $13,750,000 plus 50 per 
cent of the amount by which the bank's deposits shall 
exceed the sum of $16,450,000, until such time as the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas determines by written 
communication to bank that the bank's condition has 
been ameliorated to the extent that termination of this 
provision shall be justified. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
A ssi s tant Secretary 

1 S 8 S 
B O A R D • F G G V E R N D R S 
O'OF CO;--. 
D F T H E 
_ 
y^^^is/. 
Item No 6 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
7/25/72 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
'i-M^liS-
A D D R E S S 
O f ^ l C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 25, 1972 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation 
23 Wall Street 
Hew York, New York 
10C15 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of May 9, 1972, the Board of 
overnors grants consent for your Corporation ("MGIFC") to purchase 
Ajd hold, directly or indirectly, up to 2,750,000 additional shares 
1 stock of Banco Frances del Rio de la Plata S.A. ("BFRP"), Buenos 
, r e 3> Argentina, at a cost of approximately $500,000, provided the 
" 
r e s a r e acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
r additional shares of BFRP by MGIFC is granted subject to the 
011 owi ng c ond i. t i ons ; 
(1) That MGIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in BFRP if BFRP at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board 
of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if BFRP 
establishes any branch or agency or takes any 
action or undertakes any operation in Argentina 
or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not ba permissible to MGIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors 
MGIFC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of B.'fR? as it may re-
quire from time to time; 
(3) That. any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
BFRP be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner • as if BFR1' w r e 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act; and 

1 8 8 9 
To: Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation 
-2-
(4) That MGIFC shall not carry on its books, directly 
or indirectly, any shares of BFRP at a net amount 
in excess of its proportionate share of the book 
capital accounts of BFRP, after giving effect to 
the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board suspends, 
until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the immediately 
Preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions 
on loans'granted by BFRP in Argentina in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of BFRP. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York and its 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
1830 
Item No. 7 
7/25/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q B O E S P a N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
D O A R D 
J 111 V 25 , 1972 
Mr. Kenneth F. Freedman 
Executive Vice President 
Popular Services, Inc. 
128 Day tort Avenue 
Passaic, New Jersey 
07055 
Dear Mr. Freedman: 
I am writing in response to your letter of April 28, 1972 
in which you have requested on behalf of Popular Services, Inc., 
pursuant to sections 4(c)(12) of the Bank Holding Company Act and 
225.4(d) of Federal Reserve Regualtion Y, approval of the Board to 
acquire all the voting shares of Automatic Operations, Inc. 
On the basis of the facts presented in your letter, in-
cluding among others, the facts that Popular Services and Automatic 
are under a degree of common ownership; Automatic is in the same 
lines of businesses as Popular Services and is managed by it on a 
daily basis; Popular Services is a sublessee from Automatic as to its 
corporate headquarters and principal warehouse facilities, and, that 
acquisition of Automatic would not significantly add to the size or 
Popular Services; the Board has concluded that the proposed trans-
action warrants its approval under section 4(c)(12) of the Act and 
its regulations. 
Your attention is directed to the fact that so long as 
Popular Services has not m&da an effective divestiture of its non-
W i n g activities> the acquisition by it of Automatic presents an 
obstacle, should Popular Services seek to acquire shares of an addrtj.o 
bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

IliliiM-w 
B O A R D • F G G V E R N Q R G 
"f T H E 
item No. 8 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
7/25/72 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
1 8 3 1 
A O C I K F . U S 
D T F I C I A L 
n 3 R R E 5 P O N D E N U i : 
r n 
T H E 
EJOAIJD 
July 25, 1972 
Mr. Frank E. Morris, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Bos ton, Ma ssachus e 11 s 02106 
Dear Mr. Morris: 
The Beard has considered your request to enter into 
an agreement with Honeywell. Inc., the low bidder for the 
security system for the proposed new Bank building. 
Accord-
ingly, you are. authorized to expend an amount not to exceed 
$372,100 for the Honeywell Alpha 3000 electronic security 
system, including the selected alternates and a 5 per cent 
contingency as outlined. In your letter cr July 12, 1972. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assic tar.t Seere tary 

1SS2 
B O A R D • F" G O V E R N O R S 
COV/-. 
O F T H E 
Item No. 9 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
7/25/72 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
H i i i l 
•HRf-^V 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D K R E S P O N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
AIR HAIL REGISTEREO 
RE C EI PT""RE QU E S TED 
Ben jamin C. Langel, Esq. 
Fouls ton, Siefkin, Powers & Eberhardt 
Suite 600, Fourth National Bank Building 
Wichita, Kansas 
67202 
Dear Mr. Langel: 
The Board has considered your request on behalf of the 
C-M. Company, Inc., Medicine Lodge, Kansas, to permit the C-M Company 
to retain the credit life and disability insurance business con-
ducted at the offices of The First National Bank of Medicine Lodge, 
Kedieine Lodge, Kansas. 
After a careful review of the facts and circumstances 
of the case, the Board has determined that its regulations concerning 
activities by insurance, agency holding companies (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)) 
do not authorize the C-M Company to conduct an insurance agency 
business in Medicine Lodge, Kansas, and that an exemption to such 
regulations is not warranted. Accordingly, the C-M Company may 
wish to pursue an alternative method of structuring its affairs. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
