MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 14, 1972 

1812 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, July 14, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 4:00 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Today's discussion dealt with the question of what, if any, 
action the Federal Reserve should take in the light of current pressures 
in foreign exchange markets. The view was expressed that an absence of 
explicit recommendations by the Federal Reserve might contribute to an 
impression abroad that the United States was indifferent to international 
monetary problems. 
A proposal offered for discussion contemplated that the Board urge 
a two-pronged program, consisting of (1) a U.S. drawing on the International 
Monetary Fund to provide for an announced $2 billion standby credit; and 
(2) an announcement that reciprocal currency arrangements would be entered 
into in an unspecified amount, with a view to borrowing foreign currencies 
for sale in the market. The purpose of the program would be to convince 
speculators that the exchange rates contained in the Smithsonian Agreement 
would be continued until machinery could be provided looking toward perma-
nent reforms. 

1813 
7/14/72 
-2-
Some sentiment was expressed in favor of the proposal on the 
ground that possible present gains, on balance, would outweigh risk and 
possible loss in reserve assets. Another view, however, emphasized the 
risk of a drain of reserve assets as a high cost of uncertain success. 
Other alternatives mentioned included intensified controls on capital 
movements (considered of extremely doubtful feasibility), and a request 
for re lease from the August 1971 moratorium on reciprocal currency arrange-
ments . 
At the conclusion of the discussion there was general agreement 
that in consultations with other Government instrumentalities it might 
be indicated that the Board believed that, while there were obstacles to a 
U.S. drawing on the International Monetary Fund, the Federal Reserve and 
the Treasury should move to reinstate the reciprocal currency arrangements 
and make clear their intention to support the Smithsonian Agreement. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
