MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 11, 1968 

4r> 
A* 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, December 11, 1968. The Board met in the 
Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Adminis-
trative Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 

12/11/68 
-2-
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
Mrs. Winkler of the Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Heyde, Lynch, Noble, Sanders, 
and Via of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Ducy and Ettin of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Goodfellow, Maguire, and 
Ponczka of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Messrs. Higgins, Nelson, and Veenstra of the 
Division of Data Processing 
Foreign banking matters. The following items were approved 
•UijUUllr.'-v " 
unanimously after consideration of background information that had 
been made available to the Board, 
respective numbers indicated. 
Letter to American Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, 
New York, approving an amendment to its articles of asso-
ciation to change its name to Allied Bank International. 
Letter to First National City Overseas Investment Cor-
poration, New York, New York, granting consent to its 
acquisition of shares of a finance company to be formed 
in Panama. 
Letter to Marine Midland International Corporation, 
New York, New York, granting consent to its continuing 
to hold the stock of Marine Midland Overseas Corporation 
after acquisition by the latter of stock of Arawak Trust 
Company (Cayman) Limited, Georgetown, Grand Cayman, 
Cayman Islands. 
Copies are attached under the 
Item No. 

12/11/68 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to The Citizens and Southern National Bank, 
4 
Atlanta, Georgia, approving the organization of a cor-
poration under section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
to be known as Citizens and Southern International Bank, 
Miami, Florida, and transmitting a preliminary permit. 
Letter to Citizens and Southern International Corporation, 
5 
Atlanta, Georgia, granting consent to its acquisition of 
shares of Citizens and Southern International Bank, 
Miami, Florida. 
Branch application. Although some doubt was expressed as 
to the validity 
of the adverse position of the Puerto Rican banking 
authorities with regard to the entry of outside banking interests, 
unanimous approval was given to a letter to Virgin Islands National 
Bank, Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, denying its 
renewed application for permission to establish a branch in San Juan, 
Puerto Rico. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 6. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the compet-
itive factors involved in the proposed merger of Pittsburgh 
National Bank, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, with New National Bank, 
also of Pittsburgh, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion stating that con-
summation of the proposed merger (which was merely a transaction 
to facilitate the acquisition of Pittsburgh National Bank by 
Pittsburgh National Corporation, a newly-formed holding company) 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
s - ' .• 

4J2G' 
12/11/68 
-4-
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Fidelity National Bank of Twin Falls, Twin Falls, Idaho, 
into The Idaho First National Bank, Boise, Idaho, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
conclusion reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger between The Idaho 
First National Bank, Boise, and Fidelity National Bank of 
Twin Falls would eliminate existing and potential competi-
tion and further increase the heavy concentration of 
banking resources in the State of Idaho. The overall 
competitive effect would be adverse. 
I i 
Depositors Corporation. The Board authorized issuance of 
a n order and statement reflecting its approval on November 25, 1968, 
°f the application of Depositors Corporation, Augusta, Maine, to 
acquire shares of The First National Bank of Fort Fairfield, Fort 
Fairfield, Maine. Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached 
u n der Item No. 7. 
Banking data. In a memorandum dated December 9, 1968, the 
-*• Hi J* 
J .J " 
> T 
. 
: ; 
staff recommended that Form FR 644, used in obtaining basic credit 
information from nonweekly-reporting member banks, be collected 
weekly instead of semimonthly and that an item for total assets be 
added. The staff also recommended that the Federal Reserve District 
summary banking data reports (Form FR 635) based on the Form FR 644 
earning assets data, the report of deposits for reserve purposes, and 
J.L 
e weekly condition reports of large commercial banks be compiled 
and forwarded to the Board weekly. 

4268 
12/11/68 
-5-
The staff further suggested that it would be desirable to 
begin weekly release of the Board's J.4 statement, relating to 
assets and liabilities of all banks in the United States, and to 
convert the document to a commercial bank statement by eliminating 
mutual savings banks. Also, the last page of the document, known 
as the consolidated condition statement for banks and the monetary 
system, would be changed to a monthly basis, revised to eliminate 
mutual savings banks, and revised to effect a more logical method 
°f consolidation of some accounts. 
The staff recommendations were approved unanimously, 
subject to clearance with the Bureau of the Budget of the changes 
proposed in the collection of Form FR 644. A copy of the letter 
sent to the Federal Reserve Banks on this matter is attached as 
Item No. 8. 
Although he agreed that the changes recommended by the 
staff would represent a substantial improvement, Governor Mitchell 
suggested that consideration also be given to the possibility of 
expanding the FR 644 collection system to provide data for all 
insured commercial banks. He believed that this could be accom-
plished if the Reserve Banks could persuade large nonmember banks 
to report weekly and if estimates were made for smaller nonmember 
banks based on the member bank data. 

•1271 
12/11/68 
-6-
After some discussion of the matter, it was understood 
that the staff would consider the feasibility of procedures for 
accomplishing the desired objective and report back to the Board. 
Regulation Q question. By letter of September 27, 1968, 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas had requested an opinion on 
whether any violation of Regulation Q, Payment of Interest on 
Deposits, was involved in an arrangement under which an officer 
°f Republic National Bank of Dallas, Dallas, Texas, submitted a 
bid under the bank's letterhead to the Dallas Independent School 
District to act as treasurer of the District for a specified term. 
The bid indicated the officer's willingness to pay a rate in excess 
°f the maximum permissible under Regulation Q, namely, a rate of 
6.42 per cent per annum on the average daily net balance of all 
funds of the School District. The School District accepted the 
bid and the bank officer then entered into an agreement with an 
organization known as The Howard Corporation under which that cor-
poration agreed to pay the officer interest at the rate of 6.42 per 
cent per annum on the average daily net balance of all funds of the 
School District delivered by the officer to the corporation. 
It was understood that all of the shares of Howard Corpo-
ration were held by trustees for the benefit of shareholders of the 
national bank, that the trustees were officers of the bank, and that 

4270 
12/11/68 
- 7 -
Howard placed a portion of the School District funds with the 
national bank, on which the bank paid the maximum rate of interest 
permitted by Regulation Q. 
A draft of reply to the Reserve Bank submitted by the Legal 
Division took the position that the described arrangement did not 
appear to involve any violation of Regulation Q, assuming there 
were no related transactions such as to indicate that assets of the 
national bank were being used to enable Howard Corporation or the 
bank officer who submitted the bid to pay to the School District on 
its funds deposited with the national bank a rate of interest in 
excess of the maximum permitted by Regulation Q. 
In a discussion of the matter, members of the Board 
expressed reluctance to close the matter by sending a letter of the 
kind proposed by the Legal Division. 
It was suggested that, if nothing more, the use of the 
national bank's letterhead by the bank officer could be called into 
question as an undesirable practice. Also, inquiry was made as to 
the possible applicability to an arrangement of the kind described 
°f the bank advertising regulations now being drafted in conjunction 
W3-th the other Federal bank supervisory agencies. Governor Robertson 
indicated that a draft of the proposed regulations would be available 
t o the Board shortly. While it did not appear that the regulations 

•1271 
12/11/68 
-8-
would be directly applicable, he felt that there might be some 
possibility of making an interpretation based upon them. 
It was further suggested that consideration be given to 
whether any violation of section 21 of the Banking Act of 1933 
might be involved in the receipt of deposits by Howard Corporation. 
In view of the comments made during the discussion, the 
matter was held over for further study. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Travel-accident insurance policy. Unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Personnel 
of the Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks 
authorizing the inclusion of members of the Federal Advisory 
Council and the Council's Secretary and Assistant Secretary, while 
traveling on Federal Reserve System business, in the master travel-
accident insurance policy of the Federal Reserve Banks with Mutual 
of Omaha Insurance Company. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 9. 
Supplemental retirement allowance agreement. The Board 
approved unanimously an agreement entered into between the Board 
of Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and President 
Frank E. Morris guaranteeing him, subject to the fulfillment of 
certain conditions, a retirement allowance equal to 40 per cent of 

12/11/68 
-9-
his final annual salary at the time of his retirement. A copy of 
the letter sent to the Chairman of the Bank with regard to the 
Board's approval of the agreement is attached as Item No. 10. 
Annex building. In a memorandum dated December 10, 1968, 
relating to the proposed Board annex building, Mr. Shepardson 
recommended (1) that the Board authorize a call for bids on exca-
vation and shoring at the earliest possible date, probably Janu-
ary 15, 1969, (2) that invitations to bid on both the excavation 
contract and the general contract be issued to selected lists of 
bidders, (3) that the Board authorize an added investment for 
security and automatic mechanical control systems as outlined in 
the memorandum, and (4) that the Board authorize an addition of 
one per cent of the estimated cost of the building proper (not 
including the north garage and park) to be used for appropriate 
selections of fine art, with the selection of the art delegated 
to an appropriate committee with power to act. 
After a discussion during which Mr. Shepardson stated 
that the proposals in the memorandum had been reviewed with 
Governor Sherrill and were agreeable to him, the recommendations 
were approved unanimously. 
Request for information. Reference was made to a request 
that had been received by telephone from the office of Senator 
Metcalf of Montana for lists of shareholders in three bank holding 

L
< C> 
12/11/68 
-10-
companies: Northwest Bancorporation and First Bank System, Inc., 
both of Minneapolis, Minnesota, and Bancorporation of Montana, 
Great Falls, Montana. 
Mr. O'Connell pointed out that annual reports filed with 
the Board by the respective holding companies would disclose some 
of the information requested, including officers and directors 
and parties owning 5 per cent or more of the voting stock. Thus 
far the Board had not revealed information of that nature from the 
annual reports filed with it, and as a technical matter such infor-
mation probably fell within an exemption contained in the Public 
Information Act. However, a question of policy was involved. 
Similar information was publicly available in other areas, includ-
ing the area covered by Regulation F, Securities of Member State 
Banks, and it appeared that some of the information requested by 
the Senator would be available through the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. 
After discussion, during which Board members indicated that 
they would favor complying with the request to a reasonable extent, 
the staff was authorized to ascertain to what extent information of 
the kind sought was a matter of public record and to make disclosure 
accordingly. 
In this connection, Mr. Cardon suggested that it might be 
helpful if the staff were to prepare for the Board's consideration 

12/11/68 
-11-
a set of guidelines that would be applicable to the handling of 
requests for information of this general nature. 
Bank Protection Act. Chairman Martin called attention to 
feelings of hostility within the banking community, perhaps due in 
part to misunderstandings, toward the regulations being developed 
to implement the Bank Protection Act of 1968. 
In response, Governor Robertson spoke of several modifi-
cations that were being made in the draft regulations in an effort 
to moderate some of the apprehension that apparently existed. 
There followed a discussion of certain points understood to be of 
concern to the banking community, along with possibilities for com-
promise, and the Chairman suggested that the initial approach be 
one of minimizing regulatory requirements to the extent feasible, 
leaving open the possibility of tightening the regulations later 
if that proved necessary. 
Governor Robertson indicated that a revised draft of the 
Proposed regulations should be available to the Board within about 
a week. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Holland then withdrew 
from the meeting. 
The Chairman reported that he had had the opportunity to 
talk with President-elect Nixon on several problems of mutual 
interest. The President-elect had reviewed certain choices of 

4Z75 
12/11/68 
-12-
Cabinet members with him and had suggested that the new Quadriad 
(consisting of the Secretary of the Treasury, Director of the 
Bureau of the Budget, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, 
and Chairman Martin) meet with him in early January. 
Chairman Martin reported that he had given the President-
elect two summary staff reports, one prepared by Mr. Brill on 
domestic economic developments and one prepared by Mr. Solomon on 
international economic developments. He said copies of these reports 
would be distributed to each of the members of the Board. 
Chairman Martin stated that he had reviewed with Mr. Nixon 
the independent status of the Federal Reserve and its relationship 
to the Administration. They had also discussed his serving the 
remainder of his term as Chairman and the timing of the terms of 
the Chairman and members of the Board. 
In the area of banking structure, he had called the atten-
tion of the President-elect to some of the possible hazards posed 
by the spread of one-bank holding companies. It was indicated that 
the Federal Reserve might present its views as to desirable new 
legislat ion in this field at the first scheduled meeting of the new 
Quadriad. Chairman Martin added that he had told the President-elect 
that he felt the chief domestic economic problem was inflation. He 
believed the key challenge now was to find the means for disinflating 
without deflation. 

12/11/68 
13-
Th e Chairman had explained that in his judgment the System 
had made a miscalculation in the summer in easing monetary policy 
slightly following passage of the fiscal restraint package. Now, 
he had told the President-elect, the Federal Reserve might soon 
find it necessary to increase the discount rate, as an adjustment 
to rising credit demands and market interest rates. 
The members of the Board then discussed informally various 
possible policy actions, including possible increases in the dis-
count rate and in member bank reserve requirements. It was 
planned that such matters would be discussed further with the 
Federal Reserve Bank Presidents at the forthcoming meeting of the 
Federal Open Market Committee, scheduled for December 17. 
T. .. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

A OT? 
Item No. 1 
12/11/68 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D B R E S P Q N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 11, 1968 
American Overseas Banking Corporation, 
Hotel Commodore - Suite 1500, 
Lexington Avenue and 42nd Street, 
New York, New York. 10017 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of December 2, 
1968, enclosing a copy of a resolution of shareholders 
changing the name of your Corporation to Allied Bank 
International and a certified copy of a resolution adopted 
by your Board of Directors amending Article FIRST of the 
Articles of Association of your Corporation to make such 
change. 
The Board of Governors approves the amendment 
to Article FIRST. Please advise the Board when the change 
in name becomes effective. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
. 4276 
Item No. 2 
12/11/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 11, 1968. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
Septemb er 25, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Cor-
poration ("FNCOIC") to purchase and hold two shares (100 per cent of 
the issued stock) of the no-par-value stock of a "Finance Company" to 
be formed in Panama, at a cost of approximately $40, provided the shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of "Finance Company" by FNCOIC is granted subject to the follow-
ing conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in "Finance Company" if "Finance Company" 
at any time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if "Finance Company" estab-
lishes any branch or agency or takes any action or 
undertakes any operation in Panama or elsewhere, in any 
manner, which at the time would not be permissible to 
FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of "Finance Company" as it may require from 
time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by "Finance 
Company" be reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation 
K in the same manner as if "Finance Company" were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 

4270 
First National City Overseas 
-2-
Xnvestment Corporation 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board sus-
pends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the 
immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate 
to restrictions on loans granted by "Finance Company" in Panama in the 
currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of "Finance Company." It is also requested 
that the Board be advised when "Finance Company" becomes active. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
Corporation, First National City Bank, International Banking Corpora-
tion, and First National City Bank (International), and that due con-
sideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

oicpw-
^LRESfr.' 
4280 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
12/11/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 11, 1968 
Marine Midland International 
Corporation, 
140 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in the letter of 
Marine Midland Overseas Corporation, ("MMOC"), dated September 18 
P ' M M ^ M S 6 B° a r d ° f G o v e r n o r s grants its consent for your Corporatioi 
J MMIC ) to continue to hold the stock of MMOC after MMOC acquires 
U per cent of the capital stock of Arawak Trust Company (Cayman) 
Limited, George Town, Grand Cayman, at a cost of approximately 
9.31,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
This consent is also given with the same understanding 
regarding the financing of foreign credits and investments by MMOC 
contained in the Board's letter to you dated April 23, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assi stant Secretary. 

• • V I 
Item No. 4 
12/11/68 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S arriciAL C N R R E S P D N 
D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 11, 1968 
Mr. Douglas A. Smith, Vice President, 
The Citizens and Southern National Bank, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30302 
Dear Mr. Smith: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of Asso-
ciation and Organization Certificate dated September 16, 1968, of 
Citizens and Southern International Bank, Miami, Florida, and'there 
is enclosed a Preliminary Permit authorizing that Corporation to 
exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
issue its final permit to commence business, the President, Treasurer, 
°r Secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
\2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
y citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
under the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States, 
or by firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned 
by citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized 
capital stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per 
cent has been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individ-
ually paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription; 
and must forward a certified copy of an amendment to Article ELEVENTH 
the Articles of Association so it reads "This corporation shall 
ave succession for a period of twenty years from the date of issuance 
its preliminary permit to begin business . . ..11 Thereafter, the 
reasurer or Secretary shall certify to the payment of the remaining 
mstalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 
Your attention is called to the fact that Citizens and 
°uthern International Bank will have no separate base under the foreign 
credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or investments will need 

4282 
Mr. Douglas A. Smith 
-2-
to be made under the combined ceiling of The Citizens and Southern 
National Bank and Citizens and Southern International Corporation. 
Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with the understanding 
that any foreign loans and investments of the Corporation will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending 
and investment activities of The Citizens and Southern National Bank 
and Citizens and Southern International Corporation, and that due 
consideration will be given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
.
.
.
.
.
. 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

. 4283 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
OF 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
December 11, 1968 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association dated September 16, 1968, and 
Organization Certificate dated September 16, 1968, of CITIZENS AND 
SOUTHERN INTERNATIONAL BANK duly filed with said Board of Governors, 
and that CITIZENS AND SOUTHERN INTERNATIONAL BANK is authorized to 
exercise such of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) 
a s are incidental and preliminary to its organization pending the 
issuance by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of 
a final permit generally to commence business in accordance with 
th 
e provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
Pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
B y 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4 2 8 4 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 5 
12/11/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 11, 1968 
Citizens and Southern International 
Corporation, 
Marietta at Broad, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30302 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in the letters 
of September 17, 1968, and November 15, 1968, the Board of Gov-
ernors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold 
approximately 727,272 shares of Citizens and Southern International 
Bank ("CSIB"), Miami, Florida, at a cost of approximately $800,000, 
provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. In this connection, the Board also approves the 
purchase and holding of shares of CSIB by your Corporation in exces 
of the 1 imitations set forth in the provisions of Section 25(a) 
(12 U.S.C. 615(c)) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assi stant Secretary. 

4 2 8 5 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 6 
12/11/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 12, 1968. 
Virgin Islands National Bank, 
Charlotte Amalie, 
st. Thomas, Virgin Islands. 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of August 9, 1968, again 
requesting permission of the Board of Governors for the Virgin 
Islands National Bank to establish a branch in San Juan, Puerto Rico. 
The Board has carefully reviewed the information submitted 
in support of your new application. It has again received from the 
uerto Rican banking authorities strong protests against the granting 
Permission to establish the branch. The Board has again reviewed 
the adequacy of present banking facilities in San Juan and in Puerto 
Rico and the existing competitive situation among the banks. In ap-
praising these factors, the Board as in the past has given considerable 
^eight to the unfavorable views of the Puerto Rican banking authori-
ties. 
After careful consideration, the Board has concluded that 
h e circumstances referred to in its letter of April 26, 1967, have 
n°t basically changed and therefore approval of your request should 
not be granted at this time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

Item No. 24 
12/11/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
DEPOSITORS CORPORATION, 
1 
Augusta, Maine, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of at least 
51 per cent of the voting shares of 
the First National Bank of Fort Fairfield, 
1 
port Fairfield, Maine. 
1 
- - 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Depositors Corporation, 
Augusta, Maine, a registered bank holding company, for the Board s 
Pflor approval of the acquisition of at least 51 per cent of the 
v°ting shares of The First National Bank of Fort Fairfield, 
port Fairfield, Maine. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
• 
the Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and 

4 2 8 7 
-2-
requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 3, 1968 (33 Federal Register 14799), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
tor filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
feeen considered by the Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
° r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 11th day of December, 1968, 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

4288 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY DEPOSITORS CORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF FORT FAIRFIELD 
STATEMENT 
Depositors Corporation, Augusta, Maine ("Applicant"), a 
registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
accluisition of at least 51 per cent of the voting shares of The 
F*rst National Bank of Fort Fairfield, Fort Fairfield, Maine 
( Bank"). Applicant presently controls two banks which hold 
dePosits of $149 million.*" 
Bank has total deposits of $4.5 million. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and 
rGcluested his views and recommendation thereon. The Comptroller 
recotr,mended approval of the application. 
A/ Banking data are as of December 30, 1967, unless otherwise noted. 

4289 
-2-
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) bf the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
ar»y part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs ©f the 
community to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
c°nvenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant con-
trols two subsidiary banks having 34 offices and serving nine of Maine's 
1 6 counties. With 15,1 per cent of total deposits held by commercial 
banks in the State, Applicant is the largest banking organization in 
**aine. Its proposed acquisition of Bank, which holds but .5 per cent 
total deposits in the State, would have no significant effect on 
State-wide concentration. Neither would concentration levels in the 
SeParate areas served by Applicant's present banking subsidiaries and 
Bank be unduly increased. 

4 2 3 0 
-3-
Bank, the main office of which is located in Fort Fairfield, 
is the fifth largest of seven banks having offices in Aroostook County, 
and the smallest of three banks serving its immediate area. Northern 
National Bank, Presque Isle, with deposits of $51.6 million, is the 
largest bank both in the County and the immediate area. Consummation 
°f the proposal would not adversely affect the competitive position of 
any other bank, and Bank's competitive ability should be strengthened 
by the proposed affiliation. 
Both banking subsidiaries of Applicant are located about 
200 miles from Bank, and there appears to be no competition existing 
between those subsidiaries and Bank. State law prohibits the estab-
lishment of de novo branches outside of a bank's home office county 
and contiguous counties, except that a bank may establish a branch in 
anV town that has no banking office. The possibility is remote that 
competition between Applicant's present subsidiaries and Bank would 
°ccur as a result of either of Applicant's present subsidiaries es-
tablishing a branch in Aroostook County, since all towns in the 
County sufficiently populous to support a banking office have such an 
office. 
The proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly or 
in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monop-
°lize the business of banking in any relevant area. Approval of the 
aPplication and consummation of the proposal would not substantially 
lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in 
anV section of the country. 

4291 
-2-
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is 
satisfactory, and the prospects of each appear favorable. Appli-
cant's management is regarded as experienced and competent, as is 
that of its subsidiary banks. 
Bank's condition is also regarded as satisfactory, as is 
its management, and its prospects are favorable; thus, considerations 
relating to the banking factors are consistent with approval of the 
aPplication. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Con-
summation of the proposed transaction would have no effect on cus-
tomers of Applicant's present subsidiaries. Nor does it appear that 
a n y major banking service in the area served by Bank is not being 
Provided by the banks located in and near that area. However, Appli-
Cant has indicated that it intends to make Bank a more convenient 
alternative source for a complete line of banking services by provid-
e s investment management and data processing services, improving the 
Ending ability of Bank through loan participations with Applicant's 
°ther subsidiaries, and providing specialized advice with regard to 
trust services. 
Considerations under this factor lend some weight toward 
aPproval of the application. 
m
wmm^—m

-5-
4 2 9 2 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
December 11, 1968. 
J ' , . ! • >'_ 
> . 
' 
' 
1 ** * 
* y t t * 
M ,> 4 
J 
•.V.. 
, ' 
: ? 
• 
I 
.,.}'. . r; . 

4 2 9 3 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 8 
12/11/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A O O R C B 9 O F F I C I A L 
C D H R E B P D N D E N C E 
TO THC 
B O A R D 
December 13, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board has approved System Committee recommendations that 
Form FR 644—Loans and Securities of Member Banks (nonweekly reporting) 
be collected weekly rather than semimonthly and that a new item for 
total assets be added to the report. Contingent on Bureau of the 
Budget approval, the new reporting procedures will begin January 8, 
1969. 
A sample copy of the form is enclosed. Each Reserve Bank 
will print their own forms to accommodate regional differences in 
needs and procedures. The enclosed sample form contains no reference 
to the required forwarding date—each Reserve Bank should include 
any directions desired. Your Bank will be notified irrmediately of 
the number and expiration date when approved. It is expected the 
number will remain the same and the expiration date requested was 
December 31, 1973. 
The new form does not reflect prospective changes in the 
call report form or instructions. The wording was purposely left 
quite general so that prospective changes might be covered; for example, 
no item references and no direct reference to valuation reserves 
were included. The more direct and explicit reference to Federal 
funds and security repurchases in the loan item caption was intended 
to improve reporting. 
If any problems are encountered in printing a supply of 
the new form in time for distribution to respondent banks for the 
January 8 report date, temporary use of the old foim after December 31 
*ould, of course, be permissible. The additional total assets item on 
the new form was intended for internal Reserve Bank use in estimating 
certain accounts required for compilation of FR 635 for the Board. 
An item for total loans and securities (which some Reserve Banks have 
been using in the past) also has been added to the version of the 
form sent to the Budget Bureau for clearance. It is hoped this 
addition will preclude some banks from showing total loans and 
securities in the space for total assets. 

4 2 3 4 
- 2 -
The FR 635 wire to the Board should be transmitted on a 
weekly basis in the same format and with the same time lag as at 
present. A revised Technical Memorandum on this subject will be 
forthcoming soon. This memorandum will be sent directly to the 
representative at your Bank handling telegraphic transmission of 
Form FR 635 data to the Board. 
As indicated at the most recent meeting of the System 
Research Advisory Committee, a new memorandum item should be added 
to the FR 635 wire to show estimates of total loans to banks. 
Pending agreement on a uniform definition of Federal funds for use 
in the Report of Deposits, the estimates should be based on such 
information on Federal funds transactions (or Federal funds and 
repurchase transactions or total interbank loans) as is available 
at each Reserve Bank in the Report of Deposits and Weekly Condition 
Report. These estimates should be shown by class of member bank in 
the "remarks" section of the FR 635 wire against the code word 
FOOL. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kcnyon, / 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure. 
TO THE PRESIDENT OF EACH FEDERAL RESERVE BANK 

4 2 9 5 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
12/11/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 11, 1968 
Mr. M. H. Strothman, Jr., Chairman, 
Subcommittee on Personnel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 55440 
Dear Mr. Strothman: 
The Board of Governors has authorized the inclusion 
of the Federal Advisory Council, their Secretary and Assistant 
Secretary, in the master travel-accident insurance policy of 
the Federal Reserve Banks with Mutual of Omaha Insurance 
Company. The Board understands that the System will incur an 
additional expense of $2,481 for a three-year term for this 
coverage. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

cOfair 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
12/11/68 
CONFIDENTIAL 
(FR) 
Howard W. Johnson, 
Chairman of the Board, 
federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 02106 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 11, 1968 
son: 
De*r Mr. Johns< 
ex 
T h i S r e f e r s t 0 y°ur letter of November 22, 1968, enclosing 
B a
e£ u t e d copies of a contract entered into between the Federal Reserve 
nk of Boston and President Frank E. Morris, providing for a minimum 
irement allowance for Mr. Morris after his retirement under certain 
conditions. 
bet 
T h e B o a r d o f Governors approves the contract as entered into 
^ ween the Bank and President Morris on November 20, 1968, and the 
cretary of the Board of Governors has affixed his signature in the 
°e indicated in the agreement. 
the 
° n e e x e c u t e d c°Py h a s b e e n retained for the Board's files; 
original and other copy are enclosed with this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Closures. 

STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS 
COUNTY OF SUFFOLK 
C O P Y 
4 2 S 7 
For and in consideration of the mutual promises of encli party 
hereto,this Agreement is entered into between Frank E. Morris and the 
Federal Reserve Hank of Boston, Boston, Massachusetts. 
Subject to all of the applicable provisions of law, Frank E. 
Morris agrees to serve as an officer ot the said Federal Reserve Rank as 
long as such service shall be mutually agreeable to the parties hereto. 
For and on account of such service, said Federal Reserve Bnnk 
shall pay said Frank E. Morris as follows: 
(1) Said Federal Reserve Bank shall pay to said Frank E. 
Morris a salary at the rate of $40,000 per annum 
during the period ending December 31, 1968, and there-
after during his service as an officer of said Federal 
Reserve Bank and prior to his retirement his salary 
shall be as determined from time to time in accordance 
with applicable provisions of law. 
(2) If, having attained the age of 65, said Frank E. Morris 
shall retire with not less than 10 years of service 
creditable under the Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks, and if he is President of said Federal 
Reserve Bank at the time of his retirement, said Federal 
Reserve Bank shall pay to said Frank E. Morris after 
such retirement and during the remainder of his lifetime 
an amount per annum which, together with his regular 
retirement allowance under the Retirement System of the 
Federal Reserve Banks (without regard to optional benefits 
or conversion, or additional voluntary contributions), 
will aggregate a sum equal to 40 percent of the annual 
salary being paid to him at the time of his retirement; 
and 
jMc i. 

I 
-2-
(3) If, without having attained the age of 65, said Frank E. 
Morris shall retire with nut less than 10 years of servicc 
creditable under the Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks, and if he is President of said Federal 
Reserve Rank at the time of his retirement, the aggregate 
sum equal to 40 percent of salary referred to in the pre-
ceding paragraph (2) shall he reduced by the application 
of the then current table of pension reduction factors 
of the Bank Plan of the Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks, and the portion of the aggregate that is 
payable by said Federal Reserve Bank shall be the dif-
ference between the dollar amount represented by such 
lesser percentage of salary and the regular retirement 
allowance payable at the attained age of said Retirement 
System. 
This Agreement does not obligate the said Frank E. Morris to 
remain as an officer of the said Federal Reserve Bank, and does not con-
stitute an Agreement by the said Federal Reserve Bank or the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System that he will continue in such 
Capacity; it does not obligate the said Federal Reserve Bank to appoint, 
A p p o i n t , or continue him as an officer, nor does it obligate the Board 
o f Governors of the Federal Reserve System to approve his appointment or 
reaPP0intment or his compensation. 
Witness our hands and seals this 20th day of November 1968. 
(signed) Frank E. Morris 
Frank E. Morris 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 

-3-
Attest: 
4299 
(s) James T. Timberlake 
Assistant Secretary 
By (s) 
Howard W. Johnson 
Chairman of the 
Board of Directors 
The above Agreement has been approved by the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System and in witness thereof, the seal of the 
said Board is attached and its Secretary lias affixed his signature. 
December 11, 1968. 
(Date) 
(Sigmd) 
R obert C. Holland 
Secretary 
