Minutes for February 4, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 
3 
Amendments to Regulation F, 
Securities of Member State Banks. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes 

326 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, February 4, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr.,.„Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Hobbs of the Office of the Secretary 

327 
2/4/71 
-2-
Other appropriate members of the staff 
also attended portions of the meeting. 
Commerce Bancshares. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated January 27, 1971, and a proposed order had 
been distributed in connection with an application of Commerce Bancshares, 
Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of State Bank and Trust 
Company of Poplar Bluff, Poplar Bluff, Missouri. 
The application was approved unanimously and the issuance of 
the order was authorized. A copy of the document, as issued, is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Tennessee National Bancshares. A memorandum from the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation dated January 27, 1971, and a proposed 
order had been distributed in connection with an amended application 
of Tennessee National Bancshares, Inc., Maryville, Tennessee, to 
become a bank holding company. The amended application contemplated 
the acquisition of shares of The Blount National Bank of Maryville and 
Merchants & Farmers Bank of Greenback. 
The application was approved unanimously and the issuance of 
the order was authorized. A copy of the document, as issued, is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The St. Clair National Bank 

3528 
2/4/71 
-3-
of Belleville, Belleville, Illinois, into The First National Bank of 
Belleville, Belleville, Illinois, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read as 
follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The St. Clair 
National Bank of Belleville into The First National Bank of 
Belleville would eliminate direct competition existing 
between the proponents. Overall, the effect of the proposal 
on competition would be adverse. 
Amendments to Regulation F. A memorandum from the Legal 
Division dated February 1, 1971, recommended the adoption of amendments 
to Regulation F, Securities of Member State Banks, that would implement 
Public Law 91-567, which was signed on December 22, 1970. 
The proposed amendments were approved unanimously, effective 
immediately. A copy of the amendments, in the form sent to the Federal 
Register for publication, is attached as Item No. 3. 
Interpretation of Regulation T. The Division of Supervision 
and Regulation had presented in a memorandum dated February 3, 1971, 
a request for an interpretation by the Board as to the applicability 
of Regulation T, Credit by Brokers and Dealers, to delayed issue 
contracts covering bond placements. 
After discussion the proposed interpretation was approved 
unanimously. A copy of the interpretation, in the form in which it 
was sent to the Federal Register for publication, is attached as 
Item No. 4. 

32S 
2/4/71 
-4-
Review of examination procedures. Copies of the Lybrand, 
Ross Bros. & Montgomery report on the firm's 1970 review of proce-
dures employed by the Board's examiners in the examination of Federal 
Reserve Banks had been distributed with a covering memorandum from 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated January 28, 
1971. 
After discussion the report was accepted. 
In this connection Governor Sherrill reported that he had 
approved a letter to Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery retaining the 
firm for similar purposes in 1971. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 5. 
Nassau branches. Governor Brimmer reported on a visit he had 
had yesterday from representatives of Bankers Trust Company, New York 
City, regarding their pending Nassau branch application. He stressed 
the bank's request for early action on the application and said that 
a memorandum regarding the details of the conversation would be dis-
tributed. 
(Note: A copy of the memorandum has been placed in the 
Board's files.) 
This led to a discussion in which several Board members 
described additional information on the Nassau branch problem that 
they would like to have from the staff, in preparation for consideration 

330 
2/4/71 
-5-
of the question as a whole, and of pending applications, at an early 
date when all Board members could be present. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. ! 
2/4/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC., 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
for approval of acquisition of more than 
80 per cent of the voting shares of State 
Bank and Trust Company of Poplar Bluff, 
Poplar Bluff, Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1 8
*2(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation.Y. 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas 
C i
t y , Missouri ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
f
°r the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of more than 80 per 
cent of the voting shares of State Bank and Trust Company of Poplar 
B l u
f f , Poplar Bluff, Missouri ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
W r
itten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 
o f
 Finance of the State of Missouri and requested his views and 

332 
-3-
recommendation. His office indicated that this acquisition was a 
progressive step for banking in Missouri. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 19, 1970 (35 Federal Register 19291), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
f
°r its consideration. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
fc
he factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and 
managerial resources of the Applicant and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such 
consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the second largest bank holding company and 
second largest banking organization in Missouri, has 16 subsidiary 
b
anks with aggregate deposits of $776 million, representing. 7.6 per 
Q
ent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. (All banking 
data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect bank holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) Upon 
c
°nsummation of the proposal herein, Applicant would control 7.8 per 
C e
nt of deposits in the State, and its position relative to the State's 
o t
her banking organizations would remain unchanged. 

-3-
Bank ($15.6 million deposits) is the largest of four banks 
in Butler County, which approximates the relevant market, and holds 
37.3 per cent of the aggregate commercial bank deposits therein. Bank 
does not occupy a dominant position in the market: the second largest 
bank holds $15.2 million in deposits and is a strong competitor in 
the market; the third largest bank (deposits $8.3 million) was chartered 
in 1964 and has experienced satisfactory growth in the face of compaction 
f
rom the larger banks. Applicant's closest subsidiary is located 95 
railes north of Bank, and neither it nor any other of Applicant's present 
subsidiaries compete with Bank to a significant extent. Consummation of 
proposal herein would not eliminate significant potential competition. 
Applicant's entry into the Butler County market de novo or by acquisition 
one of the other banks in the area appears unlikely: Butler County's 
low population to bank ratio mitigates against de novo entry and the 
°ther Poplar Bluff banks have rejected holding company affiliation. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
o f
 the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect on competition 
ir
* any relevant area. Considerations relating to financial and managerial 
Resources and prospects, as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiaries 
a n d
 Bank, are regarded as consistent with approval of the application. 
Affiliation with Applicant would increase Bank's effective lending 
C a
Pacity, and would enable Applicant to broaden Bank's lending policies. 
I n
 light of the industrial growth taking place in Bank's area, 

10 
-3-
these considerations lend weight in support of approval. It is the 
Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public 
interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above, that 
said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acquisition 
so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
d
ay following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 4, 1971. 
Voting for this action: 
vice Chai main Robertson, and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
vSEAL) 

Item No. ! 
2/4/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
TENNESSEE NATIONAL BANCSHARES, INC., 
Maryvilie, Tennessee, 
for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
of the voting shares of The Blount 
National Bank of Maryville, Mary-
ville. Tennessee, and more than 50 
per cent of the voting shares of 
Merchants & Farmers Bank, Greenback, 
Tennessee. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Tennessee National Bancshares, 
Inc., Maryville, Tennessee, for the Board's prior approval of action 
thereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Blount 
National Bank of Maryville, Maryville, Tennessee, and more than 50 
Per cent of the voting shares of Merchants & Farmers Bank, Greenback, 
Tennessee. 

336 
-3-
This application represents an amended version of an 
earlier application, approved by the Board of Governors on March 19, 
1970, whereby Tennessee National Bancshares, Inc; sought approval 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of the 
aforedescribed voting shares and in addition 80 per cent or more 
of the voting shares of The First National Bank of Oneida, Oneida, 
Tennessee, 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the amendment of the application to 
the Comptroller of the Currency and the Tennessee Superintendent 
°f Banks, and requested their views and recommendations. The Comptroller 
recommended, and the Superintendent offered no objection to, approval 
of the application. 
The Board's Order approving Applicant's original proposal 
was published in the Federal Register on March 26, 1970 (35 F.R. 5137). 
Notice of receipt of the amendment of the application was published 
in the Federal Register on January 7, 1971 (36 F.R. 236), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposed transaction. Written advice of the 
amendment of the application was sent to the United States Department 
°f Justice for its consideration. The time for filing conments and 
v
iews has expired and all those received have been considered by the 
Board. 
Upon consideration of the amended proposal, the Board 
finds that the amended application involves no significant changes, 

except for exclusion of all reference to The First National Bank of 
Oneida, Oneida, Tennessee, that would alter the conclusion reached 
by the Board in its Order and Statement of March 19, 1970, approving 
Applicant's original proposal. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above and in 
the Board's Statement of March 19, 1970 with respect to Applicant's 
original proposal, that the application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
°r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such time be e::«:ended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 4 , 1971. 
Voting for this action: vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Malsel] 
(Signed) Kenneth A. ICenyon 
Kenneth A. ICenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

Item No. ! 
2/4/71 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
. ,;>- • . 
. _ ;.. . v. . r ..: 
^ 
• • 
. . 
. 
. • ; 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ii. .; • I r , • ••• .; 
; 
f, _ 
* 
^ _ ^ 
< • 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 206 - SECURITIES OF MEMBER STATE BANKS 
* [Reg. F] 
Tender Offers and Other Stock Acquisitions 
!?•* UilJ 
: ; 
' 
, "... 
- • •
 :
 
1 :. 
1. Effective iimiediately, section 206.4(g)(2) is amended as 
forth below: 
§ 206.4 Registration Statements and Reports. 
(g) Current Re ports, * * * 
(2)(i) Any person who, after acquiring, directly or indirectly 
thc» beneficial ownership of any equity security of a member State bank, 
a class which is registered pursuant to section 12 of the i\ct, is 
directly or indirectly the beneficial owner of more than 5 per cent of 
e
uch class shall, within ten days after such acquisition, send to the 
bank at its principal executive office, by registered or certified mail 
fi
end to each exchange where the security is traded, and file with the 
^°ard a statement containing the information required by Form F-ll. 
E l
8ht copies of the statement shall be filed with the Board. 
(ii) Acquisitions of securities by a security holder wno, 
p r
ior to such acquisition, was the beneficial owner of more than 5 per 
C G
n t of the outstanding securities of the same class as those acquired 
8
hall be exempt from the reporting requirements of subdivision (i) of 

this subparagraph if the following conditions are met: 
(a) the 
acquisition is made pursuant to preemptive Subscription rigkts in an 
°£fering made to all holders of securities, of the class to which the 
Preemptive subscription rights pertain; (b) the purchaser does not, 
through the exercise of such preemptive subscription rights, acquire 
toore than his or its pro-rata share of the securities offered; and 
the acquisition is duly reported pursuant to section 16(a) of the 
A c t 
a n d
 the provisions of § 206.6 promulgated thereunder. 
* 
-k 
-k 
* 
* 
2. Effective inmediately, section 2 0 6 . 5 Q ) is amended as set 
f
°rth below: 
® ^06.5, Proxy Statements and Other Solicitations Under Section 14 
of the Act. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(.1) Invitations for tenders. 
(1) No person, directly or 
directly, by use of the mails or by any means or instrumentality of 
n t e
rstate commerce or of any facility of a national securities exchange 
°therv;ise, shall make a tender offer for, or a request or invitation 
for 
tenders of, any class of any equity security, which is registered 
p u t 8
u a n t to section 12 of the Act, of a member State bank if, after 
summation thereof, such person would, directly or indirectly, be 
th 
e
 beneficial 
owner of more than 5 per cent of such class, unless, at 
0
 time copies of the offer or request or invitation are first published 
Of 
n t
 or given to security holders, such person has filed with the 
Boatcj 
a statement containing the information and exhibits required by 
P o t n
> F - U . 
• 

340 
-3-
(5) If any securities to be offered in connection with the 
^ t e r offer for, or request or invitation for tenders of, securities 
respect to which a statement is required to be filed pursuant to 
subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, have been or are to be.registered 
under the Securities Act of 1933, a copy of the prosp'ectus containing 
information required to be included therein under that Act shall 
filed as an exhibit to such statement. Any information contained 
the prospectus may be incorporated by reference in such statement. 
(o) Eight copies of the statement required by 
subparagraph (1) of this paragraph, every amendment to such statement, 
all other material required by this section shall be filed with 
t h e
 Board. 
* 
-k 
-it 
-k 
* 
3a. The foregoing amendments implement the provisions of 
P u b 2
-ic Law 91-567, which became effective December 22, 1970, as they 
Q
PPly to member State banks. 
b . The provisions of section 553 of title 5, United States 
Cod G
> relating to notice, public participation, and' deferred effective 
date r> 
w
ere not followed in connection with these amendments because 
the 
Board finds it necessary in the public interest and for the 
°etion of investors that regulations implementing Public Law 91-567 
a
dopted effective immediately and that such procedures, with 
e s
Pect to these amendments, would serve no useful purpose inasmuch as 

the amendments primarily implement statutory provisions without 
significant exercise of administrative discretion or interpretation 
ar
*d are otherwise of a procedural nature. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 4, 1971 
.• 
(signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
. Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

Item No. ! 
2/4/71 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. T] ' 
PART 220--CREDIT BY BROKERS AND DEALERS ' 
Partial Delayed Issue Contracts 
5 220,123 Partial Delayed Issue Contracts Covering Non-Convertible 
Bonds. 
(a) During recent years, it has become customary for portions 
new issues of non-convertible bonds and preferred stocks to be sold 
Su
bject to partial delayed issue contracts, which have customarily been 
re
ferred to in the industry as "delayed delivery" contracts, and the 
®°ard of Governors has been asked for its views as to whether such trans-
itions involve any violations of the Board's margin regulations. 
(b) The practice of issuing a portion of a debt (or equivalent) 
e c u r i t
y issue at a date subsequent to the main underwriting has arisen 
" ®Jfe market conditions made it difficult or impossible, in a number of 
Stances, to place an entire issue simultaneously. In instances of this 
institutional investors (e.g., insurance companies or pension 
f
*u\ds) whose cash flow is such that they expect to have funds available 
Some m 
» 
- months in the future, have been willing to subscribe to a 
°
r
vtion, to be issued to them at a future date. The issuer has 
^ Willing to agree to issue the securities in two or more 
because it did not immediately need the proceeds to be 
from the deferred portion, because it could not raise funds 

on better terms, or because it preferred to have a certain portion of 
the issue taken down by an investor of this type. 
(c) In the case of such a delayed issue contract, the 
underwriter is authorized to solicit from institutional customers 
offers to purchase from the issuer, pursuant to contracts of the 
kind described above, and the agreement becomes binding at the under-
writers
 1
 closing, subject to specified conditions. When securities 
a
re issued pursuant to the agreement, the purchase price includes 
accrued interest or dividends, and until they are issued to it, 
the purchaser does not, in the case of bonds, have rights under the 
trust indenture, or, in the case of preferred stocks, voting rights. 
(d) Securities sold pursuant to such arrangements are high 
quality debt issues (or their equivalent). The purchasers buy with 
a
 view to investment and do not resell or otherwise dispose of the 
contract prior to its completion. Delayed issue arrangements are 
n
°t acceptable to issuers unless a substantial portion of an issue, 
n
°t less than ten per cent, is involved. 
(e) Sections 3(a)(13) and (14) of the Securities Exchange Act 
o f
 1934 provide that an agreement to purchase is equivalent to a pur-
c h a
s e , and an agreement to sell to a sale. The Board has hitherto 
e
*Pressed the view that credit is e x t e n d e d at the time when there is 
a
 firm agreement to extend such credit (1968 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
I? CFR 207.101; 9 6800 Published Interpretations of the Bo<ard 
o f
 Governors). Accordingly, in instances of the kind described 
a
bove t the issuer may be regarded a3 extending credit to 

341 
- 3 -
institutional purchaser at the time of the underwriters' closing, 
^ e n the obligations of both become fixed. 
(f) Section 220.7(a) of the Board's Regulation T (12 CFR 
$ 220.7(a)), with an exception not applicable here, forbids a creditor 
subject to that regulation to arrange for credit on terms on which 
t h
e creditor could not itself extend the credit. Sections 220.4(c)(1) 
a n d
 (2) (12 CFR §§ 220.4(c)(1) and (2)) provide that a creditor may 
n
°t sell securities to a customer except in good faith reliance upon 
sgreement that the customer will promptly, and in no event in more 
t h a n 8 e
ven full business days, make full cash payment for the secu-
rin 
e s
. Since the underwriters in question are creditors subject to 
, e
 regulation, unless 
some specific exception applies, they are for-
b i d d e n 
t 0
 arrange for the credit described above. This result follows 
because payment is not twde until more than seven full business days 
hQ\rp passed from the time the credit is extended. 
(g) However, section 220.4(c)(3) (12 CFR § 220.4(c)(3)) 
Provides that: 
"If the security when so purchased is an unissued 
security, the period applicable to the transaction 
under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph shall be 
8even days after the date on which the security is 
made available by the issuer for delivery to pur-
chasers." 
In interpreting section 220.4(c)(3), the Board has 
stated H 
cnat the purpose of the provision: 
• * 'v - ' V - 
|| 
. . . is 
to recognize the fact that, when an issue * 
of securities Is to be issued at some future fixed 

- 4 -
date, a security that is part of such issue can be 
purchased on a 'when-issued
1
 basis and that payment 
may reasonably be delayed until after such date of 
issue, subject to other basic conditions for 
transactions in a special cash account." 
(1962 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1427; 12 CFR 220.118; 
H 5996, Published Interpretations of the Board of 
Governors). 
that situation, the Board distinguished the case of mutual fund 
®hares, which technically are not issued until the certificate can 
delivered by the transfer agent. The Board held that mutual fund 
s
hare8 must be regarded as issued at the time of purchase because 
they are: 
". . . essentially available upon purchase to the 
• same extent as outstanding securities. The mech-
anics of their issuance and of the delivery of 
certificates are not significantly different from 
the mechanics of transfer and delivery of certificates 
for shares of outstanding securities, and the issuance 
of mutual fund shares is not a future event in the 
sense that would warrant the extension of the time 
for payment beyond that afforded in the case of out-
standing securities." (ibid.) 
issuance of debt securities subject to delayed issue contracts, 
ky contrast with that of mutual fund shares, which are in a status 
o f
 continual underwriting, is a specific single event taking place 
a t a
 future date fixed by the issuer with a view to its need for 
f u
nds and the availability of those funds under current market con-
ations. 
(i) For the reasons stated above the Board concluded that 
t h e
 non-convertible debt and preferred stock subject to delayed issue 

22 
- 5 -
contracts of the kind described above should not be regarded as having 
keen issued until delivered, pursuant to the agreement, to the 
Bstitutional purchaser. This interpretation does not apply, of 
C 0 U r s e
»
 
t 0
 fact situations different from that described above. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 78g.) 
By Order of the Board of Governors, February 4, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

7^1 
UU J 
• t A 
' 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
34? 
Item No. 5 
2/4/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
February 4, 1971 
^ybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery 
Packard Building 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19102 
Gentl emen: 
The Board has noted with satisfaction your report dated 
ecember 29, 1970, concerning the adequacy of its arrangements during 
y 0 for examining Federal Reserve Banks, and would ask that you pro-
^ d e similar services for the year 1971. As in 1970, the Board would 
to have from you an opinion as to the effectiveness of the exam-
ination by the Board's staff, and the adequacy of the examination 
Procedures in the light of generally accepted auditing or examining 
s
tandards that would be applicable in such an examination; also, any 
cri
-ticisms, observations, suggestions, or recommendations that you 
m a
y deem appropriate regarding the examination, and your comments with 
j-^gard to the structure of the examining staff and the competence of 
ha
G
 ^
e r s o n n e
l - 
For the attainment of these purposes, you will as before 
i
 V G
 
discretion regarding the scope of your review and the manner 
which it will be conducted, and in choosing the particular examination 
will be the subject of your study. 
^ 
You might find it helpful to discuss this engagement with 
Dl'
 J a m e s
 
Mcintosh, Director, and Mr. Charles C. Walcutt, Assistant 
ector, Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations, who could assist 
with specific arrangements that may be desirable. 
of 
It is understood that your compensation will be on the basis 
your regular fee rates. 
The Board will appreciate written confirmation that you will 
u c
t this procedural review on the terms indicated. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary 
