MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 7, 1970 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, January 7, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane' 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
1/ 
Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

15 
1/7/70 
-11-
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions 
Report on competitive factors. 
A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Milton Bank and Safe 
Deposit Company, Milton, Pennsylvania, with Northern Central Bank and 
Trust Company, Williamsport, Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
The 
conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger would eliminate 
little existing competition between Milton Bank and Safe 
Deposit Company, Milton, and Northern Central Bank and 
Trust Company, Williamsport, and there is little potential 
for increased competition between them. 
The overall com-
petitive effect of the proposed transaction would be no 
more than slightly adverse. 
Seattle Trust and Savings Bank. 
There had been distributed 
drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's approval on 
December 29, 1969, of the application of Seattle Trust and Savings 
Bank, Seattle, Washington, to merge with Cle Elum State Bank, Cle 
Elum, Washington. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 1. 
Union Bank and Savings Company. 
A memorandum from the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation dated December 31, 1969, and other 
Pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an application 

16 
1/7/70 
-11-
of The Union Bank and Savings Company, Bellevue, Ohio, to acquire the 
assets and assume the liabilities of The Farmers and Citizens Banking 
Company, Monroeville, Ohio. 
Members of the Board other than Governor Robertson indicated 
that they would approve the application. 
Governor Robertson saw 
nothing in the banking factors or by way of improvement to convenience 
and needs to offset the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition, 
which he believed to be clearly adverse. 
The application was then approved, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
It was understood that an order and statement reflecting this decision 
would be drafted for the Board's consideration, along with a dissent-
ing statement. 
Governor Daane entered the meeting during discussion of the 
following topic. 
Charter Bankshares Corporation. 
A memorandum from the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation dated December 12, 1969, and other perti-
nent papers had been distributed in connection with applications of 
Charter Bankshares Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire 
shares of The First National Bank in St. Petersburg, The Harbor City 
National Bank of Eau Gallie, and First National Beach Bank, Jacksonville 
Beach. 
The Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval, 
as did the Banking Markets Section (in a memorandum dated December 22). 

17 
1/7/70 
-11-
However, the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta questioned the relationship 
between Charter Bankshares and Charter Company, a Jacksonville-based 
one-bank holding company with diversified nonbanking interests, and 
recommended that the applications not be entertained until Charter Com-
pany had registered as a bank holding company. As an alternative, the 
Reserve Bank recommended that the applications be denied. 
In a memorandum dated December 11, 1969, the Legal Division 
considered the question whether Charter Company held "working control" 
or "effective control" of Charter Bankshares, and on the basis of its 
findings recommended approval of the applications. 
During discussion, staff commented on reports of a preliminary 
merger agreement between Charter Company and Occidental Petroleum 
Company of Los Angeles, California. 
The effects of such a merger, 
as they pertained to the applications before the Board, were not entirely 
clear. 
However, Mr. O'Connell expressed the view that undue deferral 
of Board action might be considered arbitrary and capricious in view 
of the lack of hard evidence to substantiate the position that Charter 
Company exerted legal control over Charter Bankshares. 
If the Board 
was not satisfied that it had sufficient evidence on hand to reach a 
decision and that further investigation should be made of the question 
of control, Mr. O'Connell suggested that an oral presentation might be 
held. 
There followed discussion during which members of the Board 
suggested areas in which additional information would be helpful in 

1.8 
1/7/70 
-5-
defining the complex relationships between Charter Company and Charter 
Bankshares, and individuals connected therewith. 
Accordingly, support 
developed for the scheduling of an oral presentation in an effort to 
unravel some of those relationships, as they affected the question of 
control. 
In addition, members of the Board felt that an oral presenta-
tion would be justified on the basis of the Reserve Bank's allegation 
that control existed, although conclusive evidence had not as yet 
been produced. 
An argument was presented by one Board member (Governor 
Robertson) in support of action to deny the three pending applications 
at this time, based on the assumption of control of Charter Bankshares 
by Charter Company and the conduct of nonbanking business by the latter, 
so that applicant would be left to bear the burden of refuting the 
assumption of control. 
However, it was the view of the majority that 
the holding of an oral presentation might be helpful in providing a 
better record on which to base a decision. 
Accordingly, it was agreed 
that an oral presentation would be arranged. 
Allied Bank International. 
The following memoranda containing 
generally favorable recommendations from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation had been the subject of prior Board consideration, most 
recently on December 17, 1969, at which time various questions were 
raised relating to the nature and development of the activities of 
Allied Bank International, New York, New York. 
These questions the 

19 
1/7/70 
-11-
Division undertook to answer in an additional memorandum dated 
January 6, 1970. 
(1) Memorandum dated December 3, 1969, relating to 
the proposed participation of United States National Bank 
of Oregon, Portland, Oregon (which had established its own 
Edge corporation), as a stockholder of Allied Bank Inter-
national, and the question whether stockholder banks of 
Allied Bank International should be permitted to establish 
individual branches in Nassau in addition to that for which 
Allied Bank International had applied; 
(2) Memorandum dated December 5, 1969, relating to 
the issuance of medium- and long-term obligations either 
directly or indirectly through Allied Bank International's 
wholly-owned subsidiary in Willemstad, Curacao, Netherlands 
Antilles; and 
(3) Memorandum dated December 10, 1969, relating to 
the application of Allied Bank International for permission 
to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas. 
Today's discussion touched upon each of the several issues that 
had been dealt with in the staff memoranda. After a general review of 
the purposes for which Allied Bank International had been formed and 
the results of its operations to date, it was agreed that there 
appeared to be no reason to object to its proposed issuance, either 
directly or indirectly through its wholly-owned subsidiary, of addi-
tional obligations. Accordingly, such issuance was approved unanimously. 
A copy of the letter sent to Allied on that matter is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
The proposed increase in the paid-in capital stock of Allied 
Bank International and amendment to its articles of association to 
permit participation of United States National Bank of Oregon, Portland, 

20 
1/7/70 
-11-
Oregon, as a stockholder was also approved, Governor Robertson dissenting 
because he believed that United States National should first be re-
quired to give up its own Edge corporation. 
A copy of the letter 
sent to Allied reflecting this action by the Board is attached as 
.Item No. 3. 
The application of Allied Bank International to establish a 
branch in Nassau, Bahamas, was also approved, Governors Robertson 
and Brimmer dissenting because they believed that Allied should not 
be permitted to establish a branch in Nassau unless it was willing 
to establish a full-service branch. A copy of the letter sent to 
Allied Bank International reflecting approval of its Nassau branch 
a
Pplication is attached as Item No. 4. 
The remaining question before the Board had to do with 
applications to establish Nassau "shell" branches that had been filed 
by several banks that were stockholders of Allied Bank International. 
It was the prevailing view, from which Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
dissented, that the establishment of such branches by stockholder banks 
should not be generally foreclosed. 
Accordingly, it was understood that 
the pending applications would be processed through the usual Reserve 
Bank and Board staff channels and then presented to the Board for 
consideration. 
Truth in Lending Annual Report. 
Discussion continued at today's 
f e t i n g of the proposed Annual Report on Truth in Lending for the year 
1969, pursuant to the understanding at the January 5, 1970, meeting. 

1/7/70 
-10-
Governor Mitchell suggested certain changes in the section 
relating to the consumer awareness survey so as not to appear to 
commit the Board with respect to future surveys, and there was general 
agreement with his suggestion, as well as with other changes of an 
editorial nature. 
The Annual Report on Truth in Lending was then approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Congress. A copy has been placed 
in the Board's files. 
Regulations D and Q. 
On September lg, 1969, the Board had 
published for comment a revised version of proposed amendments to 
Regulations D , Reserves of Member Banks, and Q, Interest on Deposits, 
that would narrow the scope of exempt Federal funds transactions by 
exempting from the reserve requirement and interest rate limitations 
of those regulations a member bank's liability on Federal funds trans-
actions only with another bank, various Governmental institutions, or 
a securities dealer. 
In a memorandum dated December 8, 1969, the 
Legal Division reviewed the comments received and recommended that the 
amendments be adopted essentially as proposed. 
Attached to the memoran-
dum was a draft of the amendments as well as a draft interpretation to 
codify explanatory material included with the September notice of 
proposed rule making. 
Mr. Sanders noted that the principal effect of the proposed 
amendments would be to limit access to the Federal funds market to 

1/7/70 
-10-
commercial and savings banks. 
Savings and loan associations had 
argued that (1) an exemption for savings banks, but not for savings 
and loan associations, would be discriminatory, and (2) savings and 
loan associations had operated in the market for many years to the 
extent that Federal funds had become an important investment vehicle 
and exclusion would have a disruptive effect on the housing market. 
There followed a discussion of the extent to which savings 
and loan associations appeared to have operated in the Federal funds 
market. While the information was incomplete, Governor Mitchell ex-
pressed the opinion that, regardless of the extent to which the 
savings and loans had taken advantage of the Federal funds market in 
the past, it might be in the public interest to have that source of 
liquidity available to them. 
Several other Board members joined in 
this view. 
Governor Robertson said that, although he did not feel 
strongly enough to dissent, it was his view that the Federal funds 
facility should be essentially a commercial bank facility. 
In further discussion it was noted that the New York Reserve 
Bank had suggested that the exemption with respect to Federal funds 
transactions with securities dealers arising out of the clearance of 
securities transactions should be limited to those dealers that 
"normally" receive such funds in connection with such clearance, 
rather than any securities dealer that receives such funds in con-
nection with such clearance. 
The Board's staff believed that the 

1/7/70 
-10-
New York approach was unduly discriminatory, and it was understood 
that in informal conversations the Manager of the Open Market Account 
had indicated that he tended to agree. 
The Board concurred in the 
conclusion of its staff. 
Unanimous approval then was given to the proposed amendments 
to Regulations D and Q, effective February 12, 1970, and to the 
issuance of the proposed interpretation. 
It was understood that, for 
purposes of the exemption contained in the amendments, the term "bank" 
would include savings and loan associations or cooperative banks as well 
as commercial and savings banks, along with the Export-Import Bank of 
the United States or a foreign bank. 
Copies of the press release that 
was issued pursuant to this action and of the approved documents in 
the form subsequently published in the Federal Register are attached 
under Item No. 5. 
Attention was drawn to a statement in the Legal Division's 
memorandum of December 8 that the staff favored action by the Board 
either (1) reversing a 1928 Board ruling that permitted checks in repay-
ment of Federal funds transactions to be excluded from deposits despite 
the requirement of Regulation D that all certified and officers' checks 
must be included as deposits, or (2) amending Regulation D to prohibit 
the deduction from gross demand deposits of a cash item received in 
r e
p a y m e n t of a Federal funds transaction. 
The purpose of either action 
would be to eliminate a potential loophole in the computation of reserve 

24 
1/7/70 
-11-
requirements. 
The Board agreed with the staff's suggestion that the 
views of the Reserve Banks on this matter be solicited. 
Capital notes. 
Chairman Martin referred to the recent issuance 
by The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, of capital notes in amounts of $100 and over, bearing 
an interest rate of 7-1/4 per cent with 30-month maturity, about 
which Chairman Martin of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board had expressed 
concern. 
Various aspects of the matter were discussed, and question 
was raised whether certain advertising features might be misleading. 
It was agreed that the matter should be referred to the 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation for consideration. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Item No. 1 
1/7/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
SEATTLE TRUST AND SAVINGS BANK
 
1 
for approval of merger with
 
1 
Cle Elum State Bank
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Seattle Trust and 
Savings Bank, Seattle, Washington, a State member bank of the Federal 
Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that 
bank and Cle Elum State Bank, Cle Elum, Washington, under the charter 
and name of Seattle Trust and Savings Bank. As an incident to the 
merger, the two offices of Cle Elum State Bank would become branches of 
the resulting bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved by 
the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
Proposed merger, 

- 3 -
26 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is 
Approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C, this 7th 
day of January, 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: 
Governors Robertson, Ilitchell, 
Daane, Maisel and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman llartin and Governor Brimmer, 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A , Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary, 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY SEATTLE TRUST AND SAVINGS. BANK 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
cie Elura State Bank 
STATEMENT 
The Seattle Trust and Savings Bank, Seattle, Washington 
("Seattle Trust"), uith total deposits of about $135.5 million, has 
applied pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the 
Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank uith Gle Elum 
State Bank, Cle Elura, Washington ("State Bank"), which has deposits 
0 i
 $4.7 million.—'' The banks would merge under the charter and name 
Seattle Trust, which is a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
A
s an incident to the merger, the two offices of State Bank would 
become branches of Seattle Trust, increasing the number of its 
operating offices to 20. 
Competition. - Seattle Trust operates its head office and 
branches in King County, the Seattle metropolitan area. The bank 
has received approval to establish an additional branch in King County, 
ar
>d it has 
applications pending for five other branches in the county. 
Seattle Trust also operates three branches in the Olympia area, about 
6
0 miles southwest of Seattle. 
1/ Figures are as of September 30, 1969. 

Z8 
-2-
State Bank is headquartered in Cle Elum, about 80 miles 
southeast of Seattle, and its sole branch is in Roslyn, four miles 
northwest of Cle Elum.. Both offices are in Kittitas County. 
The 
area served by State Bank (Cle Elum, Roslyn and environs) has a 
Population of about 3,600. 
The only other banking facility in the 
a r e a 
i s 
t h e
 Cle Elum branch of Seattle-First National Bank, the 
iargest bank in Washington. Other banking facilities are 25 or 
more miles from the offices of State Bank. 
The nearest offices of Seattle Trust and State Bank are 75 
miles apart, and the areas served by the two banks are distinctly 
separate. The intervening area is mountainous and primarily national 
forest land, sparsely populated. The two communities having banking 
offices in the intervening area are served by branches of Seattle-
First National Bank. 
Under Washington law, banks may establish de novo branches 
oucside the county in which they are headquartered, but only in 
incorporated, unbanked communities. 
The area served by State Bank 
has one such community but its population is about 400, so that it 
is unlikely that Seattle Trust, or any other bank, will enter the 
aj
-~ea served by State Bank through de novo branching. 
In terms of deposits, Seattle Trust is the eighth largest 
bank in the State, with 2.5 per cent of the State's total commercial 
banking deposits. 
State Bank, with 0.1 per cent of such deposits, 
ranks 57th. The two largest banks in Washington together hold 51 per 

ZfJ 
-3-
c e n t 
o f
 such deposits,. The merger would combine the fifth largest 
commercial bank headquartered in King County with the fourth largest 
°f the five banks operating in Kittitas County. 
I 
The proposed merger would not have an adverse effect on 
competition. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
ranking factors with respect to each of the banks proposing to merge 
are reasonably satisfactory, as they would be with respect to the 
resulting bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - The effect of 
the merger on banking convenience and needs would be limited to the 
area served by State Bank. 
The relatively low ratio of loans to 
total deposits at State Bank and its relatively high ratio of invest-
ment in Government obligations to total deposits indicates that the 
Dank has not been an aggressive competitor. 
This is indicated also 
h
y the bank's maturity lirnitation on real estate loans and its 
relative inactivity in the exercise of its trust powers. As noted 
above, the largest commercial bank in the State has a branch in Cle 
Elum. 
Thus, while it would not appear that consummation of the proposal 
Would bring to the area served by State Bank new banking services, the 
a
rea would benefit from the establishment there of an alternate source 
full-service banking. 
Summary and conclusion. - The proposed merger, in the 
Board's judgment, would benefit the banking convenience in the area 

30 
re-
served by State Bank and uould not have an adverse effect on banking 
competition. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
be approved. 
January 7, 
1370. 

I 
I 
31 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 2 
,.'9OVCOV^>. 
O F T H E 
item IN 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1 / 7 / 7 0 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
w ' - \ , ' <0 * 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R C S F 
C I N ' O E N C 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 7, 1970, 
Allied Bank International, 
116 East 55th Street, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
This is in response to the letter cf June 25, 1969, from 
your Corporation ("ABI") which contained several requests relating 
to the issuance of medium- and long-term obligations (i.e., having 
maturities of more than one year) by either ABI or your wholly-
owned subsidiai y , Allied International N.V. ( "AINV") , Wi Herns tad, 
r a c a o
> Netheilands Antilles, in accordance with Section 211.4 of 
Regulation K ar.d the Board's consent of May 2, 1.969, for ABI to 
Purchase and hold all of the stock of AINV. 
In reviewing your requests, the Board took into considera-
tion the relative newness of your Corporation and its operations, 
and the diversity of the ownership of your stock. 
In the light of 
these factors, and in view of the indication in the last paragraph 
of your letter, the Board concluded (1) that the issuance of such 
obligations shculd be limited to an amount reasonably necessary for 
ABI'g operations within the near future; (2) that there is no 
showing of: any present need by ABI for exceptions from the limita-
tions of Section 211.9(c) of Regulation K on aggregate liabilities; 
ana ^J) that, iu accordance with its established procedures., the Bo?."d 
will consider the issuance of a larger amount of obligations and 
the application cf the lin.itat.ions in Section 211.9(c) of Regulation K 
should your. Corporation reapply in the light of then current needs. 
Accordingly, the Board of Governors grants its approval, 
foi a period of five years from the date of this letter, for ABI to 
issue obligations with maturities in excess of one year and/or to 
continue to ho id the stock of AINV after AINV issues such obligations, 
Provided that the total of such obligations issued by ABI and AINV 
shall not exceed $50,000,000, and that neither ABI nor AINV shall 
pledge any of their assets to secure the obligations issued. 
Approval 
granted on the condition that your Corporation make no implication 

Allied Bank International 
that such obligu tions ca rry any sanction of the Board of Governors. 
The Board should be advised, through the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York, of the issuance of these obligations, including informa~ 
tion as to the amount and terms. 
As tc your inquiry regarding the applicability of the 
limitations on guarantees set forth in Sections 211.9(b) and (c) of 
Regulation K, those limitations apply only to the guarantees describt 
m Section 211.7(d)(3) of the Regulation--naoiely, guarantees of "cu5>» 
.toniers^ debts." 
Guarantees of the obligations of a Corporation's 
subsidiary are not subject to those limitations. 
Your inquiry and requests indicate that ABI may guarantee 
payment of any obligations issued by AINV, thus making them direct, 
primary obligations of ABI payable at its office in New York, and 
that the proceeds thereof will be used by ABI in the ordinary course 
of its banking business. 
In these circumstances, such obligations 
would be "deposits" of ABI under Sections 204.1(f) of Regulation D 
and 217.1(f) of Regulation Q. 
Such notes would therefore be subject 
to the requirements and restrictions of those Regulations unless one 
0j
- the exceptions specified in those Sections were applicable or 
unless both the notes and the guarantee were expressly made payable 
only outside the United States, Of course, any obligations issued 
by ABI and payable in the United States would be similarly subject 
to the provisions of Regulations D and Q unless one of the aforemen-
tioned exceptions were applicable. 
Very cruly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
KenneLh A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

33 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C 
20551 
Item No. 3 
1/7/70 
A D D R E S S 
O K r i C I A L 
C • R R E S FM J N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 7, 1970. 
Allied Bank International, 
P. 0 o Box 3076j 
Church Street Station, 
New York, New York. 
10008 
Gentlemen.; 
As requested in your letter or March 18, 1969, 
the Board of Governors approves ar. incre-.ase in the paid-in 
capital stock of your Corporation from £24,000,000 to 
$25,500,000. 
It is understood that the additional paid-in 
shares will be purchased by United States National Bank of 
Oregon, Portland, Oregon. 
It is understood that the pur-
chase price of the shares will also increase your paid-in 
surplus. 
Accordingly, the Board approves amendments to 
Article Ti$TR of your Corporation's Articles of Association 
to include the name of the new stockholder. 
As you are aware, Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act requires that an increase in issued and out-
standing capital stock be fully paid in within 90 days after 
the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

22 
BOARD DF G D V E R N G R S 
• F T H E 
I T E M 
N ° - 
4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5YH3TEM 
1 / 7 / 7 0 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20T;51 
A D B S E S S OFFICIAL 
n O K B C S P D N D E N 
TO THE £1 • / F: O 
January 7, 1970, 
Allied Bank International, 
116 East !i5th Street, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
The I>oard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Allied Bank International, New York, New 
v 1 
*ork, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Aot, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to 
operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such 
Section aid of Regulation K. 
in granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be. used for developing new international business and 
noc. as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United. States. 
In view of the character of this operation, the 
•oregoing permission is granted sub jeer, to continuing special ob-
servation and review by the Board and after due notice may be with-
drawn or modified. 
The foregoing permission is also granted on 
the condition that adequate information covering the branch's oper-
ations will be maintained at ycur head offic?. and will be available 
to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should 
e promptly informed of any modification in -he branch's methods of 
operation. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before January 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 

35 
Allied Bank International 
-2-
Section 211.7(c) of Regulation K subjects only the deposits 
received in th 
United States by Edge Corporations to the require-
ments of Regulations D, as to reserves, and Q, as to the payment of 
interestj thus exempting deposits received and payable only at for-
eign branches o£ the Corporations from those' requirements. 
The 
general purpose of these exemptions is to allow foreign branches of 
United States banking institutions to compete abroad with foreign 
banks. 
In these circumstances, it has long been and continues to 
be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits 
by United States residents at foreign brandies of United States 
banking jnstit-,tions unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a
 definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capi-
tal, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of the 
Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments 
°n the balance of payments, the above consent is given with the 
understanding fiiat in the conduct of the branch's operations maxi-
mum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United 
States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment required 
will be made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your Corporation, and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
K2nnet.l1 A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

f 
PH•J^fKfew^te"
4
'^ 
w. • - - - .x 
• 
-•f^u^-v 
Item No. 5 
1/7/70 
For Irradiate Release. 
January 8, 1970 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
today IDsued amendments to its regulations to narrow the category 
of "Federal funds" transactions that are exempt from its rules covering 
reserves of member banks (Regulations D) and payment of interest 
on deposits (Regulations Q). 
The action if effective February 12. 
A "Federal funds" transaction is one involving the 
transfer of rcenber bank deposits at Federal Reserve Banks (or other 
immediately available funds) for & brief period, usually one 
business d a y . 
The main effect of the amendments will be to bring 
within the coverage of the regulations such transactions with any 
person other than a bank and its sub.3idiar.ies, various governmental 
institutions, or a securities dealer in certain cases. 
For purposes of the exemption, a "bank" includes a 
member bank, a nonmember commercial ban!;, a savings bank 
(mutual or stock), a building or savings and loan association 
or cooperative bank, the Export-Import; Bank of the United States, 
or a foreign bank. 
A copy of the amendments, together with a revision in 
an existing Board interpretation's attached. 
-0-
Attachn-cnt 

37 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A — B O A R D OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
-[Regs. D, Q] 
PART 204--RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
PART 217--INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Certain Bank Borrowings Classified as Deposits 
1. Effective February 12, 19/0, section 204.1(f) is amendec 
to read as follows: 
(£) Deposits as including certain promissory notes and other 
Q^li^ationc . t'or. the purposes of this part, the term "deposits
1
'" also 
includes a member bank's liability on any promissory note, acknowledgment 
o.f advance, due bill, or similar obligation (written or oral) that is 
issued or undertaken by a member bank principally as a means of obtaining 
.funds to be used in its banking business, except any such obligation that: 
(1) is issued to (or undertaken with respect to) and held for 
*' 
5a/ 
•» 
c
ne account of (I.) a domestic banking o f T i c e — of another bank or (ii; an 
agency of the United States or the Government Development Bank fcr 
Puerto Rico; 
(2) evidences an indebtedness arising from a transfer of direct 
obligations of, or obligations that are fully guaranteed as to principal 
and interest by, the United States or any agency thereof that the bank 
I c
 obligated to repurchase; 
£a/ Any banking office in any State of the United States or the District 
0 j :
 Columbia of a bank organised under domestic or foreign law. 

38 
-3-
(3) has an original maturity of more than two years, is 
unsecured, end states expressly that it is subordinated to the claims 
depositors; or 
(4) arir.es from a borrowing by a member bank from a dealer in 
securities, for one business day, of proceeds of a transfer of deposit 
credit in a Federal Reserve Bank (or other immediately available funds), 
commonly referred to as "Federal funds", received by such dealer on the 
d
ate of the Loan in connection with clearance of securities transactions. 
This paragraph shr.ll not, however, affect (i) any instrument issued before 
June 27, 1966, (!:") any instrument that evidences an indebtedness arising 
frora a transfer o 
assets under repurchase agreement issued before July 23, 
or (i:li) any instrument issued to a foreign office of another bank 
before June 27, 1969. 
-A- 
vV 
vV 
vV 
Vc 
Vf 
2 . Effective. February 12, 1970, section 204.5(c) is amended by 
r j 
inserting after "t . :> foreign offices of other banks- " the following 
or 
insti tut ions the ".line deposits of which o:e exempt from the rate limits-' 
tions of Regulation Q pursuant to 0 217.3(g) thereof,". 
Vf 
* 
* 
V,- 
Vf 
3. Effective February 12, 1970, section 217.1(f) is amended to 
read as follows: 
(
£
) Deposits as includinf? certain promissory notes__^d__other 
£^Hj3ations. 
For the purposes of this part, the term "deposits" also 

39 
o 
includes a member bank's liability on any promissory note, acknowledgment 
of advance, due bill, or similar obligation (written or oral) that is 
issued or undertaken by a member bank principally as a means of obtaining 
funds to be used in its banking business, except any such obligation 
that: 
(1) is issued to (or undertaken with, rcspect to) and held for 
the account, of (i) a bank or an institution the time deposits of which 
are exempt from § 217.7 pursuant to 5 217.3(g) or (ii) an agency of 
the United States or the Government Development Bank for Puerto Rico; 
(2) evidences an indebtedness arising from a transfer of direct 
obligations of, or obligations that are fully guaranteed as to principal 
and interest by, the United States or any agency thereof that the bank 
obligated to repurchase; 
(3) has; an original maturity of more than two years, is unsecured, 
and states expressly that it is subordinated to the claims of depositors; 
or 
(4) arises from a borrowing by a member bank from a dealer in 
securities, for one business day, of proceeds of a transfer of deposit 
credit in a Federal Reserve Bank (or other immediately available funds), 
commonly referred to as "Federal funds", received by such dealer on the 
date of the loan in connection with clearance of securities transactions. 
paragraph shall not, however, affect (i) any instrument issued 
before June 27, .1966, or (ii) any instrument that evidences an indebtedness 
arising Crom a transfer of assets under repurchase agreement issued before 
J u
l y 25, 1969. 
vV 
vV 
it 
Vc 
it 
«V 

40 
4a. Tli3 main purpose of these amendments is to narrow the 
category of "Federal funds" transactions that are exempt from 
Regulations D (reserves of member banks) and Q (interest on deposits); 
the main effect will be to bring within the coverage of those Regula-
tions "Federal funds" transactions with any person other than a banlc 
and its subsidiaries, various governmental institutions, or a securities 
dealer in certain cases. The operation of the amendments is explained 
I n
 the accompanying interpretation, a revision of 'j 217.137. 
b , Notice of proposed rule making with respect to these 
amendments was published in the Federal Register of September 27, 1969 
(34 F»R, 14902), 
The amendments were adopted by the Board after con-
sideration of all relevant material, including communications received 
£rora interested persons. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 7, 1970* 
(Sigr.ed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary, 
[SEAL] 

41 
TITLE 1 2 — B A N K S AND BANKING 
CHAPTER I I — F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A — B O A R D OF GOVERNORS OF TIE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Q3 
PART 2 i7-"INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
• Federal Funds Transactions 
Effective February 12, 1970, section 217.137 is amended to read 
follows: 
. 
.
.
. 
5 217 o137 Member bank participation in "Federal funds" market. 
(a) Effective February 12, 3.970, the Board of Governors has amended 
217.1(f) t:o narrow the category of "Federal funds" transactions entered 
into by member banks that may be classified as nondeposit borrowings rather 
than as deposits. 
One question that arose in connection with such amend-
ments is the meaning of "banlc" as such terra is used in the exemption 
from Regulation Q for obligations in nondeposit form to another bank. 
Such 
exemption lias leer, included in 5 217.1(f) since its adoption in 1966. 
u s e d in such exemption, "bank" includes a member bank, a nonrcember 
commercial bank, a savings bank (mutual o:: stock), a building or savings 
c> ? 
auc1
- loan association or cooperative bank, the Export-Import Bank of the 
United States, 
ox a foreign bank. 
It also includes bank subsidiaries 
that engage in business in which their parents arc authorized to engage 
a n <
J subsidiaries the stock of which is by statute explicitly eligible 
purchase by national banks. 

-2-
(b) To assure that the exemption for liabilities to banks is not 
used as a means by which nonbanks may arrange through a bank to "sell" 
Federal funds to a member bank that are not subject to Regulations D 
and 0 , obligations within the exemption must be issued to another bank for 
j^ts__owri account. 
In view of this requirement, a member bank that "purchases" 
ederal funds should take such action as may be necessary to ascertain the 
character (not. necessarily the identity) of the actual "seller" in order to 
Justify classification of its liability on the transaction as "Federal 
1
 "nds purchased" rather than as a deposit. Any bank that has given general 
assurance to a member bank that sales by it of federal funds ordinarily will 
e
 for its own account and thereafter executes such transactions for the 
account of others, should disclose the nature of the actual leader with 
respect, to each such transaction. 
If it fails to do so, the selling bank 
Uould be deemed by the Board as indireccly violating scction 19 of the 
Federal Reserve Act and Regulation Q , 
(c} Also to assure the effectiveness of the limitations on persons 
w 
0
 sell Federal funds to member banks, the amended $ 217.1(f) applies to 
n
°ndocumentary obligations undertaken by a member bank to obtain funds for 
u
-e i n its banking business, as well as to documentary obligations. 
In 
r G
c e n t months a number of banks have made the Federal funds market available 
t o
 business corporations. 
In some cases this has been on the basis of book 
cntv'f 
3
 >
 I u
 which no instrument is involved. Under the amendment, a bank's 
liability under informal arrangements as well as those formally embodied in 
a
 document are within the coverage of 5 217.1(f). 

(<i) The: expansion of 5 217.1(f) to ncndocumentary obligations 
does not mean that every bank liability on a transaction that results i 
the bank obtaining funds is a deposit. Aa indorsees or conditional 
liability such as arises when a bank sells a loan with recourse need no 
b
°
 c l a s 8 i f i e d
 aa a deposit liability. Also, a bank's liability on an 
acceptance that it sells in the market is not a deposit liability 
under the amendment. 
(0) It should also be noted that when a member bank issues an 
l i g a t i o n principally for a purpose other than as a means of obtaining 
J
'
UUd
"
<; 1 : 0 b e 
U s e d 
i n 
i t s
 banking business - such as usually would be the 
C a
"
3 W i t h 
r e ? 3
Pect to a due bill issued to evidence the bank's liability 
d e H v e r securities or foreign exchange sold - it need not classify it 
lability thereon as a deposit. However, the circumstances surrounding 
obligation issuad 
ostensibly for a purpose other than obtaining fund: 
U a e 
i n 
t h o
 ordinary course of business may cause an obligation to 
b
*come subject to Regulation Q - for example, if the bank's liability on 
a
 
bill excluded beyond a period exceeding that necessary to complete 
°
 S C C V r : U i e s 
8 a l e
*
 
o r 
i f
 
bank paid interest to the customer in 
e
*cess of the amount that accrued on the securities sold during the delay 
i n
 delivery. 
(12 U r S . C . 248(i). 
Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 371b and 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 7, 19 70. 
[Sg A Lj 
(Signed) Kenneth A , Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
