^ 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
Ort-nher 1?, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

2651 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Tuesday, October 12, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1J 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Ma isel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
1/ Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

2652 
10/12/71 
-2-
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mrs. Semia, Miss Key, and Mr. Wilbanks, 
Technical Assistants, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Boston and Minneapolis on September 29, by 
the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Atlanta, and San Francisco on 
September 30, by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on October 6, and 
by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, 
Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco 
°n October 7, 1971, of the rates on advances and discounts in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board approved unanimously, for transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, a report on the competitive factors in-
volved in the proposed merger of Community National Bank of Pennsylvania, 
Benscreek, Pennsylvania, into Johnstown Bank and Trust Company, Johnstown, 
Pennsylvania. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
There is competition existing between Community National 
Bank of Pennsylvania, Benscreek, and Johnstown Bank and Trust 
Company and there is potential for increased competition developing 
between them. 
The overall effect of the proposal on competition 
would be adverse. 

2653 
10/12/71 
-3-
The Board approved unanimously a letter to American Trust & 
Savings Bank, Dubuque, Iowa, approving a proposed issuance of capital 
notes. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
In a memorandum dated October 8, 1971, Governor Maisel referred 
to the Board's resolution of November 2, 1943, establishing the Board 
of Governors Retirement Plan under which employees who were members of 
the Bank Plan of the retirement system immediately before their employ-
ment by the Board are allowed 30 days after assuming their duties at 
the Board in which to decide whether to participate in the Board Plan 
rather than to continue under the Bank Plan. For reasons indicated in 
the memorandum, Governor Maisel recommended that this 30-day period be 
extended to five years, since there were now no substantial reasons why 
it was important to require new Board employees coming directly from a 
Reserve Bank to decide the question in such a short period. The matter 
of a change in the election period had been raised because Mr. Melnicoff, 
an employee of the Philadelphia Reserve Bank prior to becoming a member 
of the Board's staff today, had decided not to become a participant in 
the Board Plan at the present time but to continue under the Bank Plan 
with its related survivorship and disability benefits. 
Governor Maisel's recommendation for changing the election period 
from 30 days to five years was approved unanimously. 
Copies of the Board's 
letters of October 27 and 29 advising Mr. Melnicoff and the Retirement 
Office of this decision are attached as Items 2 and 3. 

2651 
10/12/71 
-4-
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Civil Rights. 
The U.S. Commission on Civil Rights had requested 
information regarding actions taken by the Federal Reserve System to 
enforce compliance by banks under its supervision with provisions of 
Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 dealing with discrimination 
in the financing of housing. A draft reply was attached to a memorandum 
from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated October 6, 1971. 
The memorandum noted that the recommended responses to two 
questions differed from the Board's position as stated in previous letters 
to the Commission: 
(1) the suggested response to the recommendation of 
3 requirement that banks retain all loan applications, indicating the 
race or color of the applicant, had been softened somewhat from previous 
responses, and (2) the suggested response to a question concerning post-
ing of notice in bank lobbies informing the public of its right to 
equal opportunity in mortgage lending had been modified in light of dis-
cussion by the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 
Today's discussion indicated concern that the letter had a 
negative tone, especially in the response to a question concerning the 
adequacy of examination procedures in detecting and eliminating violations. 
Comments brought out that although the examination process can be used to 
detect whether a bank refuses to make loans on property in certain areas 
o f a city, elimination of such lending policies would have to be on a 
case-by-case basis. 
Governor Brimmer emphasized the need for a worksheet 

265 
10/12/71 
-5-
to be used by examiners, and there were also comments regarding the 
possible use of instructions to examiners to assist in determining 
whether banks followed discriminatory lending practices. 
Suggestions 
were made for revision of the response to this question, as well as for 
revision of the overall tone and content of the draft letter. 
The staff was requested to revise the draft letter in light of 
today's discussion, for the Board's further consideration. 
Chairman Burns then entered the room, accompanied by Mr. Holland, 
Executive Director. 
Associated Bank Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated October 6, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of the application of Associated Bank Corporation, Des Moines, Iowa, 
to become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of Iowa 
Trust & Savings Bank, Estherville, Iowa. Although the Division noted 
three aspects of the proposal that might be objectionable, a management 
fee, a broker's fee, and the managerial qualifications of one director 
°f the applicant, for reasons mentioned in the memorandum it did not 
believe these circumstances were sufficiently adverse to weigh heavily 
for denial. 
The Chicago Reserve Bank's Examinations Department recom-
mended denial, on the sole ground that the annual fee of $32,000 for 
management advice was not justified. 
During discussion questions were raised regarding the extent 
of the services to be rendered by the holding company to theEsfcHerville 
bank, and whether such services warranted the management fee. 

2656 
10/12/71 
-6-
Other comments questioned whether the precautions taken with 
respect to disclosure of the management fee to all shareholders and the 
need to reduce dividends were adequate to offset the adverse implications. 
Reservations were expressed also with respect to the proposed treatment 
of minority shareholders, and question was raised whether the proposed 
payment of a finder's fee to a director of the applicant might be objec-
tionable as insider activity. 
Suggestion was made also that it would be 
desirable to make a more extensive inquiry into the relations to banks of 
that director and his interests. 
At the conclusion of the discussion action was deferred pending 
exploration by the staff of the several questions that had been raised. 
Capital adequacy form. 
Governor Sherrill, in a memorandum dated 
March 17, 1971, referred to a proposed revision of the Form for Analyzing 
Bank Capital (Form ABC) that was submitted to the Board in May 1970. 
The revision had been developed by a small committee that had only a 
limited amount of time. The Board requested that views be solicited from 
the Research and Examinations Departments of the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Replies contained no indication that the present Form ABC was adequate 
for supervisory use. Seven Reserve Banks considered it preferable to 
use the revised form; five felt it better not to do so, but to await the 
findings and recommendations of a longer-term study group. There was some 
disposition to test the proposed form during that period. 
Governor Sherrill 
recommended the establishment of a System task force to study the capital 

2657 
10/12/71 
-7-
and liquidity needs of banks and to determine appropriate methods for 
appraising those needs, and that the Board choose for interim use one 
of several options, listed in the memorandum, of the old or revised form 
or combinations of elements from each. 
Other documentation included a 
memorandum from Mr. Leavitt dated May 19, 1971. 
At today's meeting the staff indicated that a number of modifica-
tions had been worked out to meet questions raised by Governor Maisel 
regarding treatment of bond portfolios. 
If the Board approved use of 
the revised form, it was expected that further refinements in this area 
would be developed, in cooperation with Governor Maisel. 
There ensued a discussion of the time and resource requirements 
for the longer-term study. Two years was mentioned for completion, with 
a moderate priority and a considerable investment of System manpower 
resources. 
Governor Daane said he was unconvinced that a two-year study would 
be productive, or that a large expenditure of resources would be justified. 
The questions were not new but had been studied before. With divided 
opinion among Reserve Banks, he would go along with using the revised 
form experimentally. 
He would not object to the proposed task force, 
however, if it was not allocated a large amount of resources. 
The staff responded to questions by Governor Mitchell regarding 
the number and geographical distribution of banks that probably would 
be shown to have adequate capital if the revised form were used. 
Con-
tinuing discussion developed some support, in which Governor Daane joined, 

2658 
10/12/71 
-8-
for a suggestion by Mr. Melnicoff that the scope of the proposed long-
term study be broadened to encompass the nature and objectives of the 
examination process, perhaps with special emphasis on capital and liquidity. 
Governor Brimmer advocated the use of the revised form as an 
interim measure, but expressed reluctance to pursue a longer-term study 
requiring large resource input. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that while the revised 
form was an improvement, its use would not change present findings 
significantly. 
He thought it would be unfortunate to adopt the form with-
out providing for review of its effectiveness, yet he did not favor the 
two-year study. He suggested that the revised form might be used experi-
mentally, with a small group assigned to appraise experience for six 
months and make recommendations. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board unanimously approved 
use of the revised form, with the understanding that Governor Sherrill 
would give further attention to the question of the need for and appropri-
ate nature of a longer-term study. 
Mortgage subsidiaries of holding companies. 
Today's agenda 
called for consideration of two applications by bank holding companies 
to acquire mortgage companies. 
Suggestion was made that consideration 
be deferred until an informal hearing could be held to assist the Board 
in evaluating the public interest implications of such proposals, especially 
from the standpoint of the competitive impact. 
It was observed also that 

2659 
10/12/71 
-9-
such a proceeding would be helpful in developing guidelines regarding 
the significance of size and geographical location, and the extent to 
which de novo activities in mortgage business should be preferred over 
acquisitions of existing companies. 
Staff suggested that the hearing 
should be addressed also to several other pending applications of a 
similar nature. 
There was agreement with the suggestion for a hearing. 
It was 
understood that a notice would be prepared for the Board's consideration, 
and that the Banking Markets Section would develop lines of inquiry that 
would be useful to pursue at the hearing. 
Connecticut Bank and Trust Company. 
By order dated November 5, 
1970, the Board denied the application of Connecticut Bank and Trust 
Company, Hartford, Connecticut, to merge with The North Side Bank and 
Trust Company, Bristol, Connecticut. Additional information had subse-
quently become available, and by order dated June 29, 1971 (pursuant to 
action on June 25), the Board granted a request for reconsideration, with 
the understanding that the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston would undertake 
a market survey. 
In memoranda dated September 24 and 30, 1971, the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation described the findings of the further investi-
gation and reiterated its earlier recommendation of approval. 
In a memoran-
dum of September 27 the Banking Markets Section again recommended denial, 
expressing the view that, although the Boston Bank's survey suggested that 

2660 
10/12/71 
-10-
the Hartford and Bristol markets were separate, there was a considerable 
degree of economic integration between them. The Boston Reserve Bank's 
Research Department, which had previously recommended denial, now joined 
the Bank's Examinations Department in a favorable recommendation. 
The 
Department of Justice took an adverse view. 
After discussion, the application was approved, Governors Robert-
son, Maisel, and Brimmer dissenting. 
It was understood that an order 
and statement reflecting this decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration, and that a statement or statements reflecting dissenting 
views also would be prepared. 
Reserve requirements. At the meeting on August 19, 1971, the 
Board deferred action on a request by a member bank for permission to 
carry reduced reserves and instructed the staff to develop proposals 
looking toward a more equitable application of reserve requirements than 
the present system based on reserve city classifications. 
Staff documenta 
tion subsequently distributed included a memorandum of September 13 in 
which the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended a system 
of uniform graduated reserve requirements; a memorandum of September 30 
in which the Legal Division submitted a simplified proposal; and a memoran 
dum dated October 1 in which the Division of Research and Statistics dis-
cussed the probable financial effects of the proposed reserve requirement 
changes and possible time schedules for making them effective. 
The Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations proposed that 
uniform graduated reserve requirements be assigned to all member banks 
with net demand deposits of under $200 million regardless of where the 

2661 
10/12/71 
-11-
banks were located, and that all member banks with net demand deposits 
of over $200 million be given uniform graduated reserve requirements by 
redefining reserve cities to be all those cities or localities that con-
tain a bank with net demand deposits of over $200 million. This redefini-
tion of reserve cities would make it possible to bring all large banks, 
wherever located, under a uniform reserve requirement that would be above 
the 14 per cent statutory limit for banks outside of reserve cities. As 
a technical measure necessary for implementation of the proposals, the 
Division recommended that blanket permission to carry reduced reserves 
be granted to all banks in reserve cities with net demand deposits of 
less than $200 million, and that the reduced reserves privilege be auto-
matically revoked for all banks as their net demand deposits exceeded 
$200 million. 
The specific uniform reserve requirements recommended, to apply 
to net demand deposits, were 10 per cent on deposits under $5 million, 
13 per cent on deposits between $5 million and $200 million, and 17-1/2 per 
cent on deposits over $200 million. 
It was expected that a shift to 
these requirements would result in a net release of nearly $1.7 billion 
reserves to the banking system. 
Of two alternative implementation 
schedules, the Division of Research and Statistics preferred one that 
would release the reserves in three nearly equal amounts. 
Chairman Burns suggested that the initial discussion be confined 
to the question whether there was agreement in principle with the idea 

10/12/71 
-12-
of moving toward uniform reserve requirements on a graduated plan. 
Responses indicated that all members of the Board were in favor of 
such a move, although Governor Robertson said he preferred requesting 
specific authority in legislation; he was uneasy about using the change 
in reserve cities to achieve a graduated reserve base. Governor Brimmer 
emphasized that his agreement contemplated adoption of such a plan to 
the extent that it was possible to do so within existing law. 
Chairman Burns then requested views regarding the specific 
percentage requirements recommended by the staff and regarding what 
changes in the law the members of the Board would advocate, on the 
assumption that whatever change was desired could be achieved. 
Governors Mitchell and Daane expressed the view that within 
the framework of present law, the structure recommended by the staff 
was about the best that could be done, but if they had carte blanche 
they might prefer a different arrangement. 
Governor Maisel observed 
that accommodating the proposed changes to the terms of existing law 
meant that no new principle was really being developed. 
Governor Mitchell said his goal would be formed by three con-
siderations: 
the starting situation; where economies of scale could 
be accomplished; and how much flexibility was desirable in reserve 
requirements as they affected elements of the banking structure. 
Since 
he did not believe that small banks were very sensitive to changes in 
the economy, he would be inclined to have a system in which reserve 

10/12/71 
-13-
requirements for smaller institutions were relatively stable. More 
frequent changes would be made for larger banks, which were more 
sensitive to economic conditions. As for the specific proposal put 
forward by the staff, he would be inclined to raise the intermediate 
bracket and drop the upper one, marginally, if there were no inhibition 
in the law. The statutory distinction between reserve city banks and 
country banks certainly should be abolished, but, having done that, in the 
current monetary climate he would not change reserve requirements 
substantially from their present levels. However, there should be some 
accommodation to the decrease in float expected to result from the 
establishment of regional clearing centers. 
Governor Daane spoke in favor of as simple a schedule as possible, 
and as uniform as possible with respect to groups of banks. A lower 
reserve requirement would be advisable for small banks. 
Ideally, he 
would like to have a uniform reserve requirement, but he would accept 
some graduation--perhaps sufficient flexibility to impose a higher 
reserve requirement on the largest banks. 
The choice of precise figures 
moved one into the question of the general structure of reserve require-
ments that would be desirable in the long term. Rather than have the 
System buy additional Government securities for monetary policy purposes, 
he would like to see a gradual reduction in reserve requirements to serve 
the need for structural change. 
Governor Maisel concurred with Governor Mitchell's point about 
the importance of the starting situation. There was a built-in equity 
in terms of costs to the banking system, and there should be a good 

2664 
- 
if 
' II 
10/12/71 
-14-
reason for making any change in it. There was some minimum reserve 
requirement that had no cost, since it would equate with the amount of 
vault cash and normal clearing balances a bank had to have. 
He might 
be willing to move the minimum reserve requirement down to that point, 
but he did not know where the line fell. 
(Presumably it would be below 
the statutory minimum of 10 per cent.) He would be willing to adopt the 
staff proposal today as a goal to move toward, but since a large amount 
I 
of reserves would be released, he thought the changes should be made in 
perhaps four tranches coordinated with other System goals to attain the 
il 
best net results. 
II 
Governor Brimmer expressed willingness to adopt the staff pro-
posals immediately; the ranges of the proposed requirements were appropriate, 
„ 
given the constraints in present law. He-concurred with Governor Maisel s 
comment regarding the desirability of setting a reserve requirement for 
small banks approximately equal to what they would need for vault cash 
and clearing arrangements, but such a move could not be accomplished 
under present law. 
If a new law was to be enacted, it should apply reserve 
requirements to all banks rather than only to System members. 
-
Governor Sherrill commented that the staff proposals were satis-
i 
factory in the present situation, but if new legislation could be achieved 
i 
he thought it should be addressed to three problems: monetary policy, 
competition, and small banks. From the point of view of monetary policy, 
(jj 
he regarded the present level of reserves as about right, and he was 

2665 
10/12/71 
-15-
inclined to have open market operations continue to furnish reserves for 
long-term growth. He believed that graduated reserve requirements were 
healthful for competition; larger banks should carry greater burdens 
than small banks, which should be essentially exempted from burdens by 
having their reserve requirements set at about their needs for vault 
cash and clearing balances. Even if legislation could apply reserve 
requirements to all banks, he would still be in favor of making them 
costless to small banks--perhaps those with deposits of less than $100 
mi11 ion--because he did not consider them important to monetary policy. 
Governor Robertson stated that he was a firm believer in graduated 
reserve requirements.;. In his view, the best schedule would not be the 
kind the staff proposed, but one with many more categories of graduation. 
He considered that the broad bands proposed by the staff were advantageous 
to large banks, which already enjoyed economies of scale. The numerous 
categories he advocated should be adjusted so as to require the same total 
amount of reserves as at present. That amount should be reduced to off-
set the reductions in float through adjustment of the reserve requirement 
bands tailored to the classes of banks where float reductions were con-
centrated. He expected the float reduction to be much more substantial in 
large banks than in small ones. He :would maintain much the same equities 
as prevailed at present. 
Chairman Burns noted that while there were differences of view 
among the members of the Board, today's discussion indicated that under 

2666 
10/12/71 
-16-
the assumptions of freedom of choice that had been specified a majority 
would be in favor of an action somewhat along the lines the staff had 
proposed. However, he found a procedural difficulty that seemed to 
militate against any such move at the present time. 
In May of this 
year the Board had recommended to the Chairmen of the Congressional 
Banking Committees the enactment of legislation providing for a more 
flexible system of graduated reserve requirements. So far as he knew, 
nothing had been done in Congress to pursue that recommendation, nor had 
the Board done any further urging. 
In the absence of such effort, he 
thought it would be a mistake for the Board to act on the current pro-
posal without consulting with Congressional leaders. Such consultation 
might develop support in Congress for the proposed legislation, or it 
might lead to knowledge that no support was likely to be forthcoming. 
Either outcome would have an important bearing on the desirability of 
adopting some such plan as the staff proposed. 
There ensued a discussion of the relative merits of various 
procedures. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that unilateral action 
by the Board would weaken the case for ever achieving applicability of 
reserve requirements to all banks or all insured banks. Chairman Burns 
suggested the desirability that he and Mr. Cardon have conversations 
with Congressional leaders to learn whether support might be developed 
for legislation. 

2667 
10/12/71 
-17-
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that the 
suggested exploratory conversations would go forward, and that the 
staff would study the problem further with a view to possible revision 
of the proposals to accommodate the preferences that had been expressed. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2668 
\i 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
10/12/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 12, 1971 
Board of Directors 
American Trust & Savings Bank 
Dubuque, Iowa 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(!) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to 
$1 million in subordinated capital debentures by American Trust 
& Savings Bank, Dubuque, Iowa, as proposed in Chairman Ernst's 
letter of September 2.7, 1971, with attachments to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago. Approval is granted with the under-
standing that the sale of these capital debentures will be 
consummated within six-months from the date of this letter, and 
that the debentures have an original maturity of 7 years or 
more as prescribed in the above mentioned regulations.- It is 
further understood that any advertising with respect to the 
obligations will, in addition to being in compliance with the 
Provisions of section 217.6 of Regulation Q, clearly distinguish 
the nature of the obligation from a deposit, including by setting 
forth in bold face type that the obligation is subordinated to 
the claims of depositors and not insured by the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2660 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
item No. 2 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
10/12/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 27, 1971. 
Mr. David C. Melnicoff, 
4 
Deputy Executive Director, 
Federal Reserve Board, 
Washington, D. C. 
20551. 
Dear Mr. Melnicoff: 
With reference to your letter of October 7, 1971, the 
Board has authorized an extension to five years of the period within 
which you may elect membership in the Board Plan of the Retirement 
System. This will run from October 12, the date you became a member 
of the Board's staff. 
In the meantime, your retirement program will continue 
under the Bank Plan and you will be covered by the survivorship and 
disability protection that applies to Federal Reserve employees 
participating in the Bank Plan. These latter coverages at present 
are provided under contracts with Connecticut General Life Insurance 
Company and Aetna Life Insurance Company, both of which' companies 
have furnished letters stating that Federal Reserve Bank employees 
assigned to or employed by the Board of Governors may continue to be 
covered under their group life and disability policies for up to five 
years from the date of such employment or assignment as a member of 
the Board's staff. Claims under those policies will be based on the 
salary you are receiving at the Board at the time. The Board of 
Governors will pay such costs as are required to provide you with 
these coverages. 
While this arrangement has been approved for a maximum 
Period of five years, you may transfer to the Board Plan of the 
retirement program at an earlier date under the conditions generally 
applicable for members of that plan. At such time you would, of 
course, cease to be a member of the Bank Plan or to have the coverages 
Provided by the Connecticut General and Aetna contracts. 
As a member of the Board's staff and thus a Federal employee, 
are entitled to participate in the Federal Employees Group Life 

2670 
Mr. David C. Helnicoff 
Insurance program. The regular insurance under that program covers 
Sou automatically as of the date you became a member of the Board s 
staff, unless you waive the coverage. This insurance ^ normally 
available to employees at 27-1/2 cents bi-weekly for each $1000 
(that amount represents two-thirds its actual cost), with the Board 
paying the other one-third of the cost. However, since the 
Paying the full cost of the survivorship coverage undet the Connecticut 
General policy while you remain under the Bank Plan it will not in 
your case pay the one-third of the cost of F.E.G.L.I. 
If you elect to become a member of the Board Plan of the 
retirement program, the survivorship insurance with Connecticut 
General (as well as the disability coverage with Aetna) will be 
terminated 
and you would then be eligible to carry the regular F.E.G.L.I. 
at two-th^ds it actual cost with the Board paying the " f i n i n g one-
third. As to the optional F.E.G.L.I. in the amount of $10,000, it is 
important for you to note that unless you take that additional amount 
as soon as you become eligible for it, you will not be able to secure 
it at a titer date under the general rules applicable to new Federal 
employees of your age. 
The Office of the Controller will make arrangements with 
^ u for payment of premiums on such Federal Employees Group Life 
insurance as you may desire to take. 
Sincerely yours, 
Tynan Smith, 
Secretary. 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2671 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
10/12/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
O O A R D 
October 29, 1971 
Mr. Martin W. Bergin, Secretary, 
Retirement. System of the Federal Reserve Banks, 
33 Liberty Street, 
New York, New York 
10045 
Dear Mr. Bergin: 
For your records there are enclosed copies of the letters 
and memoranda described below regarding the retirement and related 
benefits coverage for David C. Melnicoff in connection with his 
resignation as an employee of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
and his employment by the Board of Governors, effective October 12, 
1971. 
1. 
Letter from Mr. Melnicoff to the Board dated October 7, 
1971 stating his decision to remain for the present in 
the Bank Plan and expressing his wish to continue to 
be covered by the survivorship and disability protection 
afforded to members of the Bank Plan by the Federal 
Reserve's contracts with Connecticut General Life 
Insurance Company and Aetna Life Insurance Company, 
respectively. 
2. 
Letter from the Board to Mr. Melnicoff dated October 27> 
1-971 informing him that the Board has approved an 
extension of the period within which he may become a 
participant in the Board Plan to five years from the 
date of his employment by the Board and stating that 
while he is a member of the Bank Plan the Board will 
pay the costs required to provide him with coverage 
under the Connecticut General and Aetna Life policies 
referred to. 
3. 
Memorandum from Governor Maisel to the Board dated 
October 8 recommending that new Board employees who 
are then members of the Bank Plan be permitted five 
years (rather than 30 days as provided in the Board's 
resolution of November 2, 1943) within which they may 
elect to join the Board Plan. 

Mr. Martin V7. Berg in 
-2-
2672 
4. Memorandum dated October 27 from the Secretary of 
the Board to the Personnel Division and the Controller 
informing them of the Board's approval of the foregoing 
recommendation of Governor Maisel and also transmitting 
advice of the Board's authorization of the arrangements 
relating to Mr. Melnicoff's retirement and related 
coverages. 
This letter will also acknowledge receipt of copies of 
letters addressed to you as Secretary of the Retirement System 
dated October 15 and 14, respectively, from Connecticut General 
and Aetna stating their agreement to extend the coverage under the 
survivorship and long-term disability contracts so as to cover 
individuals employed by or assigned to.the Board of Governors, 
Provided that immediately prior to such employment or assignment 
they were participants in the Bank Plan and also protected by the 
survivorship and disability policies referred to. We assume that 
the reference in the Aetna letter to "employees of the member Banks" 
who are "temporarily assigned to the Board of Governors" will in no 
V ay invalidate the intent of the agreement, namely,to provide 
coverage to individuals who like Mr. Melnicoff elect to remain in 
the. Bank Plan and subject to the other insurance coverages for a 
Period up to five years from the date of their employment by the 
B°ard. 
Should there be any reservations by either counsel for the 
benefits Office or by Aetna as to the clear intent of the Aetna 
letter, the Board requests that the language of the agreement be 
clarified at this time. 
Sincerely yours, 
/s/ Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Enclosures 
