mm 
-1 
% 
: I 
I' 
I 
I 
• ft 
' I 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 12, 1968 

1333 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, April 12, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 1J 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Bernard and Miss McWhirter of the 
Office of the Secretary 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have 
been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Brill 
and Partee of the Division of Research and Statistics and Mr. Sammons 
of the Division of International Finance then withdrew and the following 
entered: 
17 Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1340 
4/12/68 
-10-
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Messrs. Cloth, Shuter, Via, Doyle, and Porter, 
and Miss Hart of the Legal Division 
Mr. Goodfellow of the Division of Examinations 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on April 8 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and 
Dallas on April 11, 1968, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Banking matters. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made 
available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective item 
numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Wachovia International Investment 
1 
Corporation, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, 
approving its application to acquire stock 
of Canusa, Ltd., Freeport, Bahamas, and of 
a Canadian holding company to be formed. 
Letter to Irving International Financing 
2 
Corporation, New York, New York, approving 
its application to acquire additional shares 
of Industrialization Fund of Finland, 
Helsinki, Finland. 

1341 
4/12/68 
-10-
Item No. 
Letter to the Chairman of the Banking Board 
3 
of the Virgin Islands (reflecting discussion 
at the meeting on April 4, 1968) regarding 
his request for a survey of banking conditions 
and requirements. 
Letter to Counsel for Lincoln First Group, 
4 
Inc., Rochester, New York, determining that 
a certain equipment leasing service corporation 
would, on the facts presented, be engaged 
solely in activities permitted by section 4(c) 
(1) (C) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Petition from New York Stock Exchange. The New York Stock 
Exchange had sent a telegram yesterday petitioning the Board to defer 
further, for not less than 30 days, the effective date (now April 17, 
1968) of section 220.7(f), the so-called "agency" section, of Regu-
lation T, Credit by Brokers, Dealers, and Members of National Securities 
Exchanges. The Stock Exchange maintained that more time was needed 
for member firms to obtain the required statements from customers so 
that they could be in a position to continue legally to service such 
accounts on and after the effective date. Also, the Exchange planned 
to petition the Board during the period of postponement to delete or 
substantially amend the section. 
The problem had been outlined in a staff memorandum prepared 
following a meeting on April 10 attended by members of the Board's 
staff and representatives of the Exchange. At that meeting the Exchange 
spokesmen had requested a deferment of the effective date in order to 
allow time to prepare a brief to support a petition that the "agency" 

5 
4/12/68 
-10-
section be eliminated. Board staff had responded that, while the 
Exchange was free to address such a request to the Board, the case 
was not sufficiently strong to justify the staff in initiating a 
recommendation for deferment. One point of substance raised by the 
Exchange representatives was that a special exception made for banks 
with respect to foreign transactions had not been included in the 
Regulation T amendment applicable to brokers and dealers. An argument 
could be made, in the judgment of the Board's staff, for including 
a parallel exemption for brokers and dealers, and the Board might want 
to consider doing so. The Board might also want to consider granting 
a 30-day deferment of the effective date to banks and other lenders 
if the Stock Exchange petition was acted upon favorably, even though 
they had not petitioned for a further delay on their own behalf. 
After discussion of the legitimacy of the Stock Exchange's 
petition during which some Board members commented critically on 
the fact that the petition had not been filed in more timely fashion, 
it was generally agreed that nevertheless there appeared to be no 
compelling reason why some further deferment of the effective date 
should not be granted. Although one Board member initially felt that 
a 15-day deferment should be sufficient, it was noted that the Stock 
Exchange had put the Board on notice of its intention to seek deletion 
or substantial modification of the "agency" section. It was suggested 
that in the circumstances the Board's purposes might best be served if 

1343 
4/12/68 
-10-
30-day deferment was granted and if the Stock Exchange was informed 
that any petition to delete or modify the section should be submitted 
in ample time for such petition to be studied before the new effective 
date (May 17). It was also generally agreed that the effective date 
of the related sections of Regulations G and U should be deferred for 
30 days as a matter of equitable treatment. 
Accordingly, it was agreed unanimously (1) to extend for 
30 days (to May 17, 1968) the effective date of the "agency" sections 
in the three regulations, and (2) to defer for the same period of 
time the requirement that banks obtain certain statements in respect 
to foreign transactions handled as agent. Attached as Item No. 5 is 
a copy of the pertinent notice published in the Federal Register, and 
attached as Item No. 6 is a copy of the press release issued with 
regard to the Board's action. 
In order to provide adequate time for the preparation and 
consideration of any materials submitted, it was decided to inform 
the Stock Exchange that any petition for further change in the "agency" 
section of Regulation T should be received not later than April 29, 
1968. A copy of the letter sent to the President of the Exchange is 
attached as Item No. 7. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Officer's salary at Boston. The Board approved unanimously 
a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston (copy attached as 

7 
4/12/68 
-10-
Item No. 8) approving the payment of salary to Philip A. Shaver as 
Secretary to the Board of the Bank and Assistant Counsel at the annual 
rate fixed by the Board of Directors. 
Incident at St. Louis Bank. Mr. Leavitt reported to the Board 
information received concerning an apparent illegal undertaking on the 
part of an employee in the fiscal agency function of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis. It was understood that the Board would be kept 
informed of further developments in the matter through a memorandum to 
be prepared by the Division of Examinations and that the Division would 
consider the possibility of sending an examiner to St. Louis to review 
the steps taken by the Bank in the circumstances. 
Mr. Leavitt then withdrew from the meeting. 
Discount rate. The directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis had established yesterday, subject to review and determination 
by the Board of Governors, a rate of 5-1/4 per cent (rather than 5 per cent) 
on discounts for and advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a 
of the Federal Reserve Bank. 
The telegram that had been received giving reasons for the proposed 
rate increase was read, and Governor Robertson then read a draft of reply 
that might be sent if it was the disposition of the Board to disapprove 
the proposed rate. 
There followed a discussion of the reasons given by the Bank, 
Particularly the recent increase in member bank borrowings, during which 
Holland reported on a telephone conference call with Reserve Bank 
discount officers. 

1345 
4/12/68 
-10-
Governor Robertson presented the case for replying in timely 
fashion to discount rate wires received from Reserve Banks, but the 
other members of the Board indicated that on this occasion, at least, 
they would like to defer action until they had had an opportunity to 
consider the matter further. Accordingly, it was agreed to hold the 
matter over for additional discussion next week, and in preparation for 
such further discussion the staff was requested to submit a memorandum 
of its views on the advisability of a discount rate increase at this 
time in the light of current and prospective economic and money market 
conditions. 
Some members also commented more generally on discount rate 
procedures at the Board and at the Reserve Banks, and the staff was 
requested to prepare a memorandum on the questions raised. These included 
the propriety of the procedure followed by some Banks earlier this year 
of submitting alternative rates for consideration, the propriety of 
submitting rate wires more frequently than every 14 days, the response 
that should be made by the Board when proposals for discount rate changes 
were received, what would constitute a policy action on the part of the 
Board and how promptly the record of policy actions should be published, 
and the extent, if any, to which Reserve Bank directors were entitled to 
consider international or foreign financial conditions in establishing 
discount rates. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On April 11, 1968, 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 

1346 
4/12/68 
-10-
Memorandum from the Division of Administrative Services dated 
April 5, 1968, recommending that Mary-Ellen Sayre be employed on a 
temporary contractual basis at the rate of $3.50 per hour, to assist 
in the editorial unit of the Publications Section. 
u.:i:.' J 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
N. Kurt Barnes as Summer Assistant, Division of International 
Finance, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,565, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Don E. Roper as Summer Research Assistant, Division of Interna-
tional Finance, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,959, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Maternity leave 
, 
.. 
. .c-\ j , 
Carol R. Harig, Assistant Manager, Cafeteria, Division of Adminis-
trative Services, beginning April 15, 1968, instead of April 8, 1968, 
as previously approved. 
Mary Sumler, Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative Services, 
beginning April 5, 1968, instead of April 23, 1968, as previously 
approved. 
Request for permission to engage in 
outside activity 
Gary P. Cochran, Personnel Technician, Division of Personnel Adminis-
tration, to work as a golf attendant on a part-time basis. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Janet E. Kazokas as Stenographer, Division of Personnel Adminis-
tration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,161, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 

1347 
4/12/68 
-9-
Appointments (continued) 
Mary Anne Renshaw as Stenographer, Division of Personnel Adminis-
tration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,327, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases 
Judith E. Herriman, Editorial Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, from $5,565 to $5,751 per annum, retroactive to March 10, 
1968. 
Joan Lee, Statistical Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, from $5,565 to $6,734 per annum, with a change in title 
to Research Assistant, effective April 21, 1968. 
Raymond A. Adams, Lead Messenger, Division of Administrative 
Services, from $3,776 to $4,108 per annum, effective April 7, 1968. 
Governor Robertson noted memoranda advising 
that applications for retirement had been 
filed by Cyril J. Bowman, Assistant Federal 
Reserve Examiner, Division of Examinations, 
effective April 27, 1968, and by Anna S. 
Courtney, Supervisor, Recording and Steno-
graphic Section, Division of Examinations, 
effective May 3, 1968. 
On the dates shown, actions were taken on 
behalf of the Board under delegated authority 
as reflected in the following letters, copies 
of which are attached as indicated: 
On April 11, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Item No. 
Letter to County Bank of Santa Cruz, Santa 
Cruz, California, granting an extension of 
time within which to establish a branch in 
Scotts Valley. 
9 

1348 
4/12/68 
-10-
On April 12, 1968 
_By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
10 
approving the appointment of Charles E. Gruehn 
as assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpo- 
11 
ration regarding the application of The First 
State Bank, Rockwall, Texas, for continuation 
of deposit insurance after withdrawal from 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
By the Director of the Division of Bank Operations 
Letter to Republic National Bank of California, 
12 
Los Angeles, California, granting its request 
for permission to maintain reduced reserves. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter to Union Trust Company of Maryland, 
13 
Baltimore, Maryland, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch in Jacobsville and an 
investment in bank premises incident thereto. 

1349 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
item No. 1 
OF the 
M12/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 12, 1968. 
Wachovia International Investment Corporation, 
P. 0. Box 3099, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 27102 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letters of February 21 and 27, 1968, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase 
and hold approximately 20 per cent of the stock of Canusa, 
Ltd., Freeport, Bahamas, and approximately 25 per cent of 
the common and preferred stock of a Canadian holding com-
pany to be formed, at a cost of approximately US$30,000 and 
$15,100, respectively, provided the shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investments now being approved will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to 
the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
Corporation and Wachovia Bank and Trust Company and that 
due consideration is being given to the priorities con-
tained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(.Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1350 
B D A R D CDF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
• F T H E 
4/12/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 12, 1968. 
Irving International Financing Corporation, 
1 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 20, 1968, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
to purchase and hold approximately 158 additional shares of 
Industrialization Fund of Finland, Helsinki, Finland, at a 
cost of approximately US$42,000, provided such shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved will be made 
within the guidelines established under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your Corporation and 
Irving Trust Company and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1351 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 3 
• F T H E 
4/12/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 17, 1968 
AIR MAIL 
The Honorable Cyril E. King, 
Chairman, Banking Board of the Virgin Islands, 
Government of the Virgin Islands of the United States, 
Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas, 
Virgin Islands. 
Dear Mr. King: 
Reference is made to your letter of March 14, 1968, in 
which a request is made that the Federal Reserve System conduct a 
survey of banking conditions and requirements before permission is 
given to another major financial institution to do business in the 
Virgin Islands. 
The Board of Governors has given careful consideration 
to your request but believes that such an on-the-spot survey would 
add little to the information presently available. The Board will 
of course, consider thoroughly all pertinent aspects of the banking 
situation in the Virgin Islands in the exercise of its statutory 
responsibilities under Section 18(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Act and Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act as they apply to the 
proposed merger of Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
Association and the New St. Croix Savings Bank and the proposed con-
version of offices of the latter institution into branches of Bank 
of America. In this regard, the Board would welcome any information 
or views which you would care to submit. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

1352 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
4/12/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 12, 1968. 
Stephen H. Waite, Esquire, 
Nixon, Hargrave, Devans & Doyle, 
One Exchange Street, 
Rochester, New York. 
14614 
Dear Mr. Waite: 
This is in response to your letter of July 26, 1967 (as 
supplemented by later letters and conversations), requesting the 
Board to determine that section 4(c)(1)(C) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(1)(C) or, in the alternative, 
that section 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)), would permit 
Lincoln First Group, Inc. ("Lincoln First"), a registered bank hold-
ing company to acquire the shares of an equipment-leasing corporation. 
It is understood that Lincoln Rochester Trust Company, 
Rochester, New York ("Bank"), prior to its acquisition in 1964 by 
Lincoln First, entered into an agreement with an unaffiliated business 
corporation whereby the corporation formed an equipment-leasing corpora-
tion ("Leasing") to assist Bank in offering equipment-leasing services 
to its customers. After its acquisition by Lincoln First, Leasing 
would perform services as described below for all of Lincoln First's 
subsidiary banks. 
The operations of Leasing would be conducted only from the 
premises of the subsidiary banks of Lincoln First. The personnel of 
Leasing (who might also be bank employees) would furnish cash-flow 
projections, tax analyses, and the like, to be used by bank customers 
in evaluating the advantages of leasing equipment, as opposed to 
purchasing. In addition to these advisory and informatory services, 
it is understood that Leasing's activities preceding the extension 
of credit will be limited to obtaining from the customer the descrip-
tion and price of the equipment, the name of the vendor, and balance 
sheets, income statements, and supporting financial statements, which 
will be forwarded to the bank. Leasing will not make recommendations 
to the banks as to, or participate in, the decisions as to whether 
the credit should be extended or the terms thereof. 

1353 
Stephen H. Waite, Esquire 
-2-
After a bank and its customer have agreed to terms, 
Leasing, acting according to instructions from the bank, would 
purchase the desired equipment with funds advanced by the bank for 
the specific transaction, and would lease the equipment to the 
customer. The prescribed rentals over the term of the lease would 
be sufficient in every case to cover the purchase price of the 
equipment plus interest and related costs. Leasing would assign the 
rentals and a security interest in the equipment to the bank, which 
would bear the entire risk of each transaction. In connection with 
each transaction, all gains and all losses would pass through Leasing 
to its bank principal, and Leasing would have no other financial 
obligation to the bank. 
Leasing would attend to insurance requirements for the 
leased property, collect and account for rentals, collect sales taxes 
and file returns, keep records, and perform other ministerial servicing 
tasks. It is anticipated that, in most cases, (1) the bank would 
direct Leasing to include in the lease an option for the lessee to 
purchase the equipment and (2) such options would be exercised. 
However, if the equipment was returned at the expiration of the lease, 
or repossessed, the bank involved would determine how it should be 
disposed of by Leasing, and the proceeds would be paid to the bank. 
The banks, or Lincoln First, would pay a fee to Leasing sufficient to 
enable it to provide its services. The banks--not Leasing—would 
advertise and promote the leasing service. 
The Board understands that a provision of New York law and 
a ruling by the Comptroller of the Currency permit, respectively, 
New York State banks and national banks to purchase and lease personal 
property. The Board indicated in a recent ruling that in determining 
whether an activity in which a bank could itself engage is within the 
servicing-corporation exemption of section 4(c)(1)(C), the question 
is simply whether the corporation may appropriately be considered as 
engaged solely in "furnishing services to or performing services for" 
its holding company or a bank in the holding company system. 53 Fed-
eral Reserve Bulletin 1191 (1967). 
In considering the interrelation of these exemptions in the 
light of the purpose of the prohibition against bank holding company 
interests in nonbanking organizations, the Board has concluded that 
the appropriate test for determining whether the operations planned 
by Leasing fall within the servicing exemption is whether the company 
would perform as principal any banking activities, such as receiving 
deposits, paying checks, extending credit, and the like. If Leasing 
would not perform such activities as a separate, self-contained 
business organization, but would act merely as an adjunct to its 

1354 
Stephen H. Waite, Esquire 
-3-
affiliated banks for the purpose of facilitating the banks' operations, 
the company may appropriately be considered as within the scope of the 
servicing-corporation exemption. 
It is the Board's judgment that Leasing, in conducting the 
operations described hereinabove, would perform no "functions other 
than solely on behalf of a bank" and that it would not "perform as 
principal any banking activities" within the meaning of the Board's 
cited ruling. Although the company would purchase equipment and 
execute leases for the full purchase price of the equipment, Leasing 
would exercise no discretion with respect to negotiating or entering 
into leases, but would, in effect, act merely as an agent in trans-
actions arranged entirely by the bank. Leasing would purchase 
equipment and execute leases only pursuant to instructions from an 
affiliated bank, using funds advanced by that bank; the rentals and 
a security interest in the equipment would be assigned to the bank 
in each case, and the bank would reap the profits or bear the losses 
generated by the transactions. Leasing would, in reality, function 
principally as a conduit for extensions of credit by its affiliated 
banks to the lessees of the equipment. Similarly, in servicing the 
lease accounts and in disposing of equipment repossessed from lessees 
or not purchased by lessees at the termination of the lease, Leasing 
would be acting only on behalf of its affiliated banks and pursuant 
to their specific orders initiated and issued by their personnel. 
On the basis of the facts stated herein, the Board concludes 
that Leasing would be engaged solely in activities permitted by 
section 4(c)(1)(C) of the Act. This determination is subject to revo-
cation, however, should the facts upon which it is based change in any 
material respect. In this connection, it should be understood that 
section 4(c)(1)(C) would not apply if Leasing participates in the 
solicitation or negotiations that precede the extensions of credit 
to lessees. 
The proposed operation raises the question whether the 
advancement of funds to Leasing for purchasing the equipment should 
be regarded as an "extension of credit" within the meaning of 
section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. The Board concludes that 
section 23A does not apply by virtue of the first exemption in the 
sixth paragraph thereof. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No 
4/12/68 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Regs. G, T, and U] 
PART 207 - CREDIT BY PERSONS OTHER THAN BANKS, BROKERS, 
OR DEALERS FOR PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR 
CARRYING REGISTERED EQUITY SECURITIES 
PART 220 - CREDIT BY BROKERS, DEALERS, AND MEMBERS 
OF NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGES 
PART 221 - CREDIT BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING 
OR CARRYING REGISTERED STOCKS 
Deferred Effective Date 
£ . 3 5 5 
By documents appearing in the Federal Register of April 4, 
1968 (33 F.R. 5348 and 5349), the Board of Governors adopted §§ 207.4(f), 
220.7(f), and 221.3(u), relating to broker/dealers, banks, and other 
lenders acting as agents, effective April 17, 1968. 
In view of the number of statements that broker/dealers, banks, 
and other lenders must obtain in order initially to bring themselves 
into conformity with the above sections, and particularly due to the 
high volume of securities transactions currently being processed, the 
Board has deferred the effective date with respect to obtaining such 
statements from April 17 to May 17, 1968. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 12th day of April 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 6 
4/12/68 
For Immediate release. 
April 12, 1968. 
The Board of Governors today extended to May 17, 1968, 
the period within which banks, brokers/dealers, and other lenders 
subject to the Board's margin requirements must obtain statements from 
certain of their customers — those who are in the business of lending 
against registered equity securities--for whom they are acting as agent. 
Unless the customer is in such lending business, the statement need 
not be obtained. 
The required statements are to the effect that the customer 
is not extending or maintaining credit in violation of the Board's 
margin regulations. In view of the number of statements that will have 
to be obtained initially in order to comply with the regulation, and 
the high volume of securities transactions currently being processed, 
additional time will be needed to obtain statements from all present 
customers who should furnish them. New customers who lend on 
registered equity securities should furnish the statements as needed. 
Similarly deferred is the requirement that banks obtain 
certain statements in respect, to foreign transactions they handle as 
agent. 
- 0 -

1357 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 7 
4/12/68 
Mr. Robert W. Haack, President, 
New York Stock Exchange, 
Eleven Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 16, 1968 
pi 
k 
Dear Mr. Haack: 
This is in response to your telegram of April 11, 1968, 
addressed to Mr. Merritt Sherman, asking that the Board of Governors 
further delay the effectiveness of section 220.7(f) of Regulation T for 
not less than thirty days following April 17, 1968. You also state 
that the Exchange intends to petition the Board in the very near future 
to delete or substantially amend section 220.7(f). 
In response to your request, as indicated in the Board's press 
release dated April 12, 1968, and a document submitted to the Federal 
Register for publication, copies of which were furnished the Exchange by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the Board has extended to May 17, 
1968, the time within which the statements described in section 220.7(f) 
of Regulation T, 207.4(f) of Regulation G, and 221.3(u) of Regulation U 
must be obtained. The requirement that a statement be obtained does not 
apply, of course, to agency activities completed before May 17. However, 
statements will have to be obtained by that date in respect to accounts 
in existence on that date and good practice would suggest that your member 
firms obtain such statements as promptly as possible in preparation for 
the effective date of the requirement. As you are aware, the effective 
date of these three sections had previously been postponed from March 11, 
to April 17; accordingly, the Board of Governors would not be inclined to 
grant any further deferral beyond May 17, of the requirement relating to 
the statements in question. 
In response to the final paragraph of your telegram, as your 
staff was informally advised by the Board's staff, any petition or support-
ing documents to be presented to the Board in this connection should be 
received by the Board no later than Monday, April 29, 1968, in order to 
afford time for the fullest possible consideration of the matter, and should 
he transmitted through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. In view of 
the pressure of time, a copy should be sent simultaneously to Mr. Frederic 
Solomon of the Board's staff. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland. 
Secretary. 
1 
u 
_ 

1 3 5 8 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
I t e m N°- 8 
• F THE 
4/12/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 12, 1968. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. George H. Ellis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Ellis: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment 
of salary to Philip A. Shaver as Secretary to the Board 
of your Bank and as Assistant Counsel for the period 
A{>rll 1 through December 31, 1968, atthe rate of $14,000 
per annum, the amount fixed by your Board of Directors. 
This is in accordance with the request in your letter of 
March 25. 
Although this request has been approved, we 
would appreciate your conforming, in the future, to the 
general guidelines established for proposing changes in 
officers' salaries. These guidelines provide that re-
quests for approval of salary changes should be made at 
the time of the annual review. 
Very t W i y yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
V - . Y 
• 
/ 
, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

1359 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OP S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N F R A N C I S C O , C A L I F O R N I A 
04120 
April 11, 1968 
Item No. 9 
4/12/68 
Mr. A. R. Morgan, 
Vice President and Secretary, 
County Bunk of Santa Cruz, 
Santa Crux, California 95060. 
Dear Mr. Morgan: 
On behalf of the Board 
Federal Reserve System, acting 
chis Bank has approved an exte 
of the time within which Count' 
establish a branch office in 
City of Scotts Valley, Santa Cru 
ors of the 
ed authority^ 
ber 8, 1968, 
a Cruz may 
area of the 
California. 
We note that youX letter W April 10, 1968, 
applying for this extension,\ indicated that a definite 
determination pf a site should be made at an errly date, 
and ejtfLfessed the hope that the site may be acquired and 
office established in Lh6 very near future. 
Unless substantial progress is made in this 
regard in the next six months, we will not feel warranted 
in granting further extensions. 
Very truly yours, 
Ta'Dmed) Trr/in L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 

B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
J 3 6 0 
• F THE 
Item No. 10 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
4/12/68 
S ; 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
V 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 15, 1968 
Mr. R. M. Stephenson, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear Mr. Stephenson: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
Mr. Heck's letter of April 8, 1968, the Acting Director 
of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board 
of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointment of Charles E. Gruehn as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Please advise 
if the appointment is not made effective June 3, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1 3 t i l 
,'OOF GOUP.* *. 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 11 
4/12/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 16, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
Division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Mr. DeHority: 
Reference is made to your letter of April 8, 1968, con-
cerning the application of The First State Bank, Rockwall, Texas, 
for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal from member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. 
ji: X 
»ijc bl-
under delegated authority, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Examinations has stated on behalf of the Board of 
Governors that the 1967 examination of subject bank revealed an 
unsatisfactory condition. The bank had a high volume of criticized 
loans and management was urged to strengthen weak loan and collection 
policies. In addition, the bank's capital position was viewed as 
less than satisfactory. The bank was urged to consider all means 
to strengthen its capital position including the sale of new stock. 
He also has stated that there have been no other correc-
tive programs urged upon the bank, or agreed to by it, which have 
not been fully consummated, and there are no programs that the 
Board would advise be incorporated as conditions of admitting the 
bank to membership in the Corporation as a nonmember of the Federal 
Reserve System. Nevertheless, you may wish to consider the above 
information in your review of this application. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
I 

JESfe-. 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
1 3 6 2 
Item No. 12 
4/12/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 12, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Republic National Bank of California, 
Los Angeles, California. 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, the Director of the 
Division of Bank Operations of the Board of Governors, acting 
under delegated authority, grants permission pursuant to pro-
visions of Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act to the Republic 
National Bank of California to maintain the same reserves against 
deposits as are required to be maintained by banks not in reserve 
cities, effective as of March 1, 1968, the date it purchased the 
Silverlake National Bank, Los Angeles. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such permission 
is subject to revocation by the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

f -v. 
OPV 
W p v 
A 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF R I C H M O N D 
w
l 
I 
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA 
23213 
Item No. 13 
A p . i i u . m i . 
4 / 1 2 / 6 8 
f? 
Board of Director*, 
thloo T r u i t Ccnp&oy of Uarylaal, 
Baltimore, HaryUnd 
21203. 
O t a t l o o a : 
Tha Federal ftecarva B*ak of ftlchaend, an behalf of 
and under authority delegated by tha Board of Covernore of 
tha federal K a i t m flyatea, hai t ^ c c v t d tha application of 
Onion Truat Cezpaay of C i r y i i a i , Baltimore, Uaryland, to 
eetablieh a branch at fountain load Flaaa Shopping Cantarv 
Jacob*villa, Anna Arundel County, Maryland, providing tha 
branch ia aatabliahad within one year frcct the date of thie 
l a t t e r . 
In reaching thie decieion, coneideration haa been 
given to the bank'a capitalisation and managcoaat, the con* 
venience and neede of the eooacalty, the ceopctitive eitu-
etion i n the eree end the future proepecte of the branch. 
Aleo, acting uadar authority delegated by the Board 
of Oovernora of the federal ftaaerve Bye tea, and pureuant to 
proviaiona of flection 24A of the Voderal Reserve Act, the 
federal ftaeerve Bank of licfcacad approvea an investment i n 
bank preaieee of $40,000 by Onion Truat Cocpany of Karyland 
incident to the eetabliehnent of thie branch. 
Pleaee edviee ua when e definite date for opening 
hee been detevnlned end the exact t i t l e under which the 
brench w i l l operate. 
Youra very t r u l y , 
/S/ Robert P. Black 
Kabert P. Sleek, 
f i r at Tie* Preeldent. 
- 
* 
• ' 1 
