Minutes for May 15, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 5 Amendment to Regulation 0, Loans to 
Executive Officers of Member Banks. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below tcv-iiMjicate approval of the 
minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
+ 
v A J 
^ ^ ^ 
iY 
>y \ g ; / 
..AY*, 
• * A - \ 

189? 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, May 15, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Irvine, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Langham, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Hart, Senior Attorney, and Mr. Shuter, 
Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Rowe, Chief, Economic Graphics Section, 
Division of Data Processing 

5/15/67 
-2-
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to The First Pennsylvania Banking and 
1 
Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
approving the establishment of a branch in 
Willow Grove, Montgomery County. 
Letter to Lake City Bank, Warsaw, Indiana, 
2 
waiving the requirement of six months' notice 
°f withdrawal from membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Letter to State Bank of Hawley, Hawley, 
3 
Minnesota, waiving the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal from membership 
in the Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to Chairman Celler of the House Judi- 
4 
°iary Committee reporting on H.R. 2509, a 
bill to amend section 8 of the Clayton Act 
t o prohibit certain corporate management 
interlocking relationships. 
Order granting the request of Commercial Bancorp, 
5 
Inc., Miami, Florida, for a further extension of 
time to acquire stock of Bank of Palm Beach and 
Trust Company, Palm Beach, Florida, under the 
Board's order dated December 29, 1966. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
6 
Philadelphia expressing the conclusion that a 
series of bank loans made to a business entity 
against mutual fund shares would be subject to 
Regulation U if the shares were purchased from 
receipts against accounts receivable and work-
ln8 capital was replenished from proceeds of 
tlle loans. 

1899 
5/15/67 
-3-
In connection with Item No. 6, it was understood, at Governor 
Brimmer's suggestion, that consideration would be given to the publica-
tion of a general statement relating to the applicability of the margin 
regulations to bank loans under plans of this character. 
Filming of chart show. At the meeting on March 1, 1967, it was 
suggested that the chart show on post-war monetary policy being pre-
pared for presentation in April to a monetary symposium sponsored by 
the American Bankers Association might provide a suitable framework 
for a film. This possibility was explored, and there had now been 
distributed a memorandum dated May 12, 1967, from the Divisions of 
Research and Statistics, International Finance, and Data Processing 
recommending that the April 6 chart show be filmed. The staff contem-
plated that five prints of the film should meet the System's needs. It 
was noted that no provision for the expenditure had been made in the 
1967 budget of the Division of Research and Statistics, and authoriza-
tion was requested for the resulting overexpenditure in the appropriate 
budget account. 
In discussion Mr. Fauver suggested that it might be desirable 
to provide prints of the film for each Federal Reserve Bank rather than 
to make distribution from the Board's offices in response to requests. 
There was general agreement with that suggestion. 
Question was raised about obsolescence, and Mr. Gramley replied 
that in rewriting the show for filming an effort would be made to 

1900 
5/15/67 
-4-
broaden the focus somewhat. In two or three years, however, when the 
film was no longer timely, a rather complete overhaul probably would 
be necessary. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the proposal that the 
chart show be filmed, with the understanding that a print of the film 
would be provided for each Federal Reserve Bank. The Board authorized 
the resulting overexpenditure in the All Other Account of the 1967 
budget of the Division of Research and Statistics. 
Foreign currency accounts (Item No. 7). There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated May 12, 1967, from Mr. Hackley relating to 
a proposal to enlarge the System's swap network by entering into stand-
by reciprocal currency agreements with the National Bank of Denmark, 
the Bank of Norway, and the Bank of Mexico effective May 17, 1967. 
While such arrangements are subject to approval by the Federal Open 
Market Committee, complementary action by the Board was required pur-
suant to section 14(e) of the Federal Reserve Act and section 214.5(a) 
°f Regulation N (Relations with Foreign Banks and Bankers), which 
Provide, respectively, that a Federal Reserve Bank may open an account 
with a bank in a foreign country only with the consent of the Board 
ar*d that a Reserve Bank, with the consent of the Board, may open and 
maintain accounts payable in foreign currencies with such foreign banks 
"as may be designated by the Board." 

1901 
5/15/67 
-5-
Following summary remarks by Mr. Hackley, unanimous approval 
was given to a letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks 
advising of the Board's consent to the opening and maintenance by the 
New York Reserve Bank of accounts payable in foreign currencies with 
the three central banks in question. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 7. 
Amendment to Regulation 0 (Item No. 8). In August 1966 a pro-
posed amendment to Regulation 0 (Loans to Executive Officers of Member 
Banks) relating to charge accounts was published in the Federal Regis-
ter for comment. Question was raised regarding the applicability of 
the amendment to operations under certain credit card plans and in 
March 1967, after Board discussions, a revised proposed amendment was 
Published in the Federal Register for comment. The amendment would 
(1) exclude from the coverage of the regulation indebtedness of an exec-
utive officer of a member bank to any other bank arising under general 
arrangements for such other bank's acquisition of charge accounts or 
payments made under its own bank credit card plan, check credit 
Plan, or similar plans and (2) exclude an executive officer's indebted-
ness to his own bank resulting from such general arrangements or plans 
°f the bank to the extent that the aggregate amount of the indebtedness 
did not exceed $1,000 and a particular indebtedness did not involve 
Prior individual clearance or approval by the officer's bank. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated May 11, 1967, 
from the Legal Division summarizing the comments received, one of which 

1902 
5/15/67 
-6-
appeared to warrant a minor modification of the proposed amendment. 
The question raised was whether special treatment might result if the 
provision regarding "prior individual clearance or approval" were 
interpreted as precluding application of the amendment to situations 
where a bank credit card plan required individual approval by the bank 
for certain purchases over a specified amount for participants in the 
Plan. The staff recommended a change in the wording of the proposed 
amendment in order to clarify that point. Adoption of the amendment 
in the form submitted with the memorandum was recommended. 
After explanatory comments by Mr. Shuter, the recommended 
amendment to Regulation 0 was approved unanimously, effective July 1, 
1967. A copy of the amendment in the form transmitted to the Federal 
Register is attached as Item No. 8. 
Technical assistance for Korea. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated May 11, 1967, from the Division of International 
Finance relating to a request for technical assistance to the Bank of 
Korea. The memorandum pointed out that in August 1966, on the basis 
o f a request from the Agency for International Development for an 
economist with considerable Federal Reserve experience to assist the 
central bank for a period of about one year, it was ascertained that 
Ernest C. Olson of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco would be 
willing to undertake an assignment for a maximum period of three months 
p e r trip, with willingness to make more than one trip if necessary. 

8? 
5/15/67 
-7-
This information had been transmitted to the Agency for International 
Development, but the matter was not pursued further. At that time it 
was understood that the primary purpose of the mission was to propose 
changes in Korean central and commercial banking legislation. 
Vice President Homer Jones of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. 
Louis had now been approached by the AID Mission Director in Korea to 
determine his availability for an assignment as adviser to the Bank of 
Korea in a somewhat broader capacity, with particular emphasis on the 
research area. The assignment would be for a year, although considera-
tion would be given to a six-month mission. It was understood that Mr. 
Jones had expressed reservations about committing himself for as long 
a s a year. 
The recommendation in the memorandum was that Mr. Jones be 
considered for the assignment if the St. Louis Reserve Bank was wili-
n g to grant him a leave of absence for the requisite period of time. 
In discussing the sequence of events, Mr. Irvine commented that 
lack of coordination during a shift in personnel at the Agency for 
International Development may have resulted in failure to follow through 
the Olson suggestion. 
Governor Daane referred to the channels through which contact 
should be made in connection with such requests, expressing the view 
that requests should be directed to the Board rather than to individuals. 
It was pointed out, however, that in some cases the reputation 
persons within the System inevitably led to specific requests for 

1904 
5/15/67 
-8-
such persons. Governor Daane agreed, but repeated that in his view 
procedures normally should be followed whereby the selection of person-
nel for technical assistance missions would lie with the Board. It was 
his understanding that such a procedure had been worked out with the 
International Monetary Fund, and he felt that agencies such as the 
Agency for International Development should have a similar understand-
ing. The staff noted that the circumstances surrounding the Korean 
request were rather unusual. 
Governor Brimmer remarked, in this connection, that he under-
stood the Agency for International Development was contemplating an 
arrangement whereby an effort would be made to maintain American tech-
nicians in various foreign countries after the termination of assis-
tance programs to those countries. If such a plan were adopted, the 
System might be asked to supply personnel on a more or less systematic 
basis, in which case he hoped some regular procedures could be devel-
°Ped, with the Board as the focal point for the receipt and processing 
requests. 
After further discussion it was agreed that there would be no 
obj ection to acceptance by Mr. Jones of the assignment in Korea, if he 
S o desired and if the arrangement was acceptable to the St. Louis 
Reserve Bank. It was understood that if Mr. Jones should decide not 
accept the assignment, the availability of Mr. Olson or other Fed-
Gral Reserve personnel would be explored. 

5/15/67 
-9-
All members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman and Kenyon 
then withdrew from the meeting. 
Appointment of Mr. Rhinehart. The Board appointed John H. 
Rhinehart, currently Operations Research Analyst in the Division of 
Data Processing, as Assistant Director of that Division effective 
May 15, 1967, with annual salary at the rate of $18,000. 
Data processing organization and services. The Board dis-
cussed briefly developments in relation to data processing services 
since approval was given to the reorganization of the Division of Data 
Processing last year, reference being made to certain continuing prob-
lems, particularly with regard to the ability of the Division to meet 
research-oriented requirements. At Chairman Martin's suggestion, it 
was understood that Governor Sherrill would join Governor Mitchell on 
the Committee on Computer Uses and Procedures with a view to taking 
advantage of his experience and interest in dealing with production 
and other problems such as those discussed. 
Foreign travel. The Board authorized Samuel I. Katz, Adviser 
in the Division of International Finance, to attend the annual meeting 
°f central bank technicians on the Euro-currency market to be held at 
the Bank for International Settlements in Basle, Switzerland, on 
July 6-7, 1967, and also authorized Mr. Katz to make brief visits in 
Germany, Belgium, and England. It was understood that Mr. Katz would 
leave for Europe on or about July 1 and return on or about July 16, 

1906 
5/15/67 
-10-
and that he would receive per diem in lieu of subsistence at rates 
provided by the Standardized Government Travel Regulations. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson today 
approved on behalf of the Board a letter to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (copy 
attached as Item No. 9) approving the ap-
pointment of Ormel J. Prust as examiner. 

1907 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
• F T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
5/15/67 
May 15, 1967 
n 
Board of Directors, 
The First Pennsylvania Banking 
and Trust Company, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The First Pennsylvania 
Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, of a 
branch at 143 North York Road, Willow Grove, Upper Moreland 
Township, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, provided the 
branch is established within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1908 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
5/15/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 15, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Lake City Bank, 
Warsaw, Indiana. 
Gentlemen: 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago has forwarded to 
the Board of Governors President Wright's letter dated May 2, 1967, 
together with the accompanying resolution dated April 28, 1967, 
signifying your intention to withdraw from membership in the Federal 
Reserve System and requesting waiver of the six months' notice of 
such withdrawal. 
The Board of Governors waives the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal. Under the provisions of Section 
208.10(c) of the Board's Regulation II, your institution may accom-
plish termination of its membership at any time within eight months 
from the date that notice of intention to withdraw from membership 
was given. Upon surrender to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
of the Federal Reserve stock issued to your institution, such stock 
will be cancelled and appropriate refund will be made thereon. 
It is requested that the certificate of membership be 
returned to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1909 
BDARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
I t e m No. 3 
• FTHE 
5/15/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 15, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
State Bank of Hawley, 
Hawley, Minnesota. 
Gentlemen: 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis has forwarded to 
the Board of Governors Cashier Wastvedt's letter dated May 4, 1967, 
together with the accompanying resolution dated May 1, 1967, signi-
fying your intention to withdraw from membership in the Federal 
Reserve System and requesting waiver of the six months' notice of 
such withdrawal. 
The Board of Governors waives the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal. Under the provisions of Section 
208.10(c) of the Board's Regulation H, your institution may accom-
plish termination of its membership at any time within eight months 
from the date that notice of intention to withdraw from membership 
was given. Upon surrender to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
of the Federal Reserve stock issued to your institution, such stock 
will be canceled and appropriate refund will be made thereon. 
It is requested that the certificate of membership be 
returned to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1910 
BOARD OF G OVER N ORE 
Item No . 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
5/15/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 S I 
OFFICE OF THE C H A I R M A N 
May 15, 1967 
The Honorable Emanuel Celler, Chairman, 
House Judiciary Committee, 
U. S. House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This refers to your letter of February 10, 1967, requesting 
a report on H.R. 2509, a bill to amend section 8 of the Clayton Act 
(15 U.S.C. 19) in order to prohibit certain corporate management inter-
locking relationships, and for other purposes. 
The Board understands that your intention, as you stated in 
1965, on introducing a similar bill, H.R. 11572, was to provide "a basis 
for further consideration and hearings, so that the results that rea-
sonably may be anticipated from specific amendments to existing law may 
he thoroughly probed." Two important objectives which it is hoped to 
achieve as a result of amending section 8 would be elimination of known 
defects in existing law governing interlocking relationships between 
business entities, and development of a consistent Government-wide 
Policy regarding the regulation of such relationships. The Board is 
thoroughly in accord with both objectives, and believes it would indeed 
be helpful for Congress at this time to take a fresh look at the entire 
Object. 
Since the provisions of H.R. 2509 are identical with those 
H.R. 11572, the comments in the Board's report of June 9, 1966, to 
you on H.R. 11572 would be applicable to the present bill. A copy of 
• the report on H.R. 11572 is enclosed. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
^closure 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
Item No 
5/15/67 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
COMMERCIAL BANCORP, INC., 
Miami, Florida, 
approval of the acquisition of voting 
"ares of Bank of Palm Beach and Trust 
ompany, palm Beach, Florida, 
ORDER EXTENDING TIME FOR 
ACQUISITION OF BANK SHARES 
By Order dated December 29, 1966, the Board of Governors, 
Pur. 
suant to section 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
i . 
lati 
^ 
u.S.c. 1842(a)), and section 222.4(a) of Federal Reserve Regu-
LOn Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)), approved an application on behalf of 
°tnmercial Bancorp, Inc., Miami, Florida, a registered bank holding 
mPany? f o r approval of the acquisition of a minimum of 80 per cent 
of t, 
n e outstanding voting shares of Bank of Palm Beach and Trust 
Patxy> paim Beach, Florida; and said Order was made subject to the 
PtOVjo II 
s o that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated . , 
than three months after the date of the Order". 
By further Order dated March 14, 1967, the Board, in 
3P°nse to a request of Applicant, extended to May 29, 1967, the 
time Within which the approved acquisition might be consummated. 

WHEREAS, Applicant has requested a further extension of 
time within which the approved acquisition shall be consummated; 
arid it appearing to the Board that reasonable cause has been shown 
the additional time requested, and that the granting of such 
ad<Utional time would not be inconsistent with the public interest; 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the Board's Order of March 14, 
1967» as published in the Federal Register on March 23, 1967 
Federal Register 4456), be and hereby is amended so that the 
ProviSo relating to the date by which the acquisition approved shall 
be consummated shall read "(b) later than August 28, 1967." 
Dated at Washington, D. C. this 15th day of May, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
(Signed) Ilerritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
(SEAL) 
Secretary, 

1913 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 6 
5/15/67 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R f l t a P Q N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 15, 1967 
Mr. James P. Giacobello, 
Chief Examining Officer, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
925 Chestnut Street, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
Dear Mr. Giacobello: 
This refers to your letter of March 6, 1967, enclosing a 
letter of March 3, 1967, from the Industrial Valley Bank and Trust . 
Company, Jenkintown, Pennsylvania, 19046 ("Bank"), an insured non-
member bank, which asks for the Board's views on the question whether 
a plan under which a business ("X") would use monies collected against 
accounts receivable to purchase mutual fund shares, then pledge the 
shares with Bank for loans in an amount equal to 70 per cent of the value 
of the shares, would be subject to the margin and other requirements of 
the Board's Regulation U (Loans by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing 
or Carrying Registered Stocks). It is assumed that the mutual fund 
shares in question are of the kind described in section 221.3(b)(2) of 
the Regulation, so that if the Board concluded that the loans were for 
the purpose of purchasing the shares, the loans would be "deemed to 
be for the purpose of purchasing or carrying" stocks registered on a 
national securities exchange ("purpose loan") under the provisions of 
that section. 
Section 221.1(a) of the Regulation provides, in relevant part, 
"No bank shall make any loan secured directly or 
Indirectly by any stock for the purpose of purchasing 
or carrying any stock registered on a national securities 
exchange . . . in an amount exceeding the maximum 
loan value of the collateral, as prescribed from 
time to time for stocks in § 221.4 (the Supplement 
to Regulation U) . . ." 
The current Supplement to the Regulation accords a maximum loan value of 
30 per cent to stocks securing a purpose loan. 
that 

Mr. James P. Giacobello 
- 
2 -
1914 
The Board has held that "The purpose of a loan . . . should 
not be determined upon a narrow analysis of the immediate use to which 
the proceeds of the loan are put" (1953 Bulletin 951; 12 CFR 221.106) 
and that "the fundamental purpose of the loan is considered to be con-
trolling" (1959 Bulletin 256; 12 CFR 221.110). 
In 1962, in another situation where funds needed for other 
purposes were used to purchase registered stocks and the funds were 
replenished by bank loans, purchases and loans being related in a 
systematic pattern over an extended period of time, the Board held 
that the loans were "purpose" loans and subject to the Regulation. In 
that case, employees of American Telephone and Telegraph Company were 
purchasing shares, under an employee purchase plan, by means of payroll 
deductions over a period of 24 months. Each employee was entitled to 
purchase, as a maximum, shares that would cost approximately 38 per cent 
of his base pay over the period, an amount obviously in excess of the 
savings rate of many employees. To make it possible for employees to 
participate in this plan, AT&T had arranged that the employees should 
pledge the stock with a bank against a "living expense" loan to be 
borrowed in monthly instalments equal to the monthly payroll deductions 
for purchase of the stock. 
The Board held that 
"Although the proposed loan would purport to be for 
living expenses, it seems quite clear, in view of the 
relationship of the loan to the Employees' Stock Plan 
that its actual purpose would be to enable the borrower 
to purchase AT&T stock, which is registered on a 
national securities exchange. At the end of the 24-
month period the borrower would acquire a certain 
number of shares of that stock and would be indebted 
to the lending bank in an amount approximately equal 
to the amount he would pay for such shares." 
(1962 Bulletin 690; 12 CFR 221.114) 
It is apparent that the same reasoning applies to the plan 
before the Board. On the facts submitted, the immediate purpose of 
the loans would be to obtain working capital. However, by the end of 
any significant period of time, X would have acquired a certain number 
of mutual fund shares at a cost, apparently, that would be significantly 
in excess of the net earnings it would normally have accumulated during 
that period, and would be indebted to the lending bank in an amount 
approximately equal to 70 per cent of the price of the shares. Viewed 
^ 
in this way, the loans must be regarded as "for the purpose of purchasing 

Mr. James P. Giacobello 
- 3 -
191.5 
the stock, and therefore subject to the limitations prescribed by 
Regulation U. As stated in the same interpretation, "a contrary con-
clusion could largely defeat the basic purpose of the margin regulations." 
An alternative proposal put forward by Bank, under which the 
firm would deposit proceeds from accounts receivable in a time account 
for one year, before using the funds to purchase mutual fund shares, 
does not seem to change the situation in any significant way, or to 
justify a different conclusion. Once the arrangement was established, 
proceeds from accounts receivable would flow into the time account as 
similar amounts were released to purchase the shares, and over any 
extended period of time the result would be the same. That is to say, 
the corporation would own mutual fund shares considerably in excess of 
the amount it could apparently have purchased out of net profits, and 
would be indebted to the Bank for an amount greatly exceeding the maxi-
mum loan value of those shares under Regulation U. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that loans by Bank to X, 
under the circumstances described and in the amount stated, would be 
subject to the margin and other requirements of Regulation U. It would 
be appreciated if you would inform Bank of the Board's conclusion. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1916 
^iiipE 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
2055? 
Item No. 7 
5/15/67 
S-2017 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 15, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
Pursuant to section 214,5(a) of Regulation N, the Board 
has consented to the opening and maintenance by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York of accounts payable in foreign currencies with the 
National Bank of Denmark, the Bank of Norway, and the Bank of Mexico. 
As a result of this action and previous actions of the 
Board, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is now authorized to 
maintain accounts payable in foreign currei *:s with the foreign 
banks designated below: 
Austrian National Bat/. 
Bank for International Settlements 
Bank of Canada 
Bank of England 
Bank of France 
Bank of Italy 
Bank of Japan 
Bank of Mexico 
Bank of Norway 
Bank of Sweden 
German Federal Bank 
National Bank of Belgium 
National Bank of Denmark 
Netherlands Bank 
Societe Nationalc de Credit a 1'Industries 
Swiss National Bank 
All such accounts are subject to the provisions of section 5 
Regulation N, as amended effective February 13, 1962. 
1963. 
This letter supersedes the Beard's letter of November 13, 
Very truly yours, 
Secretary. 
THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

Item No. 8 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
5/15/67 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. 0] 
PART 215 - LOANS TO EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF MEMBER BANKS 
Exemption of certain indebtedness 
1. Effective July 1, 1967, § 215.1(c) is amended to read 
as follows: 
§ 215.1 Definitions. 
For the purposes of this part: 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(c) "Loan", "loaning", "extension of credit", and "extend credit". 
The terms "loan", "loaning", "extension of credit", "extend credit" 
mean the making of a loan or the extending of credit in any manner 
whatsoever, and include: 
(1) any advance by means of an overdraft, cash item, or otherwise 
(2) the acquisition by discount, purchase, exchange, or otherwise 
of any note, draft, bill of exchange, or other evidence of indebtedness 
upon which an executive officer may be liable as maker, drawer, indorser, 
guarantor, or surety; 
(3) the increase of an existing indebtedness, except on 
account of accrued interest or on account of taxes, insurance, or 
other expenses incidental to the existing indebtedness and advanced by 
the bank for its own protection; 

-2-
1918 
(4) any advance of unearned salary or other unearned 
compensation for periods in excess of 30 days; and 
(5) any other transaction as a result of which an executive 
officer becomes obligated to a bank, directly or indirectly by any 
means whatsoever, by reason of an indorsement on an obligation or other-
wise, to pay money or its equivalent. 
Such terms, however, do not include: 
(i) advances against accrued salary or other accrued 
compensation, or for the purpose of providing for the payment of 
authorized travel or other expenses incurred or to be incurred on 
behalf of the bank; 
(ii) the acquisition by a bank of any check deposited in or 
delivered to the bank in the usual course of business unless it results 
in the granting of an overdraft to or the carrying of a cash item for 
an executive officer; 
(iii) the acquisition of any note, draft, bill of exchange, or 
other evidence of indebtedness, through a merger or consolidation of 
banks or a similar transaction by which a bank acquires assets and 
assumes liabilities of another bank or similar organization, or through 
foreclosure on collateral or similar proceeding for the protection of 
the bank; or 
(iv) indebtedness arising by reason of general arrangements 
under which a bank (A) acquires charge or time credit accounts or 
(B) makes payments to or on behalf of participants in a bank credit card 

plan, check credit plan, or similar plan, except that this subdivision 
(iv) shall not apply to indebtedness of an executive officer to his own 
bank to the extent that the aggregate amount thereof exceeds $1,000 or 
to any such indebtedness to his own bank that involves prior individual 
clearance or approval by the bank other than for the purpose of deter-
mining whether his participation in the arrangement is authorized or 
whether any dollar limit has been or would be exceeded. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
2a, 
The purpose of this amendment is to add a new sub-
division (iv) that excludes from the coverage of section 22(g) of 
the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.G. 375a) and this Part certain 
indebtedness of an executive officer to a bank other than his own 
bank arising out of the use of charge accounts and credit card or check 
credit plans. It would also exclude an executive officer's indebted-
ness to his own bank arising from such transactions except in the case 
of a particular indebtedness that involves prior individual clearance 
0r approval by his bank other than routine confirmation of the right 
to incur such indebtedness required of all participants in the general 
Plan, but in no event to the extent that the aggregate amount of his 
indebtedness exceeds $1,000.. Because of its impersonal nature, 
indebtedness of the type within the coverage of the new exclusion 
is not regarded as falling within the general intent of sec-
tion 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act. However, in order to guard 

-4-
1920 
against abuses or evasions of the basic purposes of the law, the 
amendment prescribes certain limitations in the case of indebtedness 
of an executive officer to his own bank. 
b. This amendment was the subject of notices of proposed 
rule making published in the FEDERAL REGISTER (31 F.R. 11399, August 27, 
1966, and 32 F.R. 4124, March 16, 1967) and was adopted after con-
sideration of all relevant material, including responses received from 
interested persons pursuant to these notices. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 15th day of May, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1921 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No, 
5/15/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 15, 1967 
Mr. Leland M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of May 10, 1967, the. Board approves the 
appointment of Ormel J. Prust, at present an assistant 
examiner, as an examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago, effective June 12, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
.Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
