MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 13, 1971 

3372 
iir 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, December 13, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Staff presented a review of domestic and international develop-
ments of the kind customarily given in preparation for meetings of the 
Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of the statistical materials 
Prepared for the purpose of today's review have been placed in the 
Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
There followed comments by Mr. Cardon on pertinent legislative 
developments, after which members of the staff who had been present 
§ 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present 
if 
int! 
I 

3373 
12/13/71 
-2-
specifically for the staff review withdrew from the room and the 
following entered: Messrs. Mcintosh, Director, and Althausen, Assistant 
Director, Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations; Mrs. Heller, 
Adviser, Legal Division; and supporting staff from the two Divisions. 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously the application 
of Columbia Holding, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland, to acquire shares of the 
successor by merger to The Equitable Trust Company, Baltimore, Maryland, 
and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 1. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Request for stay. By order dated August 12, 1971, the Board 
approved the application of United Bancorp of Maine, Portland, Maine, 
to acquire shares of Central National Bank, Waterville, Maine, a proposed 
new bank. 
Prior to issuance of the August 12 order, the Maine Banking 
Commissioner had requested that the Board withhold action on the application 
until the Maine Supreme Judicial Court rendered a decision in a case that 
the Commissioner claimed might affect the validity of holding company 
activities in Maine. However, the Board decided that a delay of action 
°n United Bancorp's application was not warranted. On September 9, 1971, 
the Maine Banking Commissioner filed a petition in the United 
States 
Court of Appeals for review of the Board's August 12 order; and the Board 
received a letter dated September 10, 1971, from the Department of the 
Attorney General of the State of Maine requesting a stay of the order, 
pending its review in the Court of Appeals. 

33?4 
12/13/71 
- 3 -
In a memorandum dated December 8, 1971, the Legal Division 
stated that denial of the request for a stay was warranted, and would 
be consistent with the Board's earlier decision declining to withhold 
action and with the views the staff had transmitted to the Department 
of Justice. A draft letter to this effect was attached. 
During discussion, concern was expressed that the request for 
stay was received in September but had not come before the Board until 
today. The Legal Division advised that various negotiations had been 
under way and meanwhile the holding company had agreed to postpone 
consummation of the acquisition. However, the situation was still 
unresolved and the Division felt that the Board should now consider the 
request for a stay. 
After further discussion concerning similar cases, the Board 
a&proved unanimously the letter denying the request for a stay, a copy 
of which is attached as Item No. 2. Since the staff had been advised 
informally that Maine officials had been given until December 15, 1971, 
to file with the Court any grounds for extension of time in the case, 
it was understood that staff would telephone Maine officials today 
informing them of the Board's decision. 
Boston and Philadelphia building programs. Attached to a 
memorandum dated December 6, 1971, from the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans were memoranda from the Division of 

jf . O u * v3 
12/13/71 
-4-
Federal Reserve Bank Operations pertaining to building programs of the 
Boston and Philadelphia Reserve Banks. The Committee concurred in the 
recommendations set forth in the Division memoranda. 
After discussion during which reservations were expressed with 
respect to certain aspects of the Division's recommendations, the Board 
decided to consider this matter further at its next meeting. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No 
12/13/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
COLUMBIA HOLDING, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Columbia Holding, Inc., Baltimore, Maryland, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
fo* the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
t o acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares of the successor by merger 
t o The Equitable Trust Company, Baltimore, Maryland ("Equitable Bank"). 
The bank into which Equitable Bank is to be merged has no 
s l8nifi c a n c e except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the 
v°ting shares of Equitable Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition 
the shares of the successor organization is treated herein as the pro-
Posed acquisition of the shares of Equitable Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments and 
has expired* The Board has considered the application and all 
ctHnments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
th® Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, organized in 1967 and totally owned by Equitable 
Rank ($633 million deposits), owns all the stock of Columbia Bank and 
Truat Company, Columbia, Maryland ('Columbia Bank"), which holds deposits 
0 f $18 million. (Banking data are as of June 30, 1971.) Equitable Bank 
9 n d Applicant became bank holding companies with respect to Columbia 
as a result of the 1970 Amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act. 
proposal would result in a corporate reorganization whereby 

1 3377 
- 2 -
Applicant would own 100 per cent of the voting shares of Equitable Bank 
and Columbia Bank, which are both located in the Baltimore SMSA 
(Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area). Equitable Bank holds 11 per 
c«nt of the total deposits of commercial banks in the State of Maryland 
and 18.6 per cent of deposits in the Baltimore SMSA; Columbia Bank holds 
•3 per cent of the deposits in the State and .5 per cent of the deposits 
l n the Baltimore SMSA. There is no meaningful competition between the 
tvjo banks, and consummation of the proposal would not alter existing 
banking competition nor significantly affect potential competition. In 
addition, it appears that there would be no adverse effect on the area 
banks. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
APplicant and Equitable Bank are satisfactory and consistent with 
approval of the application. It appears that the banking needs of the 
area are being satisfactorily served. However, the public should benefit 
the greater efficiency of operations and improved services emanating 
the single holding company structure. It is the Board's judgment 
that the proposed transaction is in the public interest and should be 
approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
th® reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
Such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 

i. 3378 
-3-
Upon the consummation of the proposed transaction, Applicant 
shall not retain or acquire any nonbank shares or engage in any nOnbank-
ing activities to a greater extent or for a longer period than would 
apply in the case of a bank holding company which became such on the 
date of such consummation, except to the extent otherwise permitted in 
any regulation of the Board hereafter adopted specifically relating 
to the effect of the acquisition of an additional bank on the status 
nonbank shares and activities of a one-bank holding company formed 
prior to 1971, or unless the Board fails to adopt any such regulation 
before the expiration of two years after the consummation of the pro-
Posed acquisition. 
^ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
December 13, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action; Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
^aiael and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 

of c0v; -. 
—
^ V 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
12/13/71 
ADDRESS OrriCIAL DDRRESPDNDENCE 
TO THE DDARD 
December 14, 1971 
^he Honorable Craig 11. Nelson 
Assistant Attorney General 
Department of the Attorney General 
Augusta, Maine 
04330 
R e : 
Brown v. Board of Governors (C. A. 1, No. 71-1283) 
Dear Mr. Nelson: 
This is in response to a letter from Mr. Clayton N. Howard, 
As 
sistant Attorney General, of your office, of September 10, 1971, 
Requesting that the Board's Order of August 12, 1971, approving 
application of United Bancorp of Maine to acquire 51 per cent 
°f the voting shares of Central National Bank, Waterville, Maine, 
a Proposed new bank, be stayed by the Board pending a determination 
the above-captioned action in the United States Court of Appeals 
the First Circuit. 
The Board has considered this request on the basis of all 
the relevant facts, including the information contained in Mr. Howard's 
letter and has concluded that a stay of the Board's aforementioned 
°rder of August 12, 1971, is not warranted. Accordingly, the request 
for a stay is hereby denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 13, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
