MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 31, 1969 

3260 
Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Friday, October 31, 1969. 
The meeting was held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance \ J 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Money market review. The usual weekly money market review was 
presented by the staff. 
Messrs. Partee and Reynolds then withdrew from the meeting 
along with all other staff members of the research divisions who had 
been present except Mr. Norwood of the Division of International Finance. 
Messrs. Ring and Morgan also withdrew and the following entered: 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Messrs. Shay and Via of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Lawrence, Ducy, and Schweitzer of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Leavitt, Egertson, and Sanford of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
y Other members of the staff of the Division also were present. 

* 'J * >1 
SI 
O/U \ } J L 
10/31/69 
- 2 -
The following actions were taken subject to ratification at a 
meeting of the Board at which a quorum was present: 
Discount rates. Unanimous approval was given to the establish-
ment without change by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Cleveland, 
Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco on October 30, 1969, of the rates 
on discounts and advances in their existing schedules, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Reports on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a 
report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of 
City Savings & Loan Association, New York, New York, into Emigrant Savings 
Bank, New York, New York. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is little competition between Emigrant 
Savings Bank and City Savings & Loan Association, 
headquartered in the Boroughs of Manhattan and Queens, 
New York City, respectively, although through the 
establishment of de novo branches there is potential 
for greater competition. In view of the substantial 
number and variety of financial institutions offering 
convenient facilities, the overall effect on competition 
would be no more than slightly adverse. 
Unanimous approval was given to the transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation of a report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of Central Michigan Bank, Barryton, 
Michigan, into Citizens State Bank, Big Rapids, Michigan. The conclusion 
read as follows: 

10/31/69 
-3-
There is some competition existing between Central 
Michigan Bank, Barryton, and Citizens State Bank, 
Big Rapids. The overall competitive effect of the 
transaction would be slightly adverse. 
Unanimous approval was given to the transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency of a report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of The First National Bank at 
Manistique, Manistique, Michigan, and The State Savings Bank of 
Manistique, Manistique, Michigan. After an adjustment of language 
agreed upon at this meeting, the conclusion read as follows: 
The First National Bank of Manistique and The 
State Savings Bank of Manistique are the only commercial 
banks in Manistique and in Schoolcraft County. The 
merger of the two banks would have a substantially 
adverse effect on competition and might constitute a 
violation of Section 2 of the Sherman Act. 
Unanimous approval was given to the transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit'Insurance Corporation of a report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of Pioneer Bank of Arizona, Phoenix, 
Arizona, with Great Western Bank & Trust Company, Tucson, Arizona. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
There would appear to be no competition existing 
between Pioneer Bank of Arizona, Phoenix, and Great 
Western Bank & Trust Company, Tucson, although there 
is potential for competition through de novo branching, 
particularly in the cities of Phoenix and Tucson. 
Banking resources are heavily concentrated in a few 
banks in the State of Arizona, and consummation of the 
proposed transaction would combine the sixth and seventh 
largest banks in the State and reduce the number of banks 
in Arizona from 13 to 12. The overall competitive effect 
would be adverse. 

10/31/69 
-4-
Order for hearing. The Board members authorized the issuance of a 
notice of request and order for hearing in connection with an application 
by The First National Bancorporation, a registered bank holding company 
in Denver, Colorado, for a determination that the planned insurance 
activities of two proposed nonbanking subsidiaries were of the kind 
described in section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act, so as to 
make inapplicable the prohibitions of section 4 of that Act with respect 
to the acquisition or retention of shares in nonbanking companies. 
Attached as Item No. 1 is a copy of the document published in 
the Federal Register pursuant to the Board's action. 
Roger Guffey, General Counsel of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City, was designated as Board counsel for the purpose of the 
hearing. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
10/31/69 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NOTICE OF REQUEST AND ORDER FOR HEARING 
Notice is hereby given that request has: been made to the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to 
section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1343(c)(8)), and section 222.4(a) of the Board's Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.4(a)), by The First National Bancorperation, Denver, 
Colorado, a bank holding company, for a determination that the 
planned insurance activities of its proposed nonlanking subsidiaries, 
Diversified Insurance, Inc. and Guaranty Insurers, Inc., are of the 
kind described in the aforementioned sections of the Act and the 
regulation so as to make it unnecessary for the prohibitions of 
section 4 of the Act with respect to the acquisition or retention 
°f shares in nonbanking organizations to apply in order to carry 
o ut the purposes of the Act. 
Inasmuch as section 4(c)(8) of the Act requires that any 
determination pursuant thereto be made by the Board after due notice 
hearing and on the basis of the record made at such hearing: 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, That pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act and in accordance with sections 222.4(a) 
at*d 222.5(a) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a), 222.5(a)), 

o o r r 
O/OvJO 
- 2 -
promulgated under the Bank Holding Company Act, a hearing with respect 
to this matter be held commencing on December 11, 1969, at 10:00 a.m. 
at the Denver Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 17th 
and Arapahoe Streets, Denver, Colorado 80217, before Leonard J. Ralston 
(whose address is Small Business Administration, 1441 L Street, N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 20416), a hearing examiner selected by the Civil 
Service Commission, pursuant to section 3344 of Title 5 of the United 
States Code. The hearing will be conducted according to the Board's 
Rules of Practice ::or Formal Hearings (12 CFR Part 263). The right is 
reserved to the Board or the hearing examiner tc designate any other 
<*ate or place for s-.uch hearing or any part thereof which may be deter-
mined to be necessary or appropriate for the convenience of the parties. 
The Board's Rules cf Practice for Formal Hearings provide, in part, 
Unless otherwise specifically provided by statute or by rule of the 
B°ard, a hearing shall ordinarily be private and shall be attended only 
by the parties, their representatives or counsel, representatives of 
ki. e Board, witnesse i while testifying, and other persons having an 
official interest i.i the proceeding: Provided, however, That, on 
bitten request by i party or a representative of the Board, or on the 
Boa re1' n 
s own motion, the Board, in its discretion and to the extent 
E m i t t e d by law, may permit other persons to attend or may order the 
hearing to be public.-." 
Any person desiring to give testimony at the hearing should 
l l e W l t h t h e Secretary of the Beard, directly or through the Federal 
Re 
C r V C B a n k o f Kansas City, Federal Reserve Station, Kansas City, 
souri 64198, on or before November 23, 1969, a written request 

containing a statement of the nature of the petitioner's interest in 
the proceeding, and a summary of the matters concerning which said 
petitioner wishes to give testimony. Such requests will be presented 
to the hearing examiner, and the persons submitting the requests will 
be notified, prior to the hearing, of his determination thereon. The 
applications may be inspected at the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City, 925 Grand Avenue, Kansas City, Missouri, or at the 
Federal Reserve Building, 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 31st day of October 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
