MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Meeting with Federal Advisory Council 
May 1, 1970 

135B 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room of the 
Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D.C., at 10:30 a.m. on Friday, 
May 1, 1970. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Wheeler, Meyer, Brown, Mayer, 
Harvey, Craft, Graham, Morgan, Nason, 
Conn, Gray, and Clausen, Members of 
the Federal Advisory Council 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of the 
Council 
President Nason stated that since the Council's next meeting 
was scheduled for September 3-4, 1970, which might present pre-Labor 
Day problems, the Council had discussed possible alternatives and would 
like to suggest September 10-11. 
It was understood that the next Council meeting would be so 
scheduled. 
1. Economic conditions and prospects. 
A . 
How does the Council appraise the general economic 
outlook for the remainder of 1970? 
What performance 
is expected of costs, prices, and unemployment dur-
ing this period? 

1367 
5/1/70 
-2-
The Council anticipates that the general softness in the economy 
which developed in the fourth quarter of 1969, and increased in the first 
quarter of 1970, will persist with some moderate recovery in economic 
activity beginning late in the third quarter of this year. This will 
reflect some resumption in the growth of consumer expenditures as per-
sonal income rises following the increase in Social Security payments, 
wage increases, and the expiration of the surtax. 
During this period, 
costs are likely to be under continued upward pressure. 
However, the softness in demand together with competitive 
pressures for sales may prevent increased costs from being fully 
reflected in higher prices. Accordingly, the rise in prices is likely 
gradually to moderate during the year. Unemployment probably will con-
tinue to edge up, although it is unlikely to go much above 5 per cent. 
Corporate profits are expected to decline further in the current quarter 
and to show little improvement by the end of the year. 
B. 
From contacts with businessmen, do members of the 
Council sense that any significant changes are 
underway in either inventory investment or capital 
spending programs? 
The members of the Council have the impression that businessmen 
are not significantly changing their inventory investment or capital 
spending programs. 
Businessmen have been alert to the need to limit 
inventory accumulation with the result that inventories do not appear 
to be excessive at this time. 
The Council believes that the decline in profits will cause 
businessmen to stretch out their capital investment programs, and 
several members reported that they were aware of companies which had 
made such decisions. 
It was noted that the results of current surveys of the outlook 
for business capital spending appeared to be fairly optimistic. 
Mr. Meyer commented, in this regard, that there was frequently a sub-
stantial difference between plans announced, partly for public relations 
purposes, and projects actually undertaken. 
Many items in a program 
might be deleted in the course of budget review before expenditures 
were authorized, and projects could also be delayed because of strikes, 

1367 
5/1/70 
-3-
lack of parts, or failure of timely availability of essential services. 
Many companies, however, continued with the development of plans in 
order to be ready to act if and when they could see their way clear. 
Other Council members noted that at recent meetings the Council 
had expressed some skepticism about the leading surveys. 
Those surveys 
tended to reflect longer-range financial and engineering planning, 
whereas review in the light of earnings trends and excess capacity 
might cause actual expenditures to fall far short of plans. 
There 
were exceptions, of course. 
Utilities must keep pace with the needs 
for service, and there were anti-pollution programs that industry was 
being put under pressure to activate. Also, inflationary expectations 
had some impact in prompting companies to move ahead with programs for 
fear future costs would be greater. 
Replies to a question whether businessmen generally appeared 
to share the Council's view regarding economic activity for the balance 
of the year indicated that opinions, like those within the Council, 
covered a broad spectrum, although there might currently be some lean-
ing toward the pessimistic side. 
Even though lower profits had been 
expected in the first quarter, the actual results had been a shock to 
many businessmen. 
There was definitely not an expectation that the 
upturn would be as vigorous as in 1965. 
C. Do Council members sense any shift in the avail-
ability of credit to finance the construction and 
sale of housing? 
Do any such shifts seem to be 
generating any response from contractors or home 
buyers? 

1 3 G 1 
5/1/70 
-4-
The Council has not detected any meaningful shift in the 
availability of credit to finance the construction and sale of housing 
nor has it observed any renewal of activity on the part of contractors 
or home buyers. 
Some improvement in availability may result from the 
recently announced voluntary program for directing additional funds 
int o the mortgage market. 
Some skepticism was expressed about the voluntary program in 
which the Treasury reportedly had obtained commitments of $2 billion 
of increased flow of funds into mortgages from commercial banks and 
their trust departments, pension funds, and insurance companies. 
A 
bank, it was pointed out, could not respond effectively to the program 
except by diverting money it would ordinarily have employed elsewhere, 
and many loan requests were being turned down daily. 
Inquiry was made whether banks might not encounter conflicts, 
if they attempted to place increased mortgage investments through their 
trust departments or pension funds, with their responsibilities as 
trustee or fund manager. 
In response, it was pointed out that if the 
agreement gave the bank sole responsibility, the bank was in the position 
of having to produce top yields in the face of stiff competition and 
increasingly sharp performance tests. 
If the performance record was not 
sufficiently impressive, the bank might well be replaced. There was an 
unfortunate tendency to emphasize short-term swings rather than longer-
run results. 
With further regard to the voluntary program, it was noted that 
efforts were being made to place with banks, as well as pension and 
trust funds, the paper of the Government National Mortgage Association. 

1 3 6 7 
5/1/70 
-5-
While some quantity of such paper might be purchased, it probably would 
not be held very long unless the rates were sufficiently attractive; 
any purchases would have to be made with funds that ordinarily would 
have been used to purchase something else. 
Cash flows were limited, 
and the GNMA program would have to be competitive. 
The goals that had 
been set appeared quite optimistic. 
One Council member indicated that 
although his bank would not be able to place very many GNMA securities 
in the pension funds it managed, it had agreed to consider putting some 
of them in its own portfolio. 
Mr. Clausen commented that his bank had allocated $100 million 
to increase its real estate loan portfolio this year. However, it was 
encountering buyer resistance, in spite of the fact that its extensive 
branch system was an ideal structure for generating such loans. 
Progress 
was slow even though the bank had cut the interest rate and was willing 
to lend a higher proportion of the purchase price. 
Further comments suggested that buyer resistance was based not 
only on rate but on factors such as rising construction costs, cost of 
land, and real estate taxes, as well as on the hope that a delay might 
find interest rates lower. Also, there was a trend, especially among 
younger people, toward mobile homes and apartments. 
Money was reported still to be available for apartment construc-
tion, especially from insurance companies, if an equity interest was 
included. 

JL3G3 
5/1/70 
-6-
Mr. Clausen observed that in these times it was difficult to 
supply the means of financing the country's social priorities. 
In 
thinking how assistance might be given to the mortgage market, it had 
occurred to him that reserve requirements might be eased on savings 
deposits in such a way that the money thus freed would be channelled 
into the financing of housing. 
Thus the banking industry might assist 
further in meeting an economic and social need without, as he saw it, 
weakening Federal Reserve objectives. 
Discussion of this suggestion included the comment that Congres-
sional action apparently would be required, since reserve requirements 
on savings deposits were now at the statutory minimum. 
Mr. Nason suggested, as an idea merely for exploration, that 
the Reserve Banks might offer the facilities of the discount window in 
somewhat the manner of the Federal Home Loan Banks to enable member 
banks to increase their commitments for housing. 
It was recalled that during the recent study of the discount 
mechanism some consideration had been given to the possibility of special 
aid through the window not only to assist the mortgage market but also 
to improve the flow of agricultural credit. 
D. How do Council members assess the current state 
of inflationary attitudes and expectations? 
What 
seem to be the prevailing views with regard to 
the Administration's determination and ability to 
pursue an anti-inflationary fiscal policy? 
The members of the Council have not observed any lessening in 
inflationary attitudes and expectations. Moreover, the gradual erosion 

I 3 f i 4 
5/1/70 
-7-
of the projected budget surplus, statements by officials in the 
Administration, as well as certain highly publicized policy actions, 
have tended to weaken the confidence of the public in the Administra-
tion's ability and determination to pursue an anti-inflationary policy. 
However, the softening in demand as consumers remain cautious and 
uncertain, the decline in corporate profits, together with the drop 
in the stock market, may tend to dull inflationary expectations. 
Mr. Meyer commented that many people had now come to realize 
that this was a profit and loss economy, not just a profit economy. 
They were realizing also that stocks were not necessarily a safe hedge 
against inflation. 
In response to a question, Mr. Meyer said that although he had 
been away from his bank for the past few days he had had reports that 
margin calls upon brokers were increasing. 
He did not understand that 
thus far the problem was one of great importance, although that might 
not always be true in the case of individual customers upon whom the 
brokers were making margin calls. 
There followed a discussion seeking to establish the nature of 
the relationship between the Board's margin requirements, which were 
geared essentially to the establishment of initial margins but also 
included a substitution rule and retention requirements, and the main-
tenance margins customarily required by banks. From the discussion, 
which was not entirely conclusive, it appeared that margin calls made 
b
y the banks upon brokers, although related primarily to their own 
maintenance requirements, were meshed with those set by the Board in 
that they overlaid the latter. Thus, members of the Council appeared 

5/1/70 
-8-
to feel that a change in the Board's margin requirements would have 
some effect on the incidence of margin calls by banks upon brokers 
pursuant to the operation of the maintenance rules. 
Question was raised whether, insofar as banks made purpose 
loans direct to individuals, margin calls appeared to be resulting in 
the forced sale of other assets, and members of the Council indicated 
that they were not aware that such was the case, at least to any sig-
nificant extent. 
2. Financial developments. 
A . 
How do Council members appraise the current 
liquidity position of the banking system? 
To 
what extent would banks be expected to restruc-
ture their liabilities, when and as market 
conditions permit? 
Have recent changes in 
financial markets and availability of funds 
to banks led to any significant shifts in 
general bank lending and investing policies? 
The current liquidity position not only of the banking system 
but also of business in general continues to be very tight. The Council 
members believe that bankers generally would like to restructure their 
liabilities when and as market conditions permit and to reduce their 
reliance on non-deposit sources of funds. Sound management, as well 
as cost and profit considerations, dictate such action. 
Recently there was some indication that perhaps funds would 
become available which not only would improve liquidity but would per-
mit some shift in general bank lending and investment policies. 
Current 
developments in the money market, however, have lessened this expecta-
tion at present. 
Bank investment attitudes toward municipal securities 
have been significantly altered by the recent action of the Internal 
Revenue Service with a resultant adverse impact on the new issue market 
for tax-exempt obligations. 
The Council regards this development as 
extremely serious. 

IdiS 
5/1/70 
- 9 -
President Nason stressed the potential significance of the 
Internal Revenue position. 
The market for municipal securities was 
already in bad array. 
If the question at issue went into court and 
was not resolved promptly, the effect on that market would be serious. 
B. What is the Council's assessment of the probable 
strength of business loan demand over the remain-
der of 1970? 
To what extent is such demand likely 
to be affected by (a) shifts of corporations back 
from the commercial paper market to bank borrowing 
or (b) corporate funding of bank loans by issuance 
of long-term debt? 
Most members of the Council expect loan demand to continue 
strong over the remainder of 1970. However, members from several dis-
tricts expect that the slowdown in business, reduced inventory needs, 
loan repayments, and the decline in corporate profits will result in 
a moderate decrease in loan demand with normal seasonal fluctations. 
The use of various types of corporate financing will be dictated 
m 
large measure by the relative costs. However, the present reduced 
level of corporate liquidity suggests that loan demand is more likely 
to be affected by corporate funding of loans through the issuance of 
long-term debt rather than in a shifting to the banks from the commercial 
Paper market. 
Governor Brimmer commented that he had been studying flows of 
funds for the first quarter of 1970 to try to determine what had happened 
to corporate liquidity. As he saw it, the decline in corporate profits 
had diminished access to internal sources of funds, with consequent 
increase in business demand for external funds. 
Since corporations 
W e r e
 finding it difficult to sell bonds, they were calling on banks for 
short-term financing while awaiting better marketing opportunities. 
He 
inquired whether the Council members had observed indications of such 
a
 course of events. 

1 3 6 7 
5/1/70 
-10-
During the ensuing discussion, Mr. Meyer stated that corporate 
liquidity was diminishing for several reasons. 
One was reduced profits. 
Another was that large corporations were being called upon to act as 
banker for their smaller corporate customers by carrying their paper. 
As far as the long-term market was concerned, many issues were being 
postponed in the hope that interest rates would come down. 
Therefore, 
corporations that owed banks for relatively short-term money that they 
had intended to repay with the proceeds of a bond issue were instead 
asking that the banks continue to carry them. 
In Mr. Meyer's personal view, another element of the problem 
was that since 1966 corporations had come to believe that the banking 
system was not an entirely reliable source of funds, partly because of 
restrictions placed upon it by Government regulation. 
Therefore, they 
had resorted to alternative sources of funds. To the extent that cor-
porations found such sources, they caused credit expansion that prompted 
the Federal Reserve to put more pressure on the banking system. 
Mr. Clausen remarked that the West Coast had been experiencing 
some diffi culties in the aerospace industry and some layoffs on the 
consumer side. While loan demand was higher at present than it had 
been, and had not fallen this year in accordance with the usual seasonal 
pattern, his forecast was that it would moderate as the year progressed. 
For one thing, customers had been borrowing either in the commercial 
paper market or from the banking system for long-term purposes. 
If 

i3m 
5/1/70 
-11-
they came to believe that there would not be any permanent relief from 
high interest rates, they would be more inclined to fund their indebtedness. 
Other members of the Council elaborated on the view, as expressed 
in the Council's statement, that loan demand would continue strong. 
Mr. Meyer then referred to the comment previously made to the 
effect that when corporations found nonbank sources of funds the result-
ing credit expansion led to increased restrictions on the banking system. 
In his view, the temptation to put greater pressure on banks when their 
share of the total credit pool was decreasing could reach a point of 
diminishing returns. 
He hoped the President's commission on financial 
institutions would review the whole financial mechanism to see what 
needed to be accomplished in the years ahead, and that it could devise 
a viable structure covering not only commercial banks but also other 
types of institutions. 
Mr. Clausen suggested that one way to put banks on a more nearly 
competitive level with other institutions would be to remove Regulation 
Q ceilings. 
It would not surprise him if the studies by the Presidential 
commission resulted in recommendations for an expansion of the powers of 
savings and loan associations. 
If that resulted in bringing them within 
the purview of the Federal Reserve, monetary policy could be more effec-
tive; it had formerly been possible for monetary policy to reach about 
half of total money flows, but now it could reach only about a third. 
Nonbank financial institutions not only were not directly subject to 

1 3 6 7 
5/1/70 
-12-
monetary policy, but were subsidized, and banks would welcome having 
those institutions brought under the same rules. He hoped that the 
commission would address itself not only to that problem but also the 
economic philosophy of the past several decades, when the main thrust 
of economic legislation had been to get the country out of low gear. 
Perhaps it was now necessary to shape an entirely different kind of 
economic philosophy. 
Mr. Meyer also spoke of the need to broaden the base affected 
by monetary policy. 
In the New York area the mutual savings banks would 
like to have the benefits accruing from System membership. 
The commer-
cial banks were favorably inclined, but only if the mutuals were subjected 
to the same supervisory rules and taxation as commercial banks. 
President Nason expressed the view that a broader base of 
financial institutions on which monetary controls could operate would 
probably mean that the controls would have to be less strict than when 
only about a third of the total credit base could be reached directly. 
Mr. Conn also spoke of the disproportionate impact of monetary 
Policy on commercial banks. 
That in a sense was self-defeating; the 
more commercial banks were hindered from providing credit to their 
customers, the more the customers would obtain the credit from sources 
beyond the reach of monetary policy. If commercial banks were allowed 
to pay whatever the market required in order to obtain large-denomination 
certificates of deposit, that would increase the amount of deposits that 

1367 
5/1/70 
-13-
could be affected by monetary policy. 
In other words, the effectiveness 
of monetary policy could be improved by allowing the banking system to 
expand and to provide better service. 
C. Does the Council have any views as to major issues 
that should be studied by the forthcoming Presiden-
tial commission on financial institutions? 
The Council believes that the overriding objective of the forth-
coming Presidential commission on financial institutions should be how 
to restructure them, should this be necessary, so that the needs of the 
American people will be effectively and efficiently served. 
In a free 
society this can be achieved best when financial institutions function 
competitively in the market place in contrast to being controlled by 
regulation. 
Regulations tend to become inflexible and stifle innova-
tions and competition, which benefit the economy in general and the 
customers of financial institutions in particular. 
Among the issues that should be studied are the following: 
1. The role, scope, function, and equitable competitive 
operation of all financial institutions; 
2. The desirability of broadening the base upon which 
monetary policy has its impact. 
In order to make 
the implementation of monetary policy by the central 
bank more effective, the base needs to be expanded 
to include a greater cross-section of the financial 
mechanism than just commercial banks; 
3. The role and function of financial supervisory 
authorities; 
4. A uniform consumer finance code including usury laws; 
5. The over-all structure of banking, including such 
items as reserves, branches, mergers, acquisitions, 
holding companies, regulation, supervision and 
taxation; 
6. Hopefully, the Commission's recommendations on these 
issues will be helpful in solving the urgent problems 
of financing housing, pollution, and other important 
needs of the economy. 

1367 
5/1/70 
-14-
It was noted that views relating generally to this question 
had been expressed during the discussion of the preceding topic. 
3. 
Balance of payments. 
! :n'. 
A . What is the Council's judgment as to the outlook 
in 1970 for the U.S. balance of payments on cur-
rent account? 
On capital account? 
The Council expects that the surplus on current account of the 
U.S. balance of payments will improve during 1970. The improvement will 
not be adequate to cover the deficit in the capital account. 
The deficit 
in the capital account will be affected by the foreign attitude toward 
investment in U.S. equities and the extent of the use by U.S. banks of 
Euro-dollars as set forth in B below. 
Governor Brimmer observed that the Council's statement did not 
touch specifically upon the outflow of corporate capital, especially 
through direct investments. 
Some companies had borrowed heavily abroad 
to finance such investments and now had substantial leeway under the 
pertinent Governmental guidelines. 
If rates were to go down in the 
U.S., he suspected that some of the companies would be willing to use 
their leeway. 
Council members indicated that such a development was not in 
evidence. 
They noted that although it would cost banks something to 
retain their reserve-free bases, they appeared willing to pay that 
Premium until the availability of alternative sources of funds became 
c
learer. 
it seemed likely that the same was true of corporations. 
B. How do Council members appraise the attitudes among 
banks regarding the preservation of their reserve-
free bases under the marginal reserve requirement 
of Regulation M? 

1 3 7 2 2 
5/1/70 
-15-
Until funds become sufficiently available in the United States 
in relation to demand, banks will probably not abandon their reserve-
free bases under Regulation M. 
Even if alternative sources of funds 
become available in the United States at somewhat lower rates, banks 
may still choose to retain their reserve-free base for future use, or 
until the cost of protecting the base becomes excessive. 
There was no significant discussion of this topic. 
4. What are the Council's views on monetary and credit 
policy under current circumstances? 
The Council believes that monetary and credit policy should be 
one of continued restraint but with possible fractional easing because 
of the lack of liquidity in the economy. The doubt that inflation will 
be controlled suggests that any easing, or intended easing, should not 
be indicated in public actions or statements. 
The Council continues to recommend the removal as soon as 
possible of the Regulation Q ceiling on large-denomination negotiable 
CD's, but does not believe such action would be desirable at present. 
Members of the Council urged the use of monetary policy instru-
ments that would attract the least attention. 
Easing through open 
market operations, for example, would command less public attention 
than a change in the discount rate. As few words as possible should 
be used, in order not to give the impression that the fight on inflation 
had been won. The need to avoid undue publicity was the basis for the 
view that this was not the time to remove Regulation Q ceilings. 
5. 
In recent months there have a number of national 
banks and State member banks converted to State 
nonmember banks. 
Should the Board of Governors 
now consider implementing its proposal relating 
to the discount window as a persuasive force 
against such conversions? 
The principal reason for the conversion of national banks and 
State member banks to State nonmember banks has probably been the high 

1367 
5/1/70 
- 1 6 -
cost of Federal Reserve membership to banks , resulting from reserve 
requirements and other factors, and not the lack of implementation of 
the discount window proposal. Although the present period of restric-
tive credit policy is not the time to implement the discount window 
proposal, it probably would be helpful to some banks to make it effec-
tive at a later date. 
In response to a question as to aspects of membership that were 
found burdensome, members of the Council cited, in addition to reserve 
requirements, lending limitations, inability to sell funds to other 
banks now immobilized by reserve requirements, administrative costs, 
delays in processing applications, and a belief that other supervisors 
had a more understanding and cooperative attitude. 
As to the value of implementing the discount window proposal, 
it was said that some smaller banks at present did not feel confortable 
about using the window, having found its use a source of criticism in 
the past. Therefore, liberalized discount window administration would 
probably have a therapeutic value for such banks. For the lage banks, 
not too much advantage was seen. 
Governor Robertson observed that reserve requirements appeared 
to be the real stumbling block. He inquired about the Council's reaction 
to a proposal, made in past years, that all banks be made subject to 
reserve requirements and be given equal access to the discount window. 
It was the general view that, although there might be temporary 
disruptive effects and some time would be needed to make adjustments, 
such a plan should in the longer run prove beneficial to the economy. 

1367 
5/1/70 
-17-
Objections would of course be raised to the loss of correspondent 
balances, and it seemed doubtful that banker organizations would support 
the proposal. Acceptance of the proposal probably would be facilitated 
if all institutions were assured that they could count on obtaining a 
stated amount of credit at the discount window without much question. 
In terms of timing, the proposal probably would have a better chance at 
a time when banks were not under such severe pressures as at present. 
6. How would Council members assess the probable impact 
on banks of expected Congressional action banning 
the mailing of unsolicited credit cards? 
Congressional enactment of a bill which would prohibit the 
mailing of unsolicited credit cards would place banks hereafter issuing 
credit cards at some competitive disadvantage. 
However, it would not 
have an adverse effect on banks which are already issuing credit cards. 
Members of the Council verified that the likelihood of passage 
of the bill had not caused great concern. 
It was observed that one new 
credit card had been launched as if the bill had been passed, with a 
positive rather than a negative pre-mailer, and that the response had 
been quite good. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
