MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 15, 1969 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, October 15, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
M r . Martin, Chairman 
M r . Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
M r . Daane 
M r . Maisel 
M r . Brimmer 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
M r . Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Molony, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
M r . Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
M r . O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
M r . Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
M r . Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
M r . Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
M r . Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
M r . Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
The following items were approved unanimously after consideration 
of background information that had been made available to the Board. 
Copies 
are attached under the respective numbers indicated. 

3145 
10/15/69 
-2-
Item N o . 
Letter to Union Bank, Los Angeles, California, 
1 
granting permission to organize a corporation 
under section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
to be known as Union International Bank, also 
to be located in Los Angeles, transmitting a 
preliminary permit, and indicating an intention 
to grant consent, upon issuance of the final 
permit, to the acquisition of stock in Banque 
Occidentale pour l
1Industrie et le Commerce, 
Paris, France. 
Letter to Southeast Bancorporation, Inc., Miami, 
2 
Florida, granting consent, subject to certain 
conditions, to the acquisition from one of its 
subsidiary banks of shares of First Foreign 
Investment Corporation, a corporation organized 
under Florida law and operating pursuant to 
agreement with the Board under section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act. 
First Chicago International Finance Corporation. A letter to 
First Chicago International Finance Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, 
granting consent (1) to the acquisition of shares of Constellation 
Company Limited, a company being incorporated in Bermuda, and (2) to 
the acquisition, subject to certain conditions and through the operation 
of an underwriting commitment, of mutual fund shares of First Chicago 
International Fund N.V., Curacao, Netherlands Antilles, was approved, 
Governor Robertson abstaining because a member of his family was employed 
by the First Chicago organization. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item N o . 3. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed purchase of assets and assumption of 

3146 
10/15/69 
-3-
liabilities of Georgetown Building and Loan Association, Georgetown, 
Delaware, by Wilmington Savings Fund Society, Wilmington, Delaware, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
The proposed purchase of assets and assumption of 
liabilities of Georgetown Building and Loan Association, 
a noninsured institution, by Wilmington Savings Fund 
Society would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The National Bank of Auburn, Auburn, New York, with The Bank 
of Auburn, National Association, a transaction designed to facilitate 
acquisition of the existing bank by a holding company, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
conclusion stating that consummation of the proposed merger would in 
itself, have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Union State Bank, Amery, Wisconsin, with State Bank of Deer 
Park, Deer Park, Wisconsin, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The conclusion read as follows 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Union State 
Bank, Amery, and State Bank of Deer Park, both subsidiaries 
of Otto Bremer Foundation, St. Paul, Minnesota, a registered 
bank holding company, would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of San Diego Bank, San Diego, California, with San Diego Trust & 
Savings Bank, a transaction designed to facilitate acquisition of the 

10/15/69 
-4-
existing bank by a holding company, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion 
stating that consummation of the proposed merger would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
Atlantic Bancorporation. Drafts of an order and statement 
reflecting the Board's approval on October 2, 1969, of the applications 
of Atlantic Bancorporation and The Atlantic National Bank of Jacksonville, 
both of Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of Lake Wales Bank & 
Trust, Lake Wales, Florida, had been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
are attached under Item No. 4 . 
Egg Harbor Bank and Trust Company. The President of Egg Harbor 
Bank and Trust Company, Egg Harbor City, New Jersey, a State member bank, 
had been convicted in a U.S. District Court on two counts of violation 
of Title 18, United States Code. Pending before the court was a motion 
for a new trial. 
Question was raised whether the Board should take action pursuant 
to the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 1966, which provides 
that the appropriate Federal banking agency may, subject to designated 
procedures, suspend from office and/or prohibit from further participation 
in the conduct of a bank's affairs any director or officer of such bank who 
is charged in any indictment with the commission of or participation in 
a felony involving dishonesty or breach of trust. However, in a letter 
dated September 9, 1969, the President of Egg Harbor Bank and Trust Company 

3148 
10/15/69 
-5-
had agreed to withdraw from further participation in the conduct of 
the affairs of the bank until final disposition had been made of the 
charges against him. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia urged 
that the agreement be accepted and recommended that no additional 
administrative action be taken. In a memorandum dated October 19, 1969, 
M r . O'Connell discussed the legal aspects of the matter and concurred 
in the Reserve Bank's recommendation. 
Following discussion, the recommendation was approved unanimously. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia is 
attached as Item No. 5 . 
Continental Illinois. A ruling had been requested by Continental 
Illinois National Bank and Trust Company, Chicago, Illinois, and its Edge 
subsidiary, Continental Bank International, New York City, on the question 
whether an Edge corporation may act as trustee, paying agent, and cover-
sion agent with respect to securities payable either in Europe or the 
United States but distributed solely outside the United States. 
Counsel 
for Continental contended that the provision in Regulation K (Corporations 
Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing under the Federal Reserve Act) 
that an Edge corporation may not "act in the United States as trustee, 
registrar, or in any similar capacity, with respect to securities distri-
buted in the United States" implied that an Edge corporation could act 
in the United States in such capacity with respect to securities not 
distributed in the United States. 

3149 
10/15/69 
-6-
Two members of the Board's Legal Division felt that such an 
interpretation would be justified, but a third member held that the 
legislative history of the Ege Act prevented the Board from permitting 
Edge corporations to engage in such activities. The matter had been 
discussed at the Board meeting on April 22, 1969, without crystallization 
of Board opinion, and it had been understood that the subject would be 
given further study by other members of the Legal Division. 
In a memorandum dated October 3, 1969, Mr. Hexter concluded 
(1) that section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act does not authorize 
Edge corporations to act in the United States as trustee or conversion 
agent, even with respect to securities distributed solely outside the 
United States to persons other than nationals or residents of the United 
States, and (2) that section 211.7(d)(7) of Regulation K does not authorize 
an 
Edge corporation to act as paying agent on securities issued by a 
domestic corporation or by a foreign corporation that is qualified to 
do business in the United States, although such service would be permissible 
in connection with securities issued by a corporation organized under 
foreign law and not qualified under the laws of the United States or any 
State to do business in the United States. 
Attached to the memorandum was a proposed letter to Counsel for 
Continental and a draft of interpretation for publication in the Federal 
Register that would reflect M r . Hexter's view should the Board conclude 
that it was the appropriate one. 

3150 
10/15/69 
-7-
At the outset of the discussion, opinions were expressed 
regarding the significance that should be attached to the fact that 
Senator Edge's bill originally contained a provision that would have 
authorized Edge corporations, with the Board's permission, to act as 
trustee and registrar of securities and to exercise other specified 
fiduciary powers when necessary in the conduct of their international 
and foreign business. That provision had been deleted from the bill 
at the Board's suggestion, as being unnecessary in relation to the 
purposes for which Edge corporations were to be organized. 
There followed a review of other portions of the legislative 
history, during which it was noted that there had been maneuvers on 
the part of some banks in the United States to prevent Edge corporations 
from exercising a full complement of powers incident to their foreign 
business, thus compelling the use of other institutions to complete 
their operations. It was suggested that from the standpoint of covenience 
alone it would seem appropriate to permit Edge corporations to perform 
the functions in question, keeping in mind that a primary Congressional 
objective in authorizing the organization of Edge corporations was to 
facilitate the development of international and foreign commerce. 
Discussion developed majority support for that view. 
However, 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer indicated that their views more nearly 
paralleled those advanced by M r . Hexter. 

10/15/69 
-8-
Following further discussion, a ruling that an Edge corporation 
may act in the United States as trustee, registrar, conversion agent, 
and paying agent with respect to any particular class of securities 
issued to finance foreign activities and distributed only outside the 
United States was approved. Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting. 
A copy of the notice subsequently published in the Federal Register is 
attached as Item No. 6. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Deputy Secretary/ 

r> H r o 
B O A R D 
C F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item N o . 1 
10/15/69 
a d d r e s s 
o f f i c i a l 
c o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 15, 1969. 
Union Bank, 
Fifth and Figueroa Streets, 
Los Angeles, California. 
90017 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has appro\ed the Articles of 
Association and Organization Certificate dated August 26, 1969, 
of Union International Bank, Los Angeles, California, and there is 
enclosed a Preliminary Permit authorizing that Corporation to 
exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the 
Federal' Reserve Act as are incidental.and preliminary to its 
organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the 
Board authorizing it generally to commence business. 
Before the 
Board will issue its final permit to commence business, the 
President, Treasurer, or Secretary, together with at least three 
of the directors, must certify (1) that each director is a citizen 
of the United States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital 
stock is held and owned by citizens of the United States, by cor-
porations the controlling interest in which is owned by citizens 
of the United States, chartered under the laws of the United States 
or of a State of the United States, or by firms or companies the 
controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United 
States; and (3) that of the authorized capital stock specified in 
the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent has been paid in 
> 
in cash and that each shareholder has individually paid in in cash 
at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. 
Thereafter, the 
Treasurer or Secretary shall certify to the payment of the remaining 
instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 
In accordance with the request in a letter of September 12, 
1969, signed by the organizers on behalf of the proposed Union Inter-
national Bank, the Board is disposed, when that Corporation's final 
permit is issued, to grant consent for. it to acquire stock in Banque 
Occidentale pour 1'Industrie et le Commerce, Paris, France. 

3 ibS 
Union Bank 
- 2 -
Your attention is called to the fact that Union Inter-
national Bank will have no separate base under the foreign credit 
restraint effort and any foreign loars or investments will need 
to be made under the ceiling of Union Bank. 
Accordingly, the fore-
going approval, is given with the understanding that any foreign 
loans and investments of the Corporation will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities or your bank and that due consideration will be given 
to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P . Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assi stant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

3154 
B O A R D J F G O V E R N O R S 
QFTHE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, • . C .' 2 0551 
October 15, 1969 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association dated August 26, 1969, and 
Organization Certificate dated August 26, 1969, of UNION INTERNATIONAL 
BANK duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that UNION INTERNATIONAL 
BANK is authorized to exercise such of the powers conferred upon it 
by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization pending the issuance by the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System of a final permit generally to commence 
business in accordance with the provisions of said Section 25(a) and 
the rules and -.regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
B y 
(Signed) Robert P . Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 2 
O F 
T H E 
10/15/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
205M 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPCJN 
TO THE BOARD 
October 15, 1969 
Mr. Henry Hood Bassett, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Southeast 3ancorporation, Inc., 
100 South Biscayne Boulevard, 
Miami, Florida. 
33131 
Dear M r . Bassett: 
This refers to your letter of September 18, 1969, which 
requests the Board's permission for your corporation to purchase 
First Foreign Investment Corporation, an "Agreement" corporation 
organized und^r Florida law and operating pursuant to an agreement 
with the Boar J under section 25 of the-Federal Reserve Act, from 
First National Bank of Miami, one of your subsidiary banks, 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act and 
section 4(c)(5) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, 
the Board graits its permission for your corporation to purchase the 
shares of First Foreign Investment Corporation, provided such shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is granted subject to the condition 
that your corporation shall dispose of its stock in First Foreign 
Investment Corporation as the Board may direct if, in the Board's 
judgment, First Foreign Investment Corporation shall have failed to 
comply with the terms of its agreement with the Board or regulations 
of the Board applicable thereto. 
Very truly your 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Assistant Secretary 

* M err* 
o l O b 
. f o ^ * ^ . . 
B O A R D 
H F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item N o . 3 
10/15/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E 3 P Q N O E W C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 15, 1969. 
First Chicago International 
Finance Corporation, 
One First National Plaza, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60670 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 11, 1969, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FCIFC") to pur-
chase and hold all of the shares of Constellation Company Limited 
("CCL"), a company being incorporated in Bermuda, at a cost of approx-
imately $10,00J, provided such shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) 
That FCIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of CCL if CCL at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized tinder 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if CCL establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Bermuda or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to FCIFC; 
(2) 
That when required by the Board of Governors, FCIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of CCL as it may require from time 
to time; and 

7 
3157 
First Chicago International 
Finance Corporation 
-2-
(3) 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CCL 
be reported under Section 211.3(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if CCL were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by CCL in Bermuda in 
the currency of that country. 
The Board of Governors also grants consent for FCIFC to • 
acquire through the operation of an underwriting commitment, approx-
imately 10 per cent of the mutual fund shares of First Chicago Inter-
national Fund N.V a ("FUND"), Curacao, Netherlands Antilles, at a 
cost of approximately $3,000,000, provided the shares are acquired 
within one yesr from the date of chis letter. 
The consent for this 
acquisition if given with the understanding that FCIFC anticipates 
having pre-sold these shares prior to signing any underwriting 
agreement. 
In this connection, approval is also granted for the 
purchase and holding of shares of CCL by your Corporation in excess* 
of the applicable limitations set forth in the provisions of Sec-
tion 25(a) [12. U . S 0 C . 615(c)] of the Federal Reserve Act and Sec-
tion 211.9(b) of Regulation K . 
The foregoing consents are given with the understanding 
that the investments now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation, The First National Bank of Chicago, 
and its other subsidiaries, and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
^Should read: 
"shares of FUND by your corporation" 

3158 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE 
WASHINGTON, D, C . 
In the Matter of the Applications of 
' 
ATLANTIC BANCORPORATION and THE
 
1 
ATLANTIC NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE, 
' 
Jacksonville, Florida,
 
1 
for approval of acquisition of not less
 
1 
than 80 per cent of the voting shares of 
' 
Lake Wales Bank & Trust, Lake Wales, 
' 
Florida. 
• 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATIONS UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the applications of Atlantic Bancorporation and 
The Atlantic National Bank of Jacksonville, both of Jacksonville, 
Florida, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of not 
less than 80 per cent of the voting shares of Lake Wales Bank 
& Trust, Lake Wales, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
b i t t e n notice of receipt of the applications to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and to the Florida Commissioner of Banking and requested 
their views and recommendations. 
Both the Comptroller and the 
Commissioner recommended approval of the applications. 
Item N o . 4 
10/15/69 
SYSTEM 

Notice of receipt of the applications was published In the 
Federal Register on August 23, 1969 (34 Federal Register 13631) pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. Copies of the applications were 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said applications be and hereby 
are approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such time shall be extended by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 15th day of October, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governor Mitchell. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
ATLANTIC BANCORPORATION AND THE ATLANTIC NATIONAL BANK 
OF JACKSONVILLE, BOTH OF JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
LAKE WALES BANK & TRUST, LAKE WALES, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Atlantic Bancorporation ("Atlantic") and The Atlantic 
National Bank of Jacksonville (' Atlantic National Bank"), both of 
^hich are registered bank holding companies located in Jacksonville, 
Florida, have applied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of not less than 
80 per cent of the voting shares of Lake Wales Bank & Trust, Lake 
Wales, Florida ("Bank"). Atlantic is a bank holding company by 
virtue of its control of Atlantic National Bank and 11 other banks. 
Atlantic National Bank is also a bank holding company because it 
ovms over 25 per cent of the voting shares of Atlantic and thereby 
has indirect control of Atlantic's subsidiary banks. The proposed 
acquisition would be directly made by Atlantic. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the 

application was given to the Comptroller of the Currency and to the 
Florida Commissioner of Banking and their views and recommendations 
were requested. 
Both the Comptroller and the Commissioner recommended 
approval. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acqui-
sition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be sub-
stantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
a r e clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. 
In each case the Board is required to take into con-
sideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
°f the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Atlantic 
1/ 
controls 12 
banks with total deposits of $565.4 million, representing 
per cent of the total bank deposits in the State of Florida. 
It is 
the third largest bank holding company and the third largest banking 
Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of December 31, 1968, 
*
efer to insured commercial banks, and reflect holding company acquisi-
ions approved by supervisory authorities to date. 

organization in the State. Upon acquisition of Bank ($15.7 million 
deposits), Atlantic's relative position among holding companies and 
banking organizations in the State will remain unchanged, and its share 
of State deposits would increase to 5 per cent. 
Bank, with deposits of $15.7 million, has a single office 
in Lake Wales, Polk County, Florida, which is approximately 55 miles 
south-southeast of Orlando. 
Bank ranks eighth of the 20 banks in Polk 
County and controls 4.3 per cent of the deposits in the County. 
Its 
service area, with a population of 20,000, is bounded on the north 
by Haines City, on the west by Bartow, on the south by Frostproof, 
and on the east by the Kissimmee River. Although there is only one 
other bank located in this service area (First National Bank, Lake 
Wales; deposits $11.7 million), there are nine additional banks, 
located from 14 to 18 miles from Lake Wales, which compete to some 
extent in the area. 
Atlantic has no subsidiary bank in Polk County. The closest 
of such subsidiaries is located approximately 80 miles northeast of 
Lake Wales, with metropolitan Orlando intervening. No loan or deposit 
overlap exists between Atlantic's subsidiaries and Bank, and approval 
of the applications would not foreclose existing competition. 
Addi-
tionally, because of the considerable distances separating Bank from 
Atlantic's present subsidiaries, the presence of numerous banks in the 
Intervening area, and Florida laws which prohibit branch banking, 
consummation of the proposal would not foreclose significant 
Potential competition. 

U J . O O 
-4-
On the consummation of the proposed acquisition the percentage 
of deposits controlled by six bank holding companies operating in Polk 
County would be increased to 52 per cent. However, no single organization 
would occupy a dominant position in that market. The County's largest 
institution, an independent bank, controls 24.6 per cent of the County 
deposits. The largest bank holding company, and the second largest 
banking organization in the County, controls 14.1 per cent of the 
County deposits. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly or be in fur-
therance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Atlantic and its subsidiary banks are in satisfactory financial con-
dition with capable managements and favorable prospects. 
The financial condition of Bank is generally satisfactory. 
Affiliati 
on with Atlantic would provide a means of strengthening 
management and improving operating procedures, which would enhance 
Bank's prospects. 
These considerations are consistent with, and lend some 
support for, approval of the applications. 

31G4 
-5-
Convenience arid needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of the proposed transaction will have no effect on cus-
tomers of Atlantic's present subsidiary banks. 
It appears that the 
needs of the public in the area 
served by Bank are being adequately 
met at the present time. Except for a proposal to make available 
certificate of deposit services, which are presently offered by Bank's 
competitors but not by Bank, the primary benefits likely to result 
from the acquisition would be the upgrading of the quality, efficiency 
and sophistication of present services. To accomplish these im-
provements, Atlantic plans to provide Bank with counseling in such 
fields as accounting, investments, public relations, credits, 
operations and loan participations. 
These considerations lend some weight to approval. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
October 15, 1969. 

of GOvA-. 
I D J 
B O A R D * • F G I U V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 2055'! 
Item No. 5 
. 10/15/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARC 
October 17, 1969. 
Mr. Joseph R . Campbell, 
Senior Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Mr. James V . Vcrgari, Senior Vice President . 
and General Counsel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Gentlemen: 
Thin acknowledges your letter of September 12, 1969, 
concerning the recent conviction in a Feder<-;1 District Court of 
Mr. Richard A . Mischlich, President of the Egg Harbor Bank and Trust 
Company, Egg Harbor City, New Jersey, on two counts of a previously 
returned Federal grand jury indictment. 
You advise that the matter 
of Mr. Mischlich's conviction continues before the trial court because 
of pending motions including a motion for a new trial. 
Your letter raises the question of the need for Board action 
pursuant to the provision of the Federal Supervisory Act of 1966 that 
authorizes the Board, pursuant to designated procedures, to suspend 
from office and/or prohibit from further participation in the conduct of 
a State member bank's affairs any director or officer of such bank who 
is charged in any indictment with the commission of or participation in 
a felony involving dishonesty or breach of trust. Following conversa-
tions between you and Mr. O'Connell of the Foard's staff you have obtained 
from M r . Mischlich and forwarded to the Board a letter agreement in which 
Mr. Mischlich advises the Board of his wish to withdraw from further par-
ticipation in .iny manner in the conduct of the affairs of the Egg Harbor 
Bank and indicates that until the charges of which he has been convicted 
are finally disposed of, he will not participate directly or indirectly 
in any manner as President or director in the management, control, 
policy making, operations or affairs of the Egg Harbor Bank, nor will 
he participate in 
or vote at any meeting of the Bank's Board of Directors. 
In the context, of Mr. Mischlich's letter it is assumed that his agree-
ment to withdraw from participation as stated includes participation in 
any capacity including exercising his voting rights as a shareholder. 

-2-
c / I t i O 
It is further assumed that Mr. Mischlich's agreement to withdraw from 
participation as stated " until the charges of which he has been con-
victed are finally disposed of" refers to a final disposition favorable 
to Mr. Mischlich. On the basis of the letter agreement submitted, 
originals of which we understand have also been submitted to the Egg 
Harbor Bank's Board of Directors, the New Jersey Commissioner of Bank-
ing & Insurance, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, you 
express the view that any objectives that might be 
sought by use of 
the Supervisory Act have been accomplished by Mr. Mischlich's voluntary 
action, and you recommend that no other .action be taken by the Board 
at this time. 
The Board has concurred in your conclusion that no meaningful 
purpose would be served by institution at this time of an administrative 
proceeding undar the Supervisory Act. 
It will be appreciated if you will 
provide Mr. Mischlich with written advice of the Board's determination, 
including a specific statement of the above-stated underlying assumptions 
upon which this determination has been made. 
It is assumed that your 
Bank will continue its advice to the Board of further developments in the 
matter of Mr. Mischlich's appeal from his conviction, and of the occurrence 
of any circumstances that evidence or suggest a departure by Mr, Mischlich 
from his commil.ted withdrawal from particips tion in the affairs of the 
Egg Harbor Bank. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Robert P . Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

33.67 
Item N o . 6 
- 10/15/69 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. K] 
PART 211--CORPORATIONS ENGAGED IN FOREIGN BANKING 
AND FINANCING UNDER THE FEDERAL RESERVE ACT 
1 
Acting as Trustee, Conversion Agent, and Paying Agent 
§ 211.105 
Acting in the United States as trustee, conversion agent, 
and paying agent of securities issued to finance foreign 
activi ties and distributed only out;ide the United States. 
Section 211.5(b)(2) of Regulation K provides that a corporation 
organized under section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act (an "Edge 
corporation") may not "act in the United States as trustee, registrar, 
or in any similar capacity, with respect to securities distributed in 
the United State.j." Under § 211.7(d)(7) of Regulation K an Edge corpora-
tion is permitted to "act [in the United States] as paying agent for 
securities issued by foreign governments or other organizations organized 
under foreign law and not qualified under the laws of the United States 
any State or the District of Columbia to do business in the United 
States." 
Many large corporations in the United States have formed 
subsidiaries to issue securities abroad to fin<<ncc their international 
°Perations. The question has therefore arisen whether an Edge corpora-
tion may act in the United States as trustee, conversion agent, and paying 
a8ent for securities issued to finance foreign activities and distributed 
0t*ly outside the United States, even though the issuer is organized and 
therefore legally qualified to do business in the United States. 

Nothing in section 25(a) specifically authorizes an Edge 
• Uill t'.-a " 7 ,7 
; • - - 
: 
corporation to act as fiduciary. 
In fact, a grant of certain fiduciary 
' J i f 
V . 
j . 
7 - . , . , , . ; , 
... . 
V , : , 
J : 
- 
.. 
. 
i i 5 
. 
. 
. 
. ; 
, 
powers so far as "necessary" in an Edge corporation's international 
business was deleted from the Edge Act prior to its enactment as being 
unnecessary in relation to the purposes for which Edge corporations 
were to be organized. 
it therefore seems clear that an Edge corpora-
tion does not have power generally to act as fiduciary in the United 
States. 
On the other hand, a primary Congressional objective in 
authorizing the organization of Edge corporations was to facilitate 
the development of international and foreign commerce. It would not 
therefore seem inappropriate for Edge corporations to perform in the 
United States the limited functions connected vith acting as trustee, 
registrar, and in similar capacities with respect to securities sold 
abroad to finance such commerce. Nor would it seem improper for Edge 
c°tporations, as an incident of their power to receive deposits, to 
act as paying agent for such securities, even if the issuer happens 
to be organized and therefore legally qualified to do business in the 
United States. 
The Board therefore concluded that an Edge corporation may 
a c t in the United States as trustee, registrar, conversion agent, and 
Paying agent with respect to any particular class of securities issued 
o 
^ee 53 Congressional Record 4954, 4963 (1919) (remarks of Senator Edge) 

3169 
-3-
solely to finance foreign activities and distributed only outside the 
United States, since acting in such limited capacities in the United 
States seems clearly incidental to the exercise of specific powers 
granted to Edge corporations by statute for the purpose of financing 
international and foreign commerce. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 15, 1969. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert ?. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
