Minutes for July 6, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 1 Amendment to section 221.2(m) 
of Regulation U, Credit by 
Banks for the Purpose of 
Purchasing or Carrying Margin 
Stocks. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretaryfs Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below to indicate approval of the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

±698 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, July 6, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 
3:40 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Margin regulations. On April 16, 1971, the Board published 
for comment proposed amendments to its Regulations G, T, and U, relating 
to credit for stock transactions, setting forth conditions under which 

1699 
7/6/71 
- 2 -
credit could be obtained for the purpose of providing capital to broker-
dealer firms without regard to initial margin requirements. The amend-
ments were to become effective July 16, 1971, in the absence of further 
action by the Board. As an interim measure while the proposals were 
being considered, the Board granted an exemption from initial margin 
requirements under Regulation U for credit extended by banks for the 
purpose of providing capital to broker-dealer firms. 
The staff had now submitted new drafts (revised in the light of 
comments received and other considerations) of the proposed amendments 
to the three regulations and recommended that they be published for 
comment, with the effective date postponed to October 1, 1971. It was 
also recommended that section 221.2(m) of Regulation U, as amended 
April 16, 1971, be further amended to clarify that exempt credit is not 
available under that section for public purchases of publicly-traded 
stock in a broker-dealer corporation. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the amendment 
to section 221.2(m) of Regulation U, effective July 10, 1971. 
The Board also authorized the publication for comment of the 
revised proposals for amending Regulations G, T, and U, comments to be 
received by August 20 and the amendments to become effective October 1, 
1971, unless other action was taken by the Board. 
Attached under Item No. 1 are copies of the press release 
announcing these actions, with attached notices in the form sent to the 
Federal Register. 

1700 
7/6/71 
-3-
International monetary conference. The Board approved unani-
mously a letter to the Office of Management and Budget concerning 
Senate Concurrent Resolution 25, relating to an international monetary 
conference. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
Federal Financing Bank. After agreement was reached on certain 
changes in the draft that had been distributed, unanimous approval 
was given to a letter to the Office of Management and Budget concerning 
an Administration draft bill "to create a Federal Financing Bank." A 
copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
First Bancshares of Florida. The Board approved unanimously 
the application of First Bancshares of Florida, Inc., Boca Raton, 
Florida, to acquire shares of First National Bank of Palm Beach Gardens, 
Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, a proposed new bank, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 4. 
Continental Bancor. The application of Continental Bancor, Inc., 
Phoenix, Arizona, to become a bank holding company through acquisition 
of shares of Continental Bank, also of Phoenix, was approved unanimously. 
It was understood that an order reflecting this decision would be pre-
pared for the Board's consideration. 
First Bancorp. The Board approved unanimously the application 
of First Bancorp, Inc., Corsicana, Texas, to become a bank holding com-
pany through acquisition of direct or beneficial interests in the 

1701 
7/6/71 
-4-
following Texas banks: The First National Bank of Corsicana; Citizens 
National Bank in Ennis; Citizens State Bank, Malakoff; and First 
National Bank of Streetman. It was understood that an order reflecting 
this decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Emergency Regulation No. 1. Pursuant to a recommendation by 
Governor Maisel in a memorandum dated July 1, 1971, the Board approved 
unanimously a revision of the Board's Emergency Regulation No. 1, 
Operations of Federal Reserve Banks, to remove references to an 
'..: •• 
. : i ; ', 'v : : I r. t Ii. 
o 
authorization to the Reserve Banks to purchase and sell due bills for 
direct obligations of the U.S. or to pledge them as collateral for 
Federal Reserve notes. 
A copy of the notice filed with the Federal Register is attached 
as Item No. 5. 
Minneapolis Bank. It was noted that Bruce K. MacLaury had taken 
office as President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis as of the 
opening of business July 1, 1971. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

EW" 
tovp'•• • 
." r. " 
. 
{Z 
• 
i v A\ " 
1702 
M i t e l s ; ; 
^ 
.'V^-V 
' 
--. % 
A ' , ]• • •>.•• 
JL 
- .-'tl'lilVi 
••-J.- - 
. -Jo, 
For immediate release 
Item No. 1 
7/6/71 
July 9, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
issued revised proposed amendments to its Regulations G, T, and U 
setting forth conditions under which credit may be obtained without 
regard to initial margin requirements for the purpose of providing 
capital to broker-dealer firms. 
The amendments were initially proposed on April 16, 1971, 
and would have become effective on July 16. Under the re-issued pro-
posals; the amendments would become effective October 1. Comments 011 
the revised proposals should be submitted to the Board by August 20. 
The Board also revised its exemption -- originally issued 
April 16 as an interim measure while it considers these proposals 
from initial margin requirements for credit by banks for the purpose 
of providing capital to broker-dealer firms. The revision makes it 
clear that this exemption is not available to finance public trading 
in stock of such firms. 
Regulation U applies to credit extended by banks for the 
purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stocks; Regulation T applies 
to such credit extended by brokers and dealers, while Regulation G 
applies to such credit extended by persons other than banks and 
brokers and dealers. 
The Board's proposed revisions of the amendment to its 
Regulations included the following: 

1703 
-2-
(1) Elimination of the requirement that lenders hold 
collateral sufficient to secure a loan before they could extend 
credit for the purpose of providing capital to a broker-dealer. 
Instead, a requirement would be substituted that a committee of a 
stock exchange or national securities association of which the 
broker-dealer is a member approve the loan, on the basis of a finding 
that the credit will not increase the amount of the broker-dealer's 
trading in securities for its own account. 
(2) Provide that credit extended by banks directly to 
broker-dealers would be subject to the same conditions as loans made 
to third persons for the purpose of providing capital to the broker-
dealers . 
Copies of the revised proposals are attached, together with 
the amendment to Regulation U, effective July 10, clarifying that 
exempt credit is not available for public purchases of publicly traded 
stock in broker-dealer firms. 

1701 
TITLE 1 2 — A N D MlIKXNG 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. U] 
PART 221--CREDIT liY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF 
PURCHASING OR CARRYING MARGIN STOCKS 
Credit to Contribute Capital 
to Brokers and Dealers 
1. Effective July 1.0,1971, § 221.2 is amended by revising 
Paragraph (m) as follows: 
§ 221.2 Exceptions to General Rule. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of § 221.1, a bank nay extend 
• 
and may maintaip any credit for the purpose specified'in § 221.1, with-
out regard to the limitations prescribed therein, or in § 221.3(t), if 
the credit comes within any of the following descriptions. 
i; 
* 
* 
* 
(in) Any credit extended to or maintained for a customer for 
« f; Li; ' • • , 
the purpose of making a loan or contribution of capital to a broker or 
dealer subject to Part 220 (Regulation T) if the loan or contribution 
is in conformity with the requirements regarding satisfactory sub-
ordination agreements or equities in the accounts of partners of a 
rule of the Securities and Exchange Commission (Rule 15c3-l(c)(?)(A), 
(c)(4), and (c)(7)) (17 CFR 240.15c3-l(c)(2)(A), (c)(4), and (c)(7)) 
or the capital rules of an exchange of which the broker or dealer is 
a member if the members thereof are exempt therefrom by Rule 15c3-l(b)(2) 

1705 
- 2. -
of the Cotrmis^ion (17 CFR 240.15c-l(b)(2)) or to purchase stock in a 
broker or dealer which is a corporation when such stock is purchased 
directly from the issuer and not as pnrt of a public distribution: 
Provided, That any such credit extended after April 16, 1971, shall 
become subject upon renewal to such additional restrictions as the 
Board of Governors may .impose by regulation, concerning the conditions 
upon which credit may be extended for the purpose of making such loan 
r v* • < , •• • 
.
•
'
.
-
, 
-Vi,•.-'-'.. 
Or contribution: And provided further, That (i) all of the proceeds 
°f such extension of credit are so loaned or contributed to the capital 
of the broker or dealer and (ii) that all of the proceeds of any with-
drawal of such loan or contribution of capital from the broker or dealer 
the customer or redemption of such stock shall be used to reduce or 
retire said extension of credit. 
2a. This amendment is issued pursuant to section 7 of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g). The changes are to 
clarify that the term "creditor" signifies a broker or dealer and to 
clarify that credit is not available pursuant to the terms of this 
exemption to purchase publicly traded stock in a broker or dealer. 
/ 
2b. The requirements of section 553(b) of Title 5, United 
States Code, with respect to notice, public participation, and deferred 
effective date were not followed in connection with these amendments 
because they would have served no useful purpose and because following 

1706 
- 3 
•• 
auch requirements would have prevented the Hoard's action from 
becoming effective as promptly as necessary in the public interest, 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 6, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
[SEAL] 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
• •• .. f .4 , »fo 
' • Y Y } \ 
• •»Vai'*: 
t'^ivi 
j. 
r r,Cj' 
- K • 
-.u.i 
v;: 
«-• A".-- 
-
. . «... . ; of: 
& 
.ms ... . 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR PARTS 207, 220, and 221] 
[Regs. G, T, and U] 
SECURITIES CREDIT BY PERSONS OTHER THAN BANKS, BROKERS, OR DEALERS 
CREDIT BY BROKERS AND DEALERS 
CREDIT BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR CARRYING MARGIN STOCK 
Credit to Contribute Capital 
to Brokers and Dealers 
Pursuant to the authority contained in the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g), the Board of Governors proposes to revise 
its proposals to amend Parts 207, 220, and 221 (36 Federal Register 
7754-7756, April 24, 1971) in the following respects: 
1. Paragraph (f) of section 207.1 would be amended as set 
forth below: 
§ 207.1 General Rule 
•k it 
"k it 
ie 
(f) Cro^lt_cxtended to broker or dealer subject to ftcp.u-
latton T. (1) No lender shall extend or maintain any credit for the 
Purpose of purchasing or carrying any margin security to any broker 
or dealer who is subject to Part 220 of this Chapter (Regulation T), 
and after October 1, 1971, no lender shall extend any credit to any 
customer to enable the customer to contribute capital to any broker or 
dealer who is subject to such Part, whether such contribution is in 
the form of a loan to such broker or dealer (whether subordinated or 
not) or of equities in the account of partners, or to purchase stock, 
In, any broker or dealer who is subject to such Part, whether with or 

1708 
- 2 
•• 
without collateral (ether than exempted securities). Where the credit 
or the proceeds of the loan or other contribution or purchase of stock 
is to be used in the ordinary course of business of such customer or 
such broker or dealer, such credit is presumed to be for the purpose 
of purchasing or carrying margin securities unless the lender has in 
his records a statement to the contrary obtained and executed in con-
formity with the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section. 
(2) The prohibition of this paragraph (£) shall not apply 
t:o credit which is unsecured or secured by collateral ether than 
1/ 
registered securities which is (i) made to a dealer- to aid in the 
distribution of securities to customers not through the medium of a 
national securities exchange, or (ii) extended t;o a customer whe is 
a broker or dealer subject to Part 220 or to a customer for the pur-
pose of making a loan or contribution of capital to such broker or 
dealer or to purchase stock in a broker or dealer when such stock is 
purchased directly from the Issuer and not as part of a public dis-
tribution if the extension of credit, loan or other contribution is 
in conformity with the requirements regarding satisfactory subordinate 
agreements or equitiec in the account of partners of a rule of the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (Rule 15c-l(c)(2)(A), (c)(4), and 
(c)(7) (17 CFR 240.I5c3~l (c)(2)(A), (c)(4), and (c)(7)) or of the 
capital rules of an exchange of which the broker or dealer is a 
member if the. members thereof are exempt 
> 
s 
„r 
... - - 
„ < 
- - • 
1 
17 As defined inT5 U.S.C. 78c(a)(5). 

1709 
- 3 -
therefrom by Rule" 15c3-l(b)(2) of the Commission (17 CFR 240.15c3-l 
(b)(2)) or to purchase stock in a broker or dealer which is a 
corporation; Provided, That in the case of credit described in this 
paragraph that is extended after October 1, 1971, and in the case of 
any renewal of such credit extended between April 17, 1971 and 
October 1, 1971, such extension of credit is subject to the following 
further conditions: (i) such credit has the approval of an appropriate 
committee of a national securities exchange or a national securities 
association, and the committee, in addition to being satisfied that 
the credit is not in contravention of any rule of the exchange or 
association, is satisfied that, if the broker or dealer or an 
affiliated corporation of such broker or dealer does any dealing in 
securities for its own account, the credit is not for the purpose of 
increasing the amount of such dealing, (ii) in no event can the sub-
ordinated loan or contribution be repaid or the stock be redeemed 
except (a) with the approval of an appropriate committee of a national 
securities exchange or national securities association in the ease of 
the death, disability, or (in the case cf a partner, officer, or 
employee of the broker dealer) involuntary retirement (or if the amount 
of such repayment or redemption is $10,000 or less, any retirement, 
whether voluntary or involuntary) of the customer, or (b) until one 
year after the subordinated extension of credit, loan, or contribution 
was first made or stock first purchased and until six months after the 
giving of written notice by the customer to such broker or dealer, the 

1710 
- 4 
•• 
Commission, the Securities Investor fcrotfection Cbt-tJbratioii* ahd any 
national securities exchange or national securities association of 
Which such broker or dealer is a member of intent to demand repayment 
the extension of credit, loan, or contribution or redemption of 
the stock, (iii) in no event may such credit, loan or contribution 
repaid or the stock be redeemed if the effect of such payment or 
Redemption would reduce the net capital of such broker or dealer below 
^ e amount required by the net capital rule or capital rule to which 
Guch broker or dealer is subject, or would otherwise be inconsistent 
*ith such rule, (iv) all of the proceeds of such extension of credit 
are so loaned or contributed to the capital of such broker or dealer 
or used to purchase such stock, and (v) the proceeds of any withdrawals 
such loan or contribution of capital from such broker or dealer by 
the customer or redemption of such stock shall be used to reduce or 
Retire said extension of credit. 
(3) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may 
bV Order exempt from the prohibitions of this paragraph (f) and the 
Requirements of this Part, either unconditionally or upon specified 
terms and conditions or for stated periods, any loan for the purpose of 
taking a loan or providing capital to a person who is subject to Part 220 
of this Chapter (Regulation T), upon a finding that the granting of such 
an exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for 
the protection of investors; Provided, That the Securities Investor Protection 
Corporation shall have certified to the Board that such action is 
aPpropriate under the circumstances. 

1711 
2. Section 220.4 would be amended by revising paragraph 
(f)(2) as cet forth below: 
§ 220.4 Special Accounts 
Vf * v * 
(f) Special miscellaneous account. * * * 
(2)(i) Subject to the provisions of subdivisions (iii) and 
(iv) of this subparagraph extend and maintain credit, (a) to or for 
any partner of a firm which is a member of a national securities exchange 
to enable such partner to make a contribution of capital to such firm, 
or to purchase stock in an affiliated corporation of such firm, or (b) 
to or for any person who is or will become the holder of stock of a 
corporation which is a member of a national, securities exchange to 
enable such person to purchase stock in such corporation, or to purchase 
stock in an affiliated corporation of such corporation; provided the 
lender as well as the borrower is a partner in such member firm or a 
stock holder in such member corporation, or the lender is a firm or a 
stockholder in such member corporation, or the lender is a firm or 
corporation which is a member of a national securities exchange and 
the borrower is a partner in such firm or a stockholder in such cor-
poration; 
* 
(ii) Subject- to the:provisions ;o£ 
and! 
vith respect £0 credit described irv; subdivision, (ii) :.«b)hsublet to 
subdivision (iv) of this subparagraph extend and maintain subordinated 
credit to another creditor for capital purposes: 
P r o v i d e d , That: 

1712 
- 
6 •• 
(a) Either the lender or the borrower is a firm or corpora-
tion which is a member of a national securities exchange, the other 
Party to the credit io an affiliated corporation of such member firm 
or corporation, and, in addition to the fact that an appropriate committee 
^ the exchange is satisfied that the credit is not in contravention of 
any rule of the exchange, the credit has the approval of such committee, or 
(b) The lender as well as the borrower is a member of such 
exchange, the credit has the approval of an appropriate committee of 
the exchange, and the committee, in addition to being satisfied that 
the credit is not in contravention of any rule of the exchange, is 
satisfied that the credit is outside the ordinary course of the lender's 
business, and that, if the borrower's firm or corporation or an affiliated 
corporation of such firm or corporation does any dealing in securities 
for its own account, the credit is not for the purpose of increasing 
the amount of such dealing. 
(iii) For the purpose of subdivisions (i), (ii) and (iv) of 
this subparagraph, the term "affiliated corporation" means a corporation 
all the common stock of which is owned directly or indirectly by the 
Member firm or general partners and employees of the firm, or by the 
member corporation or holders of voting stock and employees of the 
corporation and an appropriate committee of the exchange has approved 
'^Jmemljefc 'firnf'fe r o Y V ^ b e ^ t o ^ o t - b ^ t i ^ W ' 
toi'tft'elich:: 
affiliated corporation. 

1713 
- 7 -
(iv) No credit shall be extended pursuant to this sub-
Paragraph after October 1, 1971, and no such credit extended between 
April 16, 1971, and October 1, 1971, shall be renewed unless (a) in 
no event can the subordinated loan or contribution be repaid or the 
stock be redeemed except (A) with the approval of an appropriate 
committee of a national securities exchange or national securities 
association in the case of the death, disability, or (in the case of 
a partner, officer, or employee of the broker or dealer) involuntary 
retirement (or if the amount of such repayment or redemption is $10,000 
°r less, any retirement, whether voluntary or involuntary) of the 
borrower, or (R) until one year after such loan or contribution was 
first made or such stock first purchased and until six months after 
the giving of written notice by the borrower to the firm, the Securities 
and Exchange Commission, the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, 
and any national securities exchange or national securities association 
of which such broker or dealer is a member of intent to demand repayment 
of such loan or contribution or redemption of such stock, (b) in no 
event may such loan or other contribution of capital be repaid or the 
stock be redeemed by a creditor to whom the loan or contribution was 
made or whose stock was the subject of purchase, if the effect of such 
Payment or redemption would reduce the net capital of such creditor 
below the amount required by the net capital rule or capital rule to 
Which such creditor is subject, or would otherwise be inconsistent with 
such rule; (c) all of the proceeds of such extension of credit are so 

loaned or contributed to the capital of such firm or affiliated 
corporation or used to purchase such stock and (d) the proceeds of 
withdrawal of such loan or contribution of capital from such 
creditor or redemption of such stock shall be used to reduce or retire 
said extension of credit. 
3. Section 221.2 would be amended by revising paragraph (m) 
section 221.3 would be amended by adding subparagraph (b) (4) and 
^vising paragraph (f•) as set forth below: 
§ 221.2 Exceptions to General Rule. 
* -A- -k 1t i< 
(m) Any credit extended to a broker or dealer subject to 
Part 220 (Regulation T) or to a customer for the purpose of making a 
loan or contribution of capital to such broker or dealer if the loan 
contribution is in conformity with the requirements regarding 
8 a ti 
sfactory subordination agreements or equities in the accounts of 
Partners of a rule of the Securities and Exchange Commission (Rule 
l5c3~l(c)(2)(a), (c)(4), and (c)(7) (17 CFR 240.15c3-l(c)(2)(a), 
(c)(4)t and (c)(7)) or the capital rules of an exchange of which the 
broker or dealer is a member if the members thereof are exempt 
herefrom by Rule l!>c3~l(b)(2) of the Commission (17 CFR 240.15c3-l 
(b)(2)) or to purchase stock in a broker or dealer which is a 
corporation when such stock is purchased directly from the issuer and 
n°t as part of a public distribution: Provided, That in the case of 

1715 
. 9 -
credit: described in this paragraph that is extended after October 1, 1971, 
and any renewal of such credit extended to a broker or dealer between 
July 9, 1971, and October 1, 1971, or extended to a customer to make 
such a loan or contribution of capital to, or to purchase such stock in 
a broker or dealer between April 16, 1971 and October 1, 1971, such sub-
ordinated loan, contribution, or purchase of stock is subject to the 
following further conditions: (1) such credit has the approval of an 
appropriate committee of a national securities exchange or a national 
j 
securities association and the committee, in addition to being satisfied 
that the credit is not in contravention of any rules of the exchange or 
association, is satisfied that, if the broker or dealer or an affiliated 
corporation of such broker or dealer does any dealing in securities for 
its own account, the credit is not for the purpose of increasing the 
amount of such dealing; (2) in no event can the subordinated loan or 
contribution be repaid or the stock be redeemed except (i) with the 
approval of an appropriate committee of a national securities exchange 
or national securities association in the case of the death, disability, 
or (in the case of a partner, officer, or employee of the broker or 
dealer) involuntary retirement (or if the amount of such repayment or 
redemption is $10,000 or less, any retirement, whether voluntary or 
involuntary) of the customer, or (ii) until one year after the sub-
ordinated loan or contribution was first made or stock first purchased 
and until six months after the giving of written notice by the customer 
to the broker or dealer, the Commission, the Securities Investor Protection 

1716 
. f 
- id -
Corporation, and any national securities exchange or national securities 
association of which such broker or dealer is a member of intent to 
demand repayment of the loan or contribution or redemption of the stock, 
(3) in no event may such loan or contribution be repaid or the stock be 
redeemed if the effect of such- payment or redemption would reduce the 
net capital of the broker or dealer below the amount required by any 
net capital or capital rule to which the broker or dealer is subject, 
or would otherwise be inconsistent with such rule, (A) all of the proceed 
of such extension of credit are so loaned or contributed to the capital 
of such firm or affiliated corporation, or used to purchase such stock 
and (5) the proceeds of any withdrawal of such loan or contribution of 
capital from such broker or dealer or redemption of such stock shall be 
used to reduce or retire said extension of credit. 
§ 221,3 Miscellaneous provisions 
vv * * vV * 
(b) Purpose of a credit. * * * 
(4) Credit extended to a broker or dealer subject to Part 220 
'(Regulation T), or to enable a customer to contribute capital to such a 
broker or dealer, whether such contribution is in the form of a loan to 
the broker or dealer (whether subordinated or not), or of equities in 
the accounts of partners, or a purchase of stock in an incorporated 
broker or dealer when such stock is purchased directly from the issuer 
and not as part of a public distribution?-/ is "purpose" credit. 
2? MierTcrecUt is extended to purchase stock in a broker or dealer other 
than directly from the issuer or other than in a public distribution 
such credit of course is "purpose" credit if the stock is "margin 
stock" as described in 5 221.3 W . 

I ' >V;v 
171 
~ 11 -
W * * -k * 
(q) Credit required to be secured. Any credit extended (1) 
for a purpose described in. subparagraph (b)(4) of this section or (2) 
t o a customer not subject to this part or to Part 220 of this Chapter 
(Regulation T) who is engaged principally, or as one of the customer's 
important activities, in the business of extending credit for the pur-
! 
of purchasing or carrying margin stocks, is a credit for the 
Purpose of purchasing or carrying such stocks unless the credit and 
purposes are effectively and unmistakably separated and dis-
associated from any financing or refinancing of any purchasing or 
carrying of or trading in such stocks. Any such credit described in 
subparagraph (b)(4) of this section or extended to any such customer 
unless the credit is so separated and disassociated or is excepted by 
§ 221.2, is a credit "subject to § 221.1" regardless of whether or not 
lhe credit is secured by any stock; and no bank shall extend any such 
credit subject to 5 221.1 without collateral or without the credit being 
secured as would be required by this part if it were secured by any 
stock. Any such credit subject to § 221.1 shall be subject to the other 
Provisions of this part applicable to credit subject to § 221.1, 
including provisions regarding withdrawal and substitution of collateral 
A. The proposed revision of paragraph (f) in § 207.1 would 
delay the effective date of the amendment to October 1, 1971; clarify 
that the prohibition of this paragraph does not apply to credit on 
exempted securities; clarify that the exemption provided by subparagraph 

- 12 
•• 
(f)(2) is not available for publicly traded stock in an incorporated 
broker or dealer; remove the requirement that credit of the kind 
described therein be actually secured and substitute a requirement 
that an appropriate committee of the exchange or national securities 
a£Jsocintion of which the broker or dealer is a member be satisfied that 
tlle proceeds of the credit will not be used to increase the amount of 
baling in securities by the broker or dealer for its own account; 
Provide that credit is eligible for the exemption even though an amount 
UP to $10,000 is withdrawable with the permission of an appropriate 
coirsnitfcee of an exchange or national securities association upon the 
retirement of a partner, officer, or employee of the broker or dealer 
ere expiration of the one year waiting period; provide that notice 
of withdrawal of the contribution may be given after six months of the 
ir*itial one-year waiting period have passed; and provide that such 
tl°tice must be given to any exchange or national securities association 
o f which the broker or dealer is a member, as well as to the broker or 
dcaler itself, the Commission, and the Securities Investor Protection 
C°rporation. 
5. The proposed revision of paragraph (f)(2) in § 220.4 
v?°uld clarify that the restrictions imposed by subdivision (iv) do not 
aPPly to credit extended by a firm to its partners or by an incorporated 
broker/d caler to its officers or employees, or officers or employees of 
its affiliated corporations; would delay the effective date of the amend 
^ftt to October 1, 1971; provide that credit Is eligible for the exempti 

1719 
- 13 
•• 
even though an amount up to $10,000 is withdrawable with the permission 
of appropriate committee of an exchange or national securities association 
upon the retirement of a partner, officer, or employee of the broker or 
dealer before the expiration of the one-year waiting period; provide 
that notice of withdrawal of the contribution may be given after six 
months of the initial one-year waiting period have passed; and provide 
that such notice must be given to any exchange or national securities 
association of which the broker or dealer is a member, as well as to 
the broker or dealer itself, the Commission, and the Securities 
Investor Protection Corporation. 
6. The proposed revision of paragraph (m) in § 221.2 would 
provide that credit extended directly by banks to brokers and dealers 
would be subject to the same restrictions on withdrawal as credit 
extended to third persons for the purpose of making contributions of 
capital to the brokers and dealers; clarify that the exemption is not 
available for publicly traded stock in an incorporated broker or dealer; 
remove the requirement that credit of the kind described therein be 
actually secured and substitute a requirement that an appropriate 
committee of the exchange or national securities association of which 
the broker or dealer is a member be satisfied that the proceeds of the 
credit will not be used to increase the amount of dealing in securities 
by the broker or dealer for its own account; provide that credit is 
eligible for the exemption even though an amount up to $10,000 is 
v?ithdrawable upon the retirement of a partner, officer, or employee 
of the broker or dealer before expiration of the one-year waiting period; 

1720 
- 14 •• 
Provide that notice of withdrawal of the contribution may be given 
after cix months of the initial one-year waiting period have passed; 
and provide that such notice must be given to any exchange or national 
securities association of which the broker or dealer is a member, as 
well as to the broker or dealer itself, the Commiesion, and the 
Securities Investor Protection Corporation. 
7. The revision to the proposed new subparagraph (b)(4) of 
l§ 22.1,3 would clarify that credit extended directly to a broker or 
dealer, by a bank, for the purpose of providing capital to the broker 
or dealer is "purpose" credit, but that credit to purchase or carry 
Publicly traded stock of a broker or dealer is not "purpose" credit 
(unless the stock is itself a margin stock). 
8. The proposed new subparagraph (c)(2) of § 221.3 is 
deleted. 
9. Paragraph (q) of § 221.3 would be amended to provide 
that credit extended for the purpose of providing capital to a broker 
dealer, as described in subparagraph (b)(4) of § 221.3, must be 
secured by collateral held by the bank unless segregated and disassociated 
from the business of purchasing and carrying securities, or exempted by 
§ 221.2. 
. 
If adopted by the Board, the changes will apply to credit 
extended by banks, broker/dealers, and persons subject to Regulation G 
after October 1, 1971, and to renewals after October 1, 1971, of credit 
extended by banks after April 16, 1971, except in the case of credit 

extended by banks directly to broker/dealers where the restrictibns 
I <>.. 
Uould apply to such credit extended after October 1, 1971, and to 
renewals after October X, 1971, of such credit extended after July 9, 
1971. 
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) of 
Title 5, United States Code, and § 262.2(a) of the rules of procedure 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 262.2(a)). 
' • ! 
To aid in the consideration of these matters by the Board, 
interested persons are invited to submit relevant data, viex^s, or 
arguments. Any such material should be submitted in writing to the 
Secretary, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received not later than August 20, 
1571, Such material will be made available for inspection and copying 
upon request, except as provided in § 261.6(a) of the Board1s Rules 
Regarding Availability of Information. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 6, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
[SEAL] 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
7/6/71 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S o r F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E ! 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 7, 1971 
Mr. C. William Fischer 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Fischer: 
This is in response to your request for the views of 
the Board on S. Con. Res. 25, which would, among other things, 
request the President to consider calling for an International 
Monetary Conference to review the long-term international 
monetary arrangements among nations. 
The Board does not favor enactment of this resolution. 
We are very much aware of the problems which are 
referred to in the resolution, and we are sympathetic to many 
of its objectives. It is very unlikely, however, that the 
proposal for a conference could accomplish its purposes during 
the limited time in which foreign exchange markets could, in 
practice, be kept closed. Furthermore, there are appropriate 
international forums in which international monetary arrange-
ments are discussed and decided upon. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

1 
. / 'wO 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
7/6/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R W E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 6, 1971 
Mr. c. William Fischer 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Executive Office of the 
President 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Fischer: 
This letter is in response to your request for the Board's 
views on a bill "To establish a Federal Financing Bank . . . " 
The Board strongly supports this proposed legislation, which 
It believes will contribute significantly to the control and coordina-
tion of Federal agency financing and to better integration of the agency 
Programs themselves. Indeed, the Board hopes that the proposed insti-
tutional arrangements will lead ultimately to the creation of a func-
tional credit program budget. 
The Board would like to emphasize in particular the salutory 
implications for financial markets of consolidating the various agency 
issues into one kind of security. Scale, timing, and uniformity should 
result in substantial reduction in interest costs and improved market-
ability of agency-type securities, and permit more flexible financing 
Programs. The Board notes with regret that (1) the bill would not 
require all agencies to finance through the proposed bank, and (2) that 
it would prohibit the largest Federally sponsored agencies from doing 
so. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

Item Noi 
7/6/71 X 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
J*RST BANCSHARES OF FLORIDA, INC., 
° c a Raton, Florida, 
f°r approval of acquisition of 80 per 
c^nt or more of the voting shares of 
Fl*st National Bank of Palm Beach 
Gardens, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida, 
a Proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Bancshares of Florida, Inc., 
B°ca Raton, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
f°r the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
m°re of the voting shares of First National Bank of Palm Beach Gardens, 
Beach Gardens, Florida ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the 
Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller 
has recommended approval of this application. 

1725 
lit* 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 29, 1971 (36 Federal Register 8082), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consider-
ation. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
eftd managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant is the sixteenth largest banking organization in 
Florida and controls four banks with total deposits of $128.1 million, 
^presenting ,9 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in Florida. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
May 31f 1971.) Since Bank is a proposed new bank, consummation of the 
Proposal will not increase Applicant's share of total deposits in any 
market nor affect deposit concentration. 
Bank will be situated in Palm Beach Gardens, which is located 
north of West Palm Beach. It will compete in a market, defined as 
approximately Palm Beach Gardens, Riviera Beach, Juno Beach, North 

1726 
-3-
Palm Beach, and the northern portion of West Palm Beach. Applicant 
Presently controls one bankin this market and thereby controls about 
16 per cent of market deposits and ranks third in size among the six 
banking organizations located therein. 
Since Bank is a proposed new bank, no existing competition 
would be eliminated. It appears unlikely that acquisition by Applicant 
a second bank in the market would have undue adverse effects on any 
other bank in the area since Applicant is not dominant in the market and 
each of the other banks is affiliated or associated with a holding company 
or banking group. Nor is it likely that entry into the market by others 
would be foreclosed. The population of Bank's projected service area has 
increased fivefold in the past decade and continued growth is expected. 
Therefore, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposal would 
not have significant adverse effects on competition in any relevant area. 
The Board has considered Applicant's current efforts to improve 
the capital positions of certain subsidiaries. On this basis, the 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant, 
its subsidiaries, and Bank are regarded as consistent with approval of 
the application. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the community to be served lend some weight toward approval of the 
application because Bank would serve an area where only one bank is now 
located and would be able, as a subsidiary of Applicant, to offer a 
full range of banking services to residents of the area. It is the 
Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 

f AJ 
{ 
±44 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons summarized abovei that 
said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acquisition 
so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the date of this Order, and provided further that (c) First National Bank 
Palm Beach Gardens shall be open for .business not later than six months 
after the date of this Order. The periods described in (b) and (c) hereof 
may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors. July 7, 1971, 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent'and. not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell and Brimmer. 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A« Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

172S 
Item No. 5 
7/6/71 
CODE OF EMERGENCY FEDERAL REGULATIONS 
CHAPTER 32 - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
EMERGENCY REGULATION NO. 1 
Operations of Federal Reserve Banks 
Effective immediately, section 10 is amended to read as 
follows: 
Section 10„ Purchases and Sales of Government Securities, 
Federal Reserve Banks are authorized, subject to the provisions of Section 
12A of the Federal Reserve Act, and the provisions of Resolution of Federal 
Open Market. Committee Authorizing Certain Actions by Federal Reserve Banks 
^ring an Emergency, to purchase, at prices slightly below those on 
comparable maturities of securities just prior to the attack, and to sell 
S& Government securities on their own account and to make such transac-
tions with bank and nonbank customers„ 
2a 
The purpose of this amendment is to eliminate material that 
has become obsolete, by improvements in record-keeping techniques. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 6, 197U 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
