l&i 
a
• 
\ tu < 
i. • •. 
'WV'""^ 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 18, 1967 
1 V ' 
i' 7' 
: : IM ;>• 

System on Saturday, November 18, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 2:35 p.m. 
4412 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
• i 
iiffti 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daanel/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmerl./ 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Koch, Deputy Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Reynolds, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Bryant of the Division of International 
Finance 
Discount rate increase and related matters. Chairman Martin 
n°ted that Governors Daane and Brimmer had arrived in New York en route 
Europe and that they should be back in the Board's offices later 
t-his afternoon. He proposed that this session therefore be limited to 
aIu,, * 
.Av 
srxtts 
Attended late afternoon session only. 

4413 
11/18/67 
-2-
a general discussion of developments and that any decisions be deferred 
until all of the members were available to participate in them. 
The Chairman then said that he and Governor Robertson had 
been at the Treasury this morning for further discussion of U.S. 
Participation, which it was understood would be in the amount of 
$500 million, in the package of international credit assistance being 
^ranged for the United Kingdom. He had been endeavoring to proceed 
Within the scope of the authority delegated to him by the Federal 
°Pen Market Committee, as reviewed at yesterday's meeting of the Board, 
Dut it now appeared likely that it would be preferred that Federal 
Reserve participation of $250 million in the credit assistance package 
in the form of an increase of that amount in the reciprocal currency 
agreement ("swap" line) with the Bank of England, thus raising the 
a8reement from $1.35 billion to $1.6 billion. If matters worked out 
way, an additional action on the part of the Open Market Committee 
Would be required. 
Mr. Solomon commented that Mr. Coombs, Special Manager of 
th 
e System Open Market Account, felt rather strongly that the swap 
line with the Bank of England should not be increased at the moment, 
° n e reason being that such a move would have to be announced promptly 
and he feared that that would jeopardize relations with other central 
banl 
Unc 
V 
anks with which the Federal Reserve might want to adjust its swap 
les later. 

4414 
11/18/67 
-3-
In reply to a question, the Chairman said that the British 
Prime Minister was scheduled to make a speech at 5:05 p.m. this 
afternoon (Washington time) in which he would refer, although not in 
specific terms, to the scope of the international credit assistance 
Package and also would discuss the austerity measures being put into 
effect by the British Government. The Chairman understood that the 
Prime Minister would mention the $1.4 billion standby arrangement 
obtained from the International Monetary Fund and in addition would 
indicate the extent of commitments received from a number of countries, 
including the United States, to bring the total credit assistance 
Package up to the neighborhood of $2.75 to $3 billion. 
In reply to another question, the Chairman said there appeared 
to be 
no reason to call the Open Market Committee into session or to 
Poll the members of the Committee at this juncture, for the details 
U.S. participation in the credit assistance package still had not 
keen completely worked out. Thus far he had committed the Federal 
Reserve only to a contribution of $250 million, which was within the 
Committee's authorization, and the form of that contribution was still 
left open. 
Question was raised with regard to the issuance of a press 
release by the Board, as discussed preliminarily at yesterday's 
feting, and the Chairman indicated that in his present thinking it 
Would be sufficient if such a statement were released in time for use 

441 
11/18/67 
-4-
in the press on Monday. By this he meant an actual release Sunday 
afternoon as opposed to tonight. 
In a further discussion of alternatives as to timing, 
Governor Robertson suggested that if, as presumed, the release 
included announcement of the approval of an increase in the Federal 
Reserve discount rate, issuance of the release at about one o'clock 
°n Sunday afternoon would permit inclusion in the statement of the 
names of all Federal Reserve Banks whose directors had by that time 
fixed the approved rate. 
Reference then was made to a revised draft of a statement 
that the Board might issue, this draft having been prepared in the 
light of 
suggestions made at yesterday's meeting, and there ensued 
a discussion of various possible further modifications. As a result 
It was understood that another draft would be prepared, to be 
Mailable later this afternoon. 
The later 
session, it was agreed, would begin at such time 
a s the Chairman had returned from another meeting of Government officials 
t o be held at 4:30 this afternoon. It was assumed that Governors Daane 
and Brimmer also would then be available for participation in the 
decislons to be made, including particularly the decision with respect 
4. 
the discount rate. 
V ,'» 
S 
On this point it was noted that an unknown factor at this 
t i m e was the extent to which the discount rate of the Bank of England 
(th 
a e Bank rate) would be increased. 

h 
11/18/67 
-5-
Chairman Martin noted that Mr. Coombs and President Hayes 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York were inclined toward the view 
that an increase in the Federal Reserve discount rate of a full 
Percentage point (to 5 per cent) would be preferable to a move to 
4-1/2 per cent. He had vacillated in his own thinking, the Chairman 
said, but he was now slightly in favor of 4-1/2 per cent. However, 
it was admittedly a debatable point. 
At the Chairman's suggestion, there followed a general 
discussion of the arguments for and against a move to 5 per cent. 
(Note: The directors of two Federal Reserve Banks, Chicago and Dallas, 
had acted earlier to establish a rate of 4-1/2 per cent, subject to 
fche Board's approval, so those actions were before the Board for 
c°nsideration.) 
The principal argument cited for moving to 5 per cent was 
that foreigners would interpret such action as indicating a strong 
determination on the part of the U.S. to defend the dollar, much more 
S o than a move to 4-1/2 per cent. 
VjiL-' \ , 
One of the arguments against moving to 5 per cent came in 
t! 
e form of an observation that the discount rate had not been changed 
ky a f u n percentage point in recent years and that such a move at 
thi 
s time might be highly disturbing to the U.S. domestic situation. 

. < *, . i 
4 4417 
11/18/67 
-6-
Another reason seen in favor of the milder action was that 
since the British authorities would be engaged in doing everything 
possible in the days to come to strengthen confidence in the new 
parity of the pound sterling it would be inadvisable to take an 
action that might be regarded as a move to offset what the British 
were doing. In somewhat more general terms, it was suggested that 
from the standpoint of the strength of the dollar the best posture 
w°uld be one of "business as usual" to try to encourage in the markets 
an attitude that the British devaluation had been deemed necessary 
because of the problems affecting that country and its currency and 
W a s not a reflection on the U.S. dollar. In other words, the U.S. 
should not seem to protest too much and indicate to the market that a 
great deal of pressure was anticipated and the U.S. was girding itself 
t o meet that pressure. 
As to the interest rate ceilings under Regulation Q, Payment 
Interest on Deposits, the staff expressed the view that a decision 
to 
m°ve the discount rate by a full percentage point would require 
llmnediate action to raise the ceiling on large-denomination certificates 
deposit. When it came to the question whether such action would be 
Necessary if the discount rate was changed to 4-1/2 per cent, staff 
Pinion was somewhat divided, but there was a view that the Board 
* 
°uld afford to postpone a decision for a matter of days, or perhaps 
Ven weeks, and watch market developments. 

' 4418 
11/18/67 
-7-
After further discussion of possibilities as they might unfold, 
including likely developments in the Euro-dollar market and in terms of 
the price of gold, it was determined to be the tentative view of the 
Board members present that the preferable discount rate action would 
he to move to 4-1/2 per cent at this time, with no action at this 
Juncture on the ceiling rates. 
This sentiment having been determined, and it being under-
stood that the Chairman was free so to indicate at meetings to be 
held within the Government this afternoon, it was agreed that after 
the British had made the devaluation announcement at 4:30 today (Washington 
time) the Secretary of the Board should get in touch with the Presidents 
the Federal Reserve Banks and inform them that it seemed likely 
that the Board would approve a discount rate of 4-1/2 per cent, thus 
giving the Presidents an opportunity to convene or poll the directors 
the respective Banks and permit them to establish such a rate if 
^e Bank desired to be named in the announcement planned to be made 
cib 
°ut one o'clock tomorrow afternoon. 
There followed further discussion of the press statement 
Pr°posed to be issued by the Board tomorrow, and it was understood 
^ t the staff would prepare another draft in light of the comments 
niade. 
» 
* .s t. 
. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room 
^ t 
f \ •45 p.m. with all members of the Board present. Staff attendance 

4419 
11/18/67 
-8-
was the same as at the earlier session except that Mr. Hexter was not 
Present. 
Discount rate increase and related matters. Chairman Martin 
and Mr. Solomon reported that in the wake of the pound sterling 
devaluation announcement only a few of the minor countries had decided 
t o change the parity of their currencies. The major industrial 
c°untries had indicated that they planned to take no such action at 
the present time. 
The Chairman then said that nothing had occurred at the 
meeting from which he had just returned that would make it seem 
necessary to alter the course of action on which the Board had 
tentatively decided earlier. 
Governor Daane stated that he had been filled in on the 
^°ard's deliberations and that the course of action tentatively agreed 
uPon seemed appropriate, and Governor Brimmer commented to the same 
effect. 
Accordingly, the Chairman referred to a revised draft of 
• 
Prpq G statement that had been prepared following the session of the 
°ard earlier this afternoon, and after a brief discussion all members 
of n e Board indicated that they found the new draft acceptable. 
t in < 
The Secretary reported that he had gotten in touch with 
most c the Reserve Bank Presidents in accordance with the instruction 
Rii n to him by the Board at the earlier session and that the directors 

m
m 
• 
; 
* 4420 
11/18/67 
-9-
of one Bank (Atlanta) already had acted to establish a discount rate 
of 4-1/2 per cent, so at least three Banks could be included in the 
announcement tomorrow. He added that the directors of the New York 
Bank planned to hold a meeting tomorrow morning. 
Question was raised as to what procedure would be followed 
a Reserve Bank advised that its directors had established a rate 
o f 5 per cent, and it was understood that the Secretary would inform 
Bank that the Board had not authorized approval of such rate. 
The Board then approved unanimously, effective November 20, 
1967, the actions taken by the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks 
Atlanta, Chicago, and Dallas establishing a rate of 4-1/2 per cent 
discounts and advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a 
o f the Federal Reserve Act and a rate of 5 per cent on advances to 
11 
Prober banks under section 10(b) of the Act. Also approved were 
rates of 5-1/2 per cent for Chicago and Dallas and 6-1/2 per cent for 
Atl 
anta on advances to individuals, partnerships, and corporations 
e r than member banks under the last paragraph of section 13 of the 
. 
J. • -• - 
,, 
Act. 
..•.•HK> ii < 
In addition, if the directors of other Federal Reserve Banks 
ac^vised of the establishment of similar rates, the Board authorized 
th Secretary to inform those Banks of the Board's approval of the 
a°tion taken 

' 4421 
11/18/67 
-10-
(Note: Pursuant to the foregoing authorization, the 
Secretary advised the following Reserve Banks of Board approval of 
the following rates, effective the dates indicated: 4-1/2 per cent 
°n discounts and advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a, 
c 
Per cent on advances to member banks under section 10(b), and 5-1/2 per 
cent (except 6 per cent in the case of Cleveland) on advances to 
individuals, partnerships, and corporations other than member banks 
• ;• 
j 
^ • * • \ i . 
^he directors of the New York Bank, meeting on Sunday morning, at 
>' jMtJ'.'v* 
fi 
rst established a rate of 5 per cent on discounts and advances to 
^ember banks under sections 13 and 13a. Upon being advised that that 
• :< S . | v-. 
would not be approved by the Board of Governors, on the ground 
tH 
a more moderate response to the existing situation was appropriate, 
the 
e directors established rates of 4-1/2 per cent on the aforesaid 
d i 
Scounts and advances, 5 per cent on advances to member banks under 
SgQUJ 
10(b), and 6 per cent on advances under the last paragraph 
Of ection 13, and the Secretary advised the Bank of approval of 
Such rates effective November 20, 1967.) 
last paragraph of section 13: 
Boston 
November 20, 1967 
Cleveland 
November 20, 1967 
Richmond 
November 20, 1967 
Minneapolis 
November 20, 1967 
Kansas City 
November 20, 1967 
San Francisco 
November 20, 1967 
Philadelphia 
November 21, 1967 
St. Louis 
November 27, 1967 

*'» 
r 
AA*?'* 
' vU^Jki'i'f^l* ; • 
- •• • 
1 ... -v. • . . • 
• • " . „ 
. ' \ 
11/18/67 
-11-
The concluding portion of today's discussion included 
y'^-'v.v -
comments on the likelihood that certain additional countries, but not 
the major industrial countries, would decide to devalue their currencies 
as a result of the British action. The Secretary confirmed that in 
accordance with the usual practice cables quoting the text of the 
Board's press release would be sent to the heads of foreign central 
hanks for their information once the release had been issued tomorrow 
afternoon. Question was raised whether there should be any further 
communication with foreign central banks, and it was indicated that 
che Cha irman might be talking with the governors of some of the central 
hanks by telephone. However, it was noted that from country to country 
different conditions would prevail that would have a bearing on the 
response considered appropriate by them to the devaluation of the 
P°und sterling. 
(Note: Attached as Item No. 1 is a copy of the release 
issued from the Board's offices on Sunday afternoon pursuant to the 
Understanding at today's meeting.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
^ 
Secretary 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
Item No. 1 
11/18/67 
For Immediate release. 
November 19, 1967. 
In the light of the action of the British Government to change 
the 
Parity of the pound, the Federal Reserve System announced today that 
t 
taken actions to assure the continued orderly functioning of U.S. 
nancial markets and to maintain the availability of reserves to the 
a^king system on terms and conditions that will foster sustainable economic 
g 0v,th at home and a sound international position for the dollar. 
The Board of Governors unanimously approved actions by the 
di 
rectors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Cleveland, 
Richnv °nd, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San 
ancisco, increasing the discount rates at those banks to 4-1/2 per cent, 
ft 
Qtn ^ per cent, effective Monday, November 20, 1967.. In addition, the 
affirmed that borrowing by member banks for purposes of making 
adi 
mcnts to market pressures is an appropriate use of the discount 
anism. 
conf 
atid 
At the same time the Federal Reserve Board expressed its 
)Qth 
i h 
° n c e in the basic economic and financial strength of the United States 
P^dged to do its full share in maintaining the soundness of the dollar 
domestically and internationally. 
0 
