Minutes for April 18, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

•1461 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, April 18, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mrs. Heller, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Golden, Senior Economist, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Lyon and Maguire, Supervisory Review 
Examiners, and Miss Greene, Assistant Review 
Examiner, Division of Examinations 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letters to First National City Bank, New York, 
1-2 
New York, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish branches in (1) the Kwun Tong 
District of Hong Kong, and (2) the Miraflores 
a*ea of Lima, Peru. 

1462 
4/18/67 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to Suburban Trust Company, Hyattsville, 
3 
Maryland, noting without objection its request 
that the application of Columbia Bank and Trust 
Company, Columbia, Maryland, to become a member 
of the Federal Reserve System be withdrawn. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
4 
approving the payment of salaries to four offi-
cers at the rates fixed by the Bank's Board of 
Directors. 
In connection with Item No. 3, Governor Brimmer referred to 
the fact that a request had been made that the original documents, 
including exhibits, submitted with respect to the application for mem-
bership of Columbia Bank and Trust Company be returned. 
Mr. Hackley observed that compliance with such a request would 
seem to be in violation of section 2071 of Title 18 of the U.S. Code. 
Copies, of course, could be furnished. He had so advised a representa-
tive of the applicant, and he had received an indication that the matter 
would not be pursued further. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the record would be clearer if 
this point was noted in the Board's reply, and the letter as transmitted 
reflected that suggestion. 
Application of Allied Bankshares Corp. (Items 5-7). There had 
been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's 
denial on March 27, 1967, of the application of Allied Bankshares Corp., 
Norfolk, Virginia, to become a bank holding company through the acquisi-
tion of more than 50 per cent of the voting shares of Virginia National 

1463 
4/18/67 
-2-
Bank, Norfolk, and The Central National Bank of Richmond. A dissenting 
statement by Governors Shepardson and Daane also had been prepared. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 5 and 6. A copy of 
the dissenting statement of Governors Shepardson and Daane is attached 
as Item No. 7. 
Members of the staff not concerned with the remaining items on 
the agenda then withdrew. 
Inquiry re banking and other affiliations (Item No. 8). There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated April 14, 1967, from Mr. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary, relating to a request from Chairman Patman of the 
House Banking and Currency Committee for a list of affiliations with 
banks or other private business organizations of members of the Board, 
officers and directors of the Federal Reserve Banks, and members of the 
Federal Advisory Council. Attached to the memorandum was a draft of 
reply. 
During discussion of the draft letter, favorable consideration 
was given to a suggestion that mention be made of the fact that the 
legislative history indicated that the Federal Advisory Council should 
be representative of the views of the banking industry. 
On the proposal to furnish copies of biographical sketches 
supplied by directors at the time of appointment, Governor Brimmer 
observed that no detailed description of the procedure followed in 

1464 
4/18/67 
-2-
obtaining such sketches appeared to be necessary, and the furnishing 
of such a description might simply lead to questions as to why the 
sketches were not required to be kept up to date. 
After further discussion, during which certain other changes 
were agreed upon, unanimous approval was given to the transmittal of a 
letter to Chairman Patman in a form reflecting the suggestions made at 
this meeting. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 8. 
Report by Governor Daane. Governor Daane reported initial infor-
mation received concerning the nature of the communique issued by the 
finance ministers of the European Economic Community countries following 
their recent meeting in Munich, Germany, and he went on to discuss the 
implications of a position such as suggested by the communique for the 
forthcoming round of negotiations relating to the creation of a new 
international reserve asset. 
Messrs. Koch, Deputy Director, and Keir, Chief, Capital Markets 
Section, Division of Research and Statistics, and Forrestal, Senior 
Attorney, Legal Division, entered the room at this point. 
Act of September 21, 1966. Chairman Martin referred to the 
discussion at the meeting on April 13, 1967, regarding a request from 
the Bureau of the Budget for the views of the Board on a Treasury draft 
bill to make permanent the authority contained in the Act of September 21, 
1966 (Public Law 89-597). The Chairman noted that Governors Daane and 
Brimmer were not present at the April 13 meeting and indicated that 
their preliminary views would be appreciated. 

1465 
4/18/67 
-2-
Governor Brimmer expressed himself as strongly opposed to the 
incorporation into permanent legislation of the "sense of Congress" 
clause (section 1) of the Act, which clause provides that the financial 
regulatory agencies in implementing their powers under the law "shall 
take action to bring about the reduction of interest rates to the maxi-
mum extent feasible in the light of prevailing money market and general 
economic conditions." That clause, he pointed out, related to a specific 
situation that no longer prevailed. Its retention would provide a peg 
on which critics could assert that the Board had been asked by the 
Congress to keep interest rates low permanently. 
Governor Daane likewise expressed reluctance to have the "sense 
of Congress" clause retained. However, he was not certain that the 
Board would be hampered unduly in its operations by the inclusion of 
that provision. He raised a question about the advisability of opposing 
the retention of that clause strenuously if it appeared that there was 
no prospect for its removal. 
Chairman Martin commented that he had talked with Treasury 
officials since the April 13 meeting. As he had said at the time of 
that meeting, he personally did not favor the legislation. All things 
considered, however, he felt that it might be better to go along with 
the bill as drafted but, in doing so, to make the point that the Board 
favored as low interest rates as possible without producing inflationary 
pressures. It could be added that in the event such pressures developed 
the Board would feel justified in seeing interest rates rise. 

1466 
4/18/67 
-2-
Governor Brimmer commented that he would not want to jeopardize 
the passage of legislation by making a futile effort to delete the "sense 
of Congress" clause, because he would like to retain the flexibility 
provided in the Act of September 21, 1966. On the other hand, he felt 
that the Board should express reservations, short of asking expressly 
that the "sense of Congress" clause be removed. 
Governor Daane felt that the course suggested by the Chairman 
was perhaps the best approach. The Board was always in favor of the 
lowest interest rates compatible with money market and general economic 
conditions, and in construing the "sense of Congress" clause much would 
seem to depend on the conditions prevailing at a given time. 
Governor Brimmer said that he would be opposed to the use of 
the ceiling rate authority on a quarter-to-quarter basis, and Governor 
Daane agreed, adding that the question seemed to be primarily one of 
tactics. 
Chairman Martin mentioned that Governor Robertson had said at 
the April 13 meeting that he would like to see the draft bill enacted 
in order to retain the flexible authority provided therein, but with 
section 1 omitted. 
Governor Brimmer said he agreed with Governor Robertson's view. 
He would want to resist any notion that the Board was agreeing to use 
the authority to set rate ceilings in order to force down the rates 
paid on savings deposits and share accounts. Such a technique, he noted, 

1467 
4/18/67 
-2-
was currently being advocated by some savings and loan regulatory offi-
cials . 
Governor Daane observed that strong opposition to section 1 
might run the risk of substitution of an even more undesirable provi-
s ion. 
In further discussion Mr. Hackley suggested that a letter might 
be sent to the Budget Bureau endorsing the proposed bill but bringing 
out that section 1 was included in the original legislation in the con-
text of a situation then existing, and that in the Board's view it 
would not be desirable to retain such a provision in permanent legisla-
tion. The letter could also state that the Board favored lower interest 
rates to the extent conditions permitted, but that there might be times 
when higher interest rates would be called for in the interest of the 
economy. 
Governor Brimmer suggested the possibility of developing in the 
letter that the behavior of interest rates was not inexorably bound up 
with the interest rate ceilings, but Governor Daane expressed the view 
that it would be safer simply to indicate a general desire for low 
interest rates, with recognition that higher interest rates might be 
required under inflationary conditions. 
Governor Brimmer then commented further on the view being 
expressed in some quarters that the existing statutory authority should 
be used to force down interest rates and on his desire for the Board to 

VW8 
4/18/67 
-8-
protect itself against the pressure of that philosophy, following which 
Governor Shepardson indicated that although he recognized the problem 
referred to by Governor Brimmer he doubted whether an effective argu-
ment could be made in a letter reporting on the draft bill. Governor 
Shepardson added that he was not in favor of the use of interest rate 
ceilings to force down effective rates. 
Question was raised at this point whether it appeared possible 
that agreement could be reached on an extension of the Act of 
September 21, 1966, for a temporary period, such as two years, in 
lieu of permanent legislation. 
Governor Daane expressed himself as favorable toward that pos-
sibility, and Governor Brimmer indicated that he would consider that 
course preferable if the new legislation included section 1. He would 
nevertheless want to express reservations to the Budget Bureau about 
the usefulness of that section. Chairman Martin commented that he 
thought it would be appropriate to express such reservations. 
After additional discussion along these lines, Chairman Martin 
suggested that Governors Daane and Brimmer give further thought to the 
matter and that the subject be considered further at the meeting of the 
Board next Monday, at which time it appeared that all of the members of 
the Board would be available, at least for part of the meeting. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1469 
4/18/67 
-2-
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Eugene J. Dolan as Assistant Federal Reserve Examiner, Division 
of Examinations, with basic annual salary at the rate of $10,166, 
effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Evert F. Nowak, from the position of Programmer to the position of 
Senior Programmer, Division of Data Processing, with an increase in 
basic annual salary from $9,536 to $10,927, effective April 23, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Lovair Dingle, Messenger-Driver, Division of Administrative Ser-
vices, effective March 31, 1967. 
Transfer 

1470 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
4/18/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 18, 1967. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your letter of April 4, 1967, 
the Board of Governors extends to November 1, 1967, the 
time within which your bank may establish a branch in 
the Kwun Tong District of Hong Kong, as authorized by 
the Board's letter of April 19, 1966. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1471 
BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
4/18/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
April 18, 1967. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your letter of April 4, 1967, 
the Board of Governors extends to November 1, 1967, the 
time within which your bank may establish a branch in 
the Miraflores area of Lima, Peru, as authorized by the 
Board's letter of April 18, 1966. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1472 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 3 
4/18/67 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
^LREsf: 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R D 
April 19, 1967. 
Mr. Royal L. Coburn, 
Vice President, 
Suburban Trust Company, 
Hyattsville, Maryland. 20783 
Dear Mr. Coburn: 
In your letter of April 5, 1967, addressed to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, you submitted a formal 
request that the application of Columbia Bank and Trust 
Company, Columbia, Maryland, to become a member of the Federal 
Reserve System be withdrawn. The Board notes this request 
without objection and is closing its file on the application 
previously submitted through the Richmond Reserve Bank. 
With reference to your inquiry as to return of 
the original application and exhibits, the Board would be glad 
to make copies of those documents for you if you so desire. 
However, for the reasons stated in Mr. Hackley's letter to you 
on April 6, 1967, the original documents have become a part of 
the Board's official records and may not be permanently removed 
from those records. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1473 
B C D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 3 
4/18/67 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. William F. Treiber, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Treiber: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment of salaries 
to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York listed below for 
the period April 1 through December 31, 1967, at the following rates 
fixed by your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
March 30, 1967. 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
MiEsf: 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 18, 1967 
Name 
Title 
Annual 
Salary 
John J. Clarke 
Vice President and 
Special Legal Adviser 
$32,000 
Edward G. Guy 
Vice President and 
General Counsel 
31,500 
James H. Oltman 
Mgr. (Bank Examinations) 
and Assistant Secretary 
18,000 
Edward J. Geng 
Manager (Securities) 
20,500 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman 
Secretary. 

1474 
Item No. 3 
4/18/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Washington,' D« C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
ALLIED BANKSHARES CORP,, 
Norfolk, Virginia, 
approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
more than 50 per cent of the voting 
shares of Virginia National Bank, Norfolk, 
Virginia, and The Central National Bank 
Richmond, Richmond, Virginia, 
ORDER DENYING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t 0 section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(a)(l)), and section 222.4(a)(1) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.4(a)(1)), an application by Allied Bankshares Corp., Norfolk, 
Virginia, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby Applicant 
w°uld become a bank holding company through the acquisition of more 
than 50 p e r c e n t of the voting shares of Virginia National Bank, 
Norfolk, Virginia, and The Central National Bank of Richmond, Richmond, 
Virginia. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
Currency and requested his vi«ws and recommendation. 

1475 
-2-
I 
Notice o£ receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 23, 1966 (31 Federal Register 14854), which 
Provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed acquisition, A copy of the application 
Was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
tion, and notice of receipt of the application was given to the Commissioner 
o f Banking for the Commonwealth of Virginia. Time for filing comments and 
views has expired and all those received have been considered by the Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is denied. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 18th day of April, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, and Brimmer. 
Voting against this action: Governors Shepardson and Daane. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Maisel, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

•1476 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 6 
4/18/67 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION OF 
ALLIED BANKSHARES CORP., NORFOLK, VIRGINIA, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Allied Bankshares Corp., Norfolk, Virginia ("Applicant"), has 
filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
C°mpany Act of 1956 ("the Act"), an application for approval of action 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of more than 
50 Per cent of the voting shares of Virginia National Bank, Norfolk, 
Vlr8tnia ("Virginia National"), and of The Central National Bank of 
Richmond, Richmond, Virginia ("Central National"), As of June 30, 1966,"" 
VirSinia National, with 75 offices and total deposits of $530 million, is 
e largest bank and the second largest tanking organization in Virginia 
^ terms of total deposits. Measured by the number of counties, cities, 
aw j 
towns in which branch offices are located, Virginia National must be 
Cot*sidered as large as any banking organization in the State. Central 
^tional, with $157 million of deposits in its nine offices, is the sixth 
bank and the eighth largest banking organization in the State. 
Unless otherwise noted, banking data are as of this date and reflect 
S^rs or acquisitions approved to date by the appropriate authorities. 

1477 
-2-
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority, - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was given 
to, and views and recommendation requested of, the Comptroller of the 
Currency. While the Comptroller did not affirmatively recommend approval 
the application, he raised no objection to the proposal, and expressed 
ttle view that consummation of the proposal could be beneficial to the State 
atld its banking structure. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides that 
Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a monopoly, 
°r would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize 
°r to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the 
^ited States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed acquisition, 
tlle effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially to 
*essen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other 
^Htier would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the 
anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed 
in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. In each case the 
^°ard is required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources a n d future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks 
and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effects of proposed transaction. - Virginia National 
SQrves 25 areas of southern and central Virginia. It operates primarily 
a the Norfolk area where it has 23 offices and derives approximately 

1478 
-2-
°ne-half of its deposits and loans. Its second most important source of 
business is the Charlottesville area. Central National's primary service 
2/ 
encompasses the City of Richmond and the adjacent counties of 
Henrico and Chesterfield. The Norfolk and Richmond areas are the localities 
°f major importance to the present application, Norfolk and Charlottesville 
approximately 102 and 68 miles, respectively, from the City of Richmond, 
The Virginia National office that is closest to a Central National office is 
in Louisa, about 50 miles northwest of Richmond. 
Applicant asserts that each of the subject banks draws the major 
Portion of its loans and IPC deposits from its own primary service area. 
Applicant asserts also that about 25 per cent of Virginia National's total 
loans are to companies engaged in or dependent upon agriculture, and that 
about one-half of its real estate loans are secured by farm lands. On the 
other hand, according to Applicant, Central National has no loans secured 
bV farm lands and about 17 per cent of its loans are to companies in the 
instruction industry, which type of loans represents less than 3 per cent 
o f Virginia National's total loans. The aforestated differences in the 
banks' respective loan portfolios reflect a limitation on the extent to 
^hich they presently compete for this type of business. 
Both banks operate trust departments. While Central National 
d eUves about 3.5 per cent of its trust business from Virginia National's 
Primary service area, the latter bank's trust business is stated to be 
solely from its own service area. 
^*The~area from which the bank draws at least 75 per cent of its deposits 
of individuals, partnerships, and corporations ("IPC deposits"). 

•1479 
- A -
Virginia National's position as the largest bank in Norfolk, 
atld in the State, and Central National's position as the fourth largest 
bank in a Reserve City have contributed to the success of both banks as 
Principal correspondents for other banks in the State. About 6 per cent 
°f Central National's deposits, and 3 per cent of Virginia National's, 
represent interbank balances, Competition between the proposed affiliates 
f°r correspondent accounts would be sharply reduced or eliainated by con-
futation of Applicant's proposal. 
It is the Board's opinion that the existing competition between 
these two banks is sufficiently minimal that its elimination by reason 
^ fche proposed affiliation would not alone preclude approval of the pro-
a i. On the other hand, the likelihood that substantial potential com-
petition between the two banks would be precluded by their affiliation 
is 
consideration that weighs heavily in the Board's decision in this 
Matter 
Virginia National and Central National are the only two large 
a nHng organizations in Virginia that have offices in either the 
ichmri 
u°nd or Norfolk area but not in both. Based on a record of Virginia 
*ble 
°ttal«s past history, particularly its growth pattern, it is reason-
to expect that, though the application herein be denied, that bank 
gain increased access to the Richmond market, either through 
the 0 D 
P^ration of offices resulting from merger with Richmond area banks, 
r°ugh affiliation with such area banks. Of the several alternative 
G s £ o r expansion reasonably available to Virginia National, few, if 
y 
h 
» »ave the anticompetitive potential of the present proposal. On the 

-2-
1480 
contrary, some such alternatives could provide new and additional 
competition for the banks in the area, stimulate significant competition 
between Virginia National and Central National, and increase the number 
sizable banking alternatives available to the businesses located there. 
Regarding Central National's expressed desire to expand its 
°perations beyond its present service area, the Board is of the opinion 
the bank's size, sound financial condition, and staff of experienced 
capable officers enable it, if it so desires, to expand its sphere 
operations beyond the Richmond area. It is noted that at this time 
Central National has approximately $18 million of deposits that are derived 
from outside the Richmond area. While Central National's first preference 
with regard to expansion is the subject proposal, denial thereof does not 
toreclo se other reasonable methods of expansion. Such other methods could 
in the Board's judgment, the virtue of extending Central National's 
t^ade area toward and into that of Virginia National, while at the same 
time increasing competition between the two banks. 
It appears that consummation of the proposed affiliation would 
u 
uave little effect on competition in the areas principally served by 
Vir8inia National. More significant would be the impact on Central 
^ational's competitors. The record shows that Central National's three 
largest Richmond competitors operate in other areas of the State, includ-
e s , with respect to two of them, the Norfolk area. The Board concurs in 
applicant's assertion that the proposed affiliation would place Central 
^ationa;L more immediately in a stronger competitive position vis-a-vis these 

1481 
-2-
three Richmond competitors than would be the case were Central National 
continue under its present form of ownership. Applicant's acquisition 
Central National would afford that bank affiliate outlets in other 
Parts of the State, particularly in the Norfolk area. While Applicant's 
Proposal affords the most immediate and certain method for Central National's 
GxPansion, as earlier mentioned, there appears to be no question but that 
Central National could, if it desired, expand its scope of operation 
successfully beyond the Richmond area by action other than affiliation with 
a $530 million institution. Any other method would reasonably be calculated 
t o have less impact on Central's six smaller Richmond competitors, four of 
x?hich have total deposits of $10 million or less. 
At the present time, the 10 largest banking organizations in 
control 63 per cent of the total deposits of all banks in the 
State, were control of Virginia National's deposits of $530 million to 
combined with those of Central's $157 million, the number of controlling 
institutions would be reduced to nine, thus further compacting an existing 
heavy concentration of control of deposits and banking offices. Any such 
^crease in concentration, in the light of the existing situation, must be 
V i^ed as significant. Uhile alone perhaps not decisive in this case, when 
v W e d with the additional adverse considerations above mentioned, such 
•^crease in concentration is viewed as having a substantially adverse impact 
uP°n the continued development of a healthy competitive banking structure 
l n Virginia. 

1 
1482 
On the basis of the foregoing considerations and the facts 
record, it is the Board's judgment that, absent evidence of benefit 
t o the communities affected of a measure clearly outweighing the anti-
competitive consequences foreseen in Applicant's proposal, the application 
should be denied. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. - On the 
basis of the record, the Board finds that the financial condition of the 
two banks involved in the proposal herein is generally satisfactory, 
their prospects are good, and their managements experienced and well 
Qualified. It is reasonable to conclude that the banks, whether operating 
a s subsidiaries of Applicant or independently, will continue their records 
sound operations. Applicant has no financial or operating history. 
It <5 
s pro forma financial condition, proposed management, and prospects are 
considered generally satisfactory. The evidence relating to the banking 
Motors is consistent with approval of the application but offers no sig-
nificant weight in favor thereof. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved, - Applicant 
asserts that establishment of the proposed bank holding company would enable 
ntral National to provide new and expanded services to the Richmond 
c°^niunity and would enable the two proposed subsidiaries to compete more 
ef£ectively with other large Virginia banks and out-of-State banks in pro-
Viding wholesale banking services. Considering the size and scope of 
Ope*ations of 
the two proposed subsidiary banks and the general nature of 
ban^ing services available in their respective trade areas, any benefits that 

1483 
-2-
might follow upon consummation of Applicant's proposal would appear to 
inure principally to Central National and its customers. In the Board's 
judgment, the record before it does not contain convincing evidence that 
the major banking requirements of the areas involved are not now being 
reasonably satisfied. Further, the aforementioned benefits reasonably 
^ticipated to be realized by Central National and its customers are, in 
the Board's judgment, insufficiently substantial to "clearly outweigh" 
ttle anticompetitive impact of the proposal as hereinabove described. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
c°ntained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
Section 3(c) of the Act, it Is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would have anticompetitive effects that are not clearly out-
Veighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. Accord-
^Sly, it is concluded that the proposed affiliation would not be in the 
Public interest, and that the application should be denied. 
18, 1967. 

1484 
Item No. 3 
4/18/67 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF 
GOVERNORS SHEPARDSON AND DAANE 
The majority's action in denying the application of Allied 
Sankshares Corp, is premised on numerous assumptions and conclusions 
that, in our judgment, have no basis in fact nor reasonable likelihood 
prospect. The Board concedes that present competition between 
Virginia National and Central National is virtually nonexistent, but 
includes that the amount of potential competition between the two in-
stltutions that would be foreclosed by this proposal is sufficiently 
Sreat as to require denial of the application. The latter conclusion seems 
^consistent with the former and, in our view, has no firm basis in fact 
°r reason. The same circumstances that have limited competition between 
t^e two banks to date, namely, the distances separating their offices, 
differences in the nature of the services offered by each, and the 
deliberately localized nature of Central National's operations, also 
w°uld inhibit development of any substantial future competition between 
tlle banks. There is no evidence in the record before the Board of any 
P a s t effort or plans by Central National, other than the present proposal, 
tn 
extend its sphere of competition in any meaningful degree beyond the 
Richmond area so that the Board's conclusion as to this possibility can 
aSain only be regarded as a dubious assumption. 
It is with respect to the Richmond area that Central National's 
competitive position would be measurably improved under this proposal 
a n d could serve to stimulate further the competition among the largest 

1485 
-2-
banlcs in the community. It could serve to accomplish immediately what 
majority of the Board conjecture may happen seme other way in the 
future, namely, the strengthening of competition and provision of better 
service to businesses in the locality. Services offered by Central 
^ational would be expanded and improved as a result of the proposal and 
c°nsequently customer needs would be better served. Presently, Central 
National is the only large bank in Richmond that does not have significant 
^Presentation in other areas of the State. As of the latest date for 
^hich pertinent data are available, Central National's share of deposits 
in * 
its primary service area has decreased significantly vis-a-vis all 
°ther banks in Richmond, The proposed affiliation with Virginia National 
v°uld simultaneously permit Central National to compete more vigorously 
an<1 successfully in the Richmond area and provide it with an affiliate 
relationship enabling it to compete elsewhere in the State, most im-
P°rtantly in the Norfolk area, where its three largest Richmond competitors 
either have offices or an affiliated organization. 
While approval of this application would increase somewhat the 
listing concentration of banking resources in the ten largest banking 
°r8aniEati0ns 
th e state--in itself an undesirable consequence--we 
^ U e v e that the strengthening of Central National's competitive position 
U the Richmond area, with the resulting better competitive balance among 
four large Richmond banks, constitutes a consideration arguing for 
aPProval 

I 4 8 6 
-3-
In view of our finding that the proposed affiliation lacks 
a n y substantial anticompetitive effects and could, in fact, enhance 
competition in Richmond and the State of Virginia, we believe that the 
institutions involved should be permitted to take the action that, 
Allowing extended study, each has determined would best serve the 
iriterests of the institutions involved and the public served by them, a 
j 
termination in which we concur. Substitution by this Board 
c 
acts and conjectural conclusions for reasoned determinations 
°Ur judgment, in the public interest. We believe approval of 
tion would serve such interest. 
of assumed 
is not, in 
the applica-
A p r il 18, 1967. 

148? 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No . 8 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/18/67 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E 
O F 
T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
April 28, 1967. 
^ e Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
House Banking and Currency Committee, 
H°use of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
. 
This is in response to your letter of April 3, 1967, request-
^ng a list of the affiliations with banks or other private business 
^rganizations of the members of the Board of Governors, the officers 
^ 
directors of the Federal Reserve Banks, and the members of the 
^ederal Advisory Council. You define "affiliation" as the relationship 
holdin§ f r° m t h e p o s i t i o n o f officer, director, or 10 per cent stock-
older with respect to the bank or other business organization in 
Question. 
^ 
The Board is acutely aware of both the desirability and the 
^cessity that System officials should scrupulously avoid any activity 
J financial interest that could in any way give rise to the possibility 
conflict of interest. 
Members of the Board, at the time their nomination is before 
^ e Senate for confirmation, submit confidential statements of their 
S o c i a l interests and business connections to the Chairman of the 
^ nate Banking and Currency Committee. In addition, pursuant to 
fJction 401 of Executive Order 11222 of May 11, 1965, each Governor has 
Co G d a confidential report with Chairman Macy of the Civil Service 
Mission containing the following information: 
(1) A list of the names of all corporations, companies, 
firms, or other business enterprises, partnerships, nonprofit 
organizations, and educational or other institutions--
(A) with which he is connected as an employee, officer, 
owner, director, trustee, partner, adviser, or consultant; or 
(B) in which he has any continuing financial interests, 
through a pension or retirement plan, shared income, or 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
- 2 -
•1488 
otherwise, as a result of any current or prior employment 
or business or professional association, or 
(C) in which he has any financial interest through 
the ownership of stocks, bonds, or other securities. 
The Executive Order also calls for submission on a quarterly basis 
°f amended statements reflecting any changes in, or additions to, the 
information required to be included in the original report. 
These submissions are made directly by each Governor, and 
copies are not among the Board1s official records. 
With respect to officers of the Federal Reserve Banks, the 
B°ard has issued instructions that officers and employees should not 
h°ld stock of a bank or affiliate thereof, nor should they undertake 
°utside business activity without express approval of the Bank's 
management. Persons occupying responsible positions must submit 
Periodic reports to the Board of Directors of their Bank indicating, 
among other things, ownership of stock of a bank or an affiliate and 
any outside business connection. The instructions specifically state 
that "officers and employees occupying responsible positions and hold-
ing or acquiring stock of banks or affiliates should dispose of it as 
Promptly as is practicable without causing undue hardship." Nonspec-
ulative holding of other securities, however, is not forbidden, either 
a s to nature or amount. 
These reports of Reserve Bank officers and employees are not 
transmitted to the Board; however, as a regular part of every examina-
tion of a Federal Reserve Bank the Board's examiners review the 
individual reports for the purpose of informing the Board of any 
situations that seem to merit specific attention. 
As to head office and branch directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks, there is enclosed a list from the February issue of the Bulletin 
showing the name and principal business affiliation of each. As you 
kn°w, the Federal Reserve Act provides that Class A directors "shall be 
chosen by and be representative of the stockholding banks." The Act 
also provides that no Class B director may be an officer, director, 
0 r employee of any bank. In the case of a Class C director, the Act 
^°ntains an additional prohibition against his owning stock in any 
bank--and of course he is precluded from being an officer, director, 
°r employee of any bank. Compliance with these requirements is 
ascertained before such directors take office. Disclosure of stock 
°wnership or other business affiliation is not otherwise required of 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-3-
1489 
directors. However, at the time of appointment, each new director is 
requested to fill out a biographical data form, and copies of these 
forms for all present directors are contained in the enclosed volume. 
Finally, there is enclosed a list showing the names and 
occupations of members of the Federal Advisory Council. The Federal 
Reserve Act provides for the selection of a member of the Council by 
the directors of each Federal Reserve Bank, and no disclosure of 
stock ownership or other business affiliation is required. It may be 
noted that the legislative his tory of the Federal Reserve Act makes 
clear that the Council was intended to afford the banks of the 
country an opportunity to express views regarding the general affairs 
the Reserve banking system. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
Enclosures 
