Minutes for 
J a n u a r Y 30, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes , it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

346 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, January 30, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Shuter, Attorney, Legal Division 
Messrs. Maguire, Supervisory Review Examiner, 
and Maurer, Review Examiner, Division of 
Examinations 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Bank of Waldron, Waldron, Arkansas, 
1 
waiving the requirement of six months' notice 
of withdrawal from membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. 

<r W7 
1/30/67 
- 2 -
Item No. 
Letter to G. W. Jones Exchange Bank, Marcellus, 
Michigan, denying, for reasons stated, its re-
quest for permission to exercise generally the 
power of testamentary trustee. 
2 
With respect to Item No. 2, it was noted that in response to a 
request from G. W. Jones Exchange Bank for permission to exercise gen-
erally the power of testamentary trustee, the Board in a letter dated 
August 9, 1966, interposed no objection to the bank's acting as testa-
mentary trustee of two specific accounts then in probate. However, in 
view of the continuing unsatisfactory condition of the bank, the Board 
stipulated that no other testamentary trusteeships should be accepted 
without prior permission from the Board. In a letter dated September 2, 
1966, the bank requested that the Board reconsider its decision. With 
notification to the bank, action on that request was deferred pending 
review of the report of examination of the bank made as of September 3, 
1966. During a discussion on January 9, 1967, the Board expressed the 
opinion that the letter proposed to be sent to the member bank denying 
its request should be amplified to reply more adequately to certain 
contentions made in the bank's September 2 letter if, in fact, there 
were satisfactory answers to those contentions. The revised draft of 
letter before the Board at today's meeting had been prepared in light 
of the views expressed at the January 9 meeting. 
Governor Robertson advised that since the January 9 meeting he 
had discussed the member bank's situation with President Scanlon of the 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
Chicago Reserve Bank. He had suggested to Mr. Scanlon that in view of 
the long-standing rating of the bank as a problem institution the 
Reserve Bank should assign its best-qualified examiner to examine the 
member bank, determine the actual situation, and recommend steps that 
might be taken to assure the removal of the member bank from the problem 
category. Such steps might include use of the cease and desist author-
ity provided by Public Law 89-695, the Financial Institutions Supervisory 
Act of 1966. 
Governor Robertson said he had received a letter from President 
Scanlon dated January 16 (copies of which would be distributed) review-
ing the matter fully and stating that the Reserve Bank's best-qualified 
examiner would be assigned to examine the member bank at as early a 
date as arrangements for joint examination could be worked out with the 
Michigan State authorities. 
Governor Robertson stated that he would deny the current request 
of the member bank, and that view was shared by the other members of 
the Board. Governors Shepardson and Brimmer suggested editorial changes 
in the draft of letter to the member bank, and the changes were concurred 
in by the other members of the Board. 
Report on competitive factors. There had been distributed a 
draft of report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation relating 
to the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of First-
Citizens Bank & Trust Company, Smithfield, North Carolina, with The 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
Commercial Bank of Reidsville, North Carolina, Reidsville, North 
Carolina, in which the conclusion read as follows: 
There appears to be little competition existing 
between First-Citizens Bank & Trust Company, Smithfield, 
and The Commercial Bank of Reidsville. 
While consummation of this proposed merger would 
result in the two remaining Reidsville banks competing 
with a branch of a substantially larger institution and, 
thus, change the nature of competition in Reidsville, 
the overall effect of the transaction on competition would 
not be significantly adverse. 
In a discussion of various aspects of the proposed merger, 
several Board members expressed doubt that the competitive effects of 
the proposed merger would be adverse from the community standpoint. 
Governor Robertson, however, cited the possible adverse effect on the 
remaining Reidsville independent banks. There was, he said, no indica-
tion that the banking needs of the community were not being met or that 
there was not effective competition among the three local banks. In 
such circumstances, it did not seem to him that it would be desirable 
to permit a bank that had been a leader in the nonpar banking business 
over the years to come into the community. Question then was raised 
whether First-Citizens continued to operate on a nonpar basis. Accord-
ingly, it 
w a s agF6ed that the staff would obtain information on that 
point prior to further consideration of the competitive factor report 
by the Board at another meeting. 
Proposed amendment to Regulation 0. In 1964 question was 
raised whether the indebtedness to a bank of executive officers resulting 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
from that bank's purchase of a department store's retail customer 
accounts must be approved by the directors of the bank in order to fall 
within the exception to the prohibition contained in section 22(g) of 
the Federal Reserve Act against loans to executive officers. The excep-
tion permits an executive officer to become indebted to his bank if 
the amount does not exceed $2,500 and if the transaction has received 
the prior approval of a majority of the bank's board of directors. 
The answer given at the time was that the transaction would 
have to receive prior approval. However, in view of the Board's statu-
tory authority to define the term "indebtedness" for purposes of sec-
tion 22(g), it was suggested that consideration be given to a possible 
amendment to Regulation 0, Loans to Executive Officers of Member Banks, 
that would expressly exclude from the meaning of that term the indebt-
edness of any executive officer arising from a transaction of the type 
described. The staff also was instructed to undertake a general review 
of Regulation 0 for the purpose of proposing additional amendments 
designed to bring the regulation more in line with changes that had 
occurred in banking operations since its adoption in 1936. 
In August 1966 there was published in the Federal Register a 
proposed amendment to Regulation 0 that would have excluded from the 
coverage of the regulation any indebtedness of an executive officer 
arising from a bank's acquisition of charge accounts. Following receipt 
of comments, the Board on November 2, 1966, tentatively approved adoption 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
of a slightly revised version of the proposed amendment, conditioning 
its approval upon satisfactory resolution of a question that had been 
raised upon publication in the Federal Register with respect to indebt-
edness of executive officers incident to certain credit card plans. 
Subsequent study suggested to the staff that exemption of indebtedness 
incurred by executive officers under such plans might open the door to 
evasions of the purposes of the law since under the plans in question 
a card holder would become directly indebted to a bank. 
Accordingly, the Legal Division recommended modification of the 
proposed amendment so as clearly to exempt credit extended under bank 
credit card plans but with limitations that would minimize any "personal" 
feature of such plans. These limitations would have excluded from exemp-
tion (1) any transaction subject to individual clearance by the bank 
and (2) credit extensions by any one bank (whether by the officer's own 
bank or by another bank) aggregating more than $1,000. This version of 
the amendment was given initial consideration at the meeting on 
January 11, 1967, at which time some of the members of the Board ex-
pressed the view that the proposed limitations were too restrictive. 
At the suggestion of Governor Brimmer, action was deferred pending the 
development of additional pertinent information on bank credit card 
plans through the mechanism of the current System study of such plans. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated January 25, 
1967, from the Legal Division proposing a revised amendment that would 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
exclude from the purview of Regulation 0 any indebtedness of an execu-
tive officer arising from a bank's acquisition of charge accounts or 
credit extended under bank credit card plans except to the extent that 
the aggregate amount of such acquisitions and payments by the officer's 
own bank exceeded $1,000. The Legal Division also presented for Board 
consideration (but without favorable recommendation) even more liberal 
amendments that (a) would increase the amount limitation to $2,000, 
(b) would not set any amount limitations with respect to indebtedness 
incurred by the executive officer to his own bank under a charge account 
acquisition, or (c) would contain no amount limitation whatsoever with 
respect to either a charge account plan or a bank credit card plan. 
In commenting on the matter Mr. Hackley reviewed the record of 
study and discussion of the problem and the various proposals that had 
been submitted to deal with it. He then said that in the Legal Divi-
sion it was felt generally that in the light of the intent of the 
statute some limitation should be maintained to prevent evasions. For 
this reason the Legal Division was suggesting an amount limitation, at 
least with respect to indebtedness of an executive officer to his own 
bank, since it was in that area that the greatest likelihood of abuse 
existed. There was less likelihood of abuse in cases representing 
indebtedness to other banks, and there would be a serious administra-
tive problem in determining whether such indebtedness exceeded $1,000. 
Mr. Hexter commented that a case might be made for going either 
one way or the other. On the one hand, it might be said that any 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
indebtedness to a bank under $1,000 was not indebtedness for the pur-
pose of the statute and Regulation 0. On the other hand, the Board 
might hold that the exceptions did not apply where there was personal 
approval. In other words the Board might conclude that an exemption 
up to $1,000 of indebtedness by an executive officer to his own bank 
would be appropriate. If not, then it might decide that cases should 
not be excluded where the indebtedness was subject to personal approval 
by the bank. 
Mr. Hackley noted that the statute exempts loans by a bank to 
its own executive officers up to $2,500. The Board's authority was 
only to define the term indebtedness. If the Board merely said that 
borrowing up to that amount was de minimis, that might be regarded as 
the Board's taking into its own hands the authority of the Congress to 
change the present exemption. The basis for exclusion of indebtedness 
incurred under a bank credit card plan would be that such plans were 
available to the public generally and bank executive officers should 
not be excluded from the advantages thereof. It could also be said 
that because of the limitations placed on the use of such plans there 
was no likelihood of abuse. 
Mr. Smith said inquiries to see how such plans were being 
handled indicated that banks did in their accounting distinguish the 
accounts of executive officers of their own bank but not other banks. 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
After further comments by the staff, Governor Shepardson 
expressed the view that the latest proposal submitted by the Legal Divi-
sion seemed reasonable. 
Governor Mitchell, however, said he could see no reason for 
adopting a proposal that would involve a great deal of red tape. The 
original legislation was intended to deal with the use of bank credit 
by executive officers for speculative purposes. Credit card plans 
were available for use by the whole community, all card holders were 
treated the same way, and he saw no reason to penalize senior bank offi-
cers . He would favor an amendment more liberal than the one recommended 
by the Legal Division. 
In response to a question as to whether there were top limits 
on credit card plans generally, Mr. Smith said many of them reportedly 
operated on a sliding scale depending on experience with individual 
accounts. The limit might be from $500 to $1,000, or maybe $2,000, and 
perhaps a few would go somewhat beyond that figure. 
Governor Shepardson then stated that upon further consideration 
he was inclined to agree with Governor Mitchell. 
Governor Maisel said he would be inclined to go to $2,500 if 
that was regarded as legally permissible. No small bank could install 
a credit card system. Whereas $2,500 might be a fairly important sum 
for a $1 million bank, it was not very important to the large banks, 
and he could justify $2,500 on that ground. 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
Governor Brimmer suggested that it was critical to focus on the 
policy issue, to which he added that he agreed with what Mr. Hackley 
had recommended. It reflected the thinking of Board staff who had been 
working on the current study of bank credit card plans. However, it was 
an open question whether the limitation should be $1,000 or more. He 
would reject Mr. Hexter's suggestion, feeling that a middle course per-
mitted flexibility; the amount limitation could later be changed if 
that seemed advisable. He would be quite agreeable to the substitution 
of $2,500 if the Board considered that more appropriate. 
Mr. Hackley noted that there were two arguments against the 
use of the $2,500 figure. First, the statute now contained an exemp-
tion of $2,500. If another $2,500 exemption was added, that might raise 
the question whether the Board was going beyond the scope of its author-
ity under the statute. The figure of $1,000 might be regarded as more 
appropriate because it was geared to a usual limitation of bank credit 
card plans. 
Mr. Hackley also observed that if the current proposal were 
favored, there was the question whether it should not be published in 
the Federal Register for comment. 
Governor Mitchell asked why it was felt that bank executive of-
ficers should be treated less favorably than ordinary citizens, and 
Mr. Hexter replied that the Congress had specified that group and said 
that no member bank could extend credit in excess of $2,500 to any of 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
its executive officers. Governor Mitchell inquired why it was felt, 
then, that indebtedness under $1,000 could be exempted from the require-
ment of prior approval, and Mr. Hexter replied that the Board had been 
given power to define the term indebtedness for purpose of administering 
the statute. 
Governor Mitchell then suggested a determination that indebtedness 
under bank credit card plans did not represent borrowing for the purpose 
of the statute. If such a determination was made, the Board would not 
have to worry about whether an exemption of $1,000 or $2,500 was appro-
priate . 
Governor Robertson said that in his view the latest staff pro-
posal would liberalize the regulation in a way that would solve practi-
cally all of the current problems. As of today there was not much use 
of credit cards in excess of $1,000. Thus, the proposed liberalization 
was sufficient to take care of most of the problems, and he would go 
along with it. 
Mr. Hackley noted that this would include department store 
charge accounts, and Governor Maisel pointed out that that was not made 
explicit in the proposed amendment. Mr. Hackley agreed that it should 
be made clear. 
Governor Maisel then said that he would support Governor 
Mitchell's position because of the difficult administrative problems 
that would otherwise be raised. 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
In reply to a request for clarification, Mr. Hackley explained 
that the proposal as submitted was intended to eliminate from considera-
tion entirely any indebtedness by an executive officer to another bank 
under a charge account acquisition plan or a bank credit card plan. 
Any such borrowing up to $1,000 by an executive officer from his own 
bank also would be exempted. If an executive officer incurred indebt-
edness of $5,000 under a charge account and his bank acquired the paper, 
that would be regarded as an extension of credit by that bank to its 
own executive officer. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that it was appropriate to put the 
burden on the executive officer to find out whether his own bank was 
carrying such indebtedness, to which Governor Mitchell replied that if 
the officer bought a major appliance, for example, and the seller made 
arrangements to discount the paper with the bank, there would be no 
reason for the executive officer necessarily to know of those arrange-
ments. He thought it was not reasonable to put the burden on the 
executive officer. 
Mr. Hackley then suggested a possible compromise that would 
exempt from the term indebtedness the acquisition by a bank of charge 
or time credit accounts of an executive officer representing indebtedness 
incurred for the purchase of goods or services, and also any payment made 
by a bank to or on behalf of an executive officer under a bank credit 
card plan of general availability, but with a limitation of $1,000 in 
the case of an executive officer's own bank. 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
After some discussion of the results of such an amendment, Mr. 
Hackley indicated that upon further reflection he would prefer to go 
back to the form of amendment previously proposed. 
It was then agreed that the Legal Division would consider the 
matter further in the light of the comments that had been made and 
prepare for subsequent consideration alternative proposals, including 
one reflecting the position favored by Governor Mitchell. 
Most of the members of the staff withdrew from the meeting at 
this point. 
Cincinnati Branch building. Governor Mitchell reported on the 
January 27, 1967, meeting of the Board's Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans with representatives of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland for the purpose of discussing plans for the 
Cincinnati Branch building. The meeting was also attended by the Board's 
Consulting Architect, Mr. Witherell, and by Mr. Bouck of the U.S. Secret 
Service. 
Governor Mitchell indicated that he felt certain changes in the 
security court plans would be proposed as a result of the meeting that 
would meet Mr. Bouck's objections. Also, the members of the Board's 
Committee had indicated that they did not believe the Board would inter-
pose objection to demolition of the Schmidt Building, located on a part 
of the branch building site, if that should be recommended on further 
study. In all, the discussion appeared to have clarified several 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
aspects of the situation, and it was his view that the Reserve Bank 
would come back with a modified program that would be satisfactory to 
the Board as well as to the Board's Consulting Architect and Mr. Bouck. 
Foreign travel. Unanimous approval was given to a recommenda-
tion by Mr. Sammons, Associate Director of the Division of International 
Finance, in a memorandum dated January 26, 1967, that Lyle Gramley, 
Associate Adviser in the Division of Research and Statistics, be desig-
nated to deliver a series of lectures requested by the Center for Latin 
American Monetary Studies, Mexico City, Mexico, during the period July 22 
to August 4, 1967. 
(Mr. Brill had concurred in this recommendation.) It 
was understood that Mr. Gramley's expenses would be borne by the Board, 
with per diem at the rates prescribed in the Standardized Government 
Travel Regulations. 
The Board authorized Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics, to attend as the Board's 
representative the conference on flow of funds to be held in Sydney, 
Australia, July 4 to 11, 1967, under the auspices of the Reserve Bank 
of Australia. The Board also authorized Mr. Brill to visit the Bank of 
Japan before returning to the United States from the conference, and it 
was understood that he contemplated taking some vacation before reassum-
ing his duties. 
Authorization to waive assessment of penalties (Item No. 3). On 
January 27, 1967, a telegram was sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
Chicago (copy attached as Item No. 3) authorizing the Bank to waive the 
assessment of penalties for deficiencies in reserves of member banks in 
that District resulting from snow disaster conditions. 
The sending of the telegram was ratified by unanimous vote. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Conference Room 
adjoining the Board Room at 3:00 p.m. with all of the Board members 
except Chairman Martin present, along with Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, 
Hackley, Kakalec, O'Connell, and Kern of the staff. 
Annex building (Item No. 4). Governor Shepardson suggested 
beginning today's discussion with an assumption that there was no reason 
to back away from the decision reached previously by the Board in meet-
ings with the architects regarding the general design of the proposed 
annex building to be located across C Street. He then turned to three 
questions that appeared to be of some concern. The first related to 
the garage extension that would provide extra parking for Board employees 
and parking for employees of the Interior Department, with the present 
surface parking accommodations of Interior replaced by a park. This 
project would cost about $3.4 million in the aggregate. The second 
question related to the tennis court. One proposal, to include the 
court in the interior of the annex building, would result in a portion 
of the underground garage area providing spaces for 75 cars being elimi-
nated. Upon request, the architects had developed an alternative plan 
whereby the tennis court would be located near the surface on the west 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
end of the annex building. The third question related to the possibility 
of enclosing the ground floor or podium level of the annex building. 
Governor Shepardson suggested that the Board first consider the 
question of the tennis court since, as he had indicated, that tied in 
with the question of garage space. He then described further the pro-
posal that the architects had developed for placing the tennis court at 
the west end of the annex building near the surface. 
Governor Shepardson also referred to a question that had been 
raised about the possibility of constructing an annex building of four 
working floors (rather than three) plus a setback floor. That possi-
bility, he said, had been discussed by the architects with the National 
Capital Planning Commission, which took exception to the idea because 
it would bring the annex building to a height above that of the present 
Federal Reserve Building. Accordingly, the thinking had reverted to an 
annex building of three floors plus a setback floor, according to a 
design whereby the building would be somewhat longer. 
Governor Shepardson next discussed the prospective cost of a 
tennis court, indicating that the plan to provide the court at the west 
end near the surface would involve approximately an additional $35,000. 
Also, some 25 garage spaces would be lost. 
At this point a member of the staff suggested for the Board's 
consideration the possibility of constructing a tennis court in the 
court at the west end of the present Federal Reserve Building. The 
staff also expressed views as to the prospective need for garage space. 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
The discussion then turned more specifically to the question 
of providing a tennis court in the annex building area, and Governors 
Brimmer and Maisel said they would not support the inclusion of a 
tennis court at any location. Governor Daane felt that there would 
be justification. Governor Mitchell said that of the several possibili-
ties mentioned he considered the location at the west end of the build-
ing more desirable than the others. In his view, however, the inclusion 
of a tennis court in the annex building plans would be likely to attract 
undue attention. Governor Shepardson indicated that he had the same 
reservations as Governor Mitchell. Governor Robertson said that he 
would favor the providing of the tennis court. He felt it could be 
justified on the ground that the area could be used later for other pur-
poses if necessary, to which he added that there would be more parking 
space available under the annex building than was available to Board 
employees at the present time. 
Since the majority of the Board members did not look with favor 
on the inclusion of a tennis court, it was understood that the idea 
would be dropped. However, the architects were to be asked to explore 
the possibility of making a tennis facility available in the west court 
of the present building, with the understanding that there was no com-
mitment on the part of the Board at this time. 
Consideration was given next to the question of the north 
garage, as previously described by Governor Shepardson. Governor 
L. 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
Robertson noted that the proposal was essentially whether to spend some 
$3-1/2 million to provide parking space for about 135 additional cars 
of Board employees. 
Question was raised about the possibility, in such event, of an 
outlet onto 21st Street, and Governor Shepardson indicated that no more 
than an emergency exit to that street apparently could be arranged. 
Also, it had developed that there would be no possibility of arranging 
for an exit onto Virginia Avenue. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether there appeared to be any 
feasible method of arranging for amortization of the $3-1/2 million 
cost, and Mr. O'Connell said no exploration of that possibility had 
been undertaken pending further Board discussion. 
Governor Maisel said he would be willing at this point to ex-
press himself as not favoring the north garage proposal. However, he 
would go along with it if the Department of the Interior could pay for 
the cost on a long-term basis through appropriated funds. He would not 
like to enter into the proposal except under an arrangement that had 
Congressional approval. 
Governor Shepardson recalled that at the request of the Board 
he had approached the Secretary of the Interior on the basis of a plan 
that contemplated that the Board would build the north garage for 
Interior. The Department would help the Board to find temporary park-
ing space during the period of construction of the annex building, and 
the Department would bear its pro rata share of the operating cost of 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
the north garage. He felt the only proper basis on which he could now 
go back to the Secretary of the Interior would be to say that after the 
Board had studied the proposal and obtained an estimate of the cost 
involved, the Board felt that it would not be justified in spending 
that much money when the main purpose of the project, so far as the 
Board was concerned, would be to improve the view to the rear of the 
annex building. The matter would then be left open to any suggestion 
from the Interior Department as to whether it would want to go ahead 
with the garage project under an alternative procedure for providing 
the necessary funds, which procedure would involve the appropriations 
process. 
Governor Brimmer said that unless there was a way for Interior 
to work out some long-range rental contract, subject to the appropria-
tions process, in order to share the capital cost, he would be inclined 
to take a position against the north garage project. Governor Maisel 
agreed. Governor Daane expressed the view that the project, as pre-
viously envisaged, might expose the Board to the kind of criticism that 
Governor Mitchell had spoken of in connection with the tennis court 
question. Governor Mitchell indicated that he favored the original 
proposal, but not strongly enough to argue against a majority of the 
Board. He saw some advantage to the Board in terms of protecting the 
development of the site, and he would personally be willing to allocate 
some of the cost of the north garage to that benefit. He suggested 
approaching the Secretary of the Interior on the basis of a possible 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
long-term lease arrangement that would permit amortizing the cost. If 
v 
the Interior Department found it feasible to proceed on such a basis, 
he would be prepared to support the arrangement. 
Governor Shepardson then said that he would not object to rais-
ing the possibility with the Secretary of the Interior, although he 
would not want to ask the Secretary to proceed on such a basis. On the 
matter of going ahead with the north garage project on the basis origi-
nally contemplated, he would be inclined in the negative. 
Governor Robertson said that in his view it would be valuable 
to have the additional garage space available. However, the project 
was costly. If the Interior Department could work the matter out on 
the basis of obtaining appropriated funds for the purpose, he would 
not object to the Board's advancing the funds for construction with 
amortization of the cost by Interior over a period of time. 
Governor Robertson then said he understood from the discussion 
that the members of the Board would favor raising the possibility with 
Interior and going ahead with the project if Interior could work some-
thing out along the lines that had been suggested. Other members of 
the Board indicated that they agreed. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether there had been any indication 
of the views of the National Capital Planning Commission. When Gover-
nor Shepardson replied that, although the question had not been raised 
specifically, the Commission was known to be anxious to provide parks, 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
Governor Brimmer commented that the endorsement of the Planning Commis-
sion might lend support to the project. 
Consideration next was given to the suggestion that had been 
made by Governor Mitchell for enclosing the podium area. Governor 
Shepardson noted that the Board had previously agreed to a style of 
building that did not contemplate enclosing that area, to which he 
added that in his view it would be a mistake to change the plan. Gover-
nor Mitchell commented that he realized the suggestion had not been well 
received, and the other Board members confirmed that they would not 
favor the idea. 
Governor Shepardson pointed out that the annex building would 
cost, in terms of the structure proper, roughly $11,760,000 and that 
administrative costs would bring the project to an overall figure of 
about $13,330,000. Thus, if the project was authorized, that was the 
amount the Board would be authorizing. He observed that a major item 
of additional cost that had resulted from revising the earlier plans 
reflected the decision to change from essentially a bronze to a marble 
exterior treatment. That change had increased the estimated cost by 
roughly $600,000. 
Governor Robertson commented that his own preference would be 
to use some marble but not as much as indicated by the architects' most 
recent sketches. Governor Mitchell said he preferred the marble treat-
ment to the bronze and felt the Planning Commission probably would share 

;j6i 
1/30/67 
-16-
that preference. Governor Brimmer spoke to the same effect. Governor 
Daane indicated that he was somewhat undecided, particularly in light 
of cost considerations, but was inclined to feel that either treatment 
probably would be acceptable. Governor Maisel commented that if the 
marble treatment would provide a much better building it would appear 
to be worth the difference in cost. In his opinion the marble treat-
ment was preferable, but he did not pretend to be an expert. If in the 
judgment of experts the marble treatment was preferable, he felt that 
the expense could be justified. 
Governor Shepardson observed that this raised the question 
whether to submit both alternatives to the Commission. He personally 
preferred the marble and would favor presenting that proposal first, 
although he was not unmindful of cost considerations. 
Governor Robertson said that while he considered marble prefer-
able, although perhaps in somewhat less quantity than indicated in the 
sketches, he would be guided by the judgment of others, including the 
appropriate commissions. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that the windows of the 
annex building should be of such style that it would be possible to open 
them, particularly for cleaning purposes, and Governor Daane agreed. 
Governor Shepardson said the architects were presently considering the 
possibility of sliding windows. 
Governor Mitchell pointed out that the Board had not yet con-
sidered the architects' specifications that had been circulated. 

368 
1/30/67 
-23-
Governor Shepardson agreed that the specifications, which he pointed 
out were tentative suggested specifications, would have to be considered 
in detail at some point. 
Governor Robertson inquired about the time element, and Governor 
Shepardson replied that the architects were working at the moment on 
interior floor plans. The architects would now go to the appropriate 
commissions and endeavor to obtain clearance for the design of the 
building. If approval was obtained, they would then go into the details 
of construction. Meanwhile, they were moving ahead with problems of 
floor layout. 
Governor Daane said he understood that the action now being 
considered by the Board would constitute formal approval of the general 
plan for the building and that the Board would be authorizing an expen-
diture of roughly $13.3 million. He inquired whether, for purposes of 
the record, it would not be advisable for the full Board to be present 
to participate in the decision. Governor Robertson replied that Chair-
man Martin was aware of the fact that the Board was proposing to take 
action. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to the general plan 
for the annex building and an estimated expenditure of $13,334,514 was 
authorized. This action was taken subject to the understandings that 
had been reached during the discussion with respect to the several 
aspects of the project on which the Board members had expressed 

369 
1/30/67 
-24-
th ems elves. Attached to these minutes as Item No. 4 is a copy of the 
letter sent to Harbeson Hough Livingston & Larson reflecting the 
Board's action. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

370 
BOARD CDF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
1/30/67 
A O O R E B S O F F I C I A L 
C D R R C S P O N D I N C C 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 30, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of Waldron, 
Waldron, Arkansas. 
Gentlemen: 
The Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis has forwarded to the 
Board of Governors a letter dated January 10, 1967, signed by 
President Marvin E. Phelps, together with the accompanying resolution, 
signifying your intention to withdraw from membership in the 
Federal Reserve System and requesting waiver of the six months' 
notice of such withdrawal. 
The Board of Governors waives the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal. Under the provisions of Section 
208.10(c) of the Board's Regulation H, your institution may accomplish 
termination of its membership at any time within eight months from 
the date that notice of intention to withdraw from membership was 
given. Upon surrender to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis of 
the Federal Reserve stock issued to your institution, such stock will 
be canceled and appropriate refund will be made thereon. 
It is requested that the certificate of membership be 
returned to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
1/30/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 2, 1967. 
Board of Directors, 
G. W. Jones Exchange Bank, 
Marcellus, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
In a letter of September 2, 1966, Vice President Jones 
raises questions regarding comments contained in examination reports 
of the G. W. Jones Exchange Bank. 
Mr. Jones requested the Board of 
Governors to reconsider its limited approval permitting your bank 
to accept two specific trust accounts and to grant general approval 
to the bank to exercise the powers of testamentary trustee. 
In its 
letter of September 29, 1966, the Board informed Mr. Jones that it 
wished to defer any reconsideration until there had been an opportu-
nity to review the report of an examination then in progress. 
In his letter Mr. Jones asks if it is not true that many 
banks have a much higher percentage of deposits loaned than the 
38 per cent loaned by your bank, and also if it is not true that 
many banks pay higher rates of interest on time and savings accounts. 
The answer to both these questions is obviously yes. 
The Board in 
the past has not criticized your bank's position in either of these 
areas, nor is its decision in your pending application based upon 
adverse findings in either respect. 
It is, rather, the quality of 
the loan account which is disturbing. 
For example, there are few 
State member banks in which classified loans and other real estate 
equaled 109 per cent of total capital funds at the most recent 
examination or where past due loans equaled 28.65 per cent of total 
loans. 
For most banks such percentages would be below 25 per cent 
and 5 per cent, respectively. 
Your letter also notes that classified assets declined 
steadily between the 1962 and 1965 examinations, and we agree that 
the reduction from $600,000 in 1964 to $460,000 in 1965 was 
significant. 
Reference to the September 3, 1966, examination, 
which you now have, will reveal that this commendable trend con-
tinues but that it has slowed appreciably. 
The 1966 examination 
shows the reduction of such assets between the two most recent 
examinations to have been only $17,000. 
Despite this favorable 

372 
Board of Directors, 
- 2 -
G. W. Jones Exchange Bank. 
trend, both classified assets and past due loans continue at levels 
much higher than usually found in State member banks and are so 
high the condition of the bank cannot be considered satisfactory. 
Mr. Jope$, also states that in a rural community steady 
and substantial reductions on classified loans can be accomplished 
only over a period of time unless drastic actions such as foreclos-
ures are instituted. 
The Board is fully aware that working out 
troublesome loans requires time. Yet, the high proportion of 
classified loans in your bank has persisted for such a long period 
that especially vigorous action is required. As a minimum, the 
Board feels that the bank should be more selective in the granting 
of credit, and that collection policies should be strengthened sub-
stantially to assure that reasonable repayment terms are instituted 
at the time a loan is made and are enforced. 
Mr. Jones' letter also notes that no assets were classified 
as "Doubtful" at the 1965 examination and that officers of the bank 
have long felt some examiners were overexuberant in listing loans as 
"Substandard". 
At the top of page 3 of the Examination Report the 
classification "Substandard" is defined as "Book assets or portions 
thereof not classified as doubtful or loss and which involve more 
than a normal risk due to the financial condition or unfavorable 
record of the obligor, insufficiency of security, or other factors 
noted in the examiner's comments. These assets should be given 
special and corrective attention, for example, by obtaining suitable 
reductions in amount, additional security, more complete financial 
data concerning the obligor's condition, or other such action as the 
specific circumstance may require." 
In the light of this definition, 
it is to be expected that loans classified "Substandard" will not 
usually become losses, and the fact that such loans have not done so 
in your bank does not indicate that the classifications were unjustified 
in the great majority of cases. 
On the contrary, it would appear that 
the examination function has served a valuable purpose by calling to 
your attention loans of less than first quality, which resulted in 
action by the bank either to reduce or strengthen such loans. 
Mr. Jones' letter states that G. W. Jones Exchange Bank 
recovers $1 of every $2 charged off. The 1966 examination report 
reveals that during the five-year period, 1961-1965, inclusive, the 
bank charged off loans aggregating $128,000 while recoveries totaled 
$48,000, resulting in a net loan loss of $80,000. 
In 1965, member 
banks in Michigan with deposits of $5 million to $15 million had actual 
net losses on loans equal to .19 of 1 per cent of total loans, whereas 
your bank's losses were .6 of 1 per cent for the same year. 
In 
calculating your loss experience no credit is given for nonledger real 

373 
Board of Directors, 
- 2 -
G. W. Jones Exchange Bank. 
estate which, of course, has value. 
In this connection, certain of 
these parcels of nonledger real estate have been held for some 
time, thus, presumably, the bank often has difficulty in disposing 
of the properties. 
If the bank is holding the properties in 
anticipation of a price rise, this is not in conformity with sound 
banking practices, which dictate that such properties will be sold 
when the bank can recover its funds. 
Incidentally, for many years 
it has been most unusual to find other real estate in bank assets 
or potential other real estate in bank loan portfolios. 
The fact 
that the G. W. Jones Exchange Bank has been forced to acquire so 
many parcels of property indicates that either lending practices are 
considerably more lenient than those of other banks, that collection 
practices are not so effective as those of other banks, or both. 
In the letter Mr. Jones states that all real estate 
carried in the assets of the bank, except bank premises, has been 
sold. 
However, the 1966 examination report reveals that the bank 
has assets aggregating $55,400, which should be carried as other real 
estate. 
While properties described as those of Ray Churchill, 
Bernard Duncan, Jesse J. Kindig, and Albert S. Warren have been sold 
under contract, title remains vested in the bank. Moreover, informa-
tion available during the examination revealed that the bank had title 
to the Gordon Phair property although it was being carried in loans 
and discounts. 
In addition to these, 5 parcels on which loans total 
$44,425.19 are potential other real estate. 
In determining which 
assets should properly be categorized as other real estate, examiners 
noted that titles to the properties remain in the bank and looked to 
the substance of the transactions as required by instructions for the 
preparation of Reports of Condition by State member banks, which 
contain the following. 
"Item 9, investments and other assets indirectly representing 
bank premises or other real estate. 
This item should include 
the amount of stocks and bonds indirectly representing bank 
premises or other real estate and the amount of loans, 
contracts of sale, or other assets indirectly representing 
bank premises or other real estate. 
Valuation reserves should 
be deducted. 
"In determining what assets should be reported against this 
item, the bank should look to substance rather than to the 
form in which the property is held. 
This item should include 
all amounts representing investments, loans, and other assets 
based on properties which, disregarding manner of holding or 
form of conveyance, properly should be considered as repre-
senting bank premises or other real estate but which are not 

Board of Directors, 
G. W. Jones Exchange Bank. 
- 4 -
reported against item 7 or 8 of 'assets.' 
This item 
should include, among others, assets representing1 
property sold or transferred directly or indirectly 
where the terms of the transaction or other conditions 
do not afford reasonable assurance that the properties 
will not have to be taken over by the bank, irrespec-
tive of whether or not a deed has been delivered. 
The 
item should also include a sale or transfer where 
some one other than the bank takes title for the 
convenience of the bank." 
Mr. Jones also inquired if instances were found in which 
real estate security was inadequate in relation to loan balances 
outstanding. 
The appraised value of real estate held as loan col-
lateral, in instances where an appraisal was made by an appraiser 
approved by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, generally exceeded 
loan balances outstanding. 
However, difficulties in credit extensions 
in the bank have tended to arise from failure of the loan to perform 
and an inclination on the part of the borrowers to consider the loan 
in the nature of a capital investment by the bank not requiring 
repayment. 
In such circumstances, the bank's position may become 
frozen and, in fact, it frequently cannot collect such a loan without 
resorting to foreclosure or other means resulting in hardship for all 
concerned. 
Thus, while security may have been adequate at inception 
of a loan, failure to service the loan has frequently resulted in 
deterioration necessitating drastic actions ultimately. 
Pages 16, 16(1), and 16(2) of the 1965 examination report, 
available when Mr. Jones wrote his letter, revealed two differences 
in verified accounts, commented that dormant savings accounts were 
not segregated or placed under the control of an officer, and recited 
numerous cases where time CD1s were paid prior to maturity without 
the bank obtaining a statement describing a situation which would 
clearly indicate the existence of an emergency. 
Between the 1965 
and 1966 examinations, records and internal controls deteriorated. 
The 1966 examination reveals that 5 accounts could not be verified 
by the examiners. 
Moreover, it listed inadequacies in internal 
controls in the following areas: 
cash and due from banks, loans and 
discounts, deposit liabilities, general ledger, and certificates of 
deposit. 
At this examination, in common with the 1965 examination, 
numerous CD's were listed as having been paid before maturity without 
statements to describe an emergency to justify such payments. 
The 
maintenance of adequate records in a trust department is fully as 
important as in the commercial department. 
Were your bank to be 
granted expanded fiduciary powers, it seems unlikely that the trust 
department records would be better than those in the commercial 

Board of Directors, 
G. W. Jones Exchange Bank. 
- 5 -
department. 
Actually, records for the few accounts the bank is now 
permitted to hold are criticized by the examiner at page T-l of the 
1966 trust report. 
In view of the unsatisfactory features discussed above and 
the potential liability involved in the administration of fiduciary 
accounts, the Board denies your request for permission for the 
general exercise of the power of testamentary trustee. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

Item No 
T E L E G R A M 
1/30/67 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
January 27, 1967. 
SCANLON - CHICAGO 
Board authorizes your Bank to waive the assessment of penalties 
for deficiencies in reserves of member banks which may result from 
present snow-disaster conditions in portions of your District, 
including Detroit Branch. 
After communications and transportation 
have returned to normal, please submit list of penalties waived 
under this special authorization. 
(Signed) Sherman 
SHERMAN 

377 
BOARD OF G D V E R N • RS 
Item No. 4 
• F T H E 
1/30/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 10, 1967. 
Harbeson Hough Livingston & Larson, 
Architects Building, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19103. 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to the agreement between the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System and Harbeson Hough Livingston & 
Larson dated December 7, 1962, as amended June 19, 1964, providing for 
architectural services in connection with the possibility of construct-
ing an addition to the Board's property on the north side of "C" Street, 
between 20th and 21st Streets, N. W., Washington, D. C. 
The Board has approved the basic marble design for a building 
addition of three floors and a setback, as reflected in the plans sub-
mitted by your Firm to the Board under date of October 24, 1966, and 
identified as "Plan A" by Governor Shepardson on October 25, 1966. 
The 
plans were approved with the understanding that attention will be given 
to reducing to a minimum the mass of marble surrounding the windows of 
the building. 
Basically, the design approved by the Board is the same as 
that shown in your preliminary plan dated November 18, 1966, consisting 
of drawings SK-A-11 through SK-A-21 and as Marble "A", Alternate Program B, 
in your memorandum "Resume1 of Costs" dated January 6, 1967. The Board's 
action does not include provision for a tennis court as shown on drawings 
SK-A-13, -14, and -15, nor does it include provision for a north parking 
garage as shown on drawings SK-A-12, -13, -14, -15, and -16. The total 
estimated cost of the project is as follows: 
Cost of construction 
$11,757,319 
Board's administrative costs 
1,577,195 
Total project 
$13,334,514 
The total project estimated cost is taken from your "Resume1 
of Cost" dated January 6, 1967, and the breakdown of costs between 
construction and administrative costs is derived from your "Analysis 
of Cost" dated December 9, 1966. 
'* O? gov/'. 

378 
Harbeson Hough Livingston & Larson 
-2-
In approving the basic marble design as described, the 
Board expressed the strong view that the development of further plans 
for the project should be expedited as much as possible. 
Very truly yours, 
Merritt She' 
Secretary. 
! 
