Minutes for September 15, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, September 15, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Chief Federal Reserve 
Examiner 
Messrs. Cloth and Porter of the Legal Division 
Mr. Lyon and Miss Greene of the Division of 
Examinations 
iWt 
I 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
reserve Bank of Boston on September 11 and by the Federal Reserve Banks 
Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas 
°
n
 September 14, 1967, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
e x
isting schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
a
PPropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 

r?6oo 
9/15/67 
-2-
Policy record entries. With a memorandum from Mr. Holland 
dated September 13, 1967, there had been distributed a revised draft 
of policy record entry covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee on June 20, 1967. It was proposed to release the entry to 
the press on Monday, September 18, with subsequent publication in the 
Federal Reserve Bulletin, and the entry was now being submitted for 
final review by the Board prior to its release. An earlier version 
had been approved by the Board on August 3, 1967, and subsequently dis-
tributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents. One suggested change had been 
incorporated in the text of the entry. 
The release of the entry to the press on Monday, September 18, 
W a s
 approved unanimously. 
With a memorandum from Mr. Holland dated September 14, 1967, 
there was submitted a draft of policy record entry covering the meeting 
o f
 the Open Market Committee held on July 18, 1967. The draft entry 
took account of comments received from Committee members and staff 
following distribution of a preliminary draft. The entry was now pre-
sented for approval by the Board for inclusion in its Annual Report for 
1967. 
Discussion was limited to a change that had been suggested in 
the preliminary draft entry so as to state that operations in coupon 
issues from time to time were a normal part of open market operations 
a
nd omission of reference to such operations from the Committee's 

3601 
9/15/67 
-3-
current economic policy directive did not preclude their being conducted 
under appropriate circumstances. 
Governor Brimmer observed that the revised language tended to 
weaken the statement that appeared later in the policy record entry 
explaining why he, along with Governors Mitchell and Maisel, had voted 
a
t the July 18 meeting against dropping from the current economic policy 
directive a reference to operations in coupon issues to supply part of 
reserve needs. 
Governor Mitchell indicated that he saw a need for some recon-
ciliation between the two parts of the policy record entry. He suggested 
a
n amendment to specify that the statement in the first part of the 
entry was attributed to members of the majority of the Open Market Com-
mittee. 
There was agreement with that suggestion, and the policy record 
entry was then approved unanimously for inclusion in the Board's Annual 
Report. It was understood that the entry would be distributed to the 
Reserve Bank Presidents, primarily for information but with an indica-
tion of the date by which any further comments should be received. It 
W a s
 contemplated that the entry would be released to the press about 
October 16, 1967, after final review by the Board, and that it would 
S u
bsequently be published in the Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
Application of Virginia Commonwealth (Items 1-2). There had 
keen distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's 

3602 
9/15/67 
-4-
approval on September 6, 1967, of the application of Virginia Common-
wealth Bankshares, Inc., Richmond, Virginia, to acquire more than 
50 per cent of the voting shares of American National Bank, Fredericks-
burg, Virginia. 
Governor Brimmer called attention to a sentence in the proposed 
statement wherein it was stated that even if American National Bank 
should remain independent, it might possibly offer an alternative 
credit card plan to the area. He pointed out that a bank of such small 
size was not likely to offer a credit card plan of its own. He sug-
gested, therefore, that the sentence be changed to indicate that the 
bank might possibly offer, as an agent of some other bank, an alterna-
tive credit card plan. This suggestion was agreed to by the Board. 
With the understanding that the foregoing change would be made, 
the issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies of the 
documents, as issued, are attached as Items 1 and 2, respectively. 
Indianapolis Morris Plan (Item No. 3). Indianapolis Morris 
Plan of Indianapolis, Indiana, an industrial loan and investment com-
p l y , had inquired through the Chicago Reserve Bank whether it would be 
e
ligible to borrow from the Reserve Bank in event of an emergency. 
In the course of preparing a reply, in which it would deal with 
t
be provisions of the third paragraph of section 13 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and the provisions of the thirteenth paragraph of that sec-
t:
*-
0
n, the Reserve Bank had asked for an interpretation by the Board of 

36oR 
9/15/67 
-5-
the second sentence of section 19(e), which reads as follows: 
"No 
member bank shall act as the medium or agent of a nonmember bank in 
applying for or receiving discounts from a Federal reserve bank under 
the provisions of this Act, except by permission of the Board of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve System." Also relevant was section 
201.5(a) of Regulation A , Advances and Discounts by Federal Reserve 
Banks, which states in part that except with the permission of the 
Board no Federal Reserve Bank shall accept as security for an advance 
discount any assets acquired by a member bank from, or bearing the 
signa ture or endorsement of, a nonmember bank. 
For reasons stated in a memorandum of September 13, 1967, 
including the fact that Indianapolis Morris Plan was authorized to 
issue, negotiate, and sell secured or unsecured certificates of invest-
m e
n t , which certificates served functions quite similar to certificates 
o f
 deposit and savings accounts, the Legal Division concluded that 
Indianapolis Morris Plan should be considered a nonmember bank for pur-
Poses of section 19(e) of the Federal Reserve Act and section 201.5(a) 
o f
 Regulation A . A draft of reply to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
W a s
 submitted with the memorandum. 
After discussion the recommendation of the Legal Division was 
a c
cepted, and unanimous approval was given to the letter to the Reserve 
Bank a copy of which is attached as Item No. 3. It was understood that 
the substance of the letter would be transmitted to all Federal Reserve 
fi
anks. 

3604 
9/15/67 
-6-
Security provisions at Dallas Reserve Bank (Item No. 4). Prin-
cipally as a result of recommendations made following a survey of its 
Protection Department in April 1966, the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Proposed to have certain alterations and additions made in its head 
office building to provide improved security. Preliminary cost esti-
mates totaled approximately $440,000. The Bank's architects had pre-
pared specifications, supported by detailed drawings, and the Reserve 
Bank desired to request bids on the work. 
In a memorandum of September 7, 1967, the Division of Examina-
tions and the Division of Bank Operations recommended that the Reserve 
Bank be authorized to request bids from contractors, with the under-
standing that the project would be considered further after accurate 
c
°st data had become available from the bids received. 
Mr. Smith reviewed the nature of the report resulting from the 
survey of the Protection Department conducted under the direction of 
the U.S. Secret Service in April 1966, the letter sent by the Board to 
the Reserve Bank on January 27, 1967, the further studies that had 
e
nsued, and the appraisal of the proposed building alterations and 
e c
luip m e n t procurement by Inspector Bouck of the Secret Service. 
Mr. Smith also referred to two other matters involved in the 
p 
serve Bank's plans. The first was a recent suggestion by the Reserve 
for certain additional security steps that might be desirable in 
the light of recent civil disturbances. Inspector Bouck took the 

9/15/67 
-7-
Position that the prevention of break-in or damage to the Reserve Bank's 
building as a result of civil riots involved a question separate and 
different from that involved in the original security survey. In Mr. 
Bouck's judgment, a determination by the Federal Reserve System as to 
how much "insurance" was desirable to offset possible risks from civil 
disorders would be required. 
The second matter mentioned by Mr. Smith had to do with the pro-
posal of the Dallas Bank to augment its guard force in order to man 
guard stations on all floors of the building, even where no valuables 
were handled, and to perform other functions related to the control of 
Persons within the building. While the Secret Service advocated appro-
priate measures to control visitors, Inspector Bouck felt that that could 
be accomplished without a material increase in the guard force. Mr. Smith 
S a
id that earlier this week President Irons had indicated that the Reserve 
Bank might modify its plans in this particular regard. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the proposals emanating from 
the security survey at the Dallas Bank had had long and careful consid-
e r
ation. At times it was his impression that the Reserve Bank might be 
going a little too far. However, in light of the extended review of the 
Plans that had occurred, including their appraisal by Inspector Bouck, 
was his opinion that the capital program now proposed was appropriate, 
and he concurred in the staff recommendation. He still felt that the 
^
a
nk was contemplating the addition of more personnel to the guard force 

3606 
9/15/67 
-8-
than necessary, but he understood that the Bank was giving this ques-
tion further consideration. 
Governor Brimmer commented that he had been on the periphery of 
the discussions of the matter from time to time. On the occasion of a 
visit to the Reserve Bank, he had talked with the management about the 
Bank's plans. In his opinion, the Bank had over-reacted to the criti-
cisms in the original report. He agreed that the Board should not get 
into the business of running the Reserve Bank, and he would not object 
to authorizing the Bank to call for bids. But when it came to the 
implications of some of the proposals, in terms of what the Reserve 
Banks should be doing in the future, he thought it well to pause a 
little. This appeared to be the first time that the question of pro-
tection against civil disturbances had been raised, and he agreed with 
Mr. Bouck that a System determination was indicated. The Board should 
encourage the Reserve Banks to look into the matter, but as a separate 
issue. As to the question of the guard force, he was glad to hear that 
President Irons might conclude upon further study that the proposed 
Editions to the guard force would not be necessary. 
After further discussion the staff recommendation that the 
^llas Bank be authorized to request bids from contractors was approved 
u
nanimously, Governor Brimmer adding that, as he had indicated, he 
thought it would also be well for the System to look into the new issue 
that had been raised with regard to protection against possible civil 

3607 
9/15/67 
-9-
disturbances. A copy of the telegram to the Dallas Bank reflecting the 
Board's authorization is attached as Item No. 4. 
Salary of officer at Atlanta Reserve Bank (Item No. 5). The 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta had advised that it proposed to transfer 
Robert E. Heck, Assistant Vice President, to the Bank Examination Depart-
ment, where it was expected that he would succeed George W. Sheffer, 
Chief Examiner and Assistant Vice President, who was to retire at the 
e
nd of October 1967. However, Mr. Heck would continue to carry his cur-
r e
n t title of Assistant Vice President through 1967. The Reserve Bank's 
request did not include a promotional increase in salary for Mr. Heck, 
w
ho had already received such an increase earlier this year, but it was 
u
nderstood that an increase and change in title probably would be rec-
ommended effective January 1, 1968. 
In a memorandum of September 13, 1967, the Division of Personnel 
Administration recommended that the Board approve the payment of salary 
t o
 Mr. Heck at his current annual rate of $14,000 upon his transfer to 
Bank Examination Department as Assistant Vice President. The Divi-
sion of Examinations concurred. 
The staff recommendation was accepted, and unanimous approval 
W a s
 given to the letter to the Atlanta Reserve Bank of which a copy is 
attached as Item No. 5. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3608 
9/15/67 
-10-
Secretary's Notes: A letter was sent today 
to First National City Bank, New York, New 
York, acknowledging receipt of notice of its 
intent to establish an additional branch in 
Argentina, to be located in the Gaona Dis-
trict of Buenos Aires. 
On September 14, 1967, Governor Robertson 
approved on behalf of the Board the fol-
lowing items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
August 31, 1967, recommending the establishment of a new position in 
the Capital Markets Section, it being understood that the title and 
grade level of the position would be subject to the usual review and 
determination by the Division of Personnel Administration. 
Memorandum from the Division of Data Processing recommending a 
change in the title of Robert J. Freeman, Sr., from Data Control Clerk 
to Production Control Clerk, with no change in basic annual salary at 
the rate of $5,507, effective September 25, 1967. 
Acting in the absence of Governor Robertson, 
Governor Sherrill approved on behalf of the 
Board on September 14, 1967, a recommenda-
tion from the Division of Research and Sta-
tistics that an entrance salary at the rate 
of $12,056 per annum be established for 
Richard D. Erb, Economist, effective Sep-
tember 11, 1967, with the understanding 
that Mr. Erb's salary would be increased 
to $13,201 upon completion of all Ph.D. 
requirements and that he would be given 
the benefit of any general pay increase. 
Governor Robertson today noted on behalf 
of the Board a memorandum advising that 
Margaret J. Molster, Records Analyst in 
the Office of the Secretary, had filed 
application for retirement, effective 
October 1, 1967. 
On September 14 and 15, 1967, actions were 
taken on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following let-
ters, copies of which are attached under the 
respective item numbers indicated: 
,• U i C 
U.:v 
, 

3609 
9/15/67 
-11-
_0n September 14, 1967 
By the Acting General Counsel of the Board 
Item No. 
Letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve 
6 
Banks and the Vice Presidents in charge of the 
Detroit and Los Angeles Branches regarding the 
addition of a provision to presently outstanding 
and future V-loan guarantee agreements. 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
7 
approving the designation of Ronald C. Pine 
as special assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
8 
approving the appointment of Robert E. Heck 
as examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
9 
City approving the designation of 48 employees 
as special assistant examiners. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to The Fallkill Bank and Trust Company, 
10 
Poughkeepsie, New York, approving the establish-
ment of a branch in the Violet Avenue Shopping 
Center, Hyde Park. 
B y t h e Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to Bank of Galesburg, Galesburg, Illinois, 
11 
a
Pproving the establishment of an in-town branch. 
Letter to Citizens Banking Company, Anderson, 
12 
Indiana, approving the establishment of an 
in-town branch. 
£*L_September 151 1967 
Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
13 
a
PProving the appointment of Thomas J. Harding as 
a s
sistant examiner. 

3610 
9/15/67 
-12-
: J • j, 
11 i ' 1 
I 
, ..! % 
i , 
< 
' > V 
yn 
y y 
•yy-
. . . 
On September 15, 1967 
_By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to The Schenectady Trust Company, 
Schenectady, New York, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch in the Town of Clifton 
Park. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Orange. 
Letter to Fidelity Bank, Beverly Hills, 
California, waiving the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal from membership 
in the Federal Reserve System. 
Item No. 
14 
15 
16 

361A 
Item No. 1 
9/15/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
I n
 the Matter of the Application of 
VIRGINIA COMMONWEALTH BANKSHARES, INC., 
Richmond, Virginia, 
approval of acquisition of more 
han 50 per cent of the voting shares 
American National Bank, Fredericksburg, 
V i
*gini a, 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
8 e c
t i o n 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l 8 4 2
(a)(3)) and section 222.4(a)(3) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 
CFR 222.4(a)(3)), an application by Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, 
*
n c
»> Richmond, Virginia, for the Board's prior approval of the acqui-
^lon of more than 50 per cent of the voting shares of American National 
B a n k
» Fredericksburg, Virginia. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
G
 Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
vip 
3
 and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 12, 1967 (32 Federal Register 7189), providing 
at
* opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
^ith respect to the proposal, A copy of the application was forwarded 
the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
£ 
filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
b
een considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Bo 
i 
a
*d s Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is a
Pproved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
c
°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of 
* 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
e
r unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
b y
 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority 
Dated at Washington, D. C;, this 15th day of September, 1967, 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and 
Cherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Maisel. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
~ 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

3 6 1 3 
Item No. 2 
9/15/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
VIRGINIA COMMONWEALTH BANKSHARES, INC., 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
AMERICAN NATIONAL BANK 
STATEMENT 
Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc., Richmond, Virginia 
( Applic 
ant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
&°ard of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
C o
»Pany Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
ac
quisition of more than 50 per cent of the voting shares of American 
N a t
*onal Bank, Fredericksburg, Virginia ("Bank"). Applicant presently 
c
°ntrols nine banks which operate 64 offices with total deposits of 
$,Vi 
1/ 
J
4 million. 
Bank's two offices have $3 million in total deposits. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
tec
luired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
atl
d recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
t h e
 application. 
tef?
a n l c i n g d a t a 
a r e 
a s 
o f 
D c c e m b c r 
3 1
> 1966, unless otherwise noted, and 
a 
*
e c t
 acquisitions and mergers approved by appropriate supervisory 
V e r i t i e s to date. 

3614 
-2-
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a
 monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
a n
y part of the United States, Nor may the Board approve any other 
Proposed acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, 
®
a
y be substantially to lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
a r
e clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to K 
served. In each case the Board is required to take into consider-
a t
ion the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
fc
he bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
a n
d needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - There are nine 
b a
n k i n g organizations (including five bank holding companies) in Virginia 
have deposits in excess of $100 million. In the aggregate, these 
°
r
ganizations account for about 62 per cent of the deposits and 51 per 
C e n
t of the offices of all commercial banks in the State. 
Applicant's 
P°
8
ition as the fourth largest of these organizations and the second 
a r
gest holding company would be unchanged following consummation of 
the n Proposed acquisition. Its share of total deposits and commercial 

-3-
3645 
banking offices, presently about 6.3 per cent and 7.5 per cent, would 
be increased by less than .1 per cent and .2 per cent, respectively. 
2/ 
Bank's primary service area, which includes the City of 
Fredericksburg and portions of Caroline, King George, Spotsylvania, 
and Stafford Counties within a 10 - 17 mile radius, is located about 
midway between Richmond, Virginia, and Washington, D. C., near a major 
interstate highway connecting them. In addition to its main office in 
downtown Fredericksburg, it has a branch (which is designated 
a s
 a teller facility) just outside of the city limits. The estimated 
Population of Fredericksburg is 15,000 and that of Bank's primary 
service area about 33,000. Based on total deposits, Bank ranks fifth 
o f
 six banks that have 13 offices located in or immediately near its primary 
service area. 
Consummation of the proposed transaction would represent the 
initial entry of a bank holding company into the Fredericksburg area 
but would not alter the number of banking alternatives represented 
herein. As Bank controls only a small portion of the Fredericksburg 
a r
ea deposits (5.2 per cent as of June 30, 1966), the deposits con-
dolled by Applicant upon approval would be but a small portion thereof; 
t v ,
° institutions operating in the Fredericksburg area (Farmers & Merchants 
S t
ate Bank and The National Bank of Fredericksburg) would still have 
c
°ntrol of 75 per cent of total deposits. 
The area from which Applicant estimates that Bank derives about 
Per cent of its total deposits of individuals, partnerships, and 
C O r
Porations. 

-4-
3616 
Considering the probable effect of Applicant's acquisition of 
Bank on existing and potential competition, the Board concludes that 
considerations relating thereto do not preclude approval of the proposal. 
Applicant's subsidiaries have no offices located within Bank's primary 
service area, and none derives any substantial business from that area. 
Applicant's nearest subsidiary to Bank is The Bank of Prince William in 
northern Virginia, the closest office of which is about 25 miles north 
°f Fredericksburg. The intervening area contains two offices of a major 
competitor of Bank, The Peoples Bank of Stafford, and a second bank, 
The First National Bank of Quantico. There is no overlap of the service 
areas of Bank and The Bank of Prince William, and the record establishes 
t o
 the Board's satisfaction that no competition exists between them, 
nor is competition likely to develop in any significant volume in the 
f
uture. 
Applicant's subsidiary next closest to Bank is the Bank of 
^*
r
ginia, headquartered in Richmond, some 50 miles to the south of 
p
redericksburg. The largest bank in Applicant's system, Bank of Virginia, 
^as made substantial loans to two individuals and their related businesses 
Fredericksburg. While the aggregate of these loans represents only 
1 , 5
 per cent of Bank of Virginia's total loans, it exceeds Bank's entire 
l o
an portfolio. Applicant states, however, that Bank of Virginia was 
a
PProached by these borrowers with the explanation that the service 
t h e
V needed was not available in Fredericksburg. Moreover, one of 
t h e
 foregoing loan relationships was established 12 years ago and the 
°
th
er 
just prior to the opening of Bank. No bank in Fredericksburg 

-5-
o b i • 
offers retail or floor plan financing to automobile dealers, and the 
lending limits of those banks are relatively small. By virtue of its 
size and because of its recognized experience in certain types of lending, 
Bank of Virginia is reasonably sought as a direct source of credit of a 
specialized nature, particularly because there are no banks in Fredericksburg 
handling certain sizes and types of loans without the assistance of a 
correspondent bank. 
Bank and Bank of Virginia do not compete to any significant 
degree for deposits originating in the Fredericksburg area. Bank of 
Virginia does not directly solicit, and derives but a nominal amount of, 
deposits from the area. Prospects for future competition between the 
t w
o banks are remote in view of Bank's small size, its limited experience, 
an
<* the provision of State law that prevents Bank of Virginia from estab-
Ushing new offices in the Fredericksburg area. Discussed later in another 
context is Applicant's proposal to make available, through Bank, Bank of 
s Charge-Plan, a bank credit card program presently offered to 
t h
e Fredericksburg area by Bank of Virginia through Farmers & Merchants 
S t a
t e Bank, Fredericksburg. In the Board's judgment, the volume of Bank 
0 f
 Virginia's credit card business derived in the Fredericksburg area 
d o e
s not constitute this aspect of its banking operations a significant 
ccmp eti t i v c f a c t o r even though, should Bank remain independent, it might 
p
°ssibly offer, as an agent for some other large bank, an alternative 
c
*edit card plan to the area. Nor, should this application be approved, 
d o e
s the Board view as a realistic possibiliy any significant elimination of 

- 6 -
3618 
competition between Bank and Farmers & Merchants Bank for other types 
of banking business merely because both banks would offer Bank of 
Virginia's credit card plan. A more likely result, it would appear, 
would be increased competition between the two Fredericksburg 
competitors for deposit and related business generated by credit 
card customer relationships. 
With the exception of a newly chartered bank located 12 miles 
from Fredericksburg, Bank is the smallest institution operating in its 
service area. While Bank's principal competitors are much larger than 
it. Bank has been successful in attracting the deposit accounts of 
individuals and small business concerns, and has experienced good growth 
in its two and one-half years of operation. While there has been no 
e
vidence that Bank has been unable to compete with these institutions, 
the entry of Applicant into the Fredericksburg area, through acquisi-
tion of the smallest bank in the city, should serve to stimulate compe-
tition among and between the Fredericksburg banks and develop a more 
^lanced situation with respect to distribution of deposits. 
In summary, the Board concludes on the basis of the record 
Presented that consummation of Applicant's proposal would not result 
a monopoly nor be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
t° monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
at
*y relevant area of the State. The Board further concludes that 

7 
3 6 1 9 
Applicant's acquisition of Bank would not substantially lessen competition, 
tend to create a monopoly, or operate in restraint of trade in any relevant 
area. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. - The 
financial history and condition of Applicant are satisfactory and its 
prospects are considered favorable. Deposits and loans of the subsidiary 
banks have experienced favorable growth and their earnings are good. 
!ts lead bank has a comprehensive training program and has developed a 
source of managerial talent. The general quality of operation and the 
sound condition of the subsidiary banks reflect the satisfactory quality 
o f
 their management and the effective administrative control exercised 
by the senior officials of Applicant. 
Bank has experienced good growth during the short period of 
its 
existence. While its capital is strong and its general condition 
i s
 reasonably satisfactory, analysis of Bank's total loan portfolio 
r
eflect8 the absence of, and need for, experienced management and 
supervision, provision for which will be made by Applicant. In this 
r e
8ard, Bank's prospects as a subsidiary of Applicant are considerably 
b
etter than would be the case if Bank were to continue its present course 
o f
 independent operation. Bank's president retired at the end of 1966 
a n d
 has not yet been replaced. The remaining directors are business and 
P r o f e s s i o n a i men with no banking experience prior to joining Bank's 
b
°ard. Bank's vice president and cashier - its chief operating officer -
l s
 experienced and able. However, other than this officer, Bank has no 

experienced management. Affiliation with Applicant will provide Bank 
w
ith access to experienced executive personnel with potential for 
advancement, and a readily available source of management trainees. In 
view of the above considerations, Bank's prospects are considered to be 
°nly fair at the present time. However, with strengthened management and 
the implementation of Applicant's programs, Bank's prospects for sound 
growth appear favorable, a consideration which lends weight toward 
a
Pproval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - Bank's service 
a f
ea is primarily industrial in nature with several large manufacturing 
concerns in or near the City of Fredericksburg. Several United States 
G
°vernment military installations, a college of the University of Virginia, 
a n
d the steady influx of a large number of tourists, attracted by the 
l°cal historical shrines, contribute considerably to the local economy. 
It is reasonably foreseen that the aforementioned commercial activity 
contribute substantially to the continued economic growth and 
e x
Pansion of the area. 
With the exception of credit needs of a specialized nature 
are not offered locally but are otherwise being provided, as 
e s
cribed above, it appears that the Fredericksburg area banks are 
Presently serving the needs and requirements of the area involved, 
however, as the economy continues to grow, the absence of a full range 
0 * locally available credit services will become more acute. Consummation 
o f
 the proposal would make the resources, services, and expertise of 

A p p l i c a n t ' s group, particularly the Bank of Virginia, more readily 
available to the Fredericksburg community. Applicant's ownership of 
,. 
i
.
• 
Bank would afford Bank's customers experienced management and new credit 
services, including an alternative source for Bank of Virginia's credit 
c
ard plan, which Applicant proposes to make available through Bank. As 
e
arlier mentioned, this credit card plan is presently available through 
Farmers & Merchants State Bank and would be offered through Bank under 
generally the same arrangements. Through access to this plan, Bank's 
C u
stomers will be afforded specified credit and loan privileges, the use 
which is reasonably calculated to increase and facilitate commercial 
t
ransactions. These considerations, and the anticipated improvements in 
both experience and depth of Bank's management, weigh in favor of approval 
the application. 
« 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant facts 
c
°ntained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth in 
Action 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
» 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application should 
b e
 approved. 
S e
Ptember 15, 1967. 

? £ T O O 
BOARD O F GOVERNORS 
9/15/67*
 
3 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 18, 1967 
Mr. Ward J. Larson, 
Assistant General Counsel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Larson: 
This refers to your letters of May 17 and August 3, 1967, 
inquiring whether the Indianapolis Morris Plan of Indianapolis, 
Indiana, should be considered a nonmember bank for purposes of 
section 19(e) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. § 374) and 
section 201.5 of Regulation A . 
Section 19(e) provides that: 
"No member bank shall act as the medium or agent 
of a nonmember bank in applying for or receiving 
discounts from a Federal reserve bank under the 
provisions of this Act, except by permission of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System." 
Section 201.5(a) of Regulation A states, in part, that: 
"Except with the permission of the Board . . ., 
no Federal Reserve Bank shall accept as security 
for an advance or discount any assets acquired 
by a member bank from, or bearing the signature 
or endorsement of, a nonmember bank . . . ." 
On several occasions the Board has determined that Morris 
Plan companies were banks for purposes of the Clayton Act and sec-
tions 19 and 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act. Federal Reserve 
Loose-Leaf Service, ## 6663, 6080, and 7723. 
Section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act, which pertains to 
membership by State banks, states in part that: 
"Any bank incorporated by special law of any 
State, or organized under the general laws of 
i 

Mr. Ward J. Larson 
-2-
any State or of the United States, including Morris 
Plan banks and other incorporated banking institu-
tions engaged in similar business, . . . may make 
application to the Board . . . ." (Emphasis added.) 
The inclusion of "Morris Plan banks" among categories of banks or 
"banking institutions" lends strong support to the position that, 
as a general rule, a "Morris Plan" company is a "bank" for purposes 
of the Federal Reserve Act. However, an investigation of the actual 
operation of the institution is required to determine whether there 
are special circumstances that make the general rule inapplicable. 
The Indianapolis Morris Plan is subject to the provisions 
of Chapter 31 of Title 18 of the Indiana Statutes, relating to in-
dustrial loan and investment companies. Section 18-3119 thereof 
forbids the company to engage "in the banking or trust business" 
or in the operation of a "savings bank, commercial bank or trust 
company", or to "hold itself out to the public as a bank, savings 
bank or trust company". In addition, the company is prohibited by 
this section from accepting deposits or "savings accounts" or ad-
vertising that it does. Nevertheless, the company is authorized 
by section 18-3106 to issue, negotiate, and sell secured or unsecured 
certificates of investment or indebtedness. Certificates of invest-
ment issued by the company serve functions quite similar to both 
certificates of deposit and savings accounts. 
For the reasons indicated, the Board has determined that 
the Indianapolis Morris Plan is a nonmember bank within the purview 
of section 19(e) . 
The third and thirteenth paragraphs of section 13 of the 
Federal Reserve Act are pertinent to the question presented by the 
Indianapolis Morris Plan. The Board's reply, in response to your 
inquiry, concerns only the applicability of section 19(e) of the 
Federal Reserve Act and section 201.5 of Regulation A . The Board 
requests the Chicago Reserve Bank to respond to Indianapolis Morris 
Plan with regard to the other aspects of the matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

3624 
Item No. 4 
T E L E G R A M 
9/15/67 
LEASED WIRE SERVICE 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
September 15, 1967. 
IRONS - DALLAS 
In re proposed security modifications, Board authorizes you to 
request bids on construction work and equipment installations as 
covered in plans and specifications referred to in your letter 
August 17. It is suggested that bidders be asked to submit 
alternative proposals to include the strengthening of building 
entrances as suggested in third paragraph of your letter. 
Please advise Board revised cost figures based on bids received. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
SHERMAN 
• 
; v 
' -r .' . V 5
 i
 i- 
. • 
• 

3625 
i: 
UL 
i ; 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
Item No. 5 
• F THE 
9/15/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 15, 1967 
Mr. Harold T. Patterson, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30303 
in j i r V . :.? C-M io • ' 
LOU 'i. v. i 
Dear Mr. Patterson: 
• 
The Board of Governors approves the transfer of 
Mr. Robert E . Heck, Assistant Vice President, to the Bank 
Examination Department at his present annual salary of 
$14,000. It is noted that the Board will be notified of 
the effective date of the transfer. 
We understand a promotional increase and a 
change in title will be recommended for Mr. Heck, effec-
tive January 1, 1968. 
• 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

' 
VT 
B D A R D 
O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1 * 6 2 8 
Item No. 6 
9/15/67 
S-2033 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 15, 1967 
Dear Sir: 
In order to conform section 12 of the standard form of 
V-Loan Guarantee Agreement to the substance of section 7(b) of 
Regulation V, as amended effective September 27, 1966, which 
provides that "in any case in which the rate of interest on the 
loan is in excess of 6 per cent, the guarantee fee shall be com-
puted as though the interest rate were 6 per cent", the Acting 
General Counsel of the Board, on behalf of the Board pursuant 
to delegated authority, has approved addition of the following 
to section 12 of presently outstanding and future V-Loan 
Guarantee Agreements: 
"If the rate of interest on the loan is in 
excess of 6 per cent, the guarantee fee shall 
be computed as though the interest rate were 
6 per cent." 
The substance of the above-quoted regulatory provision 
was the subject of consultation with the guaranteeing agencies 
prior to adoption thereof. 
Very truly yours, 
VA.A. 
Merritt She 
Secretary 
r$ 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND THE VICE PRESIDENTS 
IN CHARGE OF THE DETROIT AND LOS ANGELES BRANCHES 

3627 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
9/15/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 15, 1967 
Mr. Luther M. Hoyle, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Hoyle: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of September 11, 1967, the Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the designation of Ronald C. Pine, as a special assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston to assist in the examination of 
the following banks: 
* 
State Street Bank and Trust Company, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
The Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, 
Hartford, Connecticut. 
Depositors Trust Company, 
Augusta, Maine. 
The Merrill Trust Company, 
Bangor, Maine. 
Rhode Island Hospital Trust Company, 
Providence, Rhode, Island. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

^ H B P 
W e 
3628 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 8 
9/15/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R B T S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 15, 1967 
. 
I » v 
'I 4fss 
•. it (' I,* • 
' Si; ' 
Mpri 
i M ® 
Mr. R . M . Stephenson, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear M r . Stephenson: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the appointment of Robert E . Heck 
as an examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L . Carmichael 
Elizabeth L . Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

' • f ^ r ^ v 
3629 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 9 
9/15/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O R R I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 15, 1967 
M. J. Swords, Vice President, 
Fed 
Ka 
eral Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
nsas City, Missouri. 
Dear Mr. Swords: 
64198 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of September 7 
67, the Director of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board 
^Governors under delegated authority, approves the designation of the 
°Howing employees as special assistant examiners for the Federal Reserve 
<1r
ik of Kansas City for the purpose of participating in the 1967 examination 
Commerce Trust Company, Kansas City, Missouri: 
Bilyeu, Leroy 
Cable, Willard 
Cahill, Robert 
Carr, Gordon 
Cockrell, Paul E. 
Cyerwinski, H. R. 
DeMareo, Michael J. 
Dewey, Keith 
Elliot, Jerry 
Fraser, Sidney K. 
Frohoff, Robert J. 
Gaston, Lee 
Halley, M. Dee 
Hankins, William 
Hughes, Wm. M . 
Hutton, Arthur H. 
Kurek, Richard M. 
LaRose, Sylvester 
Lee, Larry R. 
McKee, Hugh 
Neville, William 
Novak, Frank J. 
Jr. 
Patterson, Charles 
Peters, Kermit 
Pope, Joseph M. 
Rogers, Guy 
Searle, Joseph 
Shewmaker, Harold 
Shreeves, Jerry 
Shull, Keith 
Slover, Don 
Spurlock, John B. 
Stanley, Billy R. 
Tindall, Keith 
Trimble, Harry B. 
Tuggle, Jesse E. 
Walker, Lawrence 
Wangler, Arthur 
Wisniewski, Chester 
Wray, Jack 
Bramble, Gladys M. 
Hirsch, Catherine 
Hisey, Betty 
Johnson, Aileen 
Lynn, Mary 
Norris, Dorothy M. 
Polfer, Edna 
Smart, Dorothy J. 
u
Po n 
It is noted that these designations will be terminated immediately 
completion of the examination. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

8 6 8 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K OF N E W Y O R K 
i t e m 
n o . 
10 
9/15/67 
N e w 
Y O R K , N . Y . 
10045 
AREA CODE 212 
RE 2 - 5 7 0 0 
September 
1967 
M r . J o h n W . K e l l y 
E x e c u t i v e V i c e P r e s i d e n t 
The F a l l k i l l B a n k a n d 
Trust Company 
*oughkeepsie, New York 
12602 
Dear M r . K e l l y : 
We refer to your bank's application dated June 23, 
1967 requesting permission to establish a branch in the Violet 
Avenue Shopping Center (Route 9G), Hyde Park (Unincorporated 
Area), Dutchess County, New York. After reviewing the appli-
cation in the light of the factors enumerated in Section 265.2 
(f)(1) of the Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority issued 
V the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, we 
have concluded that your application should be approved. 
Accordingly, on behalf of the Board of Governors, the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, acting under delegated authority, 
approves the establishment by your bank of a branch at the 
above-mentioned location, provided the branch is established 
v
ithin one year after the date of this letter. 
We u n d e r s t a n d t h a t y o u p l a n t o h o u s e t h e b r a n c h in 
t e m p o r a r y q u a r t e r s at 397 V i o l e t A v e n u e (Route 9 G ) , a b o u t 150 
yards f r o m t h e p r o p o s e d s i t e , u n t i l t h e p e r m a n e n t q u a r t e r s a r e 
c
O m p l e t e d . 
P l e a s e l e t us k n o w w h e n t h e b r a n c h is e s t a b l i s h e d 
o p e n e d f o r b u s i n e s s a t t h e t e m p o r a r y l o c a t i o n , g i v i n g t h e 
E f f e c t i v e d a t e of o p e n i n g , t h e n a m e , if a n y , b y w h i c h it w i l l be 
k & o v n , a n d t h e o f f i c i a l p o s t a l a d d r e s s , i n c l u d i n g t h e zip c o d e 
n
U m b e r . 
S i m i l a r a d v i c e s h o u l d be s e n t t o us w h e n t h e b r a n c h 
^oves t o its p e r m a n e n t 
l o c a t i o n . 
P l e a s e a c k n o w l e d g e r e c e i p t b y s i g n i n g a n d r e t u r n i n g 
u s t h e e n c l o s e d c o p y of t h i s l e t t e r . 
Very truly yours, 
C
x 
Thomas M. Timlen, Jr. 
V i c e P r e s i d e n t 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
230 S O U T H L A S A L L E S T R E E T 
J
. 
C H I C A G O . I L L I N O I S 60W0 
9 / 1 5 / 6 7 
( ) I 2 ) H A 
7-2)20 
September lk9 1967 
Mr. James F. Oberwortmann 
Executive Vice President 
Bank of Galesburg 
Galesburg, Illinoio 61^01 
Dear Mr. Oberwortmann: 
On behalf of the Board cf Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Ban!: has approved establishment by 
your bank of a branch just east of the southeast corner of 
the intersection of Kellogg Street and Simmons Street, 
Galesburg, Illinois, provided the branch is established within 
three months from the date of this letter. 
The Reserve Bank finds that capitalization of Bank 
of Galesburg is reasonably adequate, that management is 
satisfactory, that the proposed branch will serve the needs 
and convenience of the community, and that the branch will 
not tend to create an undesirable competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
% 
i 
Lcland Boss 
Vice President 
. 
.
.
. 
1 • t J, -
cc - 24r. Merritt Sherman 
- 111. State Dept. 
- Examiner
1
 s file^^ 
/ 

:>m2 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
Mr. C-eorge A. Griffith 
President 
Citizcri3 Banking Company 
Anderson, Indiana 
Dear Mr. Griffith: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank has approved establishment by 
your bank of a branch at the intersection of 53rd Street ana 
Scatterfield Road, Anderson, Indiana, provided the "branch 
is established within six months from the date of this letter. 
The Reserve Bank finds that capitalization of 
Citizens Banking Company is adequate, -ohe management is 
satisfactory, that the proposed branch will serve the needs 
and convenience of the community, and that the branch will 
not tend to create an undesirable competitive situation. 
2)0 S O U T H L A S A L L E 
S T R E E T 
C H I C A G O , I L L I N O I S 60690 
(J12) H A 7-2320 
Item No. 12 
9/15/67 
September 14, 1967 
Very truly yours, 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 
J&Iit 
v / 
Merritt Sheraan 
vi. State Dept. 
.miner's file 

f 
BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
iiUOi 
Item No. 13 
9/15/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 18, 1967 
< 
rt 
( 
Mx... 
•I , i 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
f/* r.. 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
VvoA " 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of September 13, 1967, the Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointment of Thomas J. Harding as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
effective today. 
Very truly yours, 
• • ytit
!
 s 
o r 
• ... 
(Signed) Elizabeth L . Carmichael 
Elizabeth L . Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

«->M«) 
3634 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
Item No. 14 
9/15/67 
NEW YORK. NEW YORK 10045 
SEP 15 '"-? 
?h*
 
0 u l 3 
V
' Kortiaann, President 
^ Schenectady Trust Company 
sp State Street 
o c
^ n e c t a d y , Uev York 
12301 
^ a r Mr. Kortaann: 
This refers to your bank
r
3 application dated June Ik, 
r e
^ e s t i n s permission to establish a branch at the Clifton 
,,+
 
C o n t e r
> on the east side of Vischer Ferry Koad 
ar,\ 
l^oA), 350 feet south of the intersection of Route U 6 
A r e W
e
f
h 0 r 
p e r r y 
R o a d
>
 
2 o v n
 
Clifton Park (Unincorporated 
ticT' J ~
a r a t
° S
a C o u n t
y > Kew York. After reviewing the appUca-
0 / in the light of the factors enumerated in Section 265.2(f)(1) 
j v ^ e Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority issued by the 
^ u ^ ° L
G 0 V C r n 0 r s 
o f 
t U e
 
Reserve Systen, ve h-ve con-
?
 
y O U r
 
should be approved. Accordingly. 
~ 1 V r
f 0 : f
 "
h e B o a r i
 
Governors, the Federal Reserve Bank of 
1
9
 
acting under delegated authority, • approves the establish-
P ^ n
y
/
C
U
r 
b a n k 
a 
b r a n c h
 
the above-mentioned location, 
of 
.
t h G b r a n c h
 io established vithin one year after the date 
«UG letter. 
Wo shall appreciate your advising us Vhen the branch is 
established and opened for business, giving the effective 
or opening, the name, if any, by vhich it vill be knovn, and 
«rxicial postal address, including the sip code nuubor. 
th« 
, Please acknowledge receipt by signing and returning to us 
enclosed copy of this letter* 
Very truly yours, 
1
 
L 
i^clo 
y 
Thoraas M . Tialen, J r . 
Vice President 
I ^ o s u r e 

F R D E K A L R B H E R V B B A N K OF S A N F R A N C I S C O 
T, 
M 
NC; 
Item No. 15 
S A N 
F R A N C I S C O , 
C A L I F O R N I A 
9 4 1 2 0 
9 / 1 5 / 6 7 
September 15, 1967 
C o a 
Mr. Hal Mendon, 
Senior Executive Vice President, 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
Los Angeles, California 
90054. 
Dear Mr. Mendon: 
Reference is made to your letter dated August 14, 
1967 requesting permission for the establishment of a branch 
office in the vicinity of Tustin and Katella Avenues in the 
city of Orange, Orange County, California. 
On the basis of our field investigation and our 
general knowledge of your bank, we believe that the bank's 
capitalization is adequate, management is satisfactory, 
that the proposed branch will serve the convenience and 
needs of the community and that the branch will not tend to 
create an undesirable competitive situation. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this bank approves the establishment 
by United California Bank, Los Angeles, California of a branch 
in the vicinity of Tustin and Katella Avenues in the city of 
"range, Orange County, California, provided the branch is 
established within two years from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 

3836 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OP S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N F R A N C I S C O , 
C A L I F O R N I A 
0 4 1 2 0 
September 15, 1967 
Item No. 16 
9/15/67 
Board of Directors, 
Fidelity Bank, 
Beverly Hills, California. 
Dear Sire: 
/ 
Reference is made to your letter dated September li, 
1967 and the accompanying resolution dated September 14, lA)67, 
signifying your intention to withdraw from member sliip^in iihe 
Federal Reserve System and requesting wp^ver of the six months * 
notice of such withdrawal. 
\ 
\ 
On behalf of the Board o^f Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank waives the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal. Undtk tlm^rovisiona of Section 
203.10 (c) of the Botf^^
T
T>e^lationU!^your institution may 
accomplish termination of itH\members\ip at any time within 
eight months £r«»pi the date that noticeNof intention to withdraw 
from membership was given. Upon surrender to the Federal Reserve 
Bank o f J U n Francisco of the Federal Reserve stock issued to 
your institution, such stock will be cancelled and appropriate 
rjSrund will be made thereon^/ 
It is requested that the certificate of membership be 
\returned to the/ Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
Very truly yours, 
ial^ED} Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
