PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
August 31, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes 

222 O 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, August 31, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on August 19, 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on August 23, and by the Federal 

O O O / * 
iV/V^r': 
8/31/71 
-2-
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on August 26, 1971, of the rates 
on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
sent to those Banks. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter (copy attached as 
Item No. 1) to First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, 
New York, New York, granting consent to purchase shares of Citicorp 
Aerolease (CAL) Inc., a company to be formed in Delaware. 
The Board approved unanimously the transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation of a report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed purchase of assets and assumption of liabil-
ities of Granite National Bank, Salt Lake City, Utah, by Commercial 
Security Bank, Ogden, Utah, in which the conclusion read as follows: 
While there is some existing competition and 
potential for increased competition between Granite 
National Bank, Salt Lake City, and Commercial Secu-
rity Bank, Ogden, the resulting bank would hold a 
small share of the deposits in Salt Lake County 
where the three largest banks in the State control 
about two-thirds of the deposits. The overall effect 
of the transaction on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
The Board approved unanimously an amendment to its order of 
September 29, 1970, approving the application of Northwest Ohio Banc-
shares, Inc., Toledo, Ohio, to become a bank holding company through 

2225 
8/31/71 
-3-
acquisition of shares of The Toledo Trust Co., Toledo, Ohio, and The 
First National Bank of Findlay, Findlay, Ohio. A copy of the amended 
order, which excluded any reference to the latter bank, is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
> \ 
-
The Board approved unanimously the application of The Central 
Bancorporation, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio, to acquire shares of The Home 
Banking Company, St. Marys, Ohio, and authorized issuance of an order 
(copy attached as Item No. 3) reflecting this decision. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of Palmer Bank 
Corporation, Sarasota, Florida, to become a bank holding company through 
acquisition of shares of Palmer First National Bank and Trust Company of 
Sarasota, St. Armands Palmer Bank, and Siesta Key Palmer Bank, all in 
Sarasota, and authorized issuance of an order (copy attached as 
Item No. 4) reflecting this decision. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of Southeast 
Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Southeast 
Bank of Dadeland, Miami, a proposed new bank, and authorized issuance 
of an order (copy attached as Item No. 5) reflecting this decision. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter (copy attached as 
Item No. 6) to Girard Trust Bank, Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania, approving 
the issuance of additional capital notes. 
Foreign investment. 
Upon consideration of a memorandum from 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated August 30, 1971, the 

222C 
8/31/71 
-4-
Board approved unanimously a letter (copy attached as Item No. 7) to 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, 
granting consent to the continued holding of the shares of its Delaware 
subsidiary, Nessus Investment Corporation, after the latter acquires 
stock of two specified companies in Melbourne, Australia, and issues 
obligations with maturities in excess of one year. 
FBT Corporation. 
The Board approved unanimously the application 
of FBT Corp., South Bend, Indiana, to become a bank holding company 
through acquisition of shares of First Bank and Trust Company of South 
Bend and authorized issuance of an order and statement (copies attached 
under Item No. 8) reflecting this decision. 
CNB Bancorporation. 
The Board approved unanimously the applica-
tion of CNB Bancorporation, Wilmington, Delaware, to become a bank holding 
company through acquisition of shares of the successor by merger to 
Central National Bank of Cleveland, Cleveland, Ohio, and shares of The 
American Bank of Commerce, Akron, Ohio, and authorized issuance of an 
order (copy attached as Item No. 9) reflecting this decision. 
Pending legislation. 
In two separate memoranda dated August 24 
and 25, 1971, the Office of Management and Budget had requested the 
Board's views on the following legislative matters: 
(1) S. 1921, a bill 
to establish a Federal Commodity Account Insurance Corporation, and a 
proposed report on that bill by the Department of Agriculture; and (2) 
a proposed report by the National Credit Union Administration on H.R. 
9961, a bill to provide temporary insurance for member accounts of 

2 2 2 ' 
8/31/71 
-5-
certain Federal credit unions, and that Administration's draft of an 
alternative bill. 
Draft replies had been prepared indicating that the proposed 
legislation in each instance appeared to be beyond the area of the 
Board's responsibilities and therefore the Board would defer to the 
views of other agencies. 
During discussion questions were raised 
about responding along this line since the Board did in fact have an 
interest in some phases of the proposed legislation. Mr. Cardon having 
stated that a telephone call to the Office of Management and Budget 
indicating that the Board had no objection to the proposed legislation 
would suffice, it was agreed to follow that course, and Mr. Cardon was 
asked to make the call. 
360-day year in computation of interest. 
There had been 
distributed a draft reply to a letter from Chairman Patman of the 
House Committee on Banking and Currency regarding use of the 360-day 
year by banks in their computations of interest on loans. 
Discussion 
indicated that some members of the Board favored revision of the draft 
letter, while others preferred a detailed reply that would be more 
responsive to Chairman Patman's request. Mr. Garwood noted that the 
staff had prepared a detailed reply that had not been brought before 
the Board. 
In view of the discussion, the staff was asked to prepare for 
the Board's consideration a draft letter that would incorporate a more 

2228 
8/31/71 
-6-
detailed response to the questions raised by Chairman Patman. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance, and there followed a discussion concerning efforts to 
improve the quality of Reserve Bank audit operations. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D 
• F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 1 
8/31/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CDRRF.SPDMDCNCE 
TD THE BQAUD 
August 31, 1971 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York 5 New York 
10022. 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of June 4 and 14, 1971, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") 
to purchase and hold 100 per cent of the outstanding shares of 
Citicorp Aerolease (CAL) Inc. ("CAL"), a company to be formed in 
Delaware, at a cost of approximately $700,000, provided the shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
It is 
understood that $1,000 will be invested in stock and $699,000 will 
be invested as a contribution to surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of CAL by FNCOIC is granted subject to the condition that 
CAL will restrict its activities to owning and leasing two aircraft 
and related spare parts to an international airline group and that, 
when required by the Board, FNCOIC will cause CAL (1) to permit 
examiners selected or auditors approved by the Board to examine CAL, 
and (2) to furnish the Board with such reports as it may require 
from time to time. In this connection, your attention is directed 
to a recent interpretation issued by the Board relating to leasing 
activities. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Asso-
ciation, Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of the company. 
The Board also grants consent for the issuance by CAL of 
up to approximately $3,400,000 of debt obligations with maturities 
in excess of one year, which are to be sold outside the United 
States and are to be payable only outside the United States. 

223 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the foreign lending and investment activities of CAL will be 
governed b y the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines, in particular 
by the provisions which require that foreign assets of CAL, minus 
outstanding amounts of foreign borrowings of original maturities 
of three years or m o r e , be consolidated with the foreign assets of 
FNCOIC. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

2231 
Item No. 2 
8/31/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D , C , 
In the Matter of the Application of 
NORTHWEST OHIO BANCSHARES, INC,, 
Toledo, Ohio, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Toledo Trust C o 0 , Toledo, 
Ohio, and The First National Bank of 
Findlay, Findlay, Ohio. 
AMENDED- ORDER 
There has come before the Board of Governors a request by 
Northwest Ohio Bancshares, Inc., Toledo, Ohio, that the Board's 
Order of September 29, 1970, published in the Federal Register 
of October 6, 1970 (35 Federal Register 15660), approving the 
application of Northwest Ohio Bancshares, Inc., to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of 
the voting shares of The Toledo Trust Co., Toledo, Ohio, and The 
First National Bank of Findlay, Findlay, Ohio, be amended to 
exclude any reference to the latter bank. 
The Board's Order of September 29, 1970, was contingent 
upon Applicant's acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of each bank. Applicant has acquired more than 80 per cent 

2232 
-2-
of the voting shares of The Toledo Trust Co. but was offered less 
than 80 per cent of the voting shares of The First National Bank of 
Findlay, and, under the plan of reorganization between Applicant and 
the banks, the tender offer has been declared ineffective as to 
shareholders of the latter bank. Applicant now seeks to retain 
the shares of The Toledo Trust Co. that were tendered to it. 
It is the Board's judgment after reconsideration of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, that Applicant's 
request raises no significant public interest issues and that it 
should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, That Applicant's request for amend-
ment of the Board's September 29, 1970 Order to exclude any reference 
to The First National Bank of Findlay be, and hereby is, granted; 
and, accordingly, that Applicant may retain the shares of The Toledo 
Trust C o . acquired in accordance with that Order. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 3 1 , 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Daane, tlaisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Nitchell 
and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
[SEAL] 

2 2 3 m 
Item No. 3 
8/31/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
THE CENTRAL BANCORPORATION, INC., 
Cincinnati, Ohio, 
for approval of acquisition of 100 per 
cent of the voting shares (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of 
The Home Banking Company, St. Marys, 
Ohio. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by The Central Bancorporation, 
Inc. ("Applicant"), Cincinnati, Ohio, a registered bank holding 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 100 
Per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) 
of The Home Banking Company ("Bank"), St. Marys, Ohio. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board 
gave writteh notice of receipt of the application to the 

Ohio Superintendent of Banks, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Superintendent offered no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 17, 1971 (36 Federal Register 13300), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded 
to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, the eleventh largest banking organization and 
the fifth largest multi-bank holding company in the State, controls 
three banks which hold combined deposits of approximately $569.8 
million, representing 2.6 per cent of the total commercial bank 
deposits in the State. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1970, 
and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
through July 31, 1971.) Upon acquisition of The Home Banking Company 
($22.5 million deposits), Applicant would increase its share of deposits 
in the State by only 0.® percentage point, representing no significant 
increase in Applicant's control of deposits in the State, or change in 
its present ranking. 

2235 
-3-
Bank operates its main office in St. Marys and one branch 
office two miles west of the main office. Bank is the second largest 
of the six banks in Auglaize County (Bank's relevant market), holding 
26.5 per cent of county deposits. The largest area bank holds more 
than 30 per cent of such deposits, and is a subsidiary of the fourth 
largest bank holding company in the State, Consummation of Applicant's 
proposed acquisition would enable Bank to compete more effectively 
with the larger bank holding company subsidiary in the area, and it 
does not appear that there would be any detrimental effect on other 
competing banks, the three smallest of which serve one-bank towns 
six or more miles from St. Marys. 
Applicant's subsidiary office closest to Bank is located 
110 miles south of St. Marys. There is no meaningful existing 
competition between Bank and this office, or any of Applicant's 
other offices. It also appears unlikely that consummation of this 
proposal would preclude potential competition because of Ohio's 
restrictive branching laws, the wide separation between Applicant's 
offices and Bank, and the presence of many other banking offices in 
the intervening area. Based on the foregoing, and the record before 
it, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
would not have an adverse effect on competition in any relevant market. 
The banking factors, as they relate to Applicant, its 
subsidiaries, and Bank are satisfactory and consistent with approval 
of the application. Considerations relating to the convenience and 

2236 
-4-
needs of the area lend some weight toward approval. Although the more 
important banking needs of the area are being served at the present time, 
Applicant plans to assist Bank in making more complex industrial and 
construction loans through participations, provide trust and investment 
service through its lead bank, and enable Bank to offer education loans 
and single statement banking. Applicant's proposed improvement in Bank's 
various services would benefit the convenience of the community and better 
serve its needs. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the 
proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that the appli-
cation should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above, that 
said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acquisition 
so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause 
by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 31, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
(SEAL) 

223? 
Item No. 4 
8/31/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
PALMER BANK CORPORATION, 
Sarasota, Florida, 
for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
of the voting shares of Palmer First 
National Bank and Trust Company of 
Sarasota, St. Armands Palmer Bank, 
and Siesta Key Palmer Bank, all in 
Sarasota, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C, 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Palmer Bank Corporation, 
Sarasota, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
Applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Palmer First National 
Bank and Trust Company of Sarasota ("Palmer First"), St. Armands 
Palmer Bank ("St. Armands"), and Siesta Key Palmer Bank ("Siesta Key"), 
all in Sarasota, Florida. 

- 2 -
2238 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and the Florida Commissioner of Banking, and requested 
their views and recommendations. Both the Comptroller and the Florida 
Commissioner of Banking recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 3, 1971, (36 Federal Register 12713), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consid-
eration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and finds 
that: 
Applicant was organized for the purpose of acquiring the 
three proposed subsidiary banks, all of which are affiliated under 
common stock ownership. Upon acquisition of Palmer First (deposits of 
$91.1 million), St. Armands (deposits of $21.2 million), and Siesta 
Key (deposits of $3.1 million), Applicant would assume the affiliated 
group's position as the largest banking organization (deposits of 

2239 
$115.4 million) within the relevant market approximated by the city 
of Sarasota and the surrounding areas. (Banking data are as of 
December 31, 1970; and reflect holding company formations and acqui-
sitions approved through June 30, 1971.) Although Applicant would 
have 36.5 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in its market area, 
there would be no increase in market concentration and less than 1 per 
cent of the total commercial bank deposits in Florida would be held by 
/ ' 
Applicant's proposed subsidiaries. 
The directors and officers of Palmer First were instrumental 
in the formation and subsequent operations of St. Armands which opened 
in 1961 and Siesta Key which opened in 1969. The affiliation among 
the three banks appears to be strong and unlikely to be broken. Con-
sequently, there is no meaningful existing competition. It appears 
unlikely that such competition will develop in the reasonably foresee-
able future or that competing banks would be adversely affected by the 
holding company formation. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and the 
proposed subsidiaries are believed to be consistent with approval. It 
appears that consummation of the proposal would not have any signifi-
cant immediate effects on the convenience and needs of the community, 
although the improvement and expansion of services in the future may 
be facilitated by the operational structure of a holding company. Con-
siderations related to the convenience and needs of the community as 
well as the financial and managerial resources and prospects of the 

2210 
-4-
proposed subsidiaries and Applicant are consistent with approval. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be 
in the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 31, 1971, 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Daane, Maisel, and Brinmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell and Sherrill. 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
(SEAL) 

2241 
Item No. 5 
8/31/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION, 
Miami, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Southeast Bank of Dadeland, Miami, 
Florida, a proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Southeast Banking Corporation 
("Applicant"), Miami, Florida, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of Southeast Bank of Dadeland ("Bank"), 
Miami, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Florida Commissioner 
of Banking, and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
recommended approval of the application. 

224 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on July 7, 1971 (36 Federal Register 12814), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and finds 
that: 
Applicant presently controls 13 banks with aggregate deposits 
4 • 
of $1,050 million, representing 7.5 per cent of the total commercial 
bank deposits held by Florida's banks, and is the second largest bank-
ing organization in the State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 
1970, and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
through June 30, 1971.) Since Bank is a proposed new bank, consumma-
•tfon of Che proposal will not immediately increase Applicant's share 
of total deposits in any market nor affect deposit concentration. 
The 69 banks in the Miami banking market, including those 
in seven bank holding; company systems, hold collectively over $3.2 billion 
in commercial bank deposits. Bank would be located in the southern 

-3-
2243 
sector of the City of Miami and would serve an unincorporated area 
of Dade County, the major portion of the City of South Miami, and 
a small section of the City of Coral Gables. 
| 
In its projected service area, Bank would compete principally 
with eight banks, the deposits of which range from $51 million to 
$10 million, and the most distant of which is located approximately 
four and a half miles from Bank's proposed site. Applicant's subsid-
iaries closest to Bank are located seven, nine, and 14 miles, respec-
tively, from Bank's proposed site. It appears that none of Applicant's 
subsidiary banks derives a significant amount of banking business from 
the area to be served by Bank. No existing competition would be 
f 
eliminated by consummation of this proposal since Bank would be organized 
s 
as a new institution; and it appears that Bank's entry into the Miami 
area would not have a significant adverse effect on potential competition 
or other banks competing in the area, nor constitute a barrier to entry 
into the area. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely 
affect competition in any relevant area. The financial and managerial 
resources of Applicant and its subsidiary banks are generally satisfactory 
and the prospects for the group appear favorable. Prospects for Bank 
appear favorable since it would have capable and experienced management 
i 
and would be adequately capitalized. Bank would be able to provide an 
additional source of full banking services for an area which has almost 
doubled in population during the last 10 years. However, there is no 
£ 

2244 
-4-
•i 
evidence that existing needs of the area are not being served adequately; 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the area to be 
served lend slight support to, and are consistent with, approval of the 
application. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application should 
be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the Board's findings and 
reasons summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) be-
fore the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order; and provided further 
that (c) Southeast Bank of Dadeland shall be opened for business not later 
than six months after the date of this Order. Each of the periods described 
in (b) and (c) hereof may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 31, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
(SEAL) 

224S 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
•F" the 
item No. 6 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
8/31/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 31, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Girard Trust Bank 
Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
of an additional $5 million in subordinated notes by Girard 
Trust Bank, Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania, increasing the $35 million 
issue approved by the Board on June 17, 1971 to $40 million, as 
proposed by Executive Vice President McCammon's letter of August 25, 
1971 to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

2246 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 7 
8/31/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20U51 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C C R R E 3 P 'J N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 31, 1971 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of June 16, 1971, and August 18, 
1971, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
("FNCOIC") to continue to hold the shares of Nessus Investment Corpora-
tion ("NIC") after NIC (1) acquires and holds 21.7 per cent of the 
stock of I.A.C. (Holdings) Limited ("IAC"), Melbourne, Australia, at 
a cost of approximately $19,000,000; (2) acquires and holds 23.4 per 
cent of the stock of Industrial Acceptance Corporation, Limited, 
Melbourne, Australia, at a cost of approximately $22,000,000; and (3) 
issues and has outstanding obligations with maturities in excess of 
one year up to an aggregate amount of $45,000,000, 
The purchase and 
holding of these shares by NIC in excess of the applicable limitations 
of paragraph 5(c) of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act and 
Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K is also approved. 
The Board has reviewed carefully the ownership and manage-
ment arrangements that will result upon completion of the aforementioned 
investments and has noted, in particular, that the Australian directors' 
holding of 23 per cent of the stock of IAC will exceed the 21.7 per 
cent to be held by NIC and that NIC will otherwise have minority rep-
resentation on the Board of Directors of IAC. 
The Board has also taken 
note of the undertaking with the Treasurer of the Commonwealth of 
Australia that NIC will not: have a controlling interest on the Board 
of Directors of IAC. 
The foregoing consent is granted on the under-
standing that NIC will not, directly or indirectly, exercise effective 
control of IAC and that the Board will be promptly informed of any 
material changes in the ownership and management of IAC. 

221 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
The foregoing consent is also given with the understanding 
that the foreign lending and investment activities of NIC will be 
governed by the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines, in particular 
by those provisions which call for the foreign assets of NIC, minus 
outstanding amounts of foreign borrowings by NIC of an original 
maturity of three years or more, to be consolidated with the foreign 
assets of your Corporation for the purposes of the Guidelines. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

Item No. 27 
8/31/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
FBT CORP.,
 
1 
South Bend, Indiana,
 
1 
for approval of action to become a bank 
' 
holding company through the acquisition 
' 
of 100 per cent (less directors
 1
 quali-
 
1 
fying shares) of the voting shares of
 
1 
First Bank and Trust Company of South
 
1 
Bend, South Bend, Indiana.
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222,3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by FBT Corp., South Bend, Indiana, 
for the Board's prior approval of action whereby Applicant would 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 100 per cent 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of the voting shares of First 
Bank and Trust Company of South Bend, South Bend, Indiana. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Indiana Director 
of Financial Institutions and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Director recommended approval of the application. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 23, 1971 (36 Federal Register 11960), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consider-
ation. Time for filing comments and views has expired, and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order, or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority, 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 31, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell and Sherrill, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FBT CORP., SOUTH BEND, INDIANA 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
FBT Corp., South Bend, Indiana ("Applicant"), has filed 
with the Board pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the acquisition of 100 per cent (less 
directors
1
 qualifying shares) of the voting shares of First Bank and 
Trust Company of South Bend, South Bend, Indiana ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
of receipt of the application to the Indiana Director of Financial 
Institutions and requested his views and recommendation. The Director 
recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a mono-
poly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 

2251 
-2-
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the pro-
posed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by 
the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served. In each case, the Board is 
required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
bank concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served. 
Nature of the transaction. - The application is part of a 
proposed plan by which Gulf & Western Industries, Inc., ("G & W") and 
its wholly owned subsidiary, Associates Corporation of North America 
("Associates"), intend to divest ownership and control of Bank and Appli-
cant to holders of specified issues of G & W,debentures including indivi-
duals who had previously owned Bank, Associates presently owns virtually 
all the shares of Applicant and Bank, In the application before the 
Board, Applicant seeks prior Board approval to acquire all of the 
shares (less directors
1
 qualifying shares) of Bank from Associates in 
return for shares of Applicant's common stock, $7.5 million of Applicant's 
subordinated debentures, and stock warrants. Associates will then dis-
tribute all interests in Applicant to G & W as a dividend. G & W then 
proposes to exchange these interests for its own outstanding debentures. 
Many of the 
G & W debentures involved had been issued earlier in ex-
change for shares of Associates. An apparent purpose of the entire 
plan is to return ownership of Bank to those individuals who had owned 

22 5 
-3-
it prior to .1964 when Associates acquired Bank's shares in exchange 
for its own shares, (This purpose may not be entirely achieved since 
not all individuals who originally received the G & W debentures were 
owners of Bank and since some debentures may have been sold.) 
Statutory considerations. - Bank with deposits of $159.8 
million is the largest bank in the South Bend market area and the 
sixth largest banking organization in Indiana with 1,5 per cent of 
the State's commercial bank deposits. (All banking data are as of 
December 31, 1970.) Since this application involves only the transfer 
of ownership of Bank from one subsidiary of G & W to another, its approv-
al will have no present effect on existing or potential competition. 
Nevertheless, the ultimate transfer of ownership of Bank from a non-
financially-oriented conglomerate weighs in favor of approval. No 
adverse effects are anticipated upon the convenience and needs of the 
community. 
Applicant has proposed to exchange its common stock, warrants 
and $7.5 million in 15-year subordinated debentures (with sinking fund 
provisions) to Associates in exchange for all of the outstanding stock 
of Bank. Together with the other steps of the proposed transaction, the 
net effect is to transfer G & W debt to Applicant. 
The Board has on past occasions considered significant debt 
to acquire banks as being an adverse factor; however, the amount and 
maturity of the debt must be considered in relation to the ability of 
the holding company to service and retire the debt, and the likelihood 
that the subsidiary bank or banks will need capital. Although the pro-
posed debt to equity ratio of slightly more than 100 per cent is higher 

-4-
than normally preferred, data submitted by the Applicant indicate that 
sufficient funds will be generated to properly service the debt without 
adversely affecting the Applicant or placing an undue strain on Bank's 
projected earnings. Applicant's projections appear to be reasonable and 
conservative and provide for Bank's retention of more than 40 per cent 
of its aftertax earnings. Also, the debt to net equity ratio does not 
anticipate exercise of any of the stock warrants; exercise of the warrants 
will increase Applicant's equity while reducing its debt, and most likely 
the repayment period. 
The financial history and condition as well as future prospects 
of Bank appear to be satisfactory. Under the circumstances in this case, 
the financial condition and management of Applicant and Bank appear to be 
consistent with approval of the application. 
Summary and Conclusion. - On the basis of all of the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth 
in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
August 31 „ 1971 

UNITED STATES OF 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF 
WASHINGTON, 
2254 
Item No. 9 
8/31/71 
AMERICA 
THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CNB BANCORPORATION, 
Wilmington, Delaware, 
for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the 
voting shares (less directors' quali-
fying shares) of the successor by 
merger to Central National Bank of 
Cleveland, Cleveland, and at least 
97 per cent of the voting shares of 
The American Bank of Commerce, Akron, 
both in Ohio. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by CNB Bancorporation, Wilmington, 
Delaware ("Applicant"), for the Board's prior approval of action 
whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to Central National 

Bank of Cleveland, Cleveland ("Central Bank"), and at least 97 per 
cent of the voting shares of The American Bank of Commerce, Akron 
("American Bank"), both in Ohio. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and the Ohio Superintendent of Banks, and requested 
their views and recommendations. Neither the Comptroller nor the 
Superintendent offered any objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 3, 1971 (36 Federal Register 12712), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant is a newly organized corporation. Consummation 
of the proposal herein would result in Applicant controlling $1,146 
billi.on in deposits, representing 5.4 per cent of total commercial bank 
deposits in the State, and Applicant would become the fourth largest 

2J25G 
-3-
banking organization and the second largest multi-bank holding com-
pany in Ohio. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1970, adjusted 
to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by 
the Board through July 31, 1971.) 
Central Bank ($1 billion deposits), the fifth largest 
banking organization in Ohio, has 49 banking offices and operates 
throughout Cuyahoga County. Central Bank controls 15.1 per cent of 
the commercial bank deposits in the Cleveland banking market, which 
is approximated by Cuyahoga, Geauga, Lake, and Lorain Counties, and, 
on the basis of deposits, is the third largest of the twenty-seven 
banks in that market. 
American Bank ($146 million), formerly the Evans Savings 
Association, has 17 banking offices located primarily in the 
southern portion of Summit County. American Bank controls 10.6 
per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the Akron banking 
market, which is approximated by Summit and Portage Counties and 
Wadsworth, Ohio, and, on the basis of deposits, is fourth largest 
of the fourteen banking organizations in that market. 
Central Bank and American Bank do not compete with 
each other to any significant extent, and the development of 
such competition in the future appears unlikely. The nearest 
offices of the two banks are ten miles apart, and Ohio law 
prohibits either bank from branching into the county in which the 
other is located. Furthermore, in light of its earlier history 
as a savings institution, American Bank has not been an aggressive 

-4-
2257 
competitor to other commercial banks, limiting itself primarily 
to savings-mortgage loan activity. Central, on the other hand, 
operates as a full service banking organization, actively seeking 
the larger commercial accounts available in the area. It appears 
that the affiliation of the two banks in a holding company would 
not have any adverse effects on other banks in the Cleveland or 
Akron markets, and may promote competition in the Akron area by 
enabling the American Bank to become a more effective competitor. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposal would not have a significant adverse 
effect on competition in any relevant area. 
The financial condition of each bank appears satisfactory. 
Central Bank has competent management and its proBpects are favorable. 
American Bank's management and prospects are considered satisfactory, 
but as a subsidiary of the holding company, American Bank would be 
able to draw on the commercial bank expertise of Applicant and thus 
enhance its prospects in the Akron market. It appears that Applicant 
will begin operations in satisfactory condition and with competent 
management; its prospects, which are largely dependent upon those 
of its two proposed subsidiaries, also appear favorable. The 
convenience and needs of the areas served by Central Bank and American 
Bank are presently being met by existing banking institutions. Appli-
cant proposes to introduce several new services at American Bank 
which should benefit the residents of the Akron area by providing 

2258 
-5-
an additional source of full service banking. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest, 
and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. On the basis of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be aiid hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 3 1 , 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Daane, iiaisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
(SEAL) 
