MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 29, 1967 

* 4568 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, November 29, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
'Cn 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
w 
vt' 
'X 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Adviser, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Miss Hart and Messrs. Noble, Plotkin, Shuter, 
and Via of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver, Fry, Golden, Greenspun, Shull, 
and Wiles of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Ring of the Division of Bank Operations 
Miss McShane and Messrs. Achor, Harris, Lyon, 
and Maguire of the Division of Examinations 
th 
m
u 

4 4 5 f ; ! j 
11/29/67 
-2-
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in a transaction whereby First Israel Bank and 
Trust Company of New York, New York, New York, a proposed new bank, 
would acquire a portion of the assets and assume certain deposit 
liabilities of the New York City branch of Bank Leumi Le-Israel B.M., 
Tel-Aviv, Israel, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is no present or potential competition 
between First Israel Bank and Trust Company of New 
York, New York, New York, a proposed new bank, and the 
New York Branch of Bank Leumi Le-Israel B.M., Tel-Aviv, 
Israel, to be eliminated upon the former's assumption 
of the business of the latter. The proposed transaction 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Request for data. Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, New York, 
New York, had requested daily data on four reserve items—Federal 
Reserve float, currency in circulation, currency and coin, and required 
reserves--figures for which were now published on a daily average basis 
each statement week, for the stated purpose of completing a working 
m°del for forecasting money flows. The bank wanted daily figures 
c°Vering three to five years for the most recent periods available 
would like to obtain the data in the future on a continuing basis 
a t six-month or one-year intervals. 
In a memorandum of November 27, 1967, Messrs. Axilrod and 
p 
' recalled that in 1963 the Board had approved a similar request 
^ the American Bankers Association that involved a larger number 

4570 
11/29/67 
-3-
of reserve series for a six-month period, and that those particular 
data were also subsequently made available to other analysts. 
The 
figures requested by Morgan Guaranty were generally available on 
Punch cards and could be produced relatively easily, and the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York had expressed a willingness to furnish the 
data to the member bank. Accordingly, it was recommended that the 
Board authorize releasing the requested data to the bank for the 
years 1962-1966 and also on a continuing basis with a six-month lag, 
0 r a shorter lag if that should prove feasible. 
It would be assumed 
that such an authorization would extend also to other requests for the 
same data, which could be made available either from the Board's 
offices or the New York Reserve Bank. 
Although one Board member (Governor Brimmer) initially 
exPressed some reservations about supplying such data to an indi-
vidual bank as opposed to a bankers association, research organization, 
° r scholar, it was eventually generally agreed that the New York 
fcank should be authorized to comply with the Morgan Guaranty request. 
In this connection, however, two principal questions were 
raised. The first question was whether the member bank should be 
asked to pay the cost of furnishing the data, and it was the consensus 
that a charge should be made to cover the cost. 

458 
11/29/67 
-4-
The second question was whether an announcement should be 
ttade of the availablity of such data. Two reasons were set forth 
against making an announcement couched in broad terms. One reason, 
advanced by the staff, was that requests for similar, but not identical, 
dat a might involve problems of confidentiality or other considerations 
Such as to merit the attention of the Board on a case-by-case basis. 
The other reason, brought out principally by Governor Sherrill, was 
fchat because of the increasing availability of computers at banks, 
and other organizations also, the Board might be in receipt of a 
v°lume of data requests in excess of the staff's ability to comply 
with them, at least for the present, without detriment to the Board's 
0 wn functions. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that 
fck 
e New York Reserve Bank should be authorized to provide Morgan 
Guaranty the data it had requested, on a cost basis, with the under-
standing that a notice that such data had been made available pursuant 
t o request would be published in the Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
Colorado CNB Bankshares. The Board authorized issuance of 
°rder and statement reflecting approval on October 25, 1967, of the 
^Plication of Colorado CNB Bankshares, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to 
C° m e a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of The 
C°lor A 
caao National Bank of Denver, Northeast Colorado National Bank 
of D enver, and South Colorado National Bank, also in Denver. 

4572 
11/29/67 
-5-
Copies of the order and statement, as issued, are attached under 
Item No. 1T along with the concurring statement of Governor Robertson. 
Atlantic Trust Company. The Board authorized issuance of 
ar* order and statement reflecting approval on November 22, 1967, of 
the application of Atlantic Trust Company, Jacksonville, Florida, 
to acquire shares of The Atlantic National Bank of Jacksonville. 
C 0 pi 
es of the order and statement, as issued, are attached under 
Item^No. 2. 
Quincy Trust Company. A memorandum of November 24, 1967, 
^rom the Division of Examinations presented the application of Quincy 
Tr^st Company, Quincy, Massachusetts, to merge with Dedham Trust 
Company, Dedham, Massachusetts, under the charter of the former and 
the title Hancock Bank and Trust Company. Approval was recommended. 
Comments by Board members reflected a fairly general view 
t^at the case must be considered a rather close one because the 
arguments in favor of approval were not particularly convincing. 
Either, however, did there appear to be strong reasons for turning 
the application, and on balance it was concluded that approval 
*ould be justified. 
Accordingly, the application was approved unanimously. 
Si 
C e it had been requested that the Board, if it was going to approve 
aPplication, release its decision in sufficient time to permit 

4573 
11/29/67 
-6-
consummation of the transaction at the beginning of 1968, it was 
agreed that the order and statement would be prepared promptly, 
submitted to the members who had participated in the decision, and 
then issued if satisfactory to those members. 
(Note: Drafts of the 
order and statement were subsequently submitted to the members and 
no questions were raised by them. Accordingly, the documents were 
issued on November 30, 1967, in the form attached under Item No. 3. 
Use of credit card by examiner. The Federal Reserve Bank 
San Francisco had inquired whether, from a legal and policy stand-
P°int, a special assistant examiner of that Bank should be permitted 
t o accept and use a credit card issued by a national bank. 
As brought out in a proposed reply, an examiner or assistant 
eXaminer regularly engaged in bank examination work has authority, 
b y virtue of the terms of his appointment, to examine national banks 
a s well as State member banks, and such an examiner therefore could 
n°t accept and use a credit card issued by a national bank without 
v*°lating criminal provisions of the law. It was understood, however, 
a special assistant examiner of the San Francisco Bank, regularly 
assigned to other duties within the Bank and engaged in examining work 
0tl only a limited or part-time basis, was authorized by the terms of 
appointment to examine State member banks only. Accordingly, 
th 
e r e would appear to be no objection to the acceptance and use by 
a person of a credit card issued by a national bank. 
'h 

4574 
11/29/67 
-7-
After discussion of the matter, members of the Board 
agreed that in the circumstances a reply such as the one proposed 
to be made to the Reserve Bank was required. More generally, however, 
two members raised points that in their opinion merited further 
exploration. One member (Governor Maisel) suggested that thought 
be given to the possibility of drawing a line of distinction between 
the use of a credit card as a debt instrument and the use of such a 
card as a convenient means of settling obligations. Another member 
(Governor Brimmer) envisaged the possibility that at some stage 
Federal Reserve Banks might find themselves hampered in recruiting 
the necessary personnel for examinations, particularly in areas such 
a s California where credit cards were beginning to be issued by banks 
° n an interchangeable basis. 
The proposed reply to the San Francisco Reserve Bank, a 
CoPy of which is attached as Item No. 4, was then approved unanimously, 
vith the understanding that the substance of the reply would be 
transmitted to all Federal Reserve Banks for their information and 
^idance. 
H.R. 7696. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
^airman Staggers of the House Committee on Interstate and Foreign 
C°nimerce in reply to his inquiry as to whether the Board's recent 
Publication of certain proposals with respect to margin requirements 
n ar*y way changed its previous position on H.R. 7696, a bill 

45 / 5 
11/29/67 
-8-
"To permit regulation of the amount of credit that may be extended 
and maintained with respect to securities that are not registered 
on a national exchange", which bill Congressman Staggers had introduced 
at the Board's request. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
Amendments to Regulation F. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated November 22, 1967, from the Legal Division regarding 
Proposed amendments to Regulation F, Securities of Member State Banks, 
that the Board had published in the Federal Register in October, 
Pursuant to action on October 2, 1967, with an invitation for comments. 
The amendments would add a definition of "beneficial ownership", 
add a provision relating to inclusion of minority stockholder proposals 
a bank's proxy-soliciting material, and make incidental changes 
connection with the latter. 
The memorandum analyzed the comments received, which were 
relatively few in number, and recommended that the Board adopt the 
a,fiendments without change effective December 31, 1967, on which 
^ate similar amendments to the corresponding regulations of the 
Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
°rporation also would become effective. 
The amendments to Regulation F were approved unanimously 
e£fective December 31, 1967. A copy of the amendments, in Federal 
Agister form, is attached under Item No. 6, along with a copy of 

457o 
1 1 / 2 9 / 6 7 
- 9 -
! 
•t f . 
-
the pertinent press release. Attached as Item No. 7 is a copy of the 
letter sent to the Reserve Banks pursuant to this action. 
Chicago building alterations. A letter to the Federal 
f' . 
, 
• 
Reserve Bank of Chicago interposing no objection to certain proposed 
•fiuiJuii 
; 
. 
/ 
• 
.• 
;. • 
head office building alterations was approved unanimously. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 8. 
Group hospitalization programs. Letters to the Federal 
rfjt 
Reserve Banks of Atlanta and Kansas City regarding certain changes in 
their group hospitalization programs were approved unanimously. 
Copies 
are attached as Items 9 and 10, respectively. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Director appointment. 
It was agreed to ascertain through 
'he Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City whether 
A. James Ebel, Vice President and General Manager, Cornhusker 
television Corporation, Lincoln, Nebraska, would accept appointment 
j f 
tendered as a director of the Omaha Branch for the two-year term 
be8inning January 1, 1968, with the understanding that if it were 
°und that he would accept, the appointment would be made. 
Secretary's Note: 
It having been ascertained 
that his acceptance would be forthcoming, an 
appointment telegram was sent to Mr. Ebel on 
December 6, 1967. 

11/29/67 
-10-
CiUtO 
r ; 
• 
v 
• • : 
Salaries of Presidents and First Vice Presidents. 
In 
memoranda of November 9 and 17, 1967, addressed to Governor Mitchell 
as Chairman of the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans, Mr. Johnson summarized the eligibility of Federal 
• j i 
Keserve Bank Presidents and First Vice Presidents for salary increases 
effective January 1, 1968, under the Board's outstanding guidelines 
relating to salary ranges, maximum increases, and frequency of increases. 
Copies of those memoranda had been made available to all Board members. 
The discussion of the subject began with an inquiry by 
Governor Robertson concerning the degree of constraint felt to have 
been imposed by the reported action of the President in ordering 
federal agencies to cut their personnel costs by 2 per cent and 
their "controllable" expenditures by 10 per cent, with some exceptions. 
In response, members of the Committee reviewed the nature 
at 
' 
• 
1 cautionary advice that had been given to Reserve Bank Presidents, 
a t meetings with the respective Presidents, with regard to officer 
salaries and budget expenditures generally. For example, although a 
decent survey had indicated that in most communities the salaries of 
Re 
eserve Bank officers, particularly of higher rank, were out of line 
4 
^ith the salaries of persons in other organizations holding comparable 
P°sltions, the Presidents had been urged not to try to fill the 
b l e a t e d gaps in 1968. Also, the salary ranges were not being 

4378 
11/29/67 
- U -
changed at this time. 
It was generally agreed that the Federal 
Government's program for reduction of expenditures introduced an 
additional factor calling for the exercise of caution in controlling 
Federal Reserve Bank expenditures, personnel and otherwise. 
Never-
theless, revised salary structures for employees at many Reserve Banks 
had been approved in the light of community wage surveys, and proposed 
salaries for officers, other than the Presidents and First Vice 
Presidents, had been approved at most of the Banks. 
In all the circum-
stances, it appeared that some adjustments for the Presidents and 
First Vice Presidents would be justifiable, although it would admittedly 
b e prudent to proceed cautiously in the higher salary brackets. 
Governor Mitchell then recommended on behalf of the Committee 
that in order to deal with short-run problems a change be made 
temporarily in the Board's guideline having to do with the frequency 
with which Presidents and First Vice Presidents became eligible for 
salary increases. 
Instead of the standard that such officers could 
b e granted increases not more frequently than two years after date of 
aPPointment and every three years thereafter, the recommended change 
v°uld permit increases not more frequently than two years after date 
aPP0intment and every two years thereafter. 
In explanation, members of the Committee referred to the 
^ i f i c a n t cost-of-living type increases, both for executives and 
fo 
°thers, that had been granted in the Government and private 

4579 
11/29/67 
-12-
sectors generally in the past year or two. 
In addition, they noted 
that within the Reserve Banks the situation with respect to the First 
Vice Presidents appeared particularly critical since the salaries 
of other senior officers were not subject to the three-year restriction 
on frequency and as a result in some cases approached those of the 
First Vice President. 
There developed to be general agreement with the Committee's 
recommendation. 
However, it was proposed that the size of the maximum 
increase also be reduced, and this proposal also was agreed upon by 
the Board. This meant specifically that if officers had been eligible 
after three years for increases, say, of $6,000, $5,000, and $4,000, 
they would now be eligible after two years for increases of $4,000, 
$3,500, and $2,500. 
The Board then reviewed the situations of the individual 
Residents and First Vice Presidents, using the following general 
criteria: There would be no change in existing salary ranges, so 
that if an officer's salary was at the top of the range he could receive 
n° increase; 
if an officer had served three years since his previous 
salary increase, he could receive an increase now up to the maximum 
amount provided under the old guideline; if an officer had served two 
^ears since his previous increase, he could receive an increase up 
t o the maximum amount decided upon heretofore at this meeting. 

11/29/67 
-13-
From this review, there was developed a list of maximum 
salary increases for the respective Presidents and First Vice 
Presidents that the Board tentatively would consider acceptable 
if such salaries were fixed by the Boards of Directors of the 
respective Banks. 
It was understood that the tentative salaries 
so established would be used as a basis for discussion with the 
Chairmen of the respective Banks, except that in the case of the 
Atlanta Bank it was decided that a more fundamental review of the 
situation with the management of the Bank was indicated. 
Question was raised whether a general statement should 
be made to the Reserve Bank Chairmen with regard to the change in 
the frequency and maximum amount guidelines, but a decision on that 
Point was deferred because of a feeling on the part of some Board 
Members that there might yet prove to be some reason why the Board 
v°uld want to make a further change in the formula. 
In further discussion it was noted that in several cases 
Reserve Bank Presidents would reach age 65 within the next few months, 
which raised a question as to the beginning salaries that would appear 
aPpropriate for their successors. The general view was that the 
^ginning salaries should be at or fairly close to the minimum of 
salary range for the particular position. 

11/29/67 
-14-
Officer salaries at Cleveland. 
In a memorandum of 
November 28, 1967, the Division of Personnel Administration reviewed 
salaries proposed for officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
(other than the President and First Vice President) effective 
January 1, 1968. Question was raised only with respect to the size 
of the salary increases proposed for Vice President Harrell (from 
$25,000 to $30,000) and Vice President Kiel (from $25,000 to $27,500). 
In discussion a view was expressed that salaries of $27,500 
for Mr. Harrell and $26,500 for Mr. Kiel would be more appropriate. 
Subj ect to those adjustments, the proposed officer salaries were 
•^proved unanimously, with the understanding, however, that before 
official advice of the Board's action was sent to the Bank the Director 
°f Personnel would talk with President Hickman to ascertain that no 
Problem was involved of such dimensions as to indicate that the matter 
should come back to the Board for further consideration. 
(Note: A copy of the letter subsequently sent to the Bank 
i s attached as Item No. 11.) 
Service beyond retirement date. 
Harold A. Bilby, Vice 
Pr-esident and Senior Adviser, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, had 
r®ached the normal retirement age at the end of September of this year. 
HOT 
wever, the Reserve Bank, exercising its option under the pertinent 
Provision of the Rules and Regulations of the Retirement System of 

458 
11/29/67 
-15-
the Federal Reserve Banks, had retained Mr. Bilby in active service 
for an additional period of 90 days. The Bank now requested approval 
for the further retention of Mr. Bilby in active service through 
December 30, 1968, principally because of his close involvement 
with the current study of the discount mechanism and his other duties 
relating generally to the area of discount administration. 
In a 
memorandum of November 27, 1967, the Division of Personnel Administration 
recommended favorably. 
After discussion the request for further extension of the 
service of Mr. Bilby was approved unanimously; a copy of the letter 
sent to the New York Bank pursuant to this action is attached as 
Item No. 12. 
It was noted also that as of January 1, 1968, the New York 
Bank proposed to increase the annual salary rate of Mr. Bilby from 
,500 to $40,000 on the ground that this would be equitable in 
relati on to the salary rates being proposed for other senior officers 
the Bank. 
Some reservations were expressed by members of the Board 
this aspect of the matter, not in terms of any question with 
respect to Mr. Bilby's competence but in view of the general principle 
had been followed of not ordinarily approving salary increases 
officers whose retirement was impending. 
It was suggested, however, 
that i n this instance there might be considerations involved such 
C o justify making an exception to the general rule. 

4583 
11/29/67 
-16-
Qfficer salaries at New York. A memorandum from the 
UP 
, 
- " • u' ' p 3 ;r.' 
Division of Personnel Administration dated November 28, 1967, discussed 
a revised proposal from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for 
salaries of the Bank's officers (other than the President and First 
Vice President) effective January 1, 1968. 
The revised proposal was fashioned to adhere more closely 
than an earlier proposal to the Board's guideline limiting merit 
salary increases in any one year to 40 per cent of the number of 
offi cers at a particular Reserve Bank. Governor Mitchell, speaking 
as Chairman of the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans, expressed the view that the revised listing probably 
came about as close to meeting the guideline as could be achieved 
Without considerable further negotiation with the Reserve Bank, and 
the circumstances he was inclined to regard the proposal as 
acceptable. 
After discussion the salary rates now proposed for the 
°fficers of the Bank were approved unanimously. A copy of the 
^etter sent to the Bank pursuant to this action is attached as 
^£SLNo. 13. 
Chairmen's Conference. Mr. Sherman briefed the Board on 
Plans for the forthcoming meeting of the Conference of Chairmen of 
tlle Federal Reserve Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

4584 
11/29/67 
-17-
Secretary's Notes: 
The requirements contemplated 
by the Board's action on November 3, 1967, in 
approving the issuance of a preliminary permit 
to The Northern Trust International Banking 
Corporation, New York, New York, having been 
completed, a letter was sent to that corporation 
on November 28, 1967, transmitting a final permit 
to commence business. 
As recommended in a memorandum from the Controller 
dated November 27, 1967, Governor Robertson on 
the same date approved on behalf of the Board 
distribution to all members of the staff of a 
statement (copy attached as Item No. 14) describing 
Board policy and procedure relating to payment 
of official visitors' lunches and certain types 
of expenses for the benefit of such visitors. 
On November 28, 1967, Governor Robertson approved 
on behalf of the Board the following items: 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
^EEointment 
William R. Howell as Supply Clerk, Division of Administrative 
Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,058, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Hilary increases, effective December 3, 1967 
to 
Basic annual salary 
•^SSLand title 
Division 
From 
To 
Board Members1 Offices 
D°rothy B. Saunders, Secretary 
$10,796 
$11,111 
to Governor Daane 
Office of the Secretary 
9 »U' 
Rose 
£
 Je C. Noonan, Secretary 
5,683 
5,859 
n a L. Stoll, Senior Records Clerk 
6,211 
6,387 

. 458 
11/29/67 
-18-
Salary increases, effective December 3, 1967 (continued) 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Le^al 
Doris I. Barker, Secretary 
$ 5,507 
$ 5,683 
Research and Statistics 
Jeannette R. DeLawter, Secretary 
6,461 
6,659 
Kathleen Thomas, Secretary 
5,683 
5,859 
Examinations 
Att W. Hammons, Jr., Assistant 
10,796 
11,111 
Federal Reserve Examiner 
Administrative Services 
Wesley B. Collins, Photographer (Offset) 
6,822 
7,155 
Gloria Townsend, Cashier (4-hour day) 
2,029 
2,095 
transfer 
•'•'•• : l ' o ... * l;.;, 
/ • 
,S< .. a;- •. ' 
Stephana P. Smith, from Statistical Assistant to Research Assistant, 
Divi sion of International Finance, with an increase in basic annual 
salary from $6,263 to $6,664, effective December 3, 1967. 
HjLintinfi Grade Wage Schedule 
Revised Printing Grade Wage Schedule (copy attached as Item No. 15) 
a nd increases in the annual salary rates of the following employees 
ifl the Division of Administrative Services under the schedule, effective 
December 3, 1967: 
Annual salary rate 
^asie and title 
From 
To 
Franklin Taylor, Supervisor, Duplicating, 
$9,797 
$10,234 
Mail, Messenger, and Supply Section 
Thomas V. Kopfman, Assistant Supervisor, 
9,214 
9,630 
Duplicating, Mail, Messenger, and 
Supply Section 

4586 
11/29/67 
-19-
Printing Grade salaries, effective December 3, 1967 (continued) 
Name and title 
Edward Cross, Foreman-Operator 
Bruce L. Moffett, Operator (Offset Press) 
John P. Fling, Sr., Operator (Offset Press) 
Quincy W. Barnes, Bindery and Finish Worker 
Wesley B. Collins, Photographer (Offset) 
Abner Thompson, Pressman-Photographer 
Aaron Dortch, Foreman-Operator 
Herbert W. Bundy, Bindery Worker 
James R. Jordan, Operator (Offset Press 
and Multilith) 
Charles E. Evans, Operator (Multilith) 
Abraham Rose, ITEK-Multilith Operator 
James T. Jones, Operator (Duplicating Devices) 
Lawrence N. Braxton, Operator (Mimeograph) 
Walter L. Worthy, Jr., Operator (Duplicating 
Devices) 
Theodore L. Jones, Power Collator Operator 
Charl es P. Brown, General Duplicating Operator 
Acting under delegated authority, the Director 
of the Division of Bank Operations approved on 
behalf of the Board on November 28, 1967, the 
sending of a letter to the Presidents of all 
Federal Reserve Banks transmitting revised pages 
of Form FR 97 (functional expense report), 
reflecting certain changes in definitions that 
would become effective January 1, 1968. 
Annual salary rate 
From 
To 
$8,632 
$9,048 
8,341 
8,757 
8,341 
8,757 
6,282 
6,677 
7,155 
7,550 
7,010 
7,384 
7,384 
7,779 
6,282 
6,677 
6,282 
6,677 
5,699 
6,074 
5,699 
6,074 
5,158 
5,512 
4,368 
4,701 
4,888 
5,242 
5,699 
6,074 
6,282 
6,656 
On the dates shown, actions were taken on behalf 
of the Board under delegated authority as reflected 
in the following letters, copies of which are 
attached as indicated: 
^Ufovember 27. 1967 
•STthe Director of the Division of Examinations 
L e tter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
approving 
the appointment of Louis A. Pinola and 
°hn M. Sanders as examiners. 
Item No 
16 

4587 
11/29/67 
-20-
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Letter to The Fifth Third Union Trust Company 
Cincinnati, Ohio, granting an extension of 
time within which to establish a branch in 
Blue Ash. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to The Citizens State Bank, Kiel, 
Wisconsin, waiving the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal from membership 
in the Federal Reserve System. 
On November 28, 1967 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
approving the appointment of Albin C. Netherwood 
as assistant examiner. 
By the Director of the Division of Bank Operations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
granting permission for Silverlake National Bank, 
Los Angeles, California, to continue to maintain 
reduced reserves. 
By 
the Director of the Division of Personnel 
^ministration 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
aPproving the appointment of Robert D. O'Neal 
a s Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agent. 
^L-the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Jitter to First National City Bank, New York, 
e w York, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish a branch in Tokyo, Japan. 
Item No, 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 

11/29/67 
-21-
On November 29, 1967 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to Bank of Westbury Trust Company, Westbury, 
New York, approving the establishment of a branch 
in Williston Park. 
Letter to Lincoln Rochester Trust Company, Rochester, 
New York, approving the establishment of a branch in 
Henrietta. 
Letter to Marine Midland Trust Company of Rockland 
County, Nyack, New York, approving an investment 
in bank premises. 
Letter to Commerce Union Bank, Nashville, Tennessee, 
approving the establishment of a branch at 6606 
Charlotte Avenue. 
Letter to Southern Arizona Bank and Trust Company, 
Tucson, Arizona, approving the establishment of a 
branch at 240 North Stone Avenue. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter to Farmers and Merchants Bank of Lawrenceville 
Lawrenceville, Virginia, approving the establishment 
°f a branch on Windsor Avenue-Highway 46. 
_the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Chicago, 
Illinois, 
approving the establishment of a branch 
Monroe and Franklin Streets. 

. 4589 
Item No. 1 
11/29/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C, 
In ^ e Matter of the Application of 
j^0RADO CNB BANKSHARES, INC,, 
Colorado, 
approval of action to become a bank 
^ ding company through the acquisition of at 
CoiSt 6 7 p e r c e n t o f tlie voting shares of The 
Coi°rado N a t i o n a l B a n l c o f Denver; Northeast 
Col°rad° N a t i o n a l Bank of Denver; and South 
l°rad0 National Bank, Denver, all in Colorado. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U-S.C. 1842(a)(1)) and section 222.4(a)(1) of Federal Reserve 
Re 
8 u lati o n Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)(1)), an application by Colorado CNB 
S h a r e s 
Inc., Denver, Colorado, for the Board's prior approval of 
acti 
0r* whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through the 
C q uUiti o n of at least 67 per cent of the voting shares of The Colorado 
ttfct 
°nal Bank of Denver; Northeast Colorado National Bank of Denver; and 
Sout, c°lorado National Bank, Denver, all in Colorado. 

- 2 -
4530 
In accordance with section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the 
Currency and requested his views and recommendation thereon. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
A copy of the appli-
was forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
pederal Register on May 19, 1967 (32 Federal Register 7480), which pro-
Vided an opportunity for the filing of comments and views regarding the 
Pr°Posed acquisition, and the time for filing such comments and views has 
^Pired and all comments and views filed with the Board have been considered 
bV it, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
St 
atement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Pt°vided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
^ 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
later than three months after the date of this Order unless such period 
is ^tended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
a s City pursuant to delegated authority. 
Datcsd at Washington, D. C., thia 29th day of November, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Ilaisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
(Sg^ 
Secretary. 

4591 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
COLORADO CNB BANKSHARES, INC., DENVER, COLORADO, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Colorado CNB Banlcshares, Inc., Denver, Colorado <"Applicant"), 
h a s filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
CcmPany Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the acquisition of at least 67 per cent of 
the voting shares of the following three banks located in the State of 
Colorad0: 
The Colorado National Bank of Denver; the Northeast Colorado 
Clonal Bank of Denver; and the South Colorado National Bank, 
DenVer> t h G l a t t e r t u o of which are located, respectively, five miles 
n°rtheast and four miles south of downtown Denver. As of December 31, 
l 9 
1/ 
6» 
Colorado National Bank operated but one office and held total 
^Posits of $229 million. The two proposed smaller subsidiary banks were 
b°th organized under the auspices of Colorado National Bank. Northeast 
C°l°tado National Bank commenced operations in July 1963 and has total 
^Positg of $5 million; South Colorado National Bank opened for business 
ln Ju*e 1964 and has deposits of $4 million. Each bank operates but one 
° f f l c G. Colorado National Bank ranks third in deposit size of all banks 
^ ^ s T o t h e r w i s e noted, all banking data arc of this date. 

4592 
- 2 -
atld banking organizations in Denver and in the State, Upon consummation 
of this proposal, Applicant would be the third largest banking organization 
in Denver and in the State, 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was given 
to the Comptroller of the Currency, and his views and recommendation were 
recHiested# 
The Comptroller recommended that the application be approved. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides that 
th 
G Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a monopoly 
Of 
Vjould be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize 
Of L 
c° attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the 
^ited States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed acquisition 
effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
t0 *essen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any 
manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
* 
a«icomp etitlve effects of the proposed transaction are dearly out-
,Gi&hed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in 
e e t i nS the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In each 
the Board is required to take into consideration the financial and 
8e*ial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and 
the h 
, 
°anks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community to be 
set ved 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 215 insured 
^ c i a l banks in Colorado hold total deposits of $3 billion, of which 

4593 
-2-
the 10 largest banking organizations operating in the State (three bank 
companies and seven independent banks) control $1,7 billion of 
dePosits, or about 57 per cent of such total. Applicant would control 
ab°ut 8 per cent of such total deposits, .5 per cent more than those now 
hcld by Colorado National Bank. Colorado National Bank holds 11.5 per 
Cent of the total deposits held by the 66 banks located in the Denver 
Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area ("SMSA11) , which area is composed of 
Ada*s, Arapahoe, Boulder, Denver, and Jefferson Counties. Applicant would 
c°ntrol 11.9 per cent of the total deposits in the S M S A * ^ 
Colorado National Bank's primary service area 
is described 
by Applicant as including the City and County of Denver and the surrounding 
ar°a constituting an essential part of the Denver economic complex. The 
^ituary service areas of both of the smaller proposed subsidiary banks lie 
l'holly within the primary service area of Colorado National Bank. That 
b*nk now holds 12.3 per cent of the deposits held by the 49 banks within 
lts Primary service area. Applicant would control an additional .5 per 
Cent of such deposits. Within that primary service area, Colorado National 
BaiUc is, and Applicant would be, the third largest banking organization. 
pj 
t s t National Bank of Denver (deposits of $441 million), Denver U. S. 
Corporation, Inc. (controlling deposits of $406 million) and Applicant 
(pt0Posed control of deposits of $230 million) would, in combination, con-
tjr°l 57.8 per cent of the total deposits in Colorado National Bank's primary 
S*rvice area. The three bank holding companies that presently operate 
from which Applicant estimates about 03 per cent of the deposits 
individuals, partnerships, and corporations are derived. 

. 4594 
-2-
°ffices within Colorado National Bank's primary service area control 
^Posits representing 33 per cent of the total deposits in the area; 
applicant's formation would increase this concentration to 46 per cent. 
As reflected in the foregoing data, Applicant's formation will 
n o t significantly alter the existing banking concentration in the City and 
c°unty of Denver, the Denver SMSA, or in the State. 
The record before the Board establishes that both Northeast 
C°lorado National Bank and South Colorado National Bank were organized by 
PrinciPal stockholders of Colorado National Bank and that, at the time of 
t h l s application, approximately 57 per cent and 00 per cent, respectively, 
0f the stock of Colorado National Bank and Northeast Colorado National Bank 
V7as owned by common stockholders. At the same date, about 61 per cent and 
20 Per cent, respectively, of the stock of Colorado National Bank and South 
Colorado National Bank; and 00 per cent of the stock of Northeast Colorado 
A t o n a l Bank and 57 per cent of the stock of South Colorado Nationa 
Banu, 
owned by common stockholders. 
Despite the fact that the stock of all three banks appears 
S ° ^ h a t widely held, the evidence of record indicates that the existing 
* f f*Uate relationships are not likely to be discontinued in the future. 
Xh° scope and nature of the affiliate relationships existing between and 
aRl0nC the three proposed subsidiary banks make clear that competition among 
theta is insignificant. The three banks have common directors; the active 
°£flc*rs and certain employees of the two smaller banks are former employees 
C°lorado National Bank; the smaller banks1 loan committees include 

4595 
-2-
of£icers of Colorado National Bank, and both of the smaller banks operate 
Urtier an effective dollar loan limit established by the management of 
c°lorado National Bank. In all major respects the two smaller banks are 
closely affiliated with Colorado National Bank - an affiliation that has 
aPparently proved most beneficial to the smaller banks. 
The existence of the affiliation described has and, in the Board's 
judgment, will continue to preclude the existence of competition between 
and among these banks. Applicant's formation will not, therefore, eliminate 
listing competition between or among the banks; nor will Applicant's 
f°rmation result in foreclosure of future competition between or among them. 
Colorado National Bank presently competes directly and vigorously 
four large banks located in downtown Denver, two of which are nearly 
tvice its size. In addition, Colorado National Bank competes with 42 other 
banks located within its primary area, the deposit sizes of which range 
° m $1 million to $43 million. There is no reason to believe that these 
w m 
find it more difficult to compete with the three banks operating 
° components of Applicant's system than operating as presently affiliated. 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed transaction 
W°ul<i not result in a monopoly nor be in furtherance of any combination or 
C°nsPiracy to monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area of 
C°l°tado. Further, consummation of the transaction would not substantially 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or operate in restraint of 

4596 
- 2 -
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
^Plicant, a newly formed corporation, has no operating history. 
Since its 
assets for the most part will consist of its stock interest in the three 
Proposed subsidiary banks, and since Applicant's management will be drawn 
ltl the main from management of Colorado National Bank, the financial con-
^ i o n , managerial resources, and future prospects of Applicant are dependent 
all major respects upon those of the banks it proposes to acquire. The 
financial and managerial resources of each of the three banks are reasonably 
Satl-sfactory, and the prospects of Colorado National Bank and Northeast 
G°lorado National Bank favorable. 
Somewhat less favorable are the prospects 
0f South Colorado National Bank. Its trade area, primarily industrial and 
CCtnciercial in nature, offers little evidence of economic viability. 
A 
tor contributing to the questionable prospects of South Colorado National 
is the planned relocation of one of the two major factories presently 
Si 
tuated immediately adjacent to the bank. While South Colorado National 
has formulated plans to relocate its building to a point closer to 
tllG center of commercial activity in the area, its prospects for profitable 
OpQ 
atlon appear to the Board to be somewhat more favorable as a subsidiary 
f applicant than would be the case if South Colorado National Bank were to 
0tltinue operation under the existing affiliation. Uith respect to any 
capital requirements of the three banks, the Board believes provision 
the 
lGrefor w i n be more assured through Applicant's efforts than would be the 
were the banks to individually undertake such an effort. This, in 
Board's judgment, is a consideration favorable to approval. 

4597 
-7-
In sum, the Board concludes that considerations relating to the 
^nancial and managerial resources and future prospects of Applicant and 
*ts proposed subsidiaries are consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - As earlier 
bleated, Colorado National Bank's primary service area wholly encompasses 
th°se of the two smaller banks involved in this proposal. Together, their 
areas encompass Denver and all or parts of Adams, Arapahoe, and 
Jefferson Counties, The record reflects marked population growth and econ-
expansion in Colorado in recent years, in large measure centered in the 
Stiver SMSA. The Denver SllSA's population (1.1 million in 1967) constitutes 
55 Per cent of Colorado's population. The State's manufacturing and finan-
Clal activities are concentrated in the Denver area. The location therein 
Numerous new manufacturing firms, the expansion of older firms, a marked 
Urease in Government employment at all levels, and the aforementioned 
E l a t i o n growth establish the Denver SMSA as one of the most rapidly 
areas in the nation, 
Colorado National Bank, the third largest banking organization 
^ e Denver area, serves primarily the City of Denver, deriving in 
e s s of 70 per cent of its deposits of individuals, partnerships, and 
rPorations from that area. The economic makeup of this area is mixed 
ihj 
Ustrial, commercial, and residential. Northeast Colorado National 
* s primary service area, predominantly industrial in nature, is 
°u8hly t h e northeastern section of Denver, and the western part of Adams 
Q °UntV. South Colorado National Bank serves primarily the southern portion 

. 4598 
the City of Denver, an area having industrial, commercial, and 
residential characteristics. 
As earlier mentioned, the service areas of 
'he latter two banks lie wholly within the primary service area of Colorado 
^tional Bank. The area is served by 46 banks in addition to Applicant's 
Proposed subsidiary banks. The record establishes that the major banking 
n°eds and convenience of the area are x*ell served at the present time, 
particularly, it does not appear that the operation of Northeast 
^°lorado National Bank and South Colorado National Bank as subsidiaries 
Appiicant offers any significant advantages to the communities affected 
°ver those presently available through the existing affiliation of these 
kar*ks with Colorado National Bank. Applicant concedes that, under its 
dim 
C ct ownership, the two smaller banks are not expected to expand the 
S e rvi c e s n o w offered directly by them. However, Applicant asserts, and 
Board finds reasonable, the likelihood that customers of the two 
Sltlaller banks will have somewhat easier and more immediate access to the 
lending limit of Colorado National Bank and to certain other banking 
ervices that only a major metropolitan bank can offer. In addition, as 
viously noted, Applicant appears to be a more reliable source of additional 
apltal for each of the proposed subsidiary banks than is presently available 
to the m. 
The Board find3 that considerations relating to the convenience 
needs of the communities involved are consistent with, and weigh in 
V°r 
approval of the application. 

m 
J'-. s 
v 
4599 
-2-
On the basis of all relevant facts contained in the record, 
ar*d in the light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, 
lt is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in 
V ' •• r.) -V, 
: . 
• 
. ". 
: 
the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
November 29, 1967. 
w t. \ » • 
> 
* 
; 
i © 
sv-:.. , V 
cm 

4600 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
In February 1963, I dissented from the Board's action in 
aPProving the formation of a then second Denver-based bank holding 
company - the third operating in Colorado. Among the reasons I found 
Quiring denial of that application was that "the Board's action . . . 
w U l set in motion efforts by other large Denver banks to form bank 
companies." I stated that while the Bank Holding Company Act 
f i t t e d the formation of new holding companies upon approval of the 
°ard of Governors, the Act was never intended to be used as a vehicle 
altering the banking structure of the State; and I repeated an even 
6arUer-stated conviction that approval of that application would in all 
lead to like applications by other large Denver banks, differ-
Stlt treatment of which by the Board would be made difficult by the prece-
established by the Board's approval action in that case. 
Colorado CNB Bankshares' application, and the Board's action 
ttlere0n, conform precisely to the emerging pattern against which I spoke 
five years ago, and bring closer to reality my stated expectation 
Of t-u 
transformation of Colorado's banking structure from one consisting 
Of 
matly independent single unit banks to one of banks controlled by a 
ev;holding company systems. My concurrence in the Board's action on this 
^ication does not reflect a change in my original position, but in the 
of previous Board actions in the State of Colorado, and considering 
the * 
listing affiliations involved in this case, I cannot see my way clear 
t0 d 
e ny the application. 
In refraining from urging denial, however, I am 

4601 
Constrained to repeat what I have earlier said, namely, that the Bank 
Holding Company Act was primarily designed to control the expansion of 
bank holding companies. It was not designed as a vehicle for creating 
a new banking system of multiple-office banking, which over time would 
result in th<e elimination of independent banks. Continued use of the 
statute in this manner presents a formidable threat to existing banking 
structures in many States, including Colorado. 
Nov ember 29, 1967, 
;. 

Item No. 
11/29/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
ln the Matter of the Application of 
JTUNTIC TRUST COMPANY, 
acksonville, Florida, 
qq1" aPproval of acquisition of more than 
T^pe r cent of the voting shares of 
j 
Atlantic National Bank of Jacksonville, 
^ksonville, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
sect1 
° n 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 
U-S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.4(a)(2) of Federal Reserve 
§ulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)(2)), an application by Atlantic Trust 
lnV, Jacksonville, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of the 
^ I t i o n of 
Atlantic National Bank of Jacksonville, Jacksonville, Florida. 
more than 80 per cent of the outstanding voting shares 
0fTh< 
In accordance with section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
M t t en notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the 
V e n cy and requested his views and recommendation thereon. The 
r» 
r°ller offered no objection to approval of the application. 

4603 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
federal Register on October 12, 1967 (32 Federal Register 14166), which pro-
dded an opportunity for the filing of comments and views regarding the 
Proposed acquisition. 
A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
Apartment of Justice for its consideration. The time for filing comments 
views has expired and all those received have been considered by the 
Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
^tatement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
later than three months after the date of this Order unless, for good 
C a U s e, such period is extended by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
* Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C. this 30th day of November, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Robertson, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Maisel, 
(sSAl) 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary, 

4604 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY ATLANTIC TRUST COMPANY, JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE ATLANTIC NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE, JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Atlantic Trust Company, Jacksonville, Florida ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, controls 10 banks, all in Florida, 
With ,4 
—^ 
n deposits aggregating $212 million. 
In turn, Applicant is a wholly-
"VTled subsidiary of The Atlantic National Bank of Jacksonville, Jacksonville, 
Plorj 
r 
a ("Atlantic National"), with deposits of $266 million. 
Atlantic 
°nal i g a registered bank holding company because of its indirect 
nership 0 f the voting shares of the banks directly owned by Applicant. 
Consummation of Applicant's proposal would effect a reorganization 
Of 
listing corporate relationships within the Atlantic Group. 
Applicant 
es to acquire more than 30 per cent of the voting shares of Atlantic 
1 by an exchange of Applicant's stock for that of Atlantic National. 
*o U o l n8 an increase in Applicant's outstanding voting shares incident to 
the af0 rementioned stock exchange, Atlantic National's ownership of Appli-
Cant' s stock will be reduced to slightly in excess of 25 per cent of the 
tot*l v °ting shares outstanding. Thus, Atlantic National would become a 
^ S i T d aeposit data arc as of December 31, 1966, unless otherwise noted. 

4605 
- 2 -
subsidiary of Applicant and would remain a bank holding company under 
the Act. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
^ section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was given 
the Comptroller of the Currency, and his views and recommendation were 
requested. The Comptroller submitted no objection to approval of the 
aPplicati on. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
'hat the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
°n°Poly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
^opollze or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
P a r t of the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed 
accluiSj.tl.on the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
ubstantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
r ^hich in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Bo 
ar<* finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
e clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to 
e 
served. In each case the Board is required to take into consid-
erate the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
the b 
a nk holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
e eds of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - As earlier noted, 
^cant 
^Ppli 
Cant's proposal involves a reorganization of the corporate units 
prl-sing tlie Atlantic Group; it does not involve an expansion of that 

: 4606 
-2-
Gr°up, an increase in the banking resources thereby controlled, or an 
undue alteration in the competitive situation presently existing among 
ttle banks in the areas served by Applicant's subsidiaries. While some 
sl-ight increase in Applicant's ability to compete may result from the 
Proposed reorganization, the benefits that Applicant anticipates will 
result, discussed hereafter in relation to the financial prospects of 
institutions involved, most directly affect efficiency of operation 
a ^ 
j 
ease in raising capital funds - results not patently inimical to 
c°ntinued healthy competition. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
^"isition of the stock of Atlantic National would substantially increase 
^PUcant's net worth. While its present financial condition is satis-
a C t o ry, its prospects would be enhanced by its acquisition of more than 
1 r cent of Atlantic National's outstanding shares. Applicant asserts 
-at by increasing substantially the number of its shareholders, its 
^tur e ability to raise equity capital when needed will be greatly facilitated, 
and t h 
n a t Applicant's increased net worth resulting from its acquisition of 
tic National will significantly better its borrowing position should 
action become necessary. The Board finds reasonable the above con-
clust0 
a s by Applicant as to benefits likely to result from its proposal, 
Atlanti l c National has a history of sound and profitable operation, and 
lts 
prospects, and those of Applicant and its existing subsidiaries, 
f 
favorable. Consummation of Applicant's proposal will have no 
1 effect upon the managerial resources of either Applicant or 

m 
< 
: 4607 
-4-
I 
Atlantic National, Management of Applicant is virtually synonymous with 
the senior management of Atlantic National, There is every reason to 
believe that the record of sound and experienced management will continue 
fith respect to Applicant's system, including Atlantic National. 
The 
Board concludes that considerations relating to the financial and mana-
gerial resources and prospects of Applicant and Atlantic National are 
insistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the areas affected, - Approval of 
• 
1 
Applicant' s proposed acquisition will have no material effect on the 
convenience. 
needs, and welfare of the communities served by the banks 
involved. As mentioned, to the extent that Applicant's operations are 
c 
Militated and inproved, the communities involved may be the indirect 
i A ^ * 
ies of such improvement. Viewed most favorably to Applicant, 
the 
^•se considerations arc merely consistent with approval of the application. 
in 
the 
On the basis of all relevant facts contained in the record, and 
t h e light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is 
Board's judgment that the yropesei transaction would be in the public 
j 
*t 
^rGst and that the application should be approved. 
Mf: 
° V e m ber 30, 1967, 
m 
tV' 
\ 
• < } 

i 4608 
Item No. 3 
11/29/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C, 
In the Matter of the Application of 
^ 
TRUST COMPANY 
^edK 
o f m e r C e r with 
na® Trust Company 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
uerger Act (12 U.S.C. 1023(c)), an application by Quincy Trust Company, 
K c v 
T,r 
Massachusetts, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve System, 
th 
e Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank and Dedham Trust 
Dedham, Massachusetts, under the charter of the former and title 
° ck Bank and Trust Company, As an incident to the merger, the six 
Dedham Trust Company would become branches of the resulting bank. 
tl<* of 
° r the 
proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, has been 
e d Pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
actors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
trolls 
of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; 

• 4609 
- 2 -
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed merger, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 30th day of November, 1967, 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson, 
and Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and 
Sherrill, 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Martin, and 
Governor Daane, 
(signed) 
Merritt Sherman 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY QUINCY TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
DEDHAH TRUST COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Quincy Trust Company, Quincy, Massachusetts ("Quincy Bank"), 
^th total deposits of about $25.5 million, has applied, pursuant to the 
Bank 
the 
Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval of 
Merger of that bank with Dedham Trust Company, Dedham, Massachusetts 
* Dedham Bank"), which has total deposits of about $15.5 million.^ 
The 
Q n k s would merge under the charter of Quincy Bank, which Is a member of 
Federal Reserve System, and the name of the resulting bank would be 
cha 
the 
in 
n8ed to Hancock Bank and Trust Company. As an incident to the merger, 
six offices of Dedham Bank would become branches of Quincy Bank, 
Creasing the number of its offices to 12. 
Competition. - All offices of the two banks are in Norfolk 
Co 
Ha 
Unty> which adjoins Suffolk County, the location of the City of Boston, 
usetts lav; permits intra-county branching. 
Quincy Bank operates its head office in Quincy (1960 population 
87,000), which is about eight miles south of dovmtown Boston and the 
Sures are as of June 30, 1967. 
• 
, 
' 
... 
. 

4611 
- 2 -
largest city in Norfolk County. The bank's six branches are within a 
radius of approximately six miles of the main office. 
Dedham Bank operates its head office in Dedham (1960 population 
about 24,000), which is about nine miles west of Quincy and about 10 miles 
southwest of downtown Boston. Each of the banks operates a branch in 
^ 
Randolph, which is in the western sector of Quincy Bank's service area; 
Dedham Bank's other four branches are located west of Randolph. 
The town of Randolph (population about 22,000) is the only 
Place where the service areas of the two banks overlap. Dedham Bank 
obtains about 4 per cent of its IPC deposits and about 4 per cent of its 
ioans from Quincy Bank's service area. Quincy Bank derives about 4 per 
cent of its IPC deposits and less than 1 per cent of its loans from the 
^rvice area of Dedham Bank. If the merger were consummated, Quincy Bank's 
office in Randolph, which was opened in 1964 and has generated little 
business, would be closed. 
There are three other commercial banking offices in Randolph, 
of which are operated by South Shore National Bank, Norfolk County's 
Second largest bank, and the other by Norfolk County Trust Company, the 
largest bank in the county. These three offices account for about G3 per 
cent of the IPC deposits held by the five banking offices in Randolph. 
Quincy Bank and Dedham Bank hold about 7 per cent and 4 per 
Cer>t, respectively, of the deposits held by the G4 offices of the ten 
commercial banks operating in Norfolk County; the two largest banks hold 
^ I h T a r e a from which a bank derives 75 per cent or more of its deposits 
0 f individuals, partnerships, and corporations ('IPC deposits ). 

about 73 per cent of such deposits. The combined service areas of 
Quincy Bank and Dedham Bank encompass roughly two-thirds of Norfolk 
County, In this combined area, seven banks operate 51 offices; the 
^ o largest banks in Norfolk County operate offices throughout the 
area and hold 'about 76 per cent of total deposits. 
If the proposed 
merger were consummated, the resulting bank would hold about 18 per 
°ent of the deposits held by the area's banking offices. These con-
centration figures do not reflect the fact that many Norfolk County 
residents commute to Boston and thus have the option of banking there 
n°r do the figures reflect the fact that there are several offices of 
large Boston-based banks situated near the Suffolk County boundary 
^thin two or three miles of offices of Quincy Bank and Dedham Bank, 
Neither Quincy Bank nor Dedham Bank has an office in the 
Western-rural area of Norfolk County, the only area where the develop 
tn°nt of competition between them through de novo branching would seem 
ikely, Norfolk County Trust Company and South Shore National Bank 
^ Q V e been extending their branch systems to include towns in western 
^°rfolk County, The bank resulting from the proposted merger would be 
I! 
a stronger position than either Quincy Bank or Dedham Bank to 
Establish branches in these towns and thereby offer competition for 
of fj 
lces of the county's largest banks, 
« 
The effect of the raerger on competition would be slightly 

4613 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The banking 
factors with respect to each of the banks proposing to merge are satis-
factory, as they would be with respect to the resulting bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - The merger would 
result in the elimination of Quincy Bank's branch in Randolph, but four 
°ffices of three banks would remain, and these include three offices of 
Norfolk 
County s two largest banks. Moreover, the Randolph branch of 
Quincy Bank is quite small and, it appears, unprofitable; it is question-
able whether the branch would continue to operate if the proposed merger 
Were not approved. 
The respective lending limits of the proponent banks are $400,000 
$260,000. The resulting institution would be a stronger corporate 
Gt>terprise with a lending limit of $700,000. This \vould be helpful to 
cOffinicrcial customers in the present service areas of Quincy Bank and 
Dedham Bank. 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
m e r g e r 
would have a slightly adverse effect on competition; and while 
potential benefits for banking convenience and needs are also limited, 
they a r e sufficient to cause the Board to conclude that the application 
s^ould be approved, even though it regards the case as a very close one. 
M e m b e r 30, 1967. 

4614 
Item No. 4 
11/29/67 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
November 29, 1967 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
This is in response to Mr. Hemmings1 letter of September 26, 
1967, requesting the legal and policy views of the Board as to whether 
a special assistant examiner of your Bank may accept and use a credit 
card issued by a national bank. 
The legal problem arises, as you indicate, because sec-
tions 212 and 213 of the United States Criminal Code make it a crime 
for a bank examiner or assistant examiner of the Federal Reserve System 
to accept a loan or gratuity from a bank, organization, or institution 
examined by him, or for a bank, organization, or institution to make 
or grant a loan or gratuity to an examiner or assistant examiner who 
examines or has the authority to examine such bank, organization, or 
institution. 
These provisions would, of course, prevent Federal Reserve 
examiners and assistant examiners from using credit cards or similar 
plans of any member State bank or national bank, or of an insured 
bank that is an affiliate of a member State bank or of a registered 
bank holding company. This is because the Board has authority to 
examine such banks and the authority of examiners and assistant examiners 
is co-extensive with the Board's authority. This is consistent with 
the Board's letter of November 20, 1958 (S-1680; F.R.L.S. #9180). 
Furthermore, it would be preferable in any such case for the examiner 
not to accept or retain such a credit card. 
The chief difference between an assistant examiner and a 
special assistant examiner is that the former is engaged in examina-
tions on a full time basis, while the latter holds another position 
with the Federal Reserve Bank that he serves, and is engaged in 
examinations only on a limited or part-time basis. 
Nevertheless, 
S-1680 indicated that the Department of Justice might regard a loan 

. 4615 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan 
- 2 -
by a member bank to a special assistant examiner as falling within 
the purview of the criminal provisions cited above and that 
therefore 
special assistant examiners should be informed of these 
r
e
J
t
S 
miahf k K ^ 1 ] 6 ^ 
s P e c i f i e d authority of a special assistant examiner 
is unders oo°d ^ h l " 
^ 
a S t h a t ° f 
a S S i S t a n t 
* 
with the limitpd3 
T 
^ 
a S S i S t a n t — m i n e r s of your Bank are appointed 
with the limited authority to examine only member State banks (in fact 
only specifically named banks) and that, up to this time, no specif? 
assistant examiner has been granted authority to examined nationafbank. 
Bank h 
T h e r e f o r e > because a special assistant examiner of your 
we aVree'with Z T ™ 
" 
^ 
to examine national banks, 
we agree with your counsel that, as a legal matter, it would appear 
that such a special assistant examiner can accept Ind use a credit card 
: 
^ r T f e r ^ d ^ Y ' 3 " A T ^ 
b " k W i t L t violatin ^he'cri^inal 
would have 
f? 
' 
^ 
8 l n C e 3 S p e C l a l a s s ^ t a n t examiner 
would have no authority or opportunity to examine such a bank, the Board 
would have no objection, from a policy standpoint, to such an'arrangement. 
Of course, if such an individual later becomes authorized 
to examine a bank at which he is so indebted, the Board's long standine 
or e x a m i n a t ^ ° ^ k f " 
Participating in the insect on§ 
or examination of a bank to which he is indebted would require the 
a n a / l i s t a n t — m i n e r to pay off the indebtedness or to be dis-
qualified from the inspection or examination. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

. 4GIG 
Item No. 5 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
11/29/67 
O f T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E 
5Y5TEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
3 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
November 30, 1967 
The Honorable Harley 0. Staggers, Chairman, 
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your letter of October 25, 1967, 
inquiring whether the Board's proposals of October 20, 1967, respecting 
margin requirements would in any way affect the Board's recommenda-
tion, made most recently in its letter to you dated April 12, 1967, 
for adoption of H.R. 7696, a bill "To permit regulation of the amount 
of credit that may be extended and maintained with respect to securities 
that are not registered on a national exchange", which you introduced 
at the request of the Board. 
The Board continues to consider that H.R. 7696 is necessary 
if it is effectively to implement the Congressional directive to 
prevent the excessive use of credit in the securities markets. 
As 
pointed out in our letter to you of March 1, 1967, markets for securities 
that are not registered on a national securities exchange have developed 
to the point where inability to control credit in such securities 
represents a serious gap in the Board's margin regulations. 
Because the Board is presently limited by the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 to regulating loans for the purpose of purchasing 
or carrying securities registered on a national exchange ("registered 
securities"), the proposals issued on October 20, are necessarily 
designed for the limited purpose of reducing credit on registered 
securities. 
These proposals relate primarily to: 
(1) credit available 
in the market for securities convertible into registered securities, 
a market which has grown significantly in recent years, (2) credit 
used to exercise warrants and rights to purchase registered securities, 
(3) reducing avoidance of the "retention" and "withdrawal" requirements 
which were adopted to improve the status of credit outstanding against 
registered securities in certain undermargined accounts, and (4) credit 
available on registered securities through heretofore "unregulated 
lenders" such as factors, tax-exempt foundations, partnerships 
and 
corporations, credit unions, and foreign banks. 
M L RES' 

The Honorable Harley 0. Staggers 
-2-
While the Board's October 20 proposals were intended to 
reduce credit on registered securities, it believes that these pro 
posals, as well as its existing regulations, would be more effec-
tive if they applied equally to certain securities not traded on a 
national securities exchange. 
For the reasons stated above, the Board is pleased to 
learn your Committee is considering taking up H.R. 7696. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
'•fVRtsff-
For immediate release 
r e l e a s e 
December 1, 1967. 
Item No. 6 
11/29/67 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
announced the adoption of amendments to its Regulation F, "Securities 
of Member State Banks", to add (a) a definition of "beneficial owner-
ship" and (b) a provision relating to inclusion of minority stockholder 
Proposals in a bank's proxy soliciting material. The amendments, pre-
viously published for comment on October 2, 1967, were adopted without 
change and become effective December 31, 1967. 
£oneficial Ownership 
The principal effect of the definition of beneficial ownership 
i s to require the reporting of shares owned by the spouse (except where 
^gally separated) and minor children of every director, officer and 
Principal stockholder. Shares owned by any relative who lives in the 
same home are also required to be reported. 
The definition does not specify the only situations where owner-
slliP of shares held in the name of others should be reported. For example, 
c°rtain trust interests should be reported (see section 206.6(d) of 
Regulation F), as should shares owned by a partnership or corporation in 
which the person reporting has a substantial interest. 
In addition, a 
Person is regarded as the beneficial owner of securities held in the name 
of another person, if there exists a contract, understanding, relationship, 
Ov 
other arrangement that gives him benefits or powers substantially 
b i v a l e n t to those of ownership. 

Also, the definition is not intended to create a legal 
Presumption for other purposes that the person reporting is, in fact, 
the beneficial owner of securities held by other persons; for example, 
with respect to tax consequences or forfeiture of short-swing trading 
Profits under section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act. The per-
son reporting is privileged by section 206.6(c) of Regulation F to 
disclaim beneficial ownership of such securities in ownership reports 
filed under section 16(a) of the Act, and the bank also may include 
s^ch a disclaimer in its registration statement, proxy statements, and 
other reports. A final determination of the existence of beneficial 
ownership can be made, of course, only by a court of appropriate juris-
diction in the light of the facts of the particular case. 
In addition, adoption of the new definition does not impose any 
§ 
additional duties or liabilities with respect to reporting of transactions 
° r holdings prior to its effective date. Although documents filed prior 
t o January 1, 1968, arc not required to be amended, all ownership reports, 
Proxy solicitation material, registration statements, and other reports 
filed after that date should reflect beneficial ownership, as newly de-
fined. if the most recent ownership report that was filed by an officer, 
director or principal stockholder pursuant to section 16(a) of the 
Securities Exchange Act does not reflect current beneficial ownership, 
a s newly defined, then a report on Form F-3, "Statement of Changes in 
to 
e n o f i c i a l Ownership of Securities", should be filed by January 10, 1960, 
eVcri though no transactions occurred during the previous month. 

. 4G20 
-2-
Minorlty Stockholder Proposals 
In the light of experience gained since Regulation F was 
adopted in 1964, the Board of Governors believes that it is in the 
Public interest to adopt requirements relating to management presen-
tation of stockholder proposals in a bankfs proxy soliciting material. 
The amendment requires the inclusion of stockholder proposals 
relating to matters, other than elections to office, if submitted to 
"^agoment within the time period specified. However, specified types 
of 
stcc kholder proposals are not required to be included. In addition, 
order to avoid unwarranted annual repetition of proposals, a bank 
C a n omit a stockholder's proposal for a three-year period if substan-
t i a U y the same proposal had been considered at previous stockholders1 
meetings and received less than a specified percentage of the votes 
cast. 
The Board believes that the new provisions will promote 
°rPorate democracy and, at the same time, protect bank management in 
U s 
relationships with minority stockholders. 
The texts of the amendments to Regulation F are attached. 
Attachments 

. 4621 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
. 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 206 - SECURITIES OF MEMBER STATE BANKS 
[Reg. F] 
Beneficial ownership; minority stockholder proposals 
1. Effective December 31, 1967, § 206.2 is amended by adding 
the following paragraph: 
§ 206.2 Definitions. 
* 
* 
* 
(ff) The terms "beneficial ownership," "beneficially owned," 
and the like, when used with respect to the reporting of ownership of 
the bank's equity securities in any statement or report required by 
this part, shall include, in addition to direct and indirect beneficial 
ownership by the reporting person, ownership of such securities (1) by 
the spouse (except where legally separated) and minor children of such 
reporting person, and (2) by any other relative of the reporting person 
who has the same home as such person. 
2. Effective December 31, 1967, § 206.5 is amended by 
revising subparagraphs (d)(1) and (3) and adding paragraph (k) as set 
© 
forth below: 
§ 206.5 Proxies, proxy statements, and statements where management 
does not solicit proxies. 
* 
* 
* 

- 2 -
(d) Requirements as to proxy. 
(1) The form of proxy 
(i) shall indicate in bold-face type whether or not the proxy is 
solicited on behalf of the management of the bank, (ii) shall provide 
a specifically designated blank space for dating the proxy, and 
(iii) shall identify clearly and impartially each matter or group of 
related matters intended to be acted upon, whether proposed by the 
management or by security holders. No reference need be made, however, 
to proposals as to which discretionary authority is conferred pursuant 
to subparagraph (3) of this paragraph. 
* 
* 
* 
(3) A proxy may confer discretionary authority with respect 
to other matters that may come before the meeting, if (i) the persons 
on whose behalf the solicitation is made are not aware a reasonable 
time prior to the time the solicitation is made that any such other 
matters are to be presented for action at the meeting and (ii) a specific 
statement to that effect, except with respect to proposals omitted 
pursuant to paragraph (k) of this section for which discretionary 
authority may also be conferred, is made in the proxy statement or form 
of proxy. 
•k 
-k 
-k 
(k) Proposals of security holders. 
(1) If any security 
holder entitled to vote at a meeting of security holders of the bank 
shall submit to the management of the bank, within the time hereinafter 

, 4623 
-2-
specified, a proposal which is accompanied by notice of his intention 
to present the proposal for action at the meeting, the management shall 
set forth the proposal in its proxy statement and shall identify it in 
its form of proxy and provide means by which security holders can approve 
or disapprove the proposal. The management of the bank shall not be 
required by this section to include the proposal in its proxy statement 
for an annual meeting unless the proposal is submitted to management 
not less than 60 days in advance of a day corresponding to the first 
date on which the management's Statement was released to security holders 
in connection with the preceding annual meeting of security holders. 
A proposal to be presented at any other meeting shall be submitted to 
the management of the bank a reasonable time before the solicitation is 
made. This paragraph (k) shall not apply, however, to elections to 
office. 
(2) If the management opposes the proposal, it shall also, 
at the written request of the security holder, include in the proxy 
statement (i) the name and address of the security holder, or a state-
ment that such name and address will be furnished upon request, and 
(ii) a statement of the security holder (which shall not include such 
name and address) of not more than 100 words in support of the proposal. 
The statement and request of the security holder shall be furnished to 
the management at the same time that the proposal is furnished. Neither 
the management nor the bank shall be responsible for such statement. 

. 4«iM 
- 2 -
(3) Notwithstanding subparagraphs (1) and (2) of this 
paragraph, the management may omit a proposal and any statement in 
support thereof from its proxy statement and form of proxy under any 
of the following circumstances: 
(i) If the proposal is impossible to accomplish or, under 
applicable law, is not a proper subject for action by security holders; or 
(ii) If the proposal consists of a recommendation or request 
that the management take action with respect to a matter relating to 
the conduct of the ordinary business operations of the bank; or 
(iii) If it appears that the proposal is submitted by the 
security holder principally for the purpose of enforcing a personal 
claim or redressing a personal grievance against the bank or its manage-
ment, or principally for the purpose of promoting general economic, 
political, racial, religious, social, or similar causes; or 
(iv) If the management has at the security holder's request 
included a proposal in its proxy statement and form of proxy relating 
to either of the two preceding annual meetings of security holders or 
any special meeting held subsequent to the earlier of such two annual 
meetings, and such security holder has failed without good cause to 
Present the proposal, in person or by proxy, for action at the meeting; 
or 
(v) If substantially the same proposal has previously been 
submitted to security holders in the management's proxy statement and 
form of proxy relating to any meeting of security holders held within 

. 4625 
-5-
the preceding 5 calendar years, it may be omitted, from the proxy 
statement relating to any meeting of security holders held within the 
3 calendar years after the latest such previous submission, provided 
• 
that (a) if. the proposal was,submitted at only one meeting during such 
preceding period, it received less than 5 per cent of the total number 
of votes cast in regard thereto, or , (b) if the proposal was submitted 
at only two meetings during such preceding period, it received at the 
time of its second submission less than 10 per cent of the total number 
of votes cast in regard thereto, or (c) if the proposal was submitted 
at three or more meetings during such period, it received at the time 
of its latest submission less than 20 per cent of the total number of 
votes cast in regard thereto; or 
(vi) If, prior to the receipt of such proposal, substantially 
the same proposal has been received by the management from another 
security holder and is to be included in the bank's proxy soliciting 
material. 
(4) Whenever the management1"asserts that a proposal and 
r 
any statement in support thereof may properly be omitted from the proxy 
statement and form of proxy, it shall file with the Board, not later 
than 20 days prior to tfie date the preliminary copies of the proxy state-
ment and form of p,roxy are filed pursuant to paragraph (f)(1) of this 
section or such shorter period prior to such date as the Board may permit, 
• i 
a copy of the proposal and any statement in support thereof as received 
from the security holder, together with a statement of the reasons why 
the management deems such omission to be proper in the particular case, 

- 2 -
/ 
and, where such reasons are based on matters of law, a supporting 
opinion of counsel. The management shall at the same time, if it 
has not already done so, notify the security holder submitting the 
proposal of its intention to omit the proposal from its proxy state-
ment and shall forward to him a copy of the statement of the reasons 
why the management deems the omission of the proposal to be proper 
and a copy of such supporting opinion of counsel. 
3. Notice of proposed rule making with respect to these 
> 
amendments was published, together with an explanation of their pur-
pose, in the Federal Register of October 7, 1967 (32 F.R. 13984). 
The Board took its action following consideration of all relevant matter 
that was presented by interested persons. The amendments as adopted 
are identical with the amendments as proposed. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 29th day of November, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
(SEAL) 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

BCDARD O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 8 
11/29/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 1, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board of Governors has adopted amendments to its 
Regulation F, "Securities of Member State Banks", to add (a) a 
definition of "beneficial ownership" and (b) a provision rela-
ting to inclusion of minority stockholder proposals in a bank's 
proxy soliciting material. The amendments, which were previously 
published for comment and were adopted without change, become 
effective December 31, 1967. 
It would be appreciated if you would send copies of 
the enclosed amendments to all member banks in your district 
which are registered pursuant to Regulation F. In addition, it 
would be helpful if you included the following explanation in 
your letter transmitting the amendments. 
"Bcneficial Ownership 
The principal effect of the definition of 
beneficial ownership is to require the reporting 
of shares owned by the spouse (except where legally 
separated) and minor children of every director, 
officer and principal stockholder. 
Shares owned 
by any relative who lives in the same home are also 
required to be reported. 
The definition does not specify the only 
situations where ownership of shares held in the 
name of others should be reported. For example, 

- 2 -
certain trust interest should be reported (see 
section 206.6(d) of Regulation F) , as should 
shares owned by a partnership or corporation in 
which the person reporting has a substantial 
interest. 
In addition, a person is regarded as 
the beneficial owner of securities held in the 
name of another person, if there exists a con- 
< 
tract, understanding, relationship, or other 
arrangement that gives him benefits or powers 
substantially equivalent to those of ownership. 
Also, the definition is not intended to 
create a legal presumption for other purposes 
that the person reporting is, in fact, the 
beneficial owner of securities held by other 
persons; for example, with respect to tax 
consequences or forfeiture of short-swing 
trading profits under section 16(b) of the 
Securities Exchange Act. The person reporting 
is privileged by section 206.6(c) of Regulation F 
to disclaim beneficial ownership of such securi-
ties in ownership reports filed under section 
16(a) of the Act, and the bank also m.tv include 
such a disclaimer in its registration statement, 
proxy statements, and other reports. A final 
determination of the existence of beneficial 
ownership can be made, of course, only by a 
court of appropriate jurisdiction in the light 
of the facts of the particular case. 
In rddition, adoption of the new definition • 
does not impose any additional duties or liabilities 
with respcct to reporting of transactions or hold-
ings prior to its effective date. Although documents 
filed prior to January 1, 1968, are not required to 
be amended, all ownership reports, proxy solicitation 
material, registration statements, and other reports 
filed after that date should reflect beneficial 
ownership, as newly defined. If the most recent 
ownership report that was filed by an officer, 
director, or principal stockholder pursuant to 
section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act does 
not reflect current beneficial ownership, as newly 
defined, then a report on Form F-8, "Statement of 
Changes in Beneficial Ownership of Securities", 
should be filed by January 10, 1968, even though no 

- 2 -
transactions occurred during the previous month. 
In this connection, it it suggested that indirect 
ownership, which Is being reported for the first 
time, be footnoted to an explanation under the 
'Remarks1 section of the form substantially as 
follows: 
'This report is being filed to reflect 
beneficial ownership as defined in section 206.2(ff) 
of Regulation F.1 
Mo information need, of course, 
, 
be furnished under inapplicable columns of the form. 
Minority Stockholder Proposals 
In the light of experience gained since 
Regulation F was adopted in 1964, the Board of 
Governors believes that it is in the public interest 
to adopt requirements relating to management pre-
sentation of stockholder proposals in a bank's proxy 
soliciting material. 
The amendment requires the inclusion of stock-
holder proposals relating to matters, other than 
elections to office, if submitted to management 
within the time period specified. 
However, specified 
types of stockholder proposals are not required to be 
included. 
In addition, in order to avoid unwarranted 
annual repetition of proposals, a bank can omit a 
stockholder's proposal for a three-year period if 
substantially the same proposal had been considered 
at previous stockholders' meetings and received less 
than a specified percentage of the votes cast. 
The Board believes that the new provisions will 
promote corporate democracy and, at the same time, 
protect bank management in its relationships with 
minority stockholders." 
These amendments will be printed at the Board In slip-
sheet form. Unless you indicate to the contrary, you will be 
supplied with the same number of copies of the slipsheet as were 
furnished to you with copies of the slipsheet amendment to 
Regulation F that became effective April 20, 1967. . 
Secretary. 
Enclosures 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

BCDARD O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL, RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E 9 P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 29, 1967 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Scanlon: 
This refers to your letter of November 2, 1967, 
concerning alterations necessary to the eleventh floor of 
the Chicago Reserve Bank building in order to prepare it 
to accommodate a new system of check handling equipment 
that is to be installed in April 1968. 
The Board will interpose no objection to your 
Bank's proceeding with the alterations outlined in your 
letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
Item No. 8 
11/29/67 

. 4631 
BCDARD O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20S81 
Item No. 8 
11/29/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 29, 1967 
Mr. Harold T. Patterson, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear Mr. Patterson: 
This refers to Mr. Kimbrel's letter of November 11, 1967, 
advising that your Board of Directors has approved increased bene-
fits and consequently higher rates under the Aetna hospitalization 
and surgical program for all active and retired employees in the 
Sixth District. These changes in benefits should eliminate most of 
the inequities with other progressive firms in your area. We under-
stand that the new benefits will become effective December 1, 1967. 
The Board of Governors approves the proposed program and 
the payment of two-thirds of the premium costs for officers and em-
ployees at the Head Office and branches. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

. 4632 
Item No. 10 
11/29/67 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
' ' - / s
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
O y i ^ 
T O 
T H E 
O U A N U 
November 29, 1967 
Mr. George H. Clay, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64198 
• 
"J 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
This refers to Mr. Mothersead's letter of November 2, 
1967, advising of premium rate increases under Blue Cross and 
improved benefits which result from raising the surgical sched-
ule to a $300 maximum indemnity under Blue Shield. We note 
that your Bank has had favorable experience with respect to 
rate increases since the present Blue Cross-Blue Shield plan 
was made effective in 1962. We also find your new surgical 
schedule maximum to be more in line with those at the majority 
of the Head Offices. 
The Board of Governors will interpose no objection to 
the increased rates and benefits, and approves the payment of 
two-thirds of the premium costs for officers and employees. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 11 
11/29/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P Q N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 11, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salaries 
to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, for the 
calendar year 1968, as set forth in the enclosed schedule. 
The 
rates listed are in accordance with your letter of November 21, 
1967, except those for Vice PresidentsHarrell and Kiel, which 
have been approved at the rates of $27,500 and $26,500 per year, 
respectively, as discussed with you by telephone. These two 
rates were also discussed with Chairman Hall when he was in 
Washington earlier this month and are understood to meet with 
his approval. 
It is noted that Cashier Steinbrink will retire effective 
February 1, 1968. Accordingly, salary payments to him ar« approved 
only to the date of his retirement. 
. >\ » . 
* 
v.- -.» 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
' 4634 
Annual 
Name 
Title 
SalSEZ 
George E. Booth, Jr. 
Vice President and Cashier 
$21,500 
Paul Breidenbach 
Vice President and General Counsel 
19,500 
Roger R. Clouse 
Vice President and Secretary 
24,000 
Elmer F. Fricek 
Vice President 
20,000 
William H. Hendricks 
Vice President 
19,000 
John J. Hoy 
Vice President 
25,000 
Harry W. Huning 
Vice President 
21,000 
Frederick S. Kelly 
Vice President 
20,000 
Maurice Mann 
Vice President and General Economist 
28,500 
Clifford G. Miller 
Vice President 
25,000 
Slfer B. Miller 
General Auditor 
20,000 
Joseph Ginnane 
Assistant Vice President 
J M 0 0 
Robert G. Hoover 
Assistant Vice President 
17,000 
H« Milton Pugh • 
Chief Examiner 
16,500 
Lester M. Selby 
Assistant Vice President and 
Assistant Secretary 
17,000 
°8car H. Beach, Jr. 
Assistant Cashier 
14,500 
JAMES H. Campbell 
Assistant Cashier 
14,000 
^ne J. Erste 
Assistant Cashier 
14,000 
^omas E. Ormiston, Jr. Assistant Cashier 
16,000 
Robert H. Showalter 
Assistant Cashier 
12,500 
Cincinnati Branch 
j"red o. Kiel 
*°bert D. Duggan 
D°nald G. Benjamin 
J0seph W. Crowley 
Ho*ard E. Taylor 
Vice President 
Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
$26,500 
19,000 
15,000 
14,000 
16,000 
£lV<ie Harrell 
J. Steinbrink 
paries E. Houpt 
• Robert Aufderheide 
Paul H. Dorn 
Pittsburgh Branch 
Vice President 
Cashier 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
$27,500 
19,000 
17,500 
14,000 
16,000 

' 4635 
^AL Rt^.' 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
• . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 12 
11/29/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 30, 1967 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
As requested in your letter of November 9, 1967, the 
Board of Governors approves continuation of the payment of the 
present salary of $37,500 to Harold A. Bilby, Vice President 
and Senior Adviser, for the period from attainment of retirement 
age to December 31, 1967. It has also approved his retention in 
service to the end of calendar year 1968 at the rate of salary 
specified in a separate letter being sent to you today regarding 
officer salaries for that year. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

* 463G 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 13 
11/29/67 
• F T H E 
•f^LREsfr-
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 30, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York, for the calendar year 1968, as set forth in the 
enclosed schedule. The rates listed are approved by the 
Board of Governors if so fixed by your Board of Directors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure 
r 

Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
'1637 
Name 
Harold A. Bilby 
William H. Braun, Jr. 
John J. Clarke 
Charles A. Coombs 
Edward G. Guy 
Marcus A. Harris 
Alan R. Holmes 
Robert G. Link 
Fred W. Piderit, Jr. 
Thomas M. Timlen, Jr. 
Felix T. Davis 
George Garvy 
John P. Jensen 
Angus A. Maclnnes, Jr. 
Thomas C. Sloane 
Thomas 0. Waage 
Richard G. Davis 
peter Fousek 
John T. Keane 
peter Lang 
Bruce K. MacLaury 
William E. Marple 
sPencer S. Marsh, Jr. 
Madeline H. McWhinney 
Paul Meek 
Donald C. Niles 
Everett B. Post 
Lawrence E. Quackenbush 
Prank W. Schiff 
Kenneth E. Small 
Frederick L. Smedley 
£e°rge C. Smith 
^ t e r D. Sternlight 
Robert C. Thoman 
0avid E . Bodner 
^°uis J. Brendel 
• Thomas Combader 
Robert J. Crowley 
Richard A. Debs 
rederick W. Deming 
*arl T r 
t-j 
L. Ege 
M w a r d j. Ceng 
Annual 
Title 
Salary 
Vice President and Sr. Adviser 
$40,000 
Vice President 
28,000 
Vice President and 
Special Legal Adviser 
34,000 
Vice President 
40,000 
Vice President and 
General Counsel 
31,500 
Vice President 
40,000 
Vice President 
38,000 
Vice President 
34,000 
Vice President 
31,000 
Vice President 
31,000 
Vice President 
31,000 
Economic , 
Adviser 
31,000 
General Auditor 
30,000 
Vice President-Buffalo Branch 
30,000 
Assistant General Counsel 
28,000 
Vice President 
32,000 
Adviser 
23,500 
Assistant Vice President 
30,000 
Assistant Vice President 
and Cashier-Buffalo Branch 
20,000 
Adviser 
22,000 
Assistant Vice President 
24,000 
Assistant Vice President • 
23,000 
Assistant Vice President 
25,000 
Assistant Vice President 
24,000 
Assistant Vice President 
25,000 
Assistant Vice President 
26,000 
Assistant Vice President 
25,000 
Assistant Vice President 
23,000 
Assistant Vice President 
19,000 
Assistant Vice President 
23,500 
Assistant Vice President 
23,500 
Assistant Vice President 
28,000 
Assistant Vice President 
28,000 
Assistant Vice President 
23,000 
Manager 
20,000 
Manager 
20,000 
Manager 
18,000 
Manager 
19,000 
Secretary and Assistant Counsel 
25,000 
Manager 
23,000 
Manager 
22,000 
Manager 
20,500 

4638 
New York 
-2-
Annual 
Name 
Title 
Salary 
Fred K. Klopstock 
Manager 
$20,000 
James H. Oltman 
Manager and Assistant Secretary 
20,000 
Edwin S. Rothman 
Manager 
18,000 
Herbert H. Ruess 
Manager' 
20,000 
Frederick C. Schadrack,Jr.Manager 
23,000 
Robert Young, Jr. 
Assistant Counsel 
20,500 
Irving M. Auerbach 
Manager 
22,000 
Gerald E. Beach 
Manager 
20,500 
Leonard I. Bennetts 
Manager 
18,000 
Robert L. Cooper 
Manager 
22,000 
Joseph R. Coyle 
Securities Trading Officer 
20,000 
Howard F. Crumb 
Manager 
19,000 
Harry A. Curth, Jr. 
Assistant Cashier-Buffalo Branch 
15,000 
Adam R. Dick 
Manager 
17,000 
Edna E. Ehrlich 
Senior Economist 
22,000 
Martin French 
Manager 
19,500 
Ralph H. Gelder, Jr. 
Manager 
17,000 
Ronald B. Gray 
Assistant Cashier-Buffalo Branch 
18,000 
Gerald H. Greene 
Assistant Cashier-Buffalo Branch 
19,000 
Richard Hoenig 
Manager 
17,000 
Leonard Lapidus 
Manager 
22,000 
Robert Meyer 
Assistant Counsel 
17,000 
Arthur Noa 
Manager 
22,000 
Scott E. Pardee 
Manager 
19,500 
Edwin R. Powers 
Manager 
17,500 
Charles R. Pricher 
Manager 
• 
19,000 
A. Marshall Puckett 
Senior Economist 
22,000 
Arthur A. Randall 
Assistant Cashier-Buffalo Branch 
16,500 
Francis H. Rohrbach 
Manager 
17,500 
Walter S. Rushmore 
Manager 
P'nnn 
William M. Schultz 
A s s i s t a n t General Auditor 
21,000 
Betty Jean Shea 
Assistant Counsel 
17,000 
Aloysius J. Stanton 
Manager 
19,000 

Item No. 14 
11/29/67 
November 30, 1967 
To: All Board Staff 
Subject: • Lunches and Certain Expenses for Benefit of Official 
Board Visitors. 
This statement is intended to inform interested staff members 
concerning Board policy and procedures relating to payment of costs of 
lunches in the Board's dining facilities for official Board visitors, 
and relating to payment by the Board of certain types of expenses that 
may be incurred for benefit of official Board visitors. 
The Board has a long-established policy of absorbing the 
costs of luncheons for official Board visitors, whether such visitors 
are here as a group or as individuals. 
The spirit of this policy 
emanates from the Board's desire to extend the usual amenities to its 
guests. 
An official Board visitor or guest may be defined as an indi-
vidual visiting the Board's offices for official purposes. 
This is 
intended to include Federal Reserve Bank officer and nonofficer 
personnel, foreign visitors, job applicants, representatives of other 
Government departments and agencies, etc., and, in appropriate 
instances, representatives of banks and other private organizations. 
In addition, a Reserve Bank staff member vioiting the Board's 
Building while on vacation may be invited to lunch at Board expense, 
along with members of his family. 
Lunch for an official visitor in the Staff Dining Room is 
normally charged to the Board by means of a Lunch Check which provides 
for signature of the host staff member and name and affiliation of the 
guest. 
This is initiated and processed by the Staff Dining Room per-
sonnel. 
It must eventually be approved by an Officer of the host 
Division. 
Luncheon for an official visitor in the Cafeteria is also 
charged to the Board by means of a Lunch Check. 
Signature of the 
host staff member and name and affiliation of the guest is also required. 
The Lunch Check is initiated and processed by the Cafeteria Cashier. 
H^re again, the Lunch Check must eventually be approved by an Officer 
°f the host Division. 
Board payment for an individual's lunch each day is limited 
to a period of about seven days. 
This general limitation is regarded 
a s reasonable in the event of visits extending over a number of weeks 
°r months. 

- 2 -
4640 
Occasionally, a host staff member may be obliged by circum-
stances to make some snail out-of-pocket payment on the Board premises 
for benefit of an official visitor. For example, postage stamps. 
The 
Board will reimburse the staff member for such an item provided the 
request io reasonable and it ij incidental to the official visit. 
In 
these cases, reimbursement is made by means of a Petty Cash Voucher 
which must be approved by an authorized person in the host Division. 
Reimbursement for any expenditures in the nature of enter-
tainment expenses incurred off the Board's premises must be authorized 
in advance by the Board Member in Charge of Internal Affairs. 
Any questions relating to Board payment of expenses for 
benefit of an official visitor, or relating to reimbursement of staff 
members for out-of-pocket costs incurred for benefit of official 
visitors, may be referred to Mr. Waller, Controller's Office. Ext. 486. 
OFFICE OF THE CONTROLLER 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PRINTING GRADE WAGE SCHEDULE * 
Item No. 14 
11/29/67 
December 3, 1967 
This schedule applies to those positions in the Duplicating and Supply 
Unit of the Duplicating, Mail, Messenger, and Supply Section, Division 
of Administrative Services, which perform the following kinds of litho-
graphic work: Offset Printing, Offset Photography, ITEK and Xerox 
Operation, Mimeograph Operation, and Bindery Operation; and to the 
Supervisor and Assistant Supervisor of those positions: 
Basic Hourly and Rounded Annual Wage Rates by Step and Grade 
Minting 
Grade 
Step 1 
Step 2 
Step 3 
Hourly 
Annual 
Hourly 
Annual 
Hourly 
Annual 
1 
1.88 
3 910 
1.98 
4,118 
2.08 
4,326 
2 
2.00 
4 160 
2.11 
4,389 
2.22 
4,618 
3 
2.14 
4 451 
2.25 
4,680 
2.36 
4,909 
4 
2.26 
4 701 
. 2.38 
4,950 
2.50 
5,200 
5 
2.39 
4 971 
2.52 
5,242 
2.65 
5,512 
6 
2.52 
5 242 
2.65 
5,512 
2.78 
5,782 
7 
2.64 
5 491 
2.78 
5,782 
2.92 
6,074 
8 
2.77 
5 762 
2.92 
6,074 
3.07 
6,386 
9 
2.91 
6 053 
3.06 
6,365 
3.21 
6,677 
10 
3.04 
6 323 
3.20 
6,656 
3.36 
6,989 
11 
3.16 
6 573 
3.33 
6,926 
3.50 
7,280 
12 
3.29 
6 843 
3.46 
7,197 
3.63 
7,550 
13 
3.42 
7 114 
3.60 
7,488 
3.78 
7,862 
14 
3.55 
7 384 
3.74 
7,779 
3.93 
8,174 
15 
3.69 
7 675 
3.88 
8,070 
4.07 
8,466 
16 
3.81 
7 925 
4.01 
8,341 
4.21 
8,757 
17 
3.93 
8 174 
4.14 
8,611 
4.35 
9,048 
18 
4.07 
8 466 
4.28 
8,902 
4.49 
9,339 
19 
4.19 
8 715 
4.41 
9,173 
4.63 
9,630 
20 
4.32 
8 986 
4.55 
9,464 
4.78 
9,942 
21 
4.46 
9 277 
4.69 
9,755 
4.92 
10,234 
Incumbents of positions subject to this wage schedule are eligible for 
step increases within particular grades on the following basis: 
For advancement to Step 2, after 26 weeks' (6 months') satisfactory 
service in Step 1. 
por advancement to Step 3, after 78 weeks' (18 months') satisfactory 
service in Step 2. 
*(This schedule supersedes the wage scale effective December 4, 1966) 

'•f^LRE^' 
BCDARD O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• 
F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 8 
11/29/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 27, 1967 
Mr. Joseph R. Campbell, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear Mr. Campbell: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of November 21, 1967, the Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointments of Louis A. Pinola and John M. Sanders, 
at present assistant examiners, as examiners for the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. 
Please advise 
the effective dates of the appointments. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
As sistant Secretary. 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F 
C L E V E L A N D 
I T E M 
N O . 
1 7 
11/29/67 
November 27, 1967 
Mr. William S. Row®, President 
The Fifth Third Union Trait Company 
Cincinnati, Ohio 
T>ear Mr. Rowe 
This refers to your letter of November 7, 1967, requesting an 
Extension of time for the opening of your Blue Ash Branch to be located at 
4"775 Glendale- Klilford Poad, Blue Ash, Hamilton County, Ohio. 
The rea-
®on for the delay appears reasonable and on behalf of the Board of Governors 
°f the Federal Reserve System, acting under delegated authority, the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland has approved the time within which your bank may 
Establish this branch to June 28, 1968. 
I 
On the day operations are started, will you please wire us that the 
^anch has been formally opened for business. 
Very truly yours, 
H. W. Hun lag 
Vice President 

Item No. 18 
11/29/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60690 
(312) HA 7-2320 
November 27, 19^7 
Mr* John C. Kovuc.ii, Cashier 
The Citizens State Bank 
Kiel, Wisconsin 53<fe 
Dear Mr. Kovach: 
On beli&lf of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
authority$ this Bank valves the requirement of 3ix months* notice of 
vrlthdraval from the Federal Reserve System. Itoder the provisions of 
Section 206.10(c) cf the Board's Regulation II, your institution may 
accomplish termination of its membership at any tine vithin eight 
months froa the date that notice of intention to withdraw from membership 
was given. Upon surrender to the Federal Pcnerve Bank of Chicago of the 
Federal Reserve stock issued to your institution, such stock will be 
cancelled and appropriate refund will be made thereon. 
It Is requested that the certificate of membership be 
returned to the Federal Reserve Bonk of Chicago. 
Very truly yours, 
fi/.UuJ 
x
A
-
^ 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 
LR:rk 
cc - Mr. Merritt Sherman 
*M93 
C O P Y 

Item No. 19 
11/29/67 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N O E N C I 
T O T H I 
B O A R D 
November 29, 1967 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in your letter of November 27, 1967, the Director 
of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the 
Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the appointment of Albin C. Netherwood as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
effective today. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

464(J 
Item No. 20 
11/29/67 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 29, 1967 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
Reference is made to your letter of November 17, 1967, 
recommending that the Silverlake National Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, be permitted to continue maintaining reduced reserves 
subsequent to the opening of a branch in North Hollywood on 
November 8, 1967. 
It is understood that operation of this branch is 
not expected to change the character of the business of the bank. 
The Director of the Division of Bank Operations, acting 
under delegated authority on behalf of the Board of Governors, has 
approved the recommendation in your letter. 
However, it will not 
be necessary in the future for your Bank to bring to the Board's 
attention requests of this type unless it appears that acquisition 
of the new office would change the character of the bank's business 
to the extent that it might warrant revocation of the permission or 
that it would place the bank, by reason of its size, in significant 
competition with banks not eligible to carry reduced reserves. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

Item No. 14 
11/29/67 
• • f*AL 
RE**. 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• 
F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
f! 3Y ' 9 
Mr. Jack Tarver, 
Federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear Mr. Tarver: 
Acting under delegated authority, the Director of the Division 
of Personnel Administration has approved the request contained in your 
letter of November 22, 1967, for the appointment of Mr. Robert D. O'Neal 
as Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agent to succeed Mr. Jack R. Sicard. 
This approval is given with the understanding that Mr. O'Neal 
will be solely responsible to the Federal Reserve Agent and the Board of 
Governors for the proper performance of his duties, except that, during 
the absence or disability of the Federal Reserve Agent or a vacancy in 
that office, his responsibilities will be to the Assistant Federal Reserve 
Agent and the Board of Governors. 
When not engaged in the performance of his duties as Alternate 
Assistant Federal Reserve Agent, Mr. O'Neal may, with the approval of 
the Federal Reserve Agent and the President, perform such work for the 
Bank as will not be inconsistent with his duties as Alternate Assistant 
Federal Reserve Agent. 
It will be appreciated if Mr. O'Neal is fully informed of the 
importance of his responsibilities as a member of the staff of the 
Federal Reserve Agent and the need for maintenance of independence from 
the operations of the Bank in the discharge of these responsibilities. 
Please have Mr. O'Neal execute the usual Oath of Office which 
should be forwarded to the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
{Signed} 
S) 
~n 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

Item No. 14 
11/29/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
N E W 
Y O R K , N . Y . 
1 0 0 4 5 
arc a cooc aia ne a-sroo 
November 28, 1967 
Mr. W. J. Riether 
Vice President 
First National City Bank 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Dear Mr. Riether: 
This refers to your letter of November 22, 1967, 
and its enclosure, in duplicate, concerning your notice to the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System dated 
November 1, 1966, which advised, pursuant to Regulation M, of 
your bank's intention to establish an additional branch in 
Japan, to be located in the Akasaka Section of Tokyo. 
In its 
reply of November l6, 1966, the Board informed your bank that 
unless the branch was established and opened for business on 
or before December 1, 1967, it would be deemed that plans for 
the establishment of the branch had been abandoned. 
You now indicate that delays have been encountered 
vhich will prevent your opening this branch within the 
specified time. 
Accordingly, on behalf of the Board, the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, acting under delegated 
authority, extends to December 1, 1968, the date specified in 
the Board's letter of November 16, 1966. 
We shall appreciate your advising us when the branch 
established and opened for business, giving the effective 
date of opening, the name, if any, by which it will be knovn, 
and the official postal address. 
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter by signing 
a&d returning the enclosed copy. 
Very truly yours. 
CkicMdm-
Fred W. Pide^it, Jr. 
Vice President 
E n c l o s u r e 

I 
B D A R D OF 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
. 4640 
Item No. 23 
11/29/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
• FF*I C IAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 4, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of Westbury Trust Company, 
Westbury, New York. 
11590 
Gentlemen: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
under delegated authority, approves the establishment by Bank 
of Westbury Trust Company, Westbury, New York, of a branch at 
29 Hillside Avenue, Williston Park, Town of North Hempstead, 
Nassau County, New York, provided the branch is established 
within six months from the date of this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been deter-
mined that your bank's management is satisfactory, that the 
proposed branch will serve the convenience and needs of the 
community, and that establishment of the branch will not tend 
to create an undesirable competitive situation. 
It is urged that careful consideration be given to 
all means of strengthening your bank's somewhat less than satis-
factory capital position. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

. 4650 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 24 
11/29/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 4, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Lincoln Rochester Trust Company, 
Rochester, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the establishment of a branch by Lincoln Rochester 
Trust Company, Rochester, New York, in the Genesee Valley 
Regional Market, 900 Jefferson Road, Town of Henrietta 
(unincorporated area), Monroe County, New York, provided 
the branch is established within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been 
determined that your bank's management is satisfactory, 
that the proposed branch will serve the convenience and 
needs of the community, and that establishment of the 
branch will not tend to create an undesirable competitive 
situation. It is understood that plans have been formulated 
to strengthen your bank's capital structure. 
... Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

' 4651 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 25 
11/29/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20331 
A D D R K B 9 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 5, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Marine Midland Trust Company 
of Rockland County, 
Nyack, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves an investment in bank premises by Marine Midland 
Trust Company of Rockland County, Nyack, New York, of not 
to exceed $800,000 for the purpose of expanding and remodeling 
main office quarters. 
This amount included $331,349 already 
expended. 
It is noted that your bank's capital position is 
somewhat less than satisfactory and it is urged that careful 
consideration be given to all means of strengthening this 
position. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

••S^Ssfe. 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
' 4652 
Item No. 26 
11/29/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
0£0 
5 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Commerce Union Bank, 
Nashville, Tennessee. 
Gentlemen: 
37219 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, on behalf 
of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
establishment of a branch by Commerce Union Bank, Nashville, 
Tennessee, at 6606 Charlotte Avenue, Nashville, provided the 
branch is established within one year from the date of this letter 
In considering this application, it has been deter-
mined that your bank's management is satisfactory, that the 
proposed branch will serve the convenience and needs of the 
community, and that establishment of the branch will not tend 
to create an undesirable competitive situation. 
It is understood that plans for the strengthening of 
the bank's less than satisfactory capital position will be 
finalized in the not too distant future. 
Very truly yours, 
e 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4653 
Item No. 27 
11/29/67 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
NOV 3 0 1367 
Board of Directors, 
Southern Arizona Bank and 
Trust Company, 
Tucson, Arizona. 
Gentlemen: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, on behalf 
of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
establishment of a branch by Southern Arizona Bank and Trust Company, 
Tucson, Arizona, at 240 North Stone Avenue, Tucson, Arizona, provided 
the branch is established within three months from the date of this 
letter. 
In considering this application, it has been determined that 
your bank's management is satisfactory, that the proposed branch will 
serve the convenience and needs of the community, and that establishment 
of the branch will not tend to create an undesirable competitive situ-
ation. 
It is noted your bank's capital position was somewhat below 
a desirable level at the August 29, 1967, examination, and you are 
therefore urged to consider all means to strengthen the capital 
structure. 
Very truly yours, 
feed] aizsL-cth L CarnileM 
• 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 28 
11/29/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K OF 
R I C H M O N D 
R I C H M O N D , V I R G I N I A 
23213 
Kovenber 29, 1967. 
Beard of Birectora, 
f a m r i and Merchanta lank of lewrenceville, 
Uvreticeville, Virginia H I M . 
O M I I M M I 
the r«4«rtl l i M m Bank of Richmond, on behalf 
of i«d under authority delegated by tha Board of Oovernnra 
of the Vederal taeerve Syetem, haa approved tha application 
of farmera and Mar chant a lank of Uvrenceville, Uvreueeville, 
Virginia, to eatabUah a branch on tho aaat side of Windeor 
Avoa«e - Highway 44, Lawrenceville, Virginia. In reaching 
this decision, eonaidoratlon haa boon given to tho hank a 
capItaliaation and management, the convenience and neede of 
the camel ty, the ce^etltlve aitnatlon in the area and 
the future protpacta of the branch. 
Antherlty granted hereby expiree ai» montha frem 
the date of thia letter, flease adviee na when a definite 
date for opening haa been determined and the enact title 
under which tho branch will operate. 
Yeure very truly, 
/ S / 
E d w . 
A . 
W a y n e 
U v . A. Wayne, 
frealdent. 

' 4 6 5 5 
» 
I 
| 
Item No. 29 
11/29/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
Dear Mr. Rumpf: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank has approved the establishment 
by your bank of a branch at the southwest corner of Monroe 
and Franklin Streets, Chicago, Illinois, provided the branch 
is established within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Reserve Bank finds that capitalization of Harris 
Trust and Savings Bank is adequate in view of satisfactory 
management and general condition of the bank, that the proposed 
branch will be in the public interest, and that the branch will 
not create an undesirable competitive situation. 
2)0 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS bO&O 
(312) HA 7-2)20 
November 29, 1967 
Mr. A. Newell Rumpf, President 
Harris Trust and Savings Bank 
Chicago, Illinois 60690 
Very truly yours 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 
JRMjlp 
cc - Mr. Merritt Sherman 
111. Dept of Fin. Inst. 
Examiner'0 File 
C O P 
