1 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 4, 1967 
I 

4656 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, December 4, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr, 
Mr, 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
. Mitchell. 
. Maisel— 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle and Shuter, Miss Hart, and 
Mrs. Heller of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Shull, Cleaver, Eisenbeis, Lawrence, 
Lougee, and Wiles of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Poundstone of the Division of Examinations 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

4657 
12/4/67 
-2-
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland and Richmond on November 22, by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas on November 24, by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Atlanta and Minneapolis on November 28, by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia on November 29, and by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Chicago, and San Francisco on 
November 30, 1967, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Reports on competitive factors. After discussion of a draft 
of report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the compet-
itive factors involved in the proposed merger of Dime Savings Bank of 
Hartford, Hartford, Connecticut, into State Savings Bank, also of 
Hartford, which draft reflected a staff view that the effect of the 
proposed merger on competition would be adverse, it developed to be 
the consensus that the effect should be cited as substantially adverse. 
Accordingly, the report was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Corporation in a form in which the conclusion read as 
follows: 
The proposed merger of Dime Savings Bank of 
Hartford into State Savings Bank, Hartford, would 
eliminate existing as well as potential for greater 
competition between them and would increase the 
already high level of concentration of total IPC 
time and savings deposits in Hartford. Overall, the 
effect of the proposed merger on competition would 
be substantially adverse. 

4 6 
12/4/67 
-3-
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The State of New York 
National Bank, Kingston, New York, into The Fallkill National Bank and 
Trust Company, Poughkeepsie, New York, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion read as follows: 
There appears to be little competition existing 
between The State of New York National Bank, Kingston, 
and The Fallkill National Bank and Trust Company, 
Poughkeepsie, a subsidiary of Bankers Trust New York 
Corporation, New York, New York, a registered bank 
holding company. Since either bank could branch de novo 
into the other's area, however, there is some potential 
for competition between them. Overall, the competitive 
effect of the proposed merger would be slightly adverse. 
Governor Robertson explained why he would have considered an 
adverse conclusion warranted, but added that he had no strong feeling 
on the matter. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Bank of 
Halifax, Halifax, North Carolina, into Branch Banking & Trust Company, 
Wilson, North Carolina, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Corporation. The conclusion stated that consummation of the 
proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Following a discussion of the banking structure in the State 
of Washington, unanimous approval was given to the transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency of a report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed purchase of assets and assumption of 

4659 
12/4/67 
-4-
liabilities of Grandview Security Bank, Grandview, Washington, by 
The National Bank of Commerce of Seattle, Seattle, Washington, the 
conclusion reading as follows: 
There appears to be little existing or potential 
competition between Grandview Security Bank and The 
National Bank of Commerce of Seattle. 
The two largest banks headquartered in the State 
of Washington, including The National Bank of Commerce 
of Seattle, now control approximately one-half of the 
total commercial banking deposits in the State. Con-
summation of the proposed merger would increase this 
already heavy concentration, and the overall effect 
of the proposal on competition would be adverse. 
Governor Mitchell considered the conclusion rather harsh, 
since it appeared to reflect an opinion that neither of the two 
largest banks in the State of Washington should be permitted to add 
to its size by merger. He might be prepared, he said, to reach that 
conclusion as far as the largest bank was concerned, but he found it 
difficult to apply the same reasoning in the case of National Bank of 
Commerce, which was seeking here to merge with a small bank located 
at a considerable distance from Seattle in a market area from which 
National Bank of Commerce derived little business. 
Bankers International Corporation. A memorandum dated 
November 21, 1967, from the Division of Examinations discussed a 
request of Bankers International Corporation, New York, New York, for 
permission to acquire, either directly or through a wholly-owned 
subsidiary, up to 10 per cent of the stock of Leasco Europa, a corpor-
ation to be formed in the State of Delaware. It was understood that 

4660 
12/4/67 
-5-
Leasco Europa would engage in the business of purchasing electronic 
data processing equipment for leasing to companies throughout Europe. 
Approval was recommended. 
The principal question discussed by the Board was whether the 
equipment to be purchased and leased by Leasco Europa would be of 
U.S. or foreign origin. If the former, it appeared that the proposed 
investment might be classified under the guidelines of the foreign 
credit restraint program as an export credit; if the latter, it 
appeared that the provision of the guidelines would be applicable 
under which banks were requested to hold the level of nonexport credit 
to developed countries of continental Western Europe to or below the 
amount outstanding on October 31, 1967. 
A letter to Bankers International Corporation granting consent 
to the proposed investment was then approved unanimously with the 
understanding that it would be transmitted if facts to be developed 
by the staff revealed that the investment could be classified as for 
the purpose of financing U.S. exports. Otherwise, the matter was to 
be brought back to the Board. 
(Note: It having been asserted by Bankers International 
Corporation that Leasco Europa would use equipment of U.S. origin in 
its operations, the letter to Bankers was transmitted on December 6, 
1967, with the approval of Governor Robertson. A copy is attached as 
Item No. I.) 

4 G 6 1 
12/4/67 
-6-
United Virginia Bankshares. A memorandum dated November 16, 
1967, from the Division of Examinations presented the request of 
United Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Richmond, Virginia, for per-
mission to organize a corporation under section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act to be known as United Virginia Bank International, Norfolk, 
Virginia. Approval was recommended. 
According to the application, the stock of the Edge corporation 
would be held by nine subsidiary banks of the holding company. After 
considering possible antitrust implications, the Legal Division had 
concluded in a memorandum of November 30, 1967, that no violation of 
pertinent sections of the Sherman or Clayton Acts would appear to be 
involved. 
However, the discussion at this meeting resulted in an indica-
tion that the Board would not be prepared to approve the application 
at this time if the shares of the Edge corporation were to be held 
directly by the several subsidiary banks. Instead, the Board preferred 
to hold the application in abeyance pending the receipt of views of 
the Department of Justice on the question of the joint establishment 
of an Edge corporation by two or more independent domestic banks. 
Further, the present plan involved certain questions under the foreign 
credit restraint program with respect to the fixing of ceilings under 
the guidelines. 

12/4/67 
-7-
On the other hand, if the plan were adjusted so that the 
shares of the Edge corporation would be held by the holding company 
itself or by any single subsidiary bank, it was indicated that the 
Board would be prepared to approve such an application. 
It was understood that the staff would discuss the matter 
further with representatives of the holding company in the light of 
the views expressed by the Board. 
Joint establishment of Edge corporations. In a memorandum of 
November 30, 1967, the Legal Division recommended that the Board 
request the views of the Department of Justice with respect to the 
possible antitrust implications of proposals involving the joint 
establishment of Edge corporations by two or more independent domestic 
banks. (Two such applications were pending.) Submitted with the 
memorandum was a draft of letter to the Department. 
As noted in the memorandum, section 11 of the Clayton Act 
gives the Board responsibility, concurrently with the Justice Depart-
ment, for enforcing section 7 of the Act with respect to stock 
acquisitions by banks. Since certain recent Supreme Court decisions 
enunciating the doctrine of competition appeared to raise significant 
antitrust issues under section 7 of the Clayton Act, and possibly under 
section 1 of the Sherman Act, in connection with applications such as 
those pending before the Board, the Legal Division believed that the 
Department's views might be helpful. 

4663 
12/4/67 
-8-
In addition, Governor Robertson noted that the joint estab-
lishment of Edge corporations presented certain questions in connection 
with the administration of the foreign credit restraint program. Those 
questions were described in a memorandum dated December 1, 1967, from 
Mr. Sammons that he (Governor Robertson) would make available to all 
of the members of the Board. 
In discussion, two offsetting considerations involved in the 
question of obtaining the views of the Justice Department were brought 
out by Board members. On the one hand, it was generally agreed that 
the availability of such views might be helpful in the processing of 
applications such as those now pending, particularly when a concurrent 
responsibility was established by statute. On the other hand, it was 
also generally agreed that the Board had a responsibility for reaching 
its own decisions on applications coming before it. If there was 
prior consultation and the judgments of the Board and the Department 
eventually did not coincide, there appeared to be some risk of embar-
rassment. In this connection, it was recalled that in handling other 
types of applications involving antitrust considerations the Board had 
reached its decisions without prior consultation, thus avoiding the 
aforementioned risk. 
In the circumstances, it was suggested that a more informal 
approach might be followed. Specifically, the letter to the Depart-
ment would be modified to state that if the Department felt that the 
pending applications might raise significant issues under the antitrust 

4 B G 4 
12/4/67 
-9-
laws the Board would welcome an opportunity for its staff to discuss 
the matter with representatives of the Department. 
There being agreement with that suggestion, unanimous approval 
was given to a letter to the Department in the form attached as 
Item No. 2. It was understood also that the Board's staff would pro-
ceed with an in-depth study of both the immediate and the longer-run 
problems that might be associated with the pending applications and 
others like them, going back to the applicants for any further informa 
tion considered necessary, in order that the Board would be as well 
prepared as possible for the decision-making process. 
Real estate purchases. Consideration was given to a draft of 
letter to the Federal Reserve Banks, proposed by the Division of Bank 
Operations, setting forth various types of information that should be 
developed in presenting to the Board requests for authorization to 
purchase real estate. 
It was brought out in discussion that although outstanding 
instructions to the Reserve Banks provided that such purchases were 
subject to Board approval, the Banks had been given no indication as 
to the specific kinds of information that would be helpful to the 
Board in reaching a decision. The proposed letter was designed to 
provide clarification. 
Board members observed that the suggested letter dealt with 
an area of some sensitivity. It was recalled that from time to time 

4665 
12/4/67 
-io-
Reserve Bank Chairmen had raised the question whether Reserve Bank 
directors might not be given a greater degree of responsibility for 
decisions in connection with building programs, including the selec-
tion of sites. However, it was pointed out that whereas directors of 
a Reserve Bank had occasion to deal with a building program only infre-
quently, the Board reviewed such programs regularly. Mistakes had been 
made in the past, and the objective should be to minimize the risk of 
repetition. 
A Board member noted that one possible course of action would 
be for the Board's staff to develop such information as might be con-
sidered necessary on a case-by-case basis, but a view was expressed 
that probing by the staff in individual cases might be more irritating 
than the issuance of a letter of general applicability. 
There followed a review of pertinent provisions of the Federal 
Reserve Act, and a consensus developed in favor of the transmittal of 
a letter along the lines suggested. 
However, Governor Sherrill observed that the draft letter 
contained no requirement for an appraisal and instead only requested, 
in the last paragraph, a discussion of "Any other factors that might 
be helpful to the Board in considering the proposal, including an 
appraisal, if available, or some indication of prevailing prices for 
real estate in the area." Although he recognized that the appraised 
value was not always a controlling consideration, as for example when 

46 
12/4/67 
-11-
a Bank needed a particular piece of property to fill out a building 
site, he felt that the availability of an appraisal would in any 
event permit a more informed judgment, and in his opinion it should 
be made a standard requirement. 
Question was raised whether appraisals were not quite expen-
sive, and in a discussion of that point it developed that information 
was not readily at hand with regard to the basis of charges for making 
an appraisal. The staff was requested to obtain such information and 
then to confer with Governor Sherrill in an effort to work out a 
mutually satisfactory version of the pertinent part of the proposed 
letter to the Reserve Banks. 
Conference with American Bankers Association. A conference 
with officers of the National and State Bank Divisions of the American 
Bankers Association was scheduled for this afternoon, and the Associa-
tion had suggested several topics that might be discussed. 
There was agreement with a suggestion that each member of the 
Board who attended the conference assume responsibility for discussion 
of one or more of the specific items, and a division of the topics 
among the members was agreed upon. 
Governor Maisel withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Moody Foundation. A memorandum from the Legal Division dated 
November 29, 1967, discussed the most recent proposal of The Moody 
Foundation, Galveston, Texas, to terminate its bank holding company 

4S67 
12/4/67 
-12-
status. In brief, the Foundation proposed to sell its interest in 
W.L. Moody & Co., of Galveston, a private bank, to Mr. Shearn Moody, 
Jr., who would become sole owner of the bank by also acquiring the 
interest owned by Moody National Bank of Galveston as trustee of the 
Libbie Shearn Moody Trust. Mr. Shearn Moody was one of seven trustees, 
and proposed to remain a trustee, of The Moody Foundation. 
The Division concluded that the question hinged on whether the 
Foundation, following the proposed sale, would be capable of control-
ling Mr. Moody as transferee. It was believed reasonable to conclude 
that a presumption of control within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act would exist unless the Board, after opportunity for hear-
ing, determined that in this instance the transferor was not in fact 
capable of controlling the transferee. 
On a secondary question, the Legal Division proposed to advise 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas that if Moody Foundation's holding 
company status was terminated no purpose would appear to be served by 
requiring the Foundation to file a registration statement or annual 
reports for 1966 and 1967. 
General agreement with the Legal Division's conclusions was 
indicated, and unanimous approval was given to a letter to Counsel for 
The Moody Foundation in the form attached as Item No. 3. In taking 
this action the Board suggested that if possible the processing of the 

4668 
12/4/67 
-13-
matter proceed from this point under authority delegated by the Board 
to its General Counsel effective July 1, 1967. 
Regulation G. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to the 
Federal Reserve Banks outlining steps to be taken in preparation for 
the anticipated adoption of Regulation G, relating to credit extended 
by persons other than banks, brokers, and dealers for the purpose of 
purchasing or carrying registered equity securities. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 4. 
Mclntyre amendments. In a memorandum dated December 1, 1967, 
Mr. Hexter discussed a request from the Chairman of the Senate Com-
mittee on Banking and Currency for the Board's views on amendments 
proposed by Senator Mclntyre to S. 1659, a bill to amend the Invest-
ment Company Act of 1940, and submitted a draft of a proposed report 
based on conclusions reached in the memorandum. 
The original bill, sponsored by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, was aimed principally at reducing the cost to the public 
of investing in mutual funds. The Mclntyre amendments would add a 
section dealing with important aspects of the activities of banks in 
the field of collective investment of funds. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that the subject was of 
sufficient importance to warrant deferring a report to the Committee 
until additional members of the Board, including hopefully the 
Chairman, could be present to participate in the deliberation on the 

4669 
12/4/67 
-14-
matter. He suggested that Mr. Cardon inform the Committee staff that 
a report would be forthcoming as soon as possible, but not today. 
There followed a general discussion of the background and 
effects of the Mclntyre amendments during which Mr . Hexter noted that 
the staff had been operating under the pressure of time in drafting 
the report and that Mr. Solomon (Examinations) held a different view 
from that presented in the proposed report with respect to the position 
that should be taken on certain issues presented by the Mclntyre 
amendments. 
In the light of several suggestions, mainly by Governor 
Robertson, for changes in the proposed letter, it was understood that 
a revised draft would be prepared by Mr. Hexter. It was also under-
stood that a memorandum would be filed by Mr. Solomon and that the 
Board members would receive copies of the testimony given by Chairman 
Cohen of the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to the 
Mclntyre amendments. 
Salary structures at San Francisco Bank. A letter to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco reflecting approval of adjust-
ment of the salary structures applicable to employees of the head 
office and branches was approved unanimously. A copy of the letter 
is attached as Item No. 5. 
Provident Bank. When the Board on December 27, 1963, approved 
the establishment of a branch by The Provident Bank, Cincinnati, Ohio, 
at Vine and Seventh Streets in Cincinnati coincident with the 

. 4670 
12/4/67 
-15-
relocation of the bank's main office to Vine and Fourth Streets, it 
did so with the proviso that branch operations conducted at Main and 
Fourth Streets would be discontinued simultaneously with the opening 
of the new main office. 
New management of the bank now desired to continue the 
branch operations at Main and Fourth Streets. It had appealed to 
the State Superintendent of Banks and been denied, had then taken 
the matter to court, and now requested that the Board hold the 
condition imposed in 1963 in abeyance until the issue had been 
settled in the courts. In a memorandum of December 1, 1967, the 
Division of Examinations recommended that the Board accede to the 
request. 
Following a discussion of available alternatives and the 
effect thereof, there was general agreement that a posture of 
neutrality on the part of the Board would be appropriate at this 
stage and that such a posture would best be maintained by simply 
acceding to the request and advising the bank that the 1963 con-
dition would be held in abeyance pending determination of the issue 
now in court. 
During the discussion it was noted that in 1963 the Board 
had merely acted on the application in the form in which it was 
received. The inclusion of the proviso with respect to discontinuing 
the operations at Main and Fourth Streets apparently reflected an 

4 6 
12/4/67 
-16-
understanding among the banks in Cincinnati concerning the practice 
typically followed in connection with the establishment of new 
branches. It was suggested that in the future the Board might want 
to give further consideration to whether a proviso of the kind 
included in 1963 was warranted in such circumstances. 
A telegram acceding to the request of Provident Bank was 
then approved unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 6. 
S. 2565. A letter to the Bureau of the Budget interposing 
no objection to the enactment of enrolled bill S. 2565, "To amend 
the Federal Farm Loan Act and the Farm Credit Act of 1933, as 
amended, and for other purposes," was approved unanimously. A copy 
is attached as Item No. 7. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, 
and Johnson withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Reserve Bank management and salary matters. Governor 
Mitchell, speaking as Chairman of the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans, summarized conversations that had 
taken place with the Chairmen of several Federal Reserve Banks during 
last week's meeting of the Conference of Chairmen with respect to 
management or salary problems. 
Among the items to which Governor Mitchell referred were the 
prospect of a management succession decision at Philadelphia becoming 
necessary somewhat sooner than had been anticipated, salary questions 

12/4/67 
-17-
relating to the President and First Vice President at St. Louis and 
the President at Minneapolis, the question of management succession 
at Atlanta, and the development of an apparently satisfactory solu-
tion for the filling of the forthcoming vacancy in the position of 
First Vice President at Dallas. 
Governor Mitchell rioted that each of the items he had 
mentioned would come before the Board for further consideration 
after interim procedures appropriate to the particular circumstances 
had been carried out at the respective Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On November 30, 1967, a 
letter was sent to First National City Bank, 
New York, New York, acknowledging receipt of 
notice of its intent to establish an addi-
tional branch in India, to be located in 
Madras. 
On November 30, 1967, Governor Robertson 
approved on behalf of the Board memoranda 
recommending the following actions relat-
ing to the Board's staff: 
Appointments, effective the respective 
dates of entrance upon duty. 
Sylvia Lee Lucas as Statistical Clerk, Division of Research 
and Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,776. 
Robert F. Nicgorski as Teletype Operator, Division of Admin-
istrative Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,683. 
William Ferrol Creager as Design Specialist, Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $8,218. 
"c 
. • ; 4 • . - . , v f J: . 
Edwin L. Roberts as Programmer, Division of Data Processing, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,877. 

* 4 6 7 3 
12/4/67 
-18-
Transfer 
Sudie G. Terry, from Stenographer to Secretary, Division 
of Examinations, with an increase in basic annual salary from $4,776 
to $5,331, effective December 3, 1967. 
Maternity leave 
Kathleen Thomas, Secretary, Division of Research and 
Statistics, beginning the close of business December 18, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Mary A. Edgar, Secretary, Office of the Secretary, effective 
the close of business December 22, 1967. 
Jacqueline L. Gillmore, Secretary, Legal Division, effective 
the close of business December 7, 1967. 
On December 1, 1967, Governor Robertson 
approved on behalf of the Board memoranda 
reconmending the following actions relat-
ing to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Barbara Ann Negri as Economist, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $9,536, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Norman F. Blycher as Systems Analyst, Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $13,321, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Carl R. Johnson and Preston McNeary as Laborers, Division of 
Administrative Services, each with basic annual salary at the rate of 
$3,609, effective the respective dates of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases 
Robert T. Parry, Economist, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, from $12,064 to $12,822 per annum, effective December 17, 1967. 
Helen F. Popkin, Economist, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, from $10,166 to $10,796 per annum, effective December 3, 1967. 
Or >< « t ' VC 

4674 
12/4/67 
-19-
Robert C. Bradshaw, Economist, Division of International 
Finance, from $10,481 to $11,111 per annum, effective December 3, 1967. 
William B. Stokes, Jr., Driver, Division of Administrative 
Services, from $3,925 to $4,269 per annum, effective December 3, 1967. 
Transfers 
Nancy L. White, from Stenographer, Division of International 
Finance, to Secretary, Division of Administrative Services, with an 
increase in basic annual salary from $4,776 to $5,331, effective upon 
assuming her new duties. 
Carroll Hawkins, from Messenger-Driver to Lead Messenger, 
Division of Administrative Services, effective December 3, 1967. 
Albert A. Long, from Messenger to Messenger-Driver, 
Division of Administrative Services, with an increase in basic 
annual salary from $3,609 to $3,925, effective December 3, 1967. 
On the dates shown, actions were taken on 
behalf of the Board under delegated authority 
as reflected in the following letters, copies 
of which are attached as indicated: 
On November 30, 1967 
_By the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Item No. 
Letter to Seminole State Bank, Seminole, 
8 
Texas, waiving the requirement of six months' 
notice of withdrawal from membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to State Bank of DeKalb, DeKalb, Texas, 
9 
waiving the requirement of six months' notice 
of withdrawal from membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. 
On December 1, 1967 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Letter to First State Bank of Newcastle, 
10 
Newcastle, Wyoming, approving the declaration 
of a dividend. 

57 
On December 4T 1967 
- 2 0 -
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter to Merchants and Farmers Bank, Portsmouth, 
Virginia, approving the establishment of a branch 
in Chesapeake and granting permission to open the 
branch in a temporary location pending completion 
of permanent quarters. 
Letter to Pascagoula-Moss Point Bank, Moss Point, 
Mississippi, approving the establishment of a 
branch in St. Martin. 
Letter to Pascagoula-Moss Point Bank, Moss Point, 
Mississippi, approving an investment in bank 
premises. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 

: 4 « 7 G 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
12/4/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 6, 1967 
Bankers International Corporation, 
16 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 18, 1967, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase 
and hold either directly and/or through your wholly-owned subsid-
iary, Bankers International (Luxembourg) S.A., up to 10 per cent 
of the capital stock of Leasco Europa, a corporation to be organized 
in the United States under the laws of the State of Delaware, at a 
maximum cost of up to US$300,000. 
The foregoing consent is being given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign 
loans and investments of your Corporation, and the Bankers Trust 
Company, will not cause the total of such loans and investments to 
exceed the guidelines established under the voluntary foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary. 

, 4677 
» I. • 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 2 
12/4/67 
A D D R E S S o r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
DEO 
4 1 
Mr. Donald F. Turner, 
Assistant Attorney General, 
Antitrust Division, 
Department of Justice, 
Washington, D. C. 20530 
Dear Mr. Turner: 
Enclosed are two applications to organize so-called Edge 
corporations under section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act to 
engage in international and foreign banking and financial opera-
tions. These applications involve the joint establishment of an 
Edge corporation by two or more independent, domestic banks. 
If your Department should feel that these applications 
might raise significant issues under the antitrust laws, the 
Board of Governors would welcome the opportunity for its staff 
to discuss this matter with representatives of your Division. 
In the interest of expeditious processing of these applications, 
the Board would appreciate hearing from you in this connection 
before the end of this month. 
< . . . 
' 
• • • 
! 
i- > ' 
c .«•.;•. t : 
Very truly yours, 
ikwits, 
Enclosures 
- J 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
-,.• 
a « • , - - r- , 
A-rt 
r ,iV J-';... - i ' • ' - ' ' 

4678 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 13 
12/4/67 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 4, 1967 
Louis J. Dibrell, Esq., 
Dibrell Dibrell and Greer, 
American National Building, 
Galveston, Texas. 77550 
Dear Mr. Dibrell: 
This refers to your letter of November 20, 1967, addressed to 
Mr. Rudy, and to your letter of October 23, 1967, addressed to Mr. Sullivan 
of the Dallas Reserve Bank, copies of which have been forwarded to the 
Board together with a copy of a Memorandum of Agreement relating to a 
proposed sale of W. L. Moody & Co. to Mr. Shearn Moody, Jr. You request 
some assurance by the Board that consummation of the proposed sale would 
.effect a termination of the Foundation's status as a bank holding company 
under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. 
After study of the facts and questions presented and considera-
tion of the language, structure, legislative history and purpose of the 
Act, with particular reference to those provisions of section 2(g)(3) 
of the Act that provide a presumption of control in a transferor if one 
of its trustees is a trustee of the transferee, the Board considers it 
reasonable to conclude that a presumption of control within the meaning 
of section 2(g)(3) attaches to a transferor if one of its trustees is the 
transferee. 
Accordingly, it is the opinion of the Board that consummation 
of the proposed sale would result in a transfer subject to the provisions 
of section 2(g)(3), the share in the Bank transferred by the Foundation 
would be deemed to be controlled by the Foundation, and the Foundation's 
holding company status would not be terminated, unless the Board, after 
opportunity for hearing, determines that the transferor is not in fact 
capable of controlling the transferee. 
If you wish a Board determination under section 2(g)(3), an 
opportunity for hearing will be provided at your request. After such 
opportunity for hearing is provided, the Board will be in a position to 
make or decline to make the determination sought under section 2(g)(3). 
Your attention is directed to the fact that the providing of an opportunity 

Louis J. Dibrell, Esq. 
4 6 7 9 
for hearing does not mean that a hearing must be held in any event. If 
a hearing is not requested after opportunity for hearing has been pro-
vided, the Board may proceed on the basis of documentary evidence. 
You are further advised that, effective July 1, 1967, the 
Board delegated to its General Counsel authority to determine whether a 
company that transfers shares to any of the types of transferees specified 
in section 2(g)(3) is incapable of controlling the transferee (12 CFR 
265.2). 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
- Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

, 4680 
Item No. 4 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
12/4/67 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N D C N C C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 7, 1967. 
Dear Sirs 
The Board of Governors has been considering some preliminary 
steps which would be appropriate in helping to ensure that the proposed 
Regulation G, Loans by Persons Other Than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers, 
if adopted, will be implemented as promptly and effectively as possible. 
It would be helpful if your Bank would designate an individual, at the 
officer level, who would be responsible for matters involving Regula-
tion G and advise the Board of the designation. 
It would be appreciated if, as soon as possible, each Reserve 
Bank would begin to compile a list of lenders who may be subject to the 
proposed regulation. If Regulation G is adopted, such lenders would 
receive an initial mailing of a letter explaining the possible applica-
bility of the regulation to their business, and, in particular, the 
registration requirement. Forms for registration are in preparation 
at the Board and will be distributed through the Reserve Banks. 
v - . K 
*.." n 
In compiling the list of lenders described above, it is 
suggested that the officer in charge may wish to consult the following: 
(1) Commercial banks in your District known to your Bank 
to make any substantial volume of loans on collateral 
consisting of stock or convertible bonds. Such banks 
may be aware of the names of unregulated lenders to 
whom their customers have been going for credit to use 
in the securities markets. 
(2) Brokerage firms with offices in your District. 
Partners or officers in such firms may be aware 
of the names of unregulated lenders who have been 
making loans locally. 

liibi 
-2 
(3) The regional office of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission located in your District, if any (a list 
of the names and addresses of such regional offices 
is attached hereto). Responsible officials in the 
regional offices are likely to be aware of the names 
of unregulated lenders that have been involved in 
complaints by members of the public. 
(A) Authorities in your District^ responsible for 
categories of lenders which are subject to systematic 
State supervision (e.g., credit unions, industrial 
banks, savings and loan associations, insurance 
companies). Such authorities may be able to supply 
lists of lenders, as well as information on whether 
such lenders are permitted, under State law, to make 
loans against collateral consisting of registered 
securities. In this connection, the Reserve Bank has 
compiled the following list of lenders who appear 
to be subject to some sort of State licensing or 
regulatory requirement. This list may be of 
illustrative value, recognizing that many of the 
individual institutions, and some categories, may 
not, in fact, make loans against collateral con-
sisting of registered securities: 
State-chartered credit unions 
State-chartered savings and loan associations 
Industrial banks 
Licensed lenders 
Premium finance agencies 
Sales finance companies 
Provident loan associations 
Secondary mortgage loan licensees 
Small loan licensees 
Home repair contractors 
Home financing agencies 
Licensed motor vehicle instalment sellers 
Pawnbrokers 
Money forwarders 
Trustees under mortgages or deeds of trust 
of real property 
1/ Where States are divided between Federal Reserve Districts, 
it would be appreciated if Banks would cooperate in contacting 
supervisory authorities. 

4 6 S 2 
-3-
Sales finance licensees 
Development Credit Corporation 
Insurance companies 
Hospital service corporations 
Title insurance companies 
Medical service corporations 
Investment associations 
Pension Funds (U.S. Department of Labor, 
Labor Management Administration Bulletin: 
As of July 1, 1965) 
In approaching such State supervisory officials, it would 
be helpful if your Bank would inquire as to the scope and character 
of the examination, if any, conducted with respect to any supervised 
institution. 
The Board's staff is prepared to assist personnel of your 
Bank in connection with questions relating to Regulation G. Specific 
inquiries may be presented to Mr. Leavitt, of the Board's Division of 
Examinations, for matters involving examination of institutions that 
are already subject to some supervision; to Mr. Keir, of the Board's 
Division of Research and Statistics,for matters involving design of 
registration and reporting forms; and to Miss Hart, of the Board's 
Legal Division, for legal questions and general coordination. 
Very truly yours, 
Attachment. 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
.•' ; ) 
• 
• ' > 
s ' :' y 
• • < 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

4683 
SEC REGIONAL AND BRANCH OFFICES 
Region 1 
225 Broadway, New York, N. Y. 10007 
Regional Administrator 
Mahlon N. Frankhauser 
New York; New Jersey 
Region 2 
Suite 2203, John F. Kennedy Federal 
Bldg., Government Center, 
Boston, Mass. 02203 
Regional Administrator 
James E. Dowd 
Massachusetts; Connecticut; 
Rhode Island; Vermont; New 
Hampshire; Maine. 
Region 3 
Suite 138, 1371 Peachtree Street, 
N. E., Atlanta, Ga. 30309 
Room 1504, 51 S. W. First Ave., 
Miami, Florida 33230 (Branch Office) 
Regional Administrator 
William Green 
Tennessee; Virgin Islands; Puerto 
Rico; North Carolina; South 
Carolina; Georgia; Alabama; 
Mississippi; Florida; the 
portion of Louisiana east of 
Atchafalaya River. 
Region 4 
Room 1708, U. S. Courthouse & Federal 
Office Bldg., 219 S. Dearborn St., 
Chicago, 111. 60604 
779 Federal Office Bldg., 1240 E. 9th 
at Lakeside, Cleveland, Ohio 44199 
Room 1503, Washington Boulevard 
Building, 234 State Street, Detroit 
Michigan 48226 (Branch Office) 
Room 916, Federal Building, 208 N. 
Broadway, St. Louis, Missouri 
63102 (Branch Office) 
Regional Administrator 
Thomas B. Hart 
Minnesota; Wisconsin; Iowa; 
Illinois; Missouri; Kansas City, 
Kansas; Ohio; Michigan; Indiana; 
Kentucky. 
Region 5 
503 U. S. Court House, 10th & Lamar 
Sts., Fort Worth, Texas 76102 
2606 Federal Office and Courts Bldg., 
515 Rusk Ave., Houston, Texas 
77002 (Branch Office) 
Regional Administrator 
Gerald E. Boltz 
Oklahoma; Arkansas; Texas; 
Kansas (with exception of Kansas 
City); the portion of Louisiana 
west of the Atchafalaya River. 
Region 6 
7224 Federal Building, 1961 Stout St. 
Denver, Colorado 30202 
Room 6004, Federal Bldg., 125 S. 
State St., Salt Lake City, Utah 
84111 (Branch Office) 
Regional Administrator 
Donald J. Stocking 
Wyoming; Utah; Colorado; New 
Mexico; Nebraska; North Dakota; 
South Dakota. 

Region 7 
Box 36042, 450 Golden Gate Avenue, 
San Francisco, California 94102 
Room 309, Allstate Title Bldg. 6331 
Hollywood Blvd., Los Angeles, 
Calif. 90028 (Branch Office) 
Regional Administrator 
Arthur E. Pennekamp 
California; Nevada; Arizona; 
Hawaii; Guair. 
Region 3 
900 Hoge Building, Seattle, 
Washington 93104 
Regional Administrator 
James E. Newton 
Washington; Oregon; Idaho; 
Montana; Alaska. 
Region 9 
500 North Capitol St., Washington, 
D. C. 20549 
Regional Administrator 
Alexander J. Brown, Jr. 
Virginia; West Virginia; Maryland 
Delaware; District of Columbia; 
Pennsylvania 

. 4685 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
12/4/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D N N C S P O N D C N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 4, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
As requested in your letter of November 2, 1967, the Board of 
Governors approves the following minimum and maximum salaries for the 
respective grades of the employees' salary structures at the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco and branches, effective January 1, 1968. 
San Francisco-
Los Angeles 
Portland-
Seattle 
Salt Lake City 
Grade 
Minimum Maximum 
Minimum Maximum 
Minimum Maximum 
1 
$ 3,720 $ 4,920 
$ 3,540 $ 4,620 
$ 3,360 $ 4,200 
2 
3,840 
5,040 
3,660 
4,860 
3,420 
4,380 
3 
4,020 
5,400 
3,840 
5,160 
3,540 
4,620 
4 
4,260 
5,760 
4,080 
5,400 
3,720 
5,040 
5 
4,560 
6,120 
4,380 
5,940 
4,080 
5,520 
6 
4,920 
6,660 
4,800 
6,480 
4,500 
6,060 
7 
5,340 
7,260 
5,280 
7,080 
5,040 
6,720 
8 
5,940 
8,040 
5,820 
7,860 
5,520 
7,440 
9 
6,660 
8,940 
6,420 
8,700 
6,120 
8,280 
10 
7,380 
10,020 
7,080 
9,600 
6,780 
9,180 
11 
8,220 
11,100 
7,920 
10,680 
7,500 
10,140 
12 
9,180 
12,300 
8,760 
11,880 
8,280 
11,160 
13 
10,200 
13,680 
9,720 
13,080 
9,180 
12,300 
14 
11,340 
15,300 
10,620 
14,340 
10,020 
13,500 
15 
12,600 
16,920 
11,640 
15,720 
10,980 
14,820 
16 
13,920 
18,840* 
12,720 
17,160 
12,000 
16,200 
^Special Maximum $22,000 effective October 1, 1967 

. 4 6 S G 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan 
-2-
Salaries should be paid to employees within the limits specified 
for the grades in which their respective positions are classified. All 
employees whose salaries are below the minimum of their grades as a result 
of these structure increases should be brought within appropriate ranges 
by April 1, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

. 4GS7 
Item No. 6 
12/4/67 
T E L E G R A M 
December 4, 1967. 
Donald E. Cowgill, 
Executive Vice President, 
The Provident Bank, 
Cincinnati, Ohio. 
Pending determination of issue now in court as to continued 
operation by your bank of branch at Main and 4th Streets, 
Board will hold in abeyance compliance by your bank with 
condition contained in Board's letter of December 27, 1963, 
that branch operations now conducted at Main and 4th Streets 
be discontinued simultaneously with establishment of branch 
at S.E. Corner of Vine and 7th Streets. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, Secretary, 
Federal Reserve Board of Gov. 

4688 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Q F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E 5 E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
Item No. 13 
12/4/67 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 4, 1967 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference, 
Executive Office of the President, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This refers to your memorandum of December 1, 1967 
requesting the Board's views and recommendations on enrolled 
bill S. 2565, "To amend the Federal Farm Loan Act and the 
Farm Credit Act of 1933, as amended, and for other purposes," 
which would remove the 6 per cent interest rate limitations 
now applying to loans made by the Federal land banks and banks 
for cooperatives and permit the interest rates on such loans 
and on loans made by production credit associations to be 
determined, subject to the approval of the Farm Credit 
Administration, by the boards of directors of such banks or, 
in the case of production credit associations, under the 
rules and regulations of the farm credit board of the appropriate 
district. This bill would enable such banks and associations 
to cover the generally higher cost of funds borrowed by such 
institutions, as well as other expenses and reserves, so that 
their lending may continue on a self-sustaining basis. 
The Board of Governors has no objection to enactment 
of the aforesaid enrolled bill. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

C O P Y 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS 
DALLAS, TEXAS 
7 5 2 2 2 
Item No. 13 
12/4/67 
Bovember 3D, 1967 
Board of Directors 
Seminole State Bank 
Seminole, Texas 
Gentlemen: 
Inference is Made to President Doyle HankJLns• letter 
of ftovember 27, 19^7 together with the accompanying resolution 
dated lovenber 2k, 1967, signifying your intention to withdrew 
froci maobership In the federal Beserve 3yst«xa and requesting 
waiver of the six months1 notice of such withdrawal. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting wader 
delegated authority, this Bank has waived tho requirement of 
six months' notice of withdrawal. Radar the provisions of 
Section 208.10(c) of the Board's Escalation H, /our Institution 
may accomplish termination of Its rarabership at any tine within 
eight months from the date that notice of Intention to withdrew 
from nombership was given* Upon surrender to this bank stock 
Issued to your Institution, such stock will be cancelled and 
appropriate refund will be nade thereon* 
Ve presume that you will not wish to terminate your 
membership until you have been notified by the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation that the Insurance status of your deposits 
will be continued* If you have not already done 30, you should 
contact Mr. Lloyd Thomas, Supervising Bsaminer for the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation for this district, for information 
as to continuance of the insurance status of your deposits. 
Mr. Thomas* address is Station K, Dallas, Texas 75222. 
When you have been Informed of the continuance of 
deposit insurance, please forward us for refund the stock of 
this bank held by you and also your certificate of membership 
In tho Federal Reserve System, thereby terminating your Membership, 
Your letter transmitting this stock should contain Instructions 
as to the disposition of your reserve account balance and the 
transfer of securities, if any, which are held In safekeeping far 
the account of your bank by us. 
If we can be of any further assistance, please feel free 
to call on us. 
bcc: Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
R. Sullli 
Vice President 

4690 
C O F Y 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS 
Item No. 9 
12/4/67 
DALLAS. TEXAS 
7 8 2 2 2 
fiovewber 30, 1967 
Board of Directors 
State Bank of DeXalJb 
DeKalb, Texas 
Gentlemen* 
Reference is nude to President Odie BUBS ell's letter 
of loveeber 15, 19&7 together with the accomsmnyli^ resolution 
dated Xovember llf, 1967, signifying your intention to withdraw 
from membership in the federal Unserve System and requesting 
valvar of the six months* notice of such withdrawal. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this teak has waived the requirement of 
six months' notice of wlthdranal. Udder the provisions of 
3ectloa 208.10(c) of the Board's fiegulatlen H, your Institution 
nay accomplish termination of Its membership at any time within 
eight months from the date that notice of intention to withdraw 
from membership was given. Upon surrender to this bank stock 
Issued to your institution, such stock will be cancelled axxl 
appropriate refund will be made thereon. 
We presume that ycu will not wish to temiimte your 
mnbershlp until you hare been notified by the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation that the insurance status of your deposits 
will be continued. If you have not already done so, you chould 
contact Mr* Lloyd Thomas, Supervising ftrsmlner for the federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation for this district, for information 
as to continuance of the Insurance status of your deposits. 
Mr. Thomas' address Is Station K, Dallas, teas T5222. 
When you have been Informed of the continuance of deposit 
Insurance, please forward us for refund the stock of this bank held 
by you and also your certificate of nemberehlp in the Federal 
Reserve System, thereby terminating your nembmrship. Tour letter 
transmitting this stock should contain Instructions as to the dis-
position of your reserve accotxit balance and the transfer of 
securities. If any, which sre held In safekeeplx^ for the account 
of your bank by us* 
If we can be of engr farther assistance, please feel free 
to call on us. 
bcc: Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 
Sincerely, 
// 
Thomas K. 
Vice President 

: 1 
mm 
1233 
. 46<>1 
Item No. 10 
12/4/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K 
; 
OF 
K A N S A S 
C I T Y 
O E C E M O I * 1, I967 
BCARO or 
O I K C C T M * 
F I M T 
STAT* BANK or Ncvc«mc 
N C W C M T L I , WYOMING 
vt 
• ' ' I , « 
. 
GENTLKNENS 
ON 0CH4LF or T H E BOAND or OOVSNNORS ACT 1 NO UNOE* OELEOATEO 
A M T M O O I T V , 
T H | » 
S A N K 
H A S 
A P M O V E D , 
U N O E * 
T H K 
M O V I S I O N S 
O r 
° f 5 t C T ,°" 9 or TMC 
F E D E R A L 
I t E S E f t V S 
A C T 
ANO 
S E C T I O N 
5 
U * 
S ' 
*
f
V
,
i
I ° 
S T A T U T t t , 
T H t 
O E C L A N A T I O N © r 
A 
D I V I D E N D 
or 1 3 0 , 0 0 0 » y THE F n I T 
STATE BANK or WEVCAOTLE, 
NEWCASTLE, 
WTONINO 
I N DCCEHOE* or 1 9 6 7 . 
T n i o LETTEN DOES NOT 
A U T N O N I X E 
A N Y 
rurWE DECLAMATION 0* DIV IDENDt THAT WOULD NEOUIRE MLOFT APFftOVAL 
UNDEN THE rONEOOINQ STATUTES. 
M. J. Swosos 
VICE PRESIDENT 

Item No. 13 
12/4/67 
F E D E R A L RESERVE B A N K OF 
R I C H M O N D 
v., 
i">. .,-1 x„ 
'-"j, 
;; , ;v', 
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA 
23213 
H i i d i r 4, 1H7. 
B M H if llmtpri, 
Ktrikaati and h n i r i Itak, 
N r t M N t k , Virginia 23705. 
OOntUnOni 
The Federal laeerva Bank t! lichnond, on behalf 
of ao4 n4«r Authority 4«l«|aui by tha Board of Oerernera of 
tka federal Boeerve ftyaten, kaa approved fcha application of 
Ilerchaata aad Itraara lank, fortanauth, Virginia, to eatabliah 
a branch at tka intaraectlon of fepler Kill Moad and V. f. 
Route 1/A, Ckeaapeake, Virginia. Iifklailon lo alao granted 
to opea io a tenporary location in tko Village •hopping Cantor 
apprenlnately aix-tenth* af a alia fran tka oita pending 
completion af permanent {uartare. In reaaklng this declaien, 
consideration kaa kaan given ta tka bank's capitalisation and 
aaaagoweat, tka convenience and naada af the cenannlty, tka 
contetltlve eltuatlen in tka araa and tka future proepoeta of 
the branch. 
Autkerlty granted koroky onpirne one year fren tko 
data af tkle letter. Pleeee edvlae aa vkan a definite date 
for opening kea kaan determined and the enact title under lAlch 
tka kxnnak will operate. 
Yoero very truly, 
y. . 
- ••.vnv * 
r-"V" 
/s/ Edw. A. Wayne 
Bdw. A. Wayne, 
freeideat. 

. 4633 
Item No. 12 
12/4/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
OF A T L A N T A 
A T L A J R R A ^ G ^ O F ^ ^ 
3 0 3 0 3 
Board of Directors 
Pascagoula-Moss Point Bank 
Moss Point, Mississippi 39563 
Gentlemen: 
On bahalf of tha Board of Governors of tha Fadaral Reserve 
System, acting undar duly delegated authority, tills Bank has approved 
the establishment of n branch on Old U. S. Highway 90 In an unin-
corporated area knovn as St. Martin, BOOM 4.4 miles northwest of Ocean 
Springs, Mississippi, provided tha branch is established by June 1, 
1968. 
Very truly yours, 
Monroe Klsbrel 
First flea President 
Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 

Item No. 13 
12/4/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
OF A T L A N T A 
A T L A N T A , G E O R G I A 
3 0 3 0 3 
December 4, 1967 
Board of Directors 
Pascagoula-Moss Point Bank 
Moss Point, Mississippi 39563 
Dear Sirs: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 24A of the Federal RE-
serve Act, on behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
8ystem, acting under delegated authority, this Bank approves an additional 
Investment in bank premises by Pascagoula-Moss Point Bank, Moss Point, 
Mississippi, of $300,0 >0 In connection with the cost of a new building 
for its Moss Point Office and a lot and new building for a proposed 
branch in the St. Martin area. 
Very truly yours, 
Monroe Klabrel 
First Vice President 
cc: Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 
