Minutes for 
M a r c h 4> 
Members of the Board 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
To: 
From: 

S3 3 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, March 4, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Litigation relating to Regulation G. Mr. O'Connell stated that 
on March 1, 1968, the United States District Court for the Southern 
District of New York, acting upon the complaint of a group of nonregu-
lated lenders in the securities industry, including the Collateral 
Lenders Committee, granted a temporary restraining order through 
March 5, 1968, staying the effective date of Regulation G, Credit by 
Persons Other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers for the Purpose of Pur-
chasing or Carrying Registered Equity Securities. The Court was aware 
of the fact that the effective date proposed by the Board was not until 
March 11, but noted that according to the plaintiffs calls were already 
being made upon them by banks. 

833 
3/4/68 
_ 
2-
The plaintiffs had also filed a complaint for declaratory 
judgment on the ground that Regulation G was invalid and unconstitu-
tional and had requested injunctive relief suspending and permanently 
enjoining the effectiveness, enforcement, and operation of Regulation G 
as to plaintiffs. Amotion for dismissal was being prepared. 
Mr. O'Connell noted that among the arguments advanced by the 
plaintiffs was that in drawing up Regulation G the Board had acted 
without statutory authority and in an arbitrary and capricious manner. 
A hearing on the motion by plaintiffs for a temporary injunction was 
scheduled for tomorrow, March 5. 
Mr. O'Connell stated that one of the steps considered necessary 
from the standpoint of the Board's defense was the filing of an affi-
davit that had been prepared for the signature of the Secretary of the 
Board. One part of the affidavit contained a detailed recitation of 
occurrences from October 20, 1967, when the Board announced proposed 
changes in its regulations governing the use of credit in stock market 
transactions, through March 1, when the temporary restraining order 
was entered. The second part of the affidavit summarized the origin, 
purposes, and functions of the Federal Reserve System and in that con-
text traced the history of the Board's responsibility for the control 
of credit resources which could be directed into the stock market, 
beginning with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The recitation 
would make known to the Court the fact that the Board had moved to 

3/4/68 
-3-
control the flow of credit into the securities industry through non-
regulated lenders only after long and careful considerat ion, and that 
the plaintiffs had not been denied due process of law. 
Mr. O'Connell stated that the affidavit should be accompanied 
by a certification by the Deputy Secretary of the Board to the effect 
that the contents and purport of the affidavit had been made known to 
the Board and that the Board had authorized Mr. Holland to execute the 
affidavit. 
In response to an inquiry from Governor Brimmer as to whether 
the presentation would not be stronger if the affidavit was a Board 
document, Mr. O'Connell stated that it would. However, the purpose 
of the affidavit was only to verify certain facts. In the present 
circumstances, it did not seem necessary for the Board to be brought 
into the matter as affiant. 
\ 
. . 
.
.
.
.
. 
„ 
N 
At the request of Governor Maisel, Mr. O'Connell reviewed the 
extent to which the plaintiffs had been given an opportunity to present 
their objections to the then proposed regulation to the Board's staff. 
In response to a further question, Mr. O'Connell noted that the con-
stitutionality of section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act had not 
previously been litigated. 
Mr. Holland was then authorized to execute the affidavit, a 
copy of which has been placed in the Board's files. 
Mr. O'Connell withdrew from the meeting at this point. 

Olio 
3/4/68 
_4_ 
Press release regarding leak of information (Item No. 1). 
There had been distributed a draft of statement that might be released 
by the Board to supplement the report being issued by the Treasury 
Department entitled "Investigation of Alleged Improper Disclosures of 
Information," relating in part to a "leak" of the terms of the Treasury 
.; i. i •. 
:• 
. i 
, 
. 
i - ; 
offering announced on August 17, 1967. It was anticipated that the 
Treasury report would be released later today. 
In commenting on the proposed release Mr. Molony suggested that 
its distribution throughout the System should also serve as a reminder 
to employees of their responsibility to protect the secrecy of confi-
dential information to which they had access in the course of their 
duties. He also said that he would make available to the Board members 
copies of a report received from the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
concerning the investigation made at that Bank after the source of the 
leak on the 1967 financing had become known. 
Various suggestions were made for changes in emphasis and ar-
rangement of material in the draft press release, following which 
unanimous approval was given to the issuance of a statement in the 
form attached as Item No. 1 upon the release of the Treasury report. 
Secretary's Note: A copy of the Treasury 
report, dated March 4, 1968, has been 
placed in the Board's files. 
The following entered at this point: 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 

3/4/68 
-5-
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Doyle, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Continental International Finance 
2 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, granting 
consent to the acquisition of shares of 
Leasing Italiana S.p.A., Milan, Italy. 
Letter to Bamerical International Financial 
3 
Corporation, San Francisco, California, 
granting consent to the acquisition of 
shares of Textiles Fabricato de Nicaragua, 
S.A. , Managua, Nicaragua. 
As transmitted, Item No. 2 reflected Governor Brimmer's sugges-
tion that the letter emphasize the fact that it was not the Board's 
current policy ordinarily to approve equity investments in continental 
Western Europe, and that in this instance special circumstances were 
taken into account. 
Processing of condition and earnings reports. At the meeting 
on February 26, 1968, the Board considered a draft of letter to the 
Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks relating to a proposal to 
transfer to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation responsibility 
for processing of member bank reports of condition and earnings. 

s; 
3/4/68 
-6-
Questions were raised as to the best way to approach the problem, and 
a committee consisting of Governors Mitchell (Chairman), Brimmer, and 
Sherrill was requested to review the situation. There had now been 
distributed a memorandum from the committee setting forth certain pro-
cedural recommendations. 
Governor Mitchell reviewed the recommendations and noted that 
two basic documents appeared to be needed. One would be a statement 
from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation presenting its proposal 
in writing and detailing the procedures and standards it would follow. 
The other would be a statement of the Board's needs involving direct 
or indirect dependence on the condition and earnings reports. It was 
contemplated that the staff would prepare the latter document while 
awaiting a reply from the FDIC to the Board's letter, which would be 
drafted along the lines suggested in the distributed memorandum. When 
the reply was received, the Board could consider it in conjunction with 
the staff memorandum. If at that time the Board was in favor of pro-
ceeding along the lines suggested by the FDIC, the proposal would be 
referred to the Federal Reserve Banks for comment. If the Reserve Bank 
reaction was satisfactory, an agreement between the Corporation and the 
Board would be drafted. 
Following discussion, the procedure outlined by Governor 
Mitchell was approved unanimously. 
Proposal of Wells Farqo Bank (Item No. 4). There had been dis-
». 
tributed a memorandum dated February 29, 1968, from the Legal Division 

833 
3/4/68 
_ 7-
relating to the proposed acquisition by Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco 
California, of Sonoma Mortgage Corporation, including the stock of two 
wholly-owned subsidiaries, Sonoma Mortgage Insurance Division, Inc., 
and Sonoma Securities Corporation. The memorandum summarized the cir-
cumstances surrounding the proposed liquidation of the subsidiary 
companies and commented on the applicability of the prohibition con-
tained in section 5136 of the U.S. Revised Statutes against the 
purchase of corporate stocks. 
The Legal Division concluded, for reasons set forth in the 
memorandum, that acquisition of the stock of the subsidiary companies 
would not be in contravention of the intent of section 5136. It was 
recommended that the Board not object to the acquisition by Wells 
Fargo of the stock of the two subsidiaries, provided, as contemplated, 
Sonoma Mortgage Insurance Division, Inc., was placed in liquidation 
simultaneously with the acquisition of the assets of Sonoma Mortgage 
Corporation, such liquidation to be completed within 60 days, and 
Sonoma Securities Corporation was liquidated when it had performed all 
of its functions under presently outstanding trusts. Attached to the 
memorandum was a draft of letter to Wells Fargo Bank. 
In reply to a question raised by Governor Brimmer, Governor 
Robertson and members of the staff expressed the view that a substan-
tial amount of time and difficulty would probably be involved in trans-
ferring to a substitute trustee the approximately 26,000 trust deeds 

833 
3/4/68 
_ 
8-
under which Sonoma Securities Corporation was serving as trustee. Mr. 
Hexter commented that that was one consideration that had persuaded 
him as to the propriety of the conclusion reached by the Legal Division. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that this factor be cited more clearly in 
the letter to Wells Fargo Bank. 
Mr. Hexter further stated that in his opinion the proposed 
• 
1 
1 
> 
-
arrangement should not be interpreted as involving a violation of the 
statutory prohibition against the acquisition of corporate stocks by 
member banks. The functions of Sonoma Securities Corporation were very 
limited in nature, and one might reasonably interpret the purpose of 
the Congress, as expressed in section 5136, as not reaching to this 
kind of situation. 
it-
Governor Brimmer commented that Mr. Hexter1s remarks relieved 
the concern he had felt on reading the memorandum, which stated that 
it was clear that a violation of the literal terms of section 5136 
V> 
5; .1 
would occur. 
Mr. Hexter then reiterated that in his view an interpretation 
I?r 3;•>• ii'a£.lo/"fc• .tor tcr--i prov * 3 
ti 
i 
.,.•:•'.; 
of section 5136 as prohibiting the acquisition of stock in this case, 
in the circumstances described, would represent too literal a reading 
of the law, one that would not be reasonable. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the recommendation of 
the Legal Division. A copy of the letter to Wells Fargo Bank in the 
form in which it was subsequently transmitted is attached as Item No. 4. 

PV,, I :» 
Cr I X 
3/4/68 
-9-
Messrs. Hexter, Byrne, Hooff, and Doyle then withdrew from the 
meeting and the following entered: 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Axilrod, Gramley, Williams, Wernick, 
Eckert, Keir, Fisher, Freedman, Gehman, 
Kichline, Peret, Thompson, and Zeisel, 
and Mrs. Burch and Mrs. Smelker of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Hersey, Irvine, 
Katz, Wood, Bryant, Dunn, Emery, Gekker, 
Kohn, Maroni, and Roxon of the Division 
of International Finance 
Economic review. Members of the research staff reviewed the 
U.S. international payments position and selected international finan-
cial developments against the background of the balance of payments 
program announced the first of the year. This was followed by a revie 
of trends in domestic business and financial conditions. The reports 
were based to some extent on materials that had been distributed in 
preparation for tomorrow's meeting of the Federal Open Market Commit-
>4 * I 'J> C T. ». / 
• ( 
tee, and copies of the relevant documentation have been placed in the 
Committee's files. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Upon consideration of 
a memorandum from the Controller and the 
Director of the Division of Personnel 
Administration dated February 26, 1968, 
and a memorandum from the Director of the 

3/4/68 
-10-
Division of Examinations dated March 4, 1968, 
with respect to the staff organization that 
would have responsibilities in connection with 
Truth-in-Lending activities, as well as Regu-
lation G and related aspects of Regulations T 
and U, Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the recommendation that 
for internal accounting purposes the title of 
the operation be "Task Force-Special Regula-
tions." Governor Robertson also authorized 
charging to that unit expenses for personal 
and nonpersonal services incurred in connec-
tion with implementing and administering the 
assigned regulations. 
Governor Robertson also approved today on 
behalf of the Board memoranda recommending 
the following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Transfer 
Jacqueline Ann Curtis, from the position of Clerk-Typist in the 
Division of Personnel Administration to the position of Clerk-Typist 
in the Division of Data Processing, with no change in basic annual 
salary at the rate of $4,615, effective March 10, 1968. 
Maternity leave 
JoAnn L. Innocente, Secretary, Division of Data Processing, 
beginning the close of business March 22, 1968. 
On March 4, 1968, actions were taken on 
behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated : 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Abington Township, Montgomery County. 
Item No. 
5 

3/4/68 
-11-
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, approving the establishment 
of a branch (drive-in facility) in the 
Boulevard Shopping Center and an investment 
in bank premises. 
Letter to Bank of Delaware, Wilmington, 
Delaware, approving the establishment of 
a branch in Brandywine Hundred, New Castle 
County. 
Letter to Wilmington Trust Company, Wilmington, 
Delaware, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Brandywine Hundred, New Castle County. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to American State Bank of Bloomington, 
Bloomington, Illinois, approving the establish-
ment of an in-town branch. 
Letter to The Detroit Bank and Trust Company, 
Detroit, Michigan, approving the establishment 
of a branch in Taylor Township, Wayne County. 
Letter to State Bank and Trust Company of 
Petoskey, Petoskey, Michigan, granting an 
extension of time within which to establish 
a branch in Alanson. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish a branch in Marina, Monterey 
County. 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
For immediate rel ease 
Item No. 1 
3/4/68 
March 5, 1968. 
In supplement of the Report made known by the Treasury today 
° n l t S "Invcstigation of Alleged Improper Disclosures of Information," 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued the following 
statement: 
The Federal Reserve System cooperated fully in the investiga-
tion, which was initiated after the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
gave first word to the Treasury on the afternoon of last August 17 that 
of that day's financial offering apparently had been "leaked" to 
some persons in the market possibly as long as an hour before the 
official release time. 
Whenever the Treasury issues securities to raise governmental 
funds, the twelve Federal Reserve Banks, acting as fiscal agents for the 
Treasury 
a r p 
• 
, 
required to mail as speedily as possible to all prospective 
p ri n t e d circulars giving the terms and conditions on which the 
Treasury i s s u e s w i U 
b e 
a v a l l a b u < 
Th 
<?re are only a few business days between the time the Treasury 
nounccs terms of its offering and the closing of the books on subscrip-
In consequence, in order to meet mail schedules so as to make 
CGrtain th 
a complete information would reach all prospective purchasers 
as ear 1y a s 
Possible, it was formerly the practice to furnish the terms 
the financing to the Federal Reserve Ranks an hour or two in advance 
0 f P^lic announcement. 

-2-
o i 
o 4 i J 
Now, under arrangements worked out by the Treasury and the 
Federal Reserve System since August 17, leased-wire communication of 
4. I 
e terms and conditions of the financing is transmitted to the Federal 
Reserve Banks at the same time that like information is released to the 
Public. As a result, although the dissemination of the printed circulars 
t 0 p r o sP ective purchasers may be delayed, recurrence of an incident 
similar to that last August 17 should be impossible. 
The employee of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia cited 
I n t h G *nvestigation Report was a 61-year-old man who had worked in the 
fiank for 46 years. 
He was immediately relieved of all duties at the Bank after he 
h ad acknowledged being the source of advance information to an employee 
a securities firm on terms of the Treasury financial offeting last 
August 17. 
Nine days after acknowledging he had given out the information 
n violation of the Bank's rules, the man suffered a fatal heart attack 
wbil e driving alone in his automobile. He had previously suffered from 
he*rt trouble. 
Inspectors from the Internal Revenue Service, to whom the man made 
e admission, found no evidence that he had received any remuneration. 
With the source of the information uncovered, the investigation 
y the Treasury was completed and the findings were turned over to the 
°>ent of Justice for further review to determine whether there had 
b e e n 3 vi°lation of criminal law. 
- 0 -

1 £2 
O' >.o 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
3/4/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 4, 1968. 
Continental International Finance Corporation, 
231 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 9, 1968, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to pur-
chase and hold approximately 25 per cent of the shares of Leasing 
Ital iana S.p.A., Milan, Italy, at a cost of approximately 
US$125,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
It is not the Board's current policy ordinarily to 
approve equity investments in continental Western Europe. In 
granting the aforementioned consent, the Board has taken into 
account the fact that your Corporation originally requested 
specific consent for the investment in your letter of June 30, 
1967, and was subsequently advised by the Board that the invest-
ment would be appropriate under the then existing general consent 
provisions of Section 211.8 of Regulation K. The consent is 
given with the understanding that the investment now being ap-
proved, combined with other foreign loans and investments of 
your Corporation, Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust 
Company of Chicago, and Continental Bank International, will 
not cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed 
the guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint 
effort now in effect and that due consideration is being given 
to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

o I 
'•f^LRE&V 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
3/4/68 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 4, 1968. 
Bamerical International Financial Corporation, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 21, 1968, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to 
purchase and hold approximately 6.25 per cent of the shares of 
Textiles Fabricato de Nicaragua, S.A., Managua, Nicaragua, at 
a cost of approximately US$268,000, provided such shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved, combined with other 
foreign loans and investments of your Corporation, will not 
cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect and that due consideration is being given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BDARD CDF GOVERNORS 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
3/4/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P Q N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 7, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Wells Fargo Bank, 
San Francisco, California. 
Gentlemen: 
This refers to the proposed acquisition by Wells Fargo 
Bank of substantially all assets of Sonoma Mortgage Corporation 
("Sonoma") including the stock of two wholly-owned subsidiaries, 
Sonoma Mortgage Insurance Division, Inc. ("Insurance") and Sonoma 
Securities Corporation ("Securities"). 
It is understood that contracts for the sale of the 
insurance agency business of Insurance have been substantially 
negotiated, and that liquidation of that company would be completed 
within 60 days after the closing date of the transfer of assets of 
Sonoma to Wells Fargo. 
It is also understood that Securities serves as trustee 
under approximately 26,000 trust deeds given to Sonoma by its 
borrowers, and, as such, occasionally acts as plaintiff in fore-
closure proceedings, but conducts no other business activities, has 
no net income, and incurs no expense for which it is not reimbursed 
by either the trustor or beneficiary under the trust deeds. 
Wells Fargo has requested permission to hold the stock of 
these two companies, briefly in the case of Insurance, but for a 
longer period in the case of Securities in order to meet its obli-
gations as trustee under presently existing trust deeds. 
The acquisition of the stock of these two companies is a 
minor incident in the legitimate acquisition of the assets of the 
mortgage company and, in the case of Insurance, the ownership will 
be terminated promptly. Although Securities could also be liquidated 
promptly, the appointment of a substitute trustee under the large 
number of trusts involved would present the company with substantial 
difficulties that would make impractical the liquidation and winding 
up of its business in a relatively short period of time, and would 
appear to serve no useful purpose. Moreover, Wells Fargo has stipu-
lated that after the take-over of Sonoma, Securities will not be 

813 
Board of Directors 
-2-
named as trustee under any subsequent trust deeds and will not 
engage in any activity whatsoever except that required to meet its 
obligations as trustee under existing trust deeds. In other words, 
Securities will undertake no additional business whatsoever after 
its acquisition by Wells Fargo, and its functions will be essentially 
passive - that is, it will act simply as trustee under existing deeds 
of trust securing loans and will be no more than the nominal plaintiff 
in foreclosure proceedings if such become necessary. 
Because of these factors, the Board has concluded that the 
acquisition of stock of these two companies would not be in contra-
vention of the purpose of the prohibition contained in section 5136 
of the Revised Statutes against the purchase of stock. Accordingly, 
the Board does not object to the acquisition by Wells Fargo of the 
stock of these two companies provided Insurance is placed in liquidation 
simultaneously with the acquisition of the assets of Sonoma, such liqui-
dation to be completed within 60 days, and Securities will be promptly 
liquidated when it has performed all of its functions under presently 
outstanding trusts. 
The Board would appreciate receiving a letter confirming 
this arrangement. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

of G<W •. 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
3/4/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Girard Trust Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, on behalf 
of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
establishment of a branch by Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, in the Benjamin Fox Pavilion, 216 Old York Road, 
Abington Township, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, provided the 
branch is established within one year from the date of this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that your bank's management is satisfactory, that the proposed branch 
W H 1 serve the convenience and needs of the community, and that 
establishment of the branch will not tend to create an undesirable 
competitive situation. It is understood that plans are being 
formulated to strengthen your bank's capital structure during 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE 
BANK OK 
PHILADELPHIA 
P H I L A D E L P H I A , 
P E N N S Y L V A N I A 
1 9 1 0 1 
Item No. 2 
3/4/68 
March h, 1968 
The Board of Directors 
The Fidelity Bank 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19109 
Gentleraen: 
On behalf of the 
Reserve System, acting under 
Reserve Bank of Riiladelphia 
The Fidelity Bank, Rrfiadelphia; 
slating of two fref<^staoa\ng driver in 
lot of the Boulo>wd/6I^pp«w Cents! 
from The Fidel/ty JBank' o>exi Sting b 
Shopping Centet ak the ooutheakt corne 
vard and Mages 
the brjuKtfe is ee 
thia^let 
n connectl 
ih in tl 
sOf Rlill 
of\thi\Board 
an Nave) 
$75, < 
prernli 
rn*rs of the Federal 
authority, the Federal 
establLshroent by 
Ivanla, of a branch con-
indovs on the parking 
oximately 275 fe«t 
h^in the Boulevard 
of Roosevelt Boule-
la, Pennsylvania, provided 
one year from the date of 
this branch, and the existing 
^ilevard Shopping Center, the Federal Reserve 
ia, acting under delegated authority on behalf 
vernors of the Federal Reserve System, approves 
r Section 2hA of the Federal Reserve Act of 
dellty Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in bank 
Very truly yours, 
J. 1. QwfUll 
Joseph R. Campbell 
Vice Resident 

FEDERAL RESERVE 
BANK OF 
PHILADELPHIA 
P H I L A D E L P H I A , 
P E N N S Y L V A N I A 
1 9 1 0 1 
Item No. 7 
3/4/68 
March h, 1968 
4. It is believed the establishment of the pro-
posed branch will not tend to create an un-
desirable competitive situation (either actual 
or potential). 
5 . 
It is believed there are good prospects for 
profitable operations of the proposed branch 
within a reasonable time and the bank's earn-
ings are adequate to sustain the operational 
losses of the proposed branch until it becomes 
profitable. 
Gentlemen: 
On behalf of the Boaxtf of 
Reserve System, acting under/delected 
Reserve Bank of RiiladelphisS^pp' 
Bank of Delaware, Wilmington, 
Northtowne Plaza on tJi®^northweat cor 
of Naeunans Road an^/the Interchange o 
95, Brandywine Hjdtfidr^TyNe\castle XJo 
the branch is ^stabaisheH. within one 
letter. 
This 
Capital of 
eritors of the 
.utliority, the Federal 
e Establishment by 
, 
a branch in the 
r of the intersection 
U. S. Interstate Highway 
, Delaware, provided 
of the date of this 
view of the following opinions 
ank presently is regarded as 
believed the convenience and needs of the 
ty will be better served If the pro-
posed branch is established. 
The Board of Directors 
Bank of Delaware 
Wilmington, Delaware 19899 
nt of your bank is regarded as adequate. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
Page No. 2 
To 
^ 
^
^ 
o f Directors 
3/ h/68 
(TM-'f) 
d o u 
6. Your bank's investment in bank premises after 
the expenditure for the proposed branc]>\vill 
be reasonable. 
7. Counsel for this Reserve Bank conside 
establishment of the branch 
formity vith the provisions o 
of Regulation H and section 
vised Statutes. 
8. 
Establishment of the b 
the Delaware Board o 
February 23, 1968. 
Your 
approved by 
poration on 
h 1*. Campbe] 
Pr^aident 

rjrr ,/i 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF 
PHILADELPHIA 
P H I L A D E L P H I A . 
P E N N S Y L V A N I A 
1 9 1 0 1 
Item No. 8 
3/4/68 
March b, 1968 
The Board of Directors 
Wilmington Trust Company 
Wilmington, Delaware 19899 
Gentlemen: 
On behalf of 
Reserve System, acting 
Reserve Bank of Phil 
Wilmington Trust C 
Delaware, of a b 
at the nor the a 
state Highway 
Castle County, 
vithinjioe year 
actio 
the BkardNof G 
under dhlegfeu^d 
ihia approves 
ilming\qn, 
Tri-StKte 
terrors of the Federal 
hority, the Federal 
tablishment by 
'ev Castle County, 
Shopping Center 
inter^ct^Dn of U. S. Inter-
BraKdywine Hundred, Nev 
the branch is established 
-his letter. 
in view of the following opinions 
your bank is regarded as adequate. 
nt of your bank is regarded as adequate. 
s believed the convenience and needs of the 
community will be better served if the proposed 
branch is established. 
It is believed the establishment of the pro-
posed branch will not tend to create an un-
desirable competitive situation (either actual 
or potential). 
5. It is believed there are good prospects for 
profitable operations of the proposed branch 
within a reasonable time and the bank's earn-
ings are adequate to sustain the operational 
losses of the proposed branch until it becomes 
profitable. 

^mmm 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
P A G E NQ. 
ToThe Board of Directors 
3/ V 6 8 
6. Your bank's investment in bank premises after 
the expenditure for the proposed branch v i H 
be reasonable. 
7. Counsel for this Reserve Bank considers that 
establishment of the branch would be in con-
formity with the provisions of section 2( 
of Regulation H and section 5155 of the | • 
vised Statutes. 
8. Establishment of the branch was "pp^vefl 
the Delaware Board of Bank Incoj 
February 23, 1968. 
Your3 B 
•vl 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
2JO SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
Item No 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60W0 
3/4/68 
012) HA 7-2120 
March k, 1968 
Mr* Leonard c . Wochner, President 
American State Bank 
of Bloomington, Illinois 
Bloomington, Illinois 
D«ar Mr, Wochner: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank has approved the establishment 
by your bank of a branch at the intersection of Washington 
and McLean Streets, Bloomington, Illinois, provided the branch 
la established within six months from the date of this letter. 
The Reserve Bank finds that capitalization of American 
state Bank of Bloomington, Illinois, is adequate and management 
capable, that the proposed branch will serve the needs and 
convenience of the community, and that the branch will not 
create an undesirable competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
\ 
i/** 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 
JBMilp 
cc - Mr. Robert C. Holland 
/ 
111. Dept. of Pin. Inst. 
Examiner's film 
Q 
p 
y 

857 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
2)0 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
i t e m No . 10 
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60W0 
3/4/68 
(111) HA 7-2)10 
March k, 1966 
vVU • 
"v",,. I 
• 
Mr. Harold P. Carr 
Vice President and Cashier 
The Detroit Bank and Trust Company 
Detroit, Michigan U8231 
• .1 
. ' . I • 1 > . ' , - . 
Dear Mr. Carr: 
' ' . 
V . . . ' 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank has approved the establishment 
by your bank of a branch to be located in the vicinity of the 
northwest corner of Eureka Road and Racho Road, Taylor Township, 
Wayne County, Michigan, provided the branch is established 
within six months from the date of this letter. 
klw •;.„,,•*.• 
The Reserve Bonk finds that capitalization of The 
Detroit Bank and Trust Company is reasonably adequate and 
management is considered to be competent, that the proposed 
branch will serve the needs and convenience of the community, 
and that the branch will not create an undesirable competitive 
situation. 
-sou-it 
4 • 
'f'.^Ai: . . . 
ft 
•i- >• " 
CO - Mr. Robert C. Holland/ 
- Mich. FIB 
- Detroit Brauch 
• Exwaiaor'a file 
Very truly yours, 
yAUUt/f 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 
C O P Y 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60690 
(312) HA 7-2320 
March k, 1968 
Kr. Conrad D. Uallin, President 
State Bank and Trust Company of Prfcoskey 
Petoskey, Michigan U9770 
^ 
Hr. MeOlin: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
authority, this Bank grants en extension of tine of six months fraa 
Aprli 10, 1968, within which your bank may establish a brunch in the 
vicinity of the intersection of Burr Street and River Street, Alanson 
Kiehigen. 
The establishment of this proposed branch was approved by 
the Board of Governors in the vicinity of the intersection of the 
above streets and your proposal to change the location of the branch 
6216 River Street to 623O River Street does not require further 
«*und approval. 
Very truly yours, 
/ / 
''' 
Leland Boss 
Vice President 
E0P:rk 
cc - Board of Governors 
Michigan FIB 
Detroit Branch 
Examiner's l'ile 
C O P Y 
Item No. 2 
3/4/68 

oirci 
c 
c 
csaJ 
o 
o 
p 
p 
Y 
Y 
Item No. 12 
3/4/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO 
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA 94120 
March 4, 1968 
Mr. Hal Mendon, 
Senior Executive Vice President, 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
Los Angeles, California 90054. 
Dear Mr. Mendon: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, acting under delegated authority, this Bank 
has approved an extension to April 9, 1968, of the time 
within which United California Bank, Los Angeles, California, 
may establish a branch office at the northeast corner of the 
intersection of Reservation Road and Vista Del Camino, 
Marina, Monterey County, California, and is conditioned 
upon the discontinuance of operations now conducted at 342 
Reservation Road, Marina, simultaneously with the opening 
the new branch. 
This extension is granted in connection with the 
request contained in your letter dated February 29, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
