MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 17, 1968 
ft 
a; 
D 
F 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, October 17, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Winkler of the Office of the Secretary 
Mrs. Heller and Mr. Lynch of the Legal Division 
Mr. Cleaver of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Goodfellow of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Foreign banking matters. The following items were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background material that had been 
made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective 
numbers indicated. 

10/17/68 
-2-
Item No 
Letter to Citizens and Southern International 
Corporation, Atlanta, Georgia, granting consent 
to its acquisition of shares of Pegasus Hotels 
of Jamaica Ltd., Kingston, Jamaica, this being 
incidental to a loan. 
1 
Letter to Detroit Bank and Trust Company, 
Detroit, Michigan, authorizing it to accept 
drafts or bills of exchange drawn for the 
purpose of furnishing dollar exchange. 
2 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Oconee County Bank, Seneca, 
South Carolina, into The Peoples National Bank, Greenville, South 
Carolina, was approved for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency, the conclusion reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Peoples 
National Bank, Greenville, South Carolina, and Oconee 
County Bank, Seneca, South Carolina, would eliminate 
no meaningful present or potential competition. Over-
all, the transaction would have no adverse effects. 
Governor Robertson dissented because he believed that the 
competitive effect of the proposed merger would be at least slightly 
adverse and perhaps adverse. 
Community development corporation. Citizens and Southern 
National Bank of Georgia, Savannah, Georgia, a registered bank holding 
company, had acquired the stock of Citizens and Southern Community 
Development Corporation, a new corporation organized to engage in the 
second mortgage loan business, real estate development, and other 
I 

3720 
10/17/68 
-3-
activities, with the stated purpose of restoration, economic develop-
ment, and betterment of social relations by a joint effort of all 
citizens of Savannah to combat poverty, filth, crime, and prejudice. 
Citizens and Southern National Bank, through its counsel, 
had asked the Board to rule that its activities in connection with, and 
its investment in, the community development corporation were lawful, 
urging the Board to find that they were "banking" activities under 
12 U.S.C. 21, "incidental" activities under 12 U.S.C. 24 Seventh 
(section 5136 of the U.S. Revised Statutes), and authorized for a 
bank holding company under sections 4(c)(1)(C) and 4(c)(5) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act. 
(Earlier this year Regional Counsel for the Comptroller of 
the Currency in Atlanta had advised attorneys for the national bank 
that the bank's activities in connection with the development corpor-
ation were lawful under the Comptroller's Manual, on the basis that 
national banks may make reasonable contributions to further the 
physical, economic, and social development of their communities, in 
an amount not to exceed 2 per cent of the bank's capital and surplus.) 
The Legal Division, in a memorandum dated October 1, 1968, 
concluded that certain of the activities of Citizens and Southern 
Community Development Corporation were not "banking" activities within 
the meaning of 12 U.S.C. 21 or activities "incidental" to banking within 
the meaning of 12 U.S.C. 24 Seventh. The Division further concluded 

O <£ 
10/17/68 
- 4 -
that the exemption in section 4(c)(1)(C) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act was not applicable to the investment in the development corporation 
and that section 4(c)(5) did not offer any basis for exempting the 
investment from the prohibitions of section 4 of the Act. 
To the Legal Division it appeared that section 4(c)(8) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act might offer Citizens and Southern a more 
supportable basis for effecting its program although the facts presented 
did not indicate that all of the activities of the community develop-
ment corporation were to be of a financial, fiduciary, or insurance 
nature within the meaning of that section. A favorable determination 
/ 
under section 4(c)(8) would, of course, have to be based on a record 
developed at a formal hearing. 
The Legal Division had also reviewed provisions of the 
Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 that authorized certain 
programs for new community land development and for the building and 
rehabilitation of housing for low and moderate income families, but 
concluded that they were not applicable. 
It was recommended that the findings of the Division, as 
set forth in a draft letter, be transmitted to counsel for Citizens 
and Southern. 
During a lengthy discussion of the matter, comments by 
several of the members of the Board indicated that they concurred 
generally in the findings of the legal staff and that they would be 

IRYYKURJ) 0~Y 
O 
I ***** 
10/17/68 
-5-
inclined to advise counsel for Citizens and Southern along the lines 
suggested by the staff. There were, however, several suggestions for 
modifications in the proposed letter, including a suggestion that it 
be made clear that the lack of availability of an exemption under 
section 4(c)(5) was based on the set of facts as presented, thus 
leaving open the possibility that such an exemption might be available 
if the program were altered to change some of its features. Also, it 
was suggested, by Governor Robertson, that Citizens and Southern be 
advised that if a request for a section 4(c)(8) determination should 
be filed the program would not be challenged by the Board until a 
hearing pursuant to that section had been held and a decision reached. 
In addition, it was suggested that the reference in the draft letter 
to certain legislative proposals recently introduced in the Congress 
with respect to development corporations be deleted. 
Governor Brimmer urged that the portions of the proposed 
letter relating to the possibility of obtaining a section 4(c)(8) 
determination be revised with a view to providing more guidance with 
respect to activities of the development corporation that, if continued 
in the program, might prevent a favorable determination from being made. 
Other members of the Board and members of the legal staff cautioned 
against going so far as to attempt to structure the program, and 
Governor Brimmer agreed that that would be inadvisable. However, he 
felt that the Board's ruling would be of considerable interest and 

O I /WO 
10/17/68 
- 6 -
hoped that the matter could be presented in such a way as to have 
the best chance of approval. 
Governor Maisel disputed the staff's reading of the law 
in a number of respects. In his view, it had clearly been the intent 
of the Congress in enacting legislation, particularly the Housing and 
Urban Development Act of 1968, to open up opportunities for banks, among 
others, to engage in activities such as those involved in the project 
under consideration, and he felt that too narrow a construction of 
the statutes, with reliance in part on past interpretations, served to 
frustrate the legislative intent. It was his contention that the Board 
should, for example, reexamine its concept of the "business of banking" 
and that such further scrutiny might in fact lead to a conclusion, in 
the case under consideration, that an exemption under section 4(c)(5) 
or even section 4(c)(1)(C) of the Bank Holding Company Act would be 
warranted. Likewise, if a section 4(c)(8) hearing was to be held, he 
felt that the underlying concepts should be clarified. Further, he 
believed that Citizens and Southern was placed in a particularly 
difficult position by virtue of having to obtain rulings not only 
from the Comptroller of the Currency, because it was a national bank, 
but also from the Board as a bank holding company. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
the proposed letter would be reviewed by the staff in the light of 

* \ V-f-f > N 
• i 
! 
. *J If 
| 
• 
10/17/68 
-7-
" ., r ' 
! -i' •
• 
> ...'..• > *. ; . 
the opinions that had been expressed and that a revised draft would 
be submitted for the Board's consideration. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

'•F«4 L R E ^ . 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
o 4 
^.J 
Item No. 1 
10/17/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E B P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 17, 1968. 
Citizens and Southern International Corporation, 
Marietta at Broad, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30302 
Gentlemen; 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of September 26, 1968, addressed to Vice President 
Stephenson of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation, as an acqui-
sition incidental to an extension of credit, to purchase and 
hold approximately 6,600 shares of Pegasus Hotels of Jamaica 
Ltd., Kingston, Jamaica, at a cost of approximately $27,500, 
provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date 
of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and invest-
ment activities of your Corporation and The Citizens and Southern 
National Bank and that due consideration is being given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD DF G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
F t Y-JF 1>' » 
KJ I RJT> 
Item No. 2 
10/17/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E B P Q N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 17, 1968, 
Detroit Bank and Trust Company, 
Detroit, Michigan. 48231 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of- the Federal Reserve System 
authorizes your bank to accept drafts or bills of exchange drawn 
for the purpose of furnishing dollar exchange as required by the 
usages of trade in such countries, dependencies, or insular pos-
sessions of the United States as may have been designated by the 
Board of Governors, subject to the provisions of Section 13 of the 
Federal Reserve Act and the Board's Regulation C„ 
Enclosed is a list of the countries with respect to which 
the Board of Governors has found that the usages of trade require 
the furnishing of dollar exchange. 
The foregoing authorization has been given with the under-
standing that the foreign loans and investments of your bank will 
be made within the guidelines established under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending 
and investment activities of your bank and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. Your atten-
tion is also directed to the fact that dollar exchange acceptance 
financing does not represent export credit. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure, 

Countries Approved by the Board 
with Respect to Dollar Exchange Acceptances!' 
. • ...-.: -r -,. - j 
O 
* 
I 
"The Board has designated the following as countries 
whose usages of trade require the furnishing of dollar exchange, 
so that member banks may accept drafts drawn upon them by banks 
or bankers in such countries: 
Australia, New Zealand, and otherV Australasian 
dependencies; Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, British 
Guiana 1/, British Honduras, Chile, Colombia, Costa 
Rica, Dutch East Indies J/, Dutch Guiana 5/, Ecuador, 
French Guiana, French West Indies, Guatemala, 
Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Puerto 
Rico, Salvador.6/, Santo Domingo!/, Trinidad®/, 
Uruguay and Venezuela." 
1/ Source: Interpretations of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System (as of January 1. 19612, p. 
2/ Now delete "other." 
3/ 
Now Guyana. 
4/ Now the Republic of Indonesia. 
5/ Now Surinam. 
6/ Now El Salvador. 
7/ Now the Dominican Republic. 
8/ Now Trinidad and Tobago. 
