U 0 9 
[*
ev. 5-67) 
Minutes for 
June 6, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
P i 

2 1 1 3 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, June 6, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
M r . Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
M r . Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 1/ 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr., Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
M r . Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
M r . Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
M r . Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Lawrence and King of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Poundstone and Sanford of the Division 
of Examinations 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal of a report to the Comptroller of the Currency on 
the competitive factors involved in the proposed acquisition of assets 
and assumption of liabilities of The Bank of Spanish Fork, Spanish Fork, 
Utah, by Zions First National Bank, Salt Lake City, Utah. The conclusion 
read as follows: 
IJ 
Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

ziii 
6/6/68 
-2-
There is virtually no competition between The Bank 
of Spanish Fork and Zions First National Bank, Salt Lake 
City. Consummation of the proposed transaction would 
increase slightly the already high level of banking con-
centration in the State of Utah. The overall effect of 
this proposal on competition would be slightly adverse. 
Examination of foreign branches (Item No. 1). As recommended 
in a memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated June 3, 1968, 
unanimous approval was given to arrangements whereby examiners for the 
Comptroller of the Currency would examine the Hong Kong branches of 
International Bank of Commerce, Seattle, Washington, an Edge corpora-
tion, while they were in the area to examine branches of national banks. 
Attached as Item No. 1 is a copy of the letter sent to the Comptroller 
of the Currency pursuant to the Board's action. 
Weekend duty officer (Items 2 and 3). 
In a memorandum dated 
June 4, 1968, the Office of the Secretary suggested the establishment 
of a weekend "duty officer" arrangement involving members of the staff 
of that Office. The staff member on duty would not necessarily be at 
the office, but he would be on call and would be responsible for con-
tacting appropriate Board members or staff in case of need, for 
organizing any required staff support services, and for otherwise 
dealing with an emergency situation. 
It was understood that the 
Divisions of Research and Statistics and International Finance also 
contemplated establishing a "duty officer" procedure on a more informal 
basis. 

2115 
6/6/68 
-3-
Attached was a draft of a memorandum proposed to be sent to 
division heads if the Board approved the initiation of the procedures 
suggested by the Office of the Secretary. Also attached was a draft 
of letter to the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks informing 
them of the "duty officer" arrangement and asking for a list of senior 
Reserve Bank officers who might be contacted outside of regular office 
hours if a need should arise and the President and First Vice President 
were not available. 
Governor Brimmer asked for clarification from the standpoint 
of budget implications. He noted that at some point the Board no doubt 
would want to consider what steps it should take upon passage of the 
pending tax legislation that also called for reductions in Government 
expenditures generally. 
Governor Robertson replied that any overtime payments involved 
in the program suggested by the Secretary's Office would fall within 
the scope of existing Board policy and that he doubted whether any 
specific provision needed to be made. He also stated that the Board's 
staff had been considering proposals that would enable the Board to 
conform generally to the types of budget cuts that apparently would be 
required of Government agencies if the pending tax legislation were 
enacted. Those proposals would be presented to the Board for consid-
eration as soon as the tax bill had been enacted. 

2116 
6/6/68 
-4-
Governor Robertson then suggested that the draft of letter to 
the Reserve Banks in relation to the "duty officer" proposal seemed to 
suggest the likelihood of emergency situations arising. He asked 
whether there had in fact been difficulty in establishing communication 
with Reserve Bank Presidents, First Vice Presidents, or others outside 
of regular hours. When Mr. Holland responded that difficulties had 
sometimes been encountered, Governor Robertson suggested that the tele-
phone numbers of appropriate officers might be obtained informally or 
that the letter to the Reserve Banks at least should be worded more in 
terms of keeping the appropriate records up to date. There was general 
agreement with that suggestion. 
Governor Daane referred to difficulty that he had experienced 
in making telephone calls through the Board's offices over weekends, 
and Mr. Holland advised that the problem was under consideration by 
the Division of Administrative Services. 
The proposed memorandum from the Office of the Secretary to 
division heads regarding the "duty officer" arrangement was then 
approved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. Attached as 
Item No. 3 is a copy of the letter that was sent to the Presidents of 
the Reserve Banks. 
Fund-Bank meetings. After consideration of a memorandum from 
the Office of the Secretary dated June 5, 1968, suggesting various 
possibilities for entertaining central bank officials who would be 

6/6/68 
-5-
attending the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and 
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development during the 
period September 30-0ctober 4, 1968, it was agreed that the most appro-
priate procedure would be to hold a reception at the Federal Reserve 
Building to which all central bank delegates would be invited and that 
such a reception might best be held on the afternoon of Wednesday, 
October 2, preceding a reception to be given by the Secretary of the 
Treasury at the State Department. 
It was understood that the staff 
would prepare for the Board a memorandum proposing detailed arrange-
ments for the reception. 
Members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Kenyon withdrew 
from the meeting at this point. 
Internal administrative affairs. At yesterday's meeting (at 
which Governors Mitchell and Sherrill were present) Governor Robertson 
had suggested transfer from himself to Governor Sherrill of the direc-
tion at Board level of the Board's internal administrative affairs. 
No objection had been indicated by members of the Board present at 
yesterday's meeting. 
Members of the Board present today indicated that they were 
agreeable to the proposal. 
It was noted that the delegating of the 
authority on a one-year basis would permit regular review by the Board, 
including an opportunity for the Board member in whom the responsibility 
had been vested to express his wishes with regard to whether his assign-
ment should be continued. 

6/6/68 
-6-
The Board then vested in Governor Sherrill, effective immedi-
ately and for the ensuing year, the direction at Board level of its 
internal administrative affairs, including matters pertaining to Board 
personnel, budget, and housekeeping. The Board as a whole would con-
tinue to keep in touch with the operating problems of the staff and 
would determine questions of policy. 
This designation included authorization for Governor Sherrill 
to approve requests for domestic travel and also to approve requests 
for foreign travel within limitations specified by the Board, all in 
accordance with the provisions of the official travel regulations of 
the Board. 
The action also authorized Governor Sherrill to approve on 
behalf of the Board all proposed personnel actions relating to Board 
employees other than members of the official staff. 
It continued to be the understanding that all approvals under 
the authorization of the foregoing two paragraphs, except in the case 
of domestic travel, would be entered in the minutes of the Board as of 
the date of approval. 
Foreign credit restraint program (Items 4 and 5). 
Governor 
Robertson noted that at yesterday's meeting he had also proposed trans-
ferring from himself to Governor Brimmer responsibility for administer-
ing the Federal Reserve's foreign credit restraint program on behalf of 
the Board and that no objection had been indicated by those present. 

2119 
6/6/68 
-7-
Governor Robertson stated that if this shift was agreed upon 
he would like to send a letter to all financial institutions that had 
been participating in the foreign credit restraint program advising 
them of the designation of Governor Brimmer and expressing appreciation 
for the cooperation that had been received from the participating insti-
tutions. He also proposed that a press release be issued from the 
Board's offices advising of the shift in responsibility. 
The designation of Governor Brimmer in lieu of Governor 
Robertson was approved unanimously, and it was understood that the 
procedures suggested by Governor Robertson would be followed. 
Attached 
as Item No. 4 is a copy of the letter sent by Governor Robertson to the 
chief executive officer of each financial institution participating in 
the foreign credit restraint program, and attached as Item No. 5 is a 
copy of the press release subsequently issued. 
Matter involving Citizens and Southern. Governor Brimmer noted 
that Citizens and Southern National Bank, Savannah, Georgia, had estab-
lished, apparently with the approval of the Comptroller of the Currency, 
a development corporation that would make loans for certain purposes to 
low-income groups in urban areas. The program had been publicized by 
the bank. However, in a recent visit to Atlanta he learned that there 
had been sent to the Reserve Bank a letter from the Board's staff rais-
ing the question whether establishment of the development corporation 
was legal and suggesting that the matter be discussed with the bank. 

6/6/68 
-8-
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that such a matter should 
have been presented to the Board for consideration and said he believed 
the consequences of requiring a termination of the activity would be 
so great that the Board should focus on the question before matters 
went any further. He said that he was reviewing the situation with 
the Board's staff with a view to having the matter brought before the 
Board at an early date. 
It was understood that the Board would consider the matter when 
appropriate documentation had been made available. 
Staff organization. 
Governor Robertson reviewed proposals that 
he had discussed with the Board members yesterday involving reorganiza-
tion of some parts of the Board's staff, and it was understood that the 
Board would plan to make a final decision on Tuesday, June 18, when it 
was contemplated that all Board members would be present. 
Governors 
Daane and Brimmer indicated that if the matter should come up for 
decision when they were not present they could be recorded as willing 
to go along with the plans that had been outlined by Governor Robertson. 
Governor Sherrill and Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board, 
entered at this point. 
Annex building. Governor Sherrill and Mr. Shepardson advised 
that after discussion at a hearing this morning the National Capital 
Planning Commission had approved by majority vote plans for development 
of the park on the surface of the proposed north garage on the basis 

^ J . / O l 
6/6/68 
-9-
recommended by the Board's architects, which plans would include a 
tennis court. 
Governor Sherrill also reported that the Department of the 
Interior was encountering some difficulty in working out arrangements 
with its employees' association under which funds would be collected 
for rental of space to Interior Department employees in the north 
garage. 
It seemed possible that a separate corporation might have to 
be formed for that purpose. Mr. Shepardson added that the difficulty 
that had arisen did not involve any essential question about the 
arrangement between the Board of Governors and the Interior Department. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
June 6, 1968, recommending amendment to the contract with James A . 
Stephenson, Associate Professor at Iowa State University, whereby his 
programmer, Wendell Primus, would be authorized to travel to Washington 
to work at the Board for a period of approximately two weeks, with com-
pensation at the rate of $4 per hour plus per diem in lieu of subsis-
tence and transportation in accordance with the Board's travel regula-
tions, and requesting authorization to pay Mr. Primus directly for time 
spent at the Board, including reimbursement for travel costs. 
(On 
November 6, 1967, the Board approved the appointment of Professor 
Stephenson as a Consultant to review seasonal adjustment procedures 
used in tabulating data for the series on banking assets and liabili-
ties .) 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 

o f 
9 0 
6/6/68 
-10-
Acceptance of resignations 
Shirley R. Sherman, Assistant Supervisor, Secretarial Section, 
Office of the Secretary, effective the close of business June 14, 1968. 
William F. Creager, Design Specialist, Division of Data Processing, 
effective the close of business July 19, 1968. 
On June 6, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
6 
approving the appointment of Howard L. Alexander, 
Thomas C. Barman, and Fred C. Herriman, Jr., as 
assistant examiners. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
7 
approving the appointment of Warren D. Clark as 
examiner. 
Letter to The Tucker County Bank, Parsons, West 
8 
Virginia, approving an investment in bank premises. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Letter to The City Bank Company, Lorain, Ohio, 
9 
granting an extension of time within which to 
establish an in-town branch. 

1Z3 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
6/6/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 6, 1968. 
Comptroll er of the Currency, 
Main Treasury Building,' 
Washington, D . C . 
20220 
Dear Mr. Comptroller: 
In line with previous discussions between Mr. Dahl and 
Mr. Anker of your Office, the Board of Governors has approved the 
appointment of National Bank Examiner Dieter F . J . Juli as a Fed-
eral Reserve Examiner for the purpose of examining the five Hong 
Kong branches of International Bank of Commerce, Seattle, Wash-
ington, a corporation organized under the provisions of Section 
25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
The Board appreciates the cooperation of your Office 
in arranging for Mr. Juli to conduct this examination and the 
Board will reimburse your Office for the expenses involved upon 
such basis as may be agreed upon. 
A commission as a Federal Reserve Examiner for M r . Juli 
is enclosed. Please acknowledge receipt of the commission by 
signing and returning the enclosed copy of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosures 2. 

Item No. 2 
6/6/68 
June 6, 1968 
TO: 
Directors of all Divi.ion. 
SUBJECT: 
Weekend "duty officer" 
FROM: Office of the Secretary 
l n office of the Secretary. 
The Board has approved the establishment by the Secretary's 
Office of a procedure, effective immediately, whereby a member 
of the official staff of the Secretary's Office will be available 
"on call" each weekend to respond to any emergency or contingency 
planning situation that may arise between Friday afternoon and 
Monday morning. The duty officer either will be in his office 
during this period or may be contacted at a telephone number 
specified by such officer. The name of the officer who will be 
on duty on any given weekend, together with the telephone number 
at which he or she can be reached, may be obtained during regular 
working hours by calling extension 555. After regular working 
hours, this information may be obtained from the Guard's office. 
The responsibilities of the duty officer will be as 
follows: 
1. To keep generally informed of domestic and 
international developments that might require 
action by the Board or the Federal Open Market 
Committee or their staffs. 
2. To contact members of the Board, its staff, or 
Reserve Bank personnel as the need arises. 

3. To coordinate activities at the Board's offices 
during weekend periods subject to the direction 
of the senior Board member or staff personnel 
present. 
It is understood that the Divisions of Research and 
Statistics and International Finance also plan to establish, on 
a more informal basis, a duty officer procedure whereby designated 
officials of those Divisions may be contacted over weekends on 
questions within the Divisions' area of responsibility. 
In the event that it is necessary in connection with such 
emergency or contingency activities for personnel to be at the 
Board's offices during weekends, or other nonworking hours, the 
Secretary's Office will endeavor to make any needed staff support 
services available. It may sometimes be necessary for the duty 
officer to call upon members of your Division to participate in 
such activities, and your and their cooperation in this respect 
i3 requested. 
This procedure is not intended to extend to those occasions 
when Divi sional assignments necessitate work by members of your 
staff outside regular working hours; in such circumstances, it is 
expected that each Division will ordinarily recruit secretarial, 
clerical, and similar assistance from members of its own staff. 

2 1 2 6 
jOTGOw'-. 
H r e s ^ : . * 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
o 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
6/6/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 2, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
From time to time in the past, there have been occasions 
^hen it has been necessary for Board or Federal Open Market Committee 
representatives to communicate rapidly with Reserve Bank managements 
outside of regular office hours. On such occasions, it has sometimes 
Proven impossible to reach either the President or the First Vice 
resident of every Reserve Bank promptly by telephone either in their 
offices or at home. 
In view of the possibility that similar situations may arise 
^
 t h e future, we believe that it would be desirable for the President 
o f each Reserve Bank to specify several other officers who might be 
contacted, if the Presidents and First Vice Presidents are not reachable, 
u order to initiate any needed Reserve Bank management response, 
ccordingly, it will be appreciated if you would forward and maintain 
p
U UP~to-date list of 4 or 5 senior officers (i.e., 2 or 3 besides the 
resident and First Vice President) who can be contacted in case of need, 
n the order in which they should be called, together with their home 
t elephone numbers. 
. 
We would also appreciate your furnishing us with an up-to-date 
st of current telephone numbers for your Bank and branches, if any, 
ncluding after hours office telephone numbers for use on Saturdays, 
^ndays and holidays. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
T 0 THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

2127 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 4 
6/6/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E 
O F 
T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
June 7, 1968 
To the Chief Executive Officer 
of All Financial Institutions 
Participating in the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Program: 
Dear Sir: 
The Federal Reserve
1s Voluntary Foreign Credit Re-
straint Program was launched in February of 1965 as a part 
of the President's effort to cope with the difficult bal-
ance of payments problem. It was designed to curtail for 
a time the outflow of dollars to other countries through 
banks and other financial institutions. This it has done, 
thanks to the excellent cooperation and support of all 
such institutions, with a degree of success that has 
earned world-wide commendation. In every year the tar-
get goals have been exceeded. 
From the outset I have administered the program in 
behalf of the Board of Governors. Now, however, because 
of the increasing pressure of other duties as Vice Chair-
man, I have requested the Board to delegate the administra-
tion of this function to my associate, Governor Andrew F . 
Brimmer, who has consented to carry on this work. I am 
confident that you will give to him the same high degree 
of cooperation you have given to me. 
With many thanks for the constructive part you have 
played in the program, I am 
Sincerely, 
J. L. Robertson 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
Item No. 5 
6/6/68 
For release in morning papers 
of Tuesday, June 11, 1968. 
June 10, 1968. 
Primary responsibility for administration of the Federal 
Reserve's Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program has been trans-
ferred from Vice Chairman J. L. Robertson to Governor Andrew F. 
Brimmer, at the request of the former. 
The change was made known today in letters from the Vice 
Chairman to all financial institutions participating in the program. 
The text read as follows: 
"The Federal Reserve's Voluntary Foreign Credit 
Restraint Program was launched in February of 1965 as a 
part of the President's effort to cope with the difficult 
balance of payments problem. 
It was designed to curtail 
for a time the outflow of dollars to other countries 
through banks and other financial institutions. 
This it 
has done, thanks to the excellent cooperation and support 
of all such institutions, with a degree of success that 
has earned world-wide commendation. 
In every year the 
target goals have been exceeded. 
"From the outset I have administered the program 
in behalf of the Board of Governors. Now, however, be-
cause of the increasing pressure of other duties as Vice 
Chairman, I have requested the Board to delegate the 
administration of this function to my associate, Governor 
Andrew F. Brimmer, who has consented to carry on this work. 
I am confident that you will give to him the same high 
degree of cooperation you have given to me. 
"Many thanks for the constructive part you have 
played in the program." 
-0-

f M * >, 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
item No. 6 
• F T H E 
6 / 6 / 6 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 7, 1968 
M r . Fred W . Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear M r . Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of June 3, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointments of Howard L. 
Alexander, Thomas C . Barman, and Fred C. Herriman, Jr., as 
assistant examiners for the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York. Please advise the effective dates of the appointments. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

23.30 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
item No. 7 
D F T H E 
6 / 6 / 6 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 10, 1968 
Mr. Maurice J. Swords, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64198 
Dear Mr. Swords: 
In accordance with the request contained in Mr. Scott's 
letter of June 4, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division of 
Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the appointment of Warren D . Clark, at 
present an assistant examiner, as an examiner for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City, effective July 1, 1968 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Z131 
BDARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
6/6/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 11, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
The Tucker County Bank, 
Parsons, West Virginia. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority^ 
approves under the provisions of Section 24A of the Federal 
Reserve Act an investment in bank premises by The Tucker 
County Bank, Parsons, West Virginia, of not to exceed 
$160,000 for the construction of a new main office building. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

n ^ « 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND 
Item No. 9 
6/6/68 
June 6, 1968 
Mr. Robert C. Pelander 
Executive Vice President and Cashier 
The City Bank Company 
Lorain, Ohio 
i^ear Mr. Pelander: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
yetem, acting under delegated authority, the Federal Reserve Sank 
of Cleveland has approved your request for an extension of time within 
which your bank may establish a branch in the vicinity of the inters<-cti<, 
of Oberlin Avenue and Tower F.oulevard, Lorain, T^orain County, Ohio. 
1 his extension expires on October 3, 
1968. 
O 
n the day operations are started, will you please wirft u* 
that the branch has been formally opened for business. 
Very truly your*. 
H. W. Huning 
Vice President 
