MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 16, 1971 

238 
o 
Cj 
A 
§ 
31} 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, September 16, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 01Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Crews, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
i 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
g 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the Board's staff 
and Mr. Graham, Vice President and General Counsel 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, also 
were present. 

2384 
9/16/71 
-2-
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and 
San Francisco on September 2; by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
on September 3; and by the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, 
Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas on September 9, 1971, 
of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board approved unanimously an application of Liberty State 
Bank & Trust, Hamtramck, Michigan, to issue a capital note. A copy of 
the letter sent ito the bank is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Peoples Mid-
Illinois Corporation, Bloomington, Illinois, to become a bank holding 
company through acquisition of shares of Peoples Bank of Bloomington, 
and authorized issuance of an order (copy attached as Item No. 2) 
reflecting that decision. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Midwest 
Bancorporation (of Ohio), Inc., Wilmington, Delaware, to become a bank 
holding company through acquisition of shares of the successors by merger 
to The Midwest Bank & Trust Company, Cleveland, Ohio, and The Firelands 
Community Bank, Huron, Ohio, and authorized issuance of an order (copy 
attached as Item No. 3) reflecting that decision. 

2385 
> 
9/16/71 
-3-
I 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Midland 
Investment Corporation, Casper, Wyoming, to become a bank holding 
P 
company through acquisition of shares of Hilltop National Bank, Caspe^ 
I 
a n d authorized issuance of an order (copy attached as Item No. 4) 
•» 
E 
reflecting that decision. 
t-
The Board approved unanimously an application by Fidelity American 
Bankshares, Inc., Lynchburg, Virginia, to acquire shares of The Culpeper 
National Bank, Culpeper, Virginia, and authorized issuance of an order 
t 
(copy attached as Item No. 5) reflecting that decision. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Fidelity 
American Bankshares, Inc., Lynchburg, Virginia, to acquire shares of 
Metompkin Bank and Trust Company, Parks ley, Virginia, and authorized 
issuance of an order (copy attached as Item No. 6) reflecting that 
r,; 
decision. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by T G Bancshares 
Co., St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of Continental Bank & Trust 
rS 
Company, Richmond Heights, Missouri, and authorized issuance of an order 
r' 
(copy attached as Item No. 7) reflecting that decision. 
—
—
— 
The Board approved a letter to the Chairman of the Conference 
£ 
of First Vice Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks (copy attached as 
H 
Item No. 8) interposing no objection to the incorporation by the Reserve 
Banks in their operating circulars of uniform provisions relating to 
unsorted cash items approved by the Conference at its meeting on August 3, 
1971. 

( C O O O 
9/16/71 
-4-
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Marine Midland International Corporation. The Board approved 
a.' ; • 
:; 
• • • 
unanimously a letter to Marine Midland International Corporation, 
New York, New York, granting consent to acquire stock of Marine Midland 
Incorporated, a company to be formed under the laws of Delaware, and to 
continue holding that stock after a related investment by the latter in a 
private merchant banking company to be organized in London, England. 
A 
copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 9. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation. The application 
of Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, 
for permission to make an indirect investment in Standard Bank (Channel 
Islands) Ltd., Jersey, Channel Islands, United Kingdom, had been placed 
on the consent calendar for September 2, 1971. However, consideration 
was deferred in view of questions that were raised. In a memorandum 
dated September 10, the Division of Supervision and Regulation provided 
additional information regarding the proposed investment. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the application. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 10. 
Draft bill to amend Hatch Act. With a memorandum dated 
September 14, 1971, the Legal Division submitted a draft of letter to the 
Office of Management and Budget regarding a bill prepared by the Civil 
Service Commission relating to the regulation of political activities of 
public employees. 
In view of questions raised by several Board members, 
action was deferred. It was understood that the staff would study the 
bill further and provide additional information for the Board. 

t 
9/16/11 
-5-
Southeast Banking Corporation. 
The Board approved unanimously 
an application by Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, to 
acquire shares of First National Beach Bank, Jacksonville Beach, Florida, 
and authorized issuance of an order (copy attached as Item No. 11) 
reflecting that decision. 
Chase Manhattan Corporation. 
In connection with an application 
to acquire shares of a proposed new bank to be located in Melville, 
Suffolk County, New York, The Chase Manhattan Corporation, New York, 
New York, had requested confidential treatment of certain deposit data 
I 
. 
! 
and financial information regarding nonbanking subsidiaries, although 
Board procedures ordinarily call for making such information available 
to the public upon request. The corporation also requested a hearing 
S' J .:>'•. 
".-.> C. •„ I.'/ , 
: 
* 
' 
- 
' 
if the Board was disposed to deny the request. 
A memorandum from the Legal Division dated September 10, 1971, 
stated that the corporation had not adequately supported its case for 
special confidential treatment. However, the arguments presented for 
confidential treatment had been reasonably comprehensive and, accordingly, 
there appeared to be no reason to conduct a hearing. 
Discussion indicated that the Board had no objection to granting 
the corporation a hearing. 
It was thereupon agreed that an oral presen-
tation would be held before appropriate members of the staff, together 
with any Board members who might wish to attend. 
It was understood that 
• -V • ••! i f rh 
a transcript would be made by a reporting service for submission to the 

38SS 
9/16/71 
-6-
Board. A copy of the notice published in the Federal Register is attached 
as Item No. 12. 
Foreign activities of domestic holding companies. 
On September 9, 
1971, the Board approved an amendment to Regulation Y, Bank Holding 
Companies, that would permit bank holding companies to acquire ownership 
or control of the shares of companies in which Edge corporations may 
invest, if such acquisitions are made with the Board's prior consent 
under procedures similar to those presently governing investments by 
Edge corporations. 
It had been understood that a number of editorial 
changes would be made in the amendment and that a draft press release 
covering the action would be circulated to members of the Board for 
their concurrence before it was issued. 
Subsequently, a draft press release was circulated and a number 
of changes in wording were suggested. A revised draft was prepared 
and presented for consideration at today's meeting, along with an 
explanatory memorandum dated September 14 from the Legal Division. 
The issuance of the press release and the amendment was authorized. 
(Note: Copies are attached to the minutes of September 9, 1971.) 
Control provisions of Holding Company Act. On September 10, 1971, 
the Board established as part of Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, 
or as guidelines to the Reserve Banks a series of presumptions regarding 
control of a bank or other company. 
It had been agreed that a draft press 
release covering the amendments and a draft letter to the Reserve Banks 

2389 
9/16/71 
-7-
regarding the guidelines would be submitted to the Board for consideration 
before their release. These documents had now been prepared. 
Following discussion during which there was agreement on several 
editorial revisions, issuance of the documents was authorized, along 
with the amendments to Regulation Y, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
(Note: Copies of the press release, the amendments to Regulation Y, 
and the letter sent to the Reserve Banks are attached to the minutes 
of September 10, 1971.) 
In connection with the Board's September 10 action, Governor 
Robertson mentioned that he had furnished the Secretary's Office a 
statement for the record covering the reasons for his dissent. He 
indicated that he did not propose to include the statement in the press 
release covering that action. 
Discussion then followed as to the circumstances under which views 
of dissenting Board members should or should not be made public, and also 
whether some time lag between the date of the action and release of the 
dissenting view was appropriate. The staff was asked to consider this 
matter and make a report to the Board. 
American Security and Trust. On September 10, 1971, the Board 
agreed not to initiate proceedings for the issuance of an order to 
require American Security Corporation, Washington, D.C. to divest itself 
of shares of bank stock acquired before January 1, 1971. A draft letter 
to American Security and Trust Company reflecting this decision had now 
been prepared. 

2390 
9/16/71 
-8-
The Board unanimously approved the letter. A copy is attached 
as Item No. 13. 
Operations in agency issues. Mr. Holland reported that it 
was planned to issue today an announcement of the authorization given 
by the Federal Open Market Committee for outright purchase and sale 
transactions in securities of Federal agencies. The proposed release 
was discussed, and it was understood that a statement of the initial 
guidelines for the conduct of System operations in such issues would be 
incorporated in the announcement. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
(Note: Pursuant to the understanding at the Board meeting 
; 
. ' r. 
'< , i. 
i . , ?. •. 
i-t. ..: • 
- 
. 
on August 17, 1971, it had been ascertained that Mr. Alan Pifer, 
President of the Carnegie Corporation of New York, would accept appoint-
ment if tendered as a Class C director of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York for the unexpired portion of the term ending December 31, 1973. 
Accordingly, a telegram was sent today to Mr. Pifer informing him of 
his appointment, effective October 1, 1971.) 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
2 3 9 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
9/16/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
ID THE OOARO 
September 16, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Liberty State Bank & Trust 
Hamtramck, Michigan 
48212 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1 (f) (3)(i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
of a $500,000 subordinated capital note by Liberty State Bank 
& Trust, Hamtramck, Michigan, to United Midwest Equity, Inc., 
Detroit, Michigan, as proposed in President Salkowski's letter 
of August 27, 1971. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

2392 
Item No. 2 
9/16/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
PEOPLES MID-ILLINOIS CORPORATION, 
Bloomington, Illinois, 
approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
the voting shares of Peoples 
Bank of Bloomington, Bloomington, 
Illinois. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222o 3(a)), an application by Peoples Mid-Illinois Corporation, 
Bloomington, Illinois, for the Board's prior approval of action 
^hereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Peoples 
Bank of Bloomington, Bloomington, Illinois ("Peoples Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
^ i t t e n notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 
• - ' •'• 
. 

2 3 9 2 
- 2 -
o f Banks and Trust Companies of the State of Illinois, and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Commissioner recommended approval of the 
aPplication. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 30, 1971 (36 Federal Register 14152), pro-
viding an opportunity for Interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
W a s forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
c°nsideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
t h e factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
a n d managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
ttle banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
Purpose of acquiring Bank as a subsidiary. Upon consummation of the 
Pr°Posal, Applicant will control .1 per cent of the total commercial 
bank deposits in the State. 
Peoples Bank ($40.5 million in deposits), located in Bloomington 
^Proximately 130 miles southwest of Chicago, is the largest of 20 banks 
the Bloomington area, and controls 19.5 per cent of deposits in 
t h a t area. 
(Banking data are as of December 31, 1970* and reflect 

2394 
-3-
holding company formations and acquisitions approved through August 31, 
1971.) As Applicant has no present operations or subsidiaries, consumma-
tion of this proposal would eliminate neither existing nor potential 
competition nor does it appear that there would be any adverse effects 
on any bank in the market. 
Applicant was recently organized for the purpose of 
consummating the present proposal and has not engaged in any business 
activities. Applicant's management has been drawn from directors and 
officers of Bank. Applicant's financial condition and future prospects 
are dependent on those of Bank. The financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects of Bank are satisfactory and consistent with approval 
°f this application. Although consummation of the proposal would not 
have any immediate effects on the convenience and needs of the community, 
considerations related to these factors are consistent with approval. 
^ is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposal would be 
^ the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that 
said application be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized 
above, provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 

2395 
-4-
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 16, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane 
and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
fSEAI] 

2396 
Item No, 3 
9/16/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
l n the Matter of the Application of 
MIDWEST BANCORPORATION (OF OHIO), INC., 
wilmington, Delaware, 
ii? aPproval of action to become a bank 
Riding company through the acquisition 
o* 100 per cent of the voting shares (less 
S e c t o r s ' qualifying shares) of (1) the 
successor by merger to The Midwest Bank & 
^ u s t Company, Cleveland, Ohio, and (2) 
successor by merger to The Firelands 
immunity Bank, Huron, Ohio. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
S e ctio n 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
(a)(1)) a nd section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Midwest Bancorporation (of 
° h i o), Inc., Wilmington, Delaware, for the Board's prior approval 
* action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company 
th 
<U 
^ough the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less 
Actors' qualifying shares) of (1) the successor by me rgar to 

2 3 9 ? 
-2-
The Midwest Bank & Trust Company, Cleveland, Ohio ("Midwest Bank"), 
and (2) the successor by merger to The Firelands Community Bank, 
Huron, Ohio ("Firelands Bank"). 
The banks into which Midwest Bank and Firelands Bank are 
to be merged have no significance except as a means of acquiring 
the voting shares of the banks involved. Accordingly, the proposed 
acquisition of the shares of the successor organizations are treated 
herein as the proposed acquisitions of the shares of Midwest Bank 
and Firelands Bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Ohio Superintendent 
o f Banks, and requested his views and recommendation. The Superintendent 
o f Banks offered no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
federal Register on July 29, 1971 (36 Federal Register 14080), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
t h e factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
ef£ect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
atld managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
t h e banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
t o be served, and finds that: 

2398 
-3-
Applicant is a newly-organized corporation. Upon con-
summation of the proposal herein, Applicant would control $41 
million in deposits, representing .19 per cent of total commercial 
bank deposits in the State, and would become the eighth largest of 
the nine multi-bank holding companies operating in Ohio. 
(All 
banking data are as of December 31, 1970, adjusted to reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
through August 31, 1971.) 
Midwest Bank ($25.7 million deposits), the only office 
which is located in downtown Cleveland, operates in the Cleveland 
banking market, which is approximated by Cuyahoga, Geauga, Lake, 
Lorain Counties, and controls .4 per cent of the commercial bank 
dePosits in that market. On the basis of deposits, Midwest Bank 
i s the sixteenth largest of the twenty-seven banks in the market. 
Firelands Bank ($15.3 million deposits), headquartered in 
Hu*on with one branch office in Berlin, Ohio, primarily serves 
t he Erie County area. On the basis of deposits, Firelands Bank 
i s the fifth largest of the six banks located in Erie County, with 
approximately 9 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in that 
area. 
Midwest Bank and Firelands Bank do not compete with each 
° t her to any meaningful extent, and the development of such con-
d i t i o n in the foreaeeable future appears unlikely. The nearest 
of£ices of the two banks are separated by a distance of more than 
5 0 miles, with numerous banks intervening, and Ohio law prevents 

-4-
M
Q
9 
either bank from branching into the county in which the other is 
located. On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposal would have no adverse effect on 
competition in any relevant area. 
The financial condition of each proposed subsidiary bank 
Spears satisfactory; both are regarded as having competent manage-
m e n t s a n d favorable prospects. It appears that Applicant would begin 
derations in satisfactory condition and with competent management; 
applicant's prospects, which are largely dependent upon those of 
xts two proposed subsidiaries, also appear favorable. There is no 
evidence that the existing banking needs of the communities involved 
a t e n o t b e i n S met. Affiliation of the two banks, however, would 
j 
Urease the lending capabilities of each bank by means of participation 
arrangements, and would enable the Firelands Bank to offer trust 
Services. These considerations relative to the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served lend some weight toward approval. 
It • 
is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be 
i u the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. On the basis of the record, that 
application be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized 
3b 
° V e , provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
er or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 

2400 
-5-
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 16, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Haisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
(SEAL) 

2401 
Item No. 4 
9/16/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
MIDLAND INVESTMENT CORPORATION, 
' 
Casper, Wyoming, 
' 
for approval of action to become a bank 
' 
'holding company through the acquisition 
°f at least 80 per cent of the voting 
' 
shares of Hilltop National Bank, Casper, 
1 
Wyoming. 
' 
i w 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 UoS.C. 
^842(a) (1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Midland Investment Corporation, 
Casper, Wyoming, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
Applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
at least 80 per cent of the voting shares of Hilltop National Bank 
("Bank"), Casper, Wyoming. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Vritten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 

2402 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 17, 1971 (36 Federal Register 13300), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
^ e factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
o f the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and mana-
gerial resoures and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks 
C° n c erned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
8erved, and finds that: 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
Purpose of acquiring Bank (deposits of $7.2 million) as a subsidiary. 
®ank i s the fourth largest of six banks in the Casper banking market 
holds 4.3 per cent of area deposits. 
(All banking data are as 
December 31, 1970, and reflect holding company formations and 
acquisitions approved through July 31, 1971.) 
Since Applicant has no present operations or subsidiaries 
3 hJ 
since the proposed acquisition involves only a corporate re-
a l i z a t i o n in the nature of a transfer of ownership of Bank from 
^ividuals t Q a folding company, consummation of the proposal would 
^fninate neither existing nor potential competition and would not 

-3-
240G 
appear to have any adverse effects on any other banks in the area 
involved. Thus, factors related to competition are consistent with 
approval. 
Applicant has no immediate plans to make any new services 
°f Bank, which would enable Bank more adequately to serve its customers. 
Applicant has arranged to borrow $300,000 from an unaffiliated bank 
uhich Applicant proposes to use to strengthen Bankfs financial condi-
tion. 
Although^ as a result of this loan, Applicant's debt to equity 
ratio is higher than normally preferred, Applicant's plan for servicing 
its debt appears to be reasonable and no impairment of Bank's financial 
condition seems likely. Applicant's proposal to strengthen the capital 
structure of Bank lends weight in favor of approval of the application. 
*t is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in 
the public interest and the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that said 
aPplication be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized above, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
m 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
PGriod is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
^ank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 16, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Haisel, and Brimmer, 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Daane and Sherrill. 
available, but has stated that it will augment the capital structure 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

24 CM. 
Item No* 5 
9/16/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIDELITY AMERICAN BANKSHARES, INC., 
Lynchburg, Virginia, 
approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
^he Culpeper National Bank, 
Culpeper, Virginia. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Fidelity American Bankshares, 
> Lynchburg, Virginia, a registered bank holding company, for 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
the voting shares of The Culpeper National Bank, Culpeper, Virginia 
("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller 

2405 
-2-
o f the Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
F e deral Register on July 20, 1971 (36 Federal Register 13350), pro-
v i n g an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
Warded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
0nsideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
a l 1 those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
fa 
ct°rs set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
Of 
e proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
s°urces and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and tho 
e convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and 
f i n ds that: 
Applicant, the eighth largest banking organization in 
controls five banks which hold combined deposits of approxi-
t e ly $310.7 million, representing 3.9 per cent cf the total commercial 
H eposits held by Virginia banks. 
(All banking data are as of 
Iqa. . 
m e r 31, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company formations and 
itions through July 31, 1971.) Upon acquisition of The Culpeper 
^ati0n ai Bank ($22.1 million deposits), Applicant would increase its 
ahate 
deposits in the State by only 0.3 percentage points, represent-
significant increase in Applicant's control of deposits in the 
D, 

2408 
-3-
, or change in its present ranking. 
In a separate application 
tfMed concurrently with the instant matter, Applicant proposes to 
acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Hetompkin Bank 
and Trust Company, Parks ley, Virginia. Affiliation of both banks 
W o u l d increase Applicant's share of the total Virginia commercial 
bank deposits to 4.3 per cent and would not, therefore, have any 
significant effect on the concentration of banking resources in 
Vir8inia or on Applicant's State-wide competitive position. 
Bank operates its main office, together with two branches, 
i n the town of Culpeper. Bank's service area includes all of Culpeper 
county and fringe areas of the bordering counties of Rappahannock, 
Edison, Fauquier and Orange. 
Six banking organizations compete 
Within this service area, the largest of which controls 25.9 per cent 
o f the service area deposits. Bank ranks second in size, with 24.5 per 
c°nt of such deposits, although another Culpeper bank is of comparable 
Si-Ze, holding 24.4 per cent. A branch of the second largest banking 
°rSanization in Virginia ranks fourth in area deposits with 15.2 per 
while the two remaining institutions are rural banks located 12 
atlcl 15 miles from Culpeper. Because of the number of banking alter-
atives available over a relatively widespread and essentially rural 
a > ifc does not appear that consummation of Applicant's proposed 
• JUUsition would have any detrimental effect on other competing banks. 
Applicant's subsidiary office closest to Bank is located 
niiles southwest of Culpeper. There is no meaningful existing 

competition between Bank and this office, or any of Applicant's other 
°ffices. 
It also appears unlikely that consummation of this proposal 
would preclude potential competition in the light of the facts of 
record, notably, the distances involved and the unlikelihood that 
Applicant would enter Bank's market de novo. Based on the foregoing, 
and the record before it, the Board concludes that consummation of 
th 
e proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect on competition 
i n any relevant market. 
The banking factors, as they relate to Applicant, its 
Subsidiaries, and Bank are satisfactory and consistent with approval 
o f the application. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and 
needs of the area lend some weight toward approval. Although the 
m° r e Important banking needs of the area are being served at the 
e s ent time, affiliation of Bank with Applicant will increase Bank's 
l° a n limits, enable Bank to meet the need for mortgages, provide 
a b^oader range of loans, and achieve internal operating economies 
W h ich could ultimately benefit its customers. 
It is the Board's 
jud 
gment that consummation of the proposed transaction would be in 
t h e Public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. On the basis of the record, that 
application be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized 
> provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
efore the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 

-5-
o r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 16, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 
9/16/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
*n the Matter of the Application of 
FIDELITY AMERICAN BANKSHARES, INC., 
Lynchburg, Virginia, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cont or more of the voting shares of 
^tompkin Bank and Trust Company, 
parksley, Virginia. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(1 o 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Fidelity American Bankshares, 
Lynchburg, Virginia, a registered bank holding company, for 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
m°re of the voting shares of Metompkin Bank and Trust Company, 
^arksley, Virginia ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Virginia 

-2-
2410 
Commissioner of Banking, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner recommended approval. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 20, 1971 (36 Federal Register 13350), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
th 
G Proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
^sources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and 
f l nds that: 
Applicant, the eighth largest banking organization in 
^ rginia, controls five banks which hold combined deposits of 
^Proximately $310.7 million, representing 3.9 per cent of the total 
c°mmercial bank deposits held by Virginia banks. 
(All banking data 
are a s of December 31, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company 
f°rmations and acquisitions through July 31, 1971.) Upon acquisition 
^etompkin Bank and Trust Company ($6.2 million deposits), Applicant 
wouid 
Point, 
°uld increase its share of deposits in the State by only 0.1 percentage 
» representing no significant increase in Applicant's control of 

-3-
2411 
deposits in the State, or change in its present ranking. In a separate 
application filed concurrently with the instant matter, Applicant 
Proposes to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
Culpeper National Bank, Culpeper, Virginia. Affiliation of both banks 
would increase Applicant's share of the total Virginia commercial bank 
deposits to 4.3 per cent and would not, therefore, have any significant 
effect on the concentration of banking resources in Virginia or on 
Applicant's State-wide competitive position. 
Bank operates its main office in Parks ley, one branch in 
Bloxom four miles north of the main office, and a second branch in 
°ak Hall 14 miles northeast of Parksley. All offices are located 
Accomack County, on Virginia's eastern shore between the Chesapeake 
®ay and the Atlantic Ocean. Bank is one of six banking institutions 
Accomack County (Bank's relevant market), where it ranks fifth 
size with 11.7 per cent of area deposits. Applicant's subsidiary 
°f£ice closest to Bank is located 85 miles away via two bridge-tunnel 
t o ll facilities, and apparently no significant present competition 
e*ist8 between Bank and this office, or any of Applicant's other offices, 
also appears unlikely that consummation of this proposal would fore-
clo 
°se potential competition because of Virginia's restrictive branching 
*aws> the wide separation between Applicant's offices and Bank, and 
th 
e Presence of many other banking offices in the intervening area. 
®ased on the foregoing, and the record before it, the Board concludes 

2412 
-4-
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse 
effect on competition in any relevant market. 
The financial condition and management of Applicant and its 
subsidiaries are satisfactory and the prospects of each are favorable. 
the contrary, however, the financial condition of Bank is unsatis-
factory and the capital base of the institution can provide only a 
limited margin of protection for the safety of depositors' funds. 
Applicant has made a commitment to supply adequate capital if this proposal 
is authorized. Thus, considerations relating to the banking factors weigh 
strongly in favor of approval of the application. 
Although there is no indication that present banking needs 
the area are not being adequately served at the present time, it 
i s apparent that consummation of the proposal would not only strengthen 
the Bank but provide the managerial skill to offer a wide range of 
hanking services that would serve to benefit the public. 
Considering 
^ e possible loss of a banking institution in the area, the convenience 
needs of the community weigh heavily in favor of approval of the 
aPPlication. 
It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the 
Proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that the 
aPPlication should be approved. 

2413 
-5-
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that said 
aPplication be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized above, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 16, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
(SEAL) 

Item No 
9/16/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF TIE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
1 G BANCSHARES CO., 
St« Louis, Missouri, 
approval of acquisition of 99.8 
cent or more of the voting shares 
Continental Bank & Trust Company, 
Richmond Heights, Missouri. 
-
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
S e ctio n 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by T G Bancshares Co., St. Louis, 
Missouri, a bank holding company, for the Board's prior approval of 
tli 
e acquisition of 99.o per cent or more of the voting shares of 
C° nUnental B a n k & T r u s t company, Richmond Heights, Missouri ("Bank") 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 
of p., 
mance for the State of Missouri, and requested his views and 
IT GQ 
- °nimendation. The Commissioner responded that his office had no 
to approval of the application. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 24, 1971 (36 Federal Register 13820), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
V7as forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
fche factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
fche banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
t o be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, the eighth largest bank holding company and 
the ninth largest banking organization in Missouri, has two sub-
si<liary banks with $130.4 million in deposits, representing 
approximately 1.1 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits 
i u the State. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1970, adjusted 
trt 
reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by 
he Board through August 31, 1971.) Consummation of the proposal 
erein 
would increase Applicant's share of deposits only slightly, 
ancl its ranking among the State's other banking organizations would 
remain the same. 

24ie 
-3-
Barik ($13,7 million deposits), with 2 per cent of the 
area's deposits, ranks fourteenth of the eighteen banks located 
in its primary service area, which is approximated by the east 
central portion of St. Louis County and a small segment of the 
Ci-ty of St. Louis. Applicant's two subsidiary banks are located 
approximately seven and twenty-nine miles from Bank, and neither 
competes with Bank to any significant extent. Moreover, in light 
Geographical barriers, Missouri's restrictive branching law, and 
the presence of numerous alternative banking facilities, it appears 
unlikely that consummation of the proposal herein would foreclose 
any significant potential competition. As a result of its affiliation 
^ t h Applicant, Bank should be able to compete more effectively with 
^ e larger banks in its service area. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that con-
Summation of the proposal would not have an adverse effect on com-
petition in any relevant area. Considerations relating to the 
fin 
nancial and managerial resources and prospects are regarded as 
c°nsistent with approval as they relate to Applicant and its 
snbsidiaries, and lend strong weight in support of approval as 
u ey relate to Bank, since Applicant would provide Bank with 
ac^i<-:Lonal qualified management personnel and strengthen Bank's 
* 
°aPital structure. Considerations relating to the convenience 
and n i 
needs of the communities to be served lend some additional 
'^ght in support of approval; Applicant proposes to expand Bank's 

trust operations and to increase its lending capabilities through 
Participations with Applicant's lead bank in St, Louis. It is 
the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in 
the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that 
said application be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized 
above, provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b.) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
Such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 16, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Haisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
(SEAL] 

! • ' 
B O A R D n r 
G O V E R N O R S 
2418 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F THE: 
Item No. 8 
9/16/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E E S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D F N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 16, 1971 
Mr. FAigene A. Leonard 
Chairman 
Conference of First Vice Presidents 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
St. Louis, Missouri 
63166 
Dear Mr. Leonard: 
This is to advise that the Board has reviewed 
the uniform provisions approved by the Conference of 
First Vice Presidents at its meeting of August 3, 1971, 
relating to acceptance by the Banks (under special 
circumstances) of deposits of cash letters containing 
unsorted immediate and deferred credit items for one 
day deferred credit availability. 
The Board interposes no objection to the 
incorporation of these uniform provisions in the operating 
circulars of the Reserve Banks. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
f 

/^cow-.. 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
2055! 
2419 
Item No. 9 
9/16/71 
A D D H C S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C n R R E D P O N O E t l C E 
T U 
T H E 
B U A U D 
September 16, 1971 
Marine Midland International Corporation 
250 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10017 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 8. 1971, the Board 
°f Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("MMIC") to purchase 
hold all of the stock of Marine Midland, Incorporated ("MMINC"), 
a company to be formed under the laws of Delaware, at a cost of 
^proximately $1,500,000, and to continue to hold the stock of MMINC 
after MMINC issues obligations with maturities in excess of one year 
UP to a maximum of $14,000,000 and purchases and holds all of the 
sPccial shares, which may be adjusted to ordinary shares, and a por-
tion of the Capital Loan of International Marine Banking Company, Ltd. 
>• Intermarine"), a merchant bank to be formed in London, England, at 
a cost Of approximately $12,500,000 and $3,000,000, respectively, 
Provided all the shares are acquired by MMIC and MMINC within one year 
r° m the date of this letter. 
In this connection, approval is also 
8ranteft for the direct and indirect purchase and holding of shares 
MMl'Nc and Intermarine by your Corporation in excess of the ap-
plicable limitations set forth in the provisions of Section 25(a) 
U.S0C. 615(c)] of the Federal Reserve Act and Section 211„9(b) 
Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
shares of MMINC by MMIC is granted subject to the following con-
ations : 
(1) That MMIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in MMINC (i.) if MMINC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under Sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with the 
consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and hold 
stock, (ii) if MMINC establishes any branch or 

2420 
Marine Midland 
International Corporation 
-2-
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in the United States or elsewhere, in any 
manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to MMIC, or (iii) if MMINC receives any deposits in 
the United States; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, MMIC 
(a) will cause MMINC to permit examiners appointed 
by the Board of Governors to examine MMINC, and (b) 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of MMINC as it may require from time 
to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by MMINC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if MMINC were a corporation 
organized under Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Ac t; and 
(4) That MMIC shall not carry on its books the shares of 
MMINC at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of MMINC, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of Intermarine by MMIC is granted subject to the 
same conditions set forth in the immediately preceding paragraph with 
substitution of "Intermarine" for MMINC, except that (2)(a) shall 
ol: apply and' (3) applies only to share acquisitions "for Intermarine's 
own account other than as underwriter or dealer. . .." 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
J-3nk of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of \ 
• association, and By-Laws of MMINC and Intermarine. 
The Board also grants consent for MMIC to continue to hold 
•^directly the shares of Intermarine after Intermarine issues obliga-
tions maturing in 1981 up t.o a maximum of $15,000,000, and for MMIC 
° c°ntinue to hold the stock of Marine Midland Overseas Corporation 
V MiMOC") after MMOC acquires up to $12,000,000 of such obligations of 
rmarino, which is in excess of MMOC's limitation for liabilities 
borrower without prior Board approval. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
^spends } until further notice, tne provisions of the third paragraph 
this letter so far as they relate to restrictions set forth in 
action 211.9(a), (b), and (c) of Regulation K. 

Marine Midland 
International Corporation 
-3~ 
You have requested consent for Intermarine to engage in 
the business of underwriting of dealing in securities. 
The Board 
has determined that such activities are usual in the business of 
banking in England. The Board's consent to such activities is con-
ditioned upon your Corporation's obtaining the prior consent of 
the Board of the continued holding of shares of Intermarine should 
Intermarine acquire stock of individual issuers costing in excess 
°f $500,000 or representing 25 per cent of the voting shares of any 
company, except in the case of underwriting operations covered by 
firm commitments from subunderwriters or other purchasers. 
With 
respect to trading in securities in which Corporations are prohibited 
from investing by the provisions of the eighth paragraph of Sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, the Board's consent is further 
conditioned on the fact that Intermarine will acquire such shares 
only as dealer or underwriter, maintain a size and turnover of in-
ventory that is reasonable in relation to demand, and dispose of 
such shares within a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
be reported .under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they 
are to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of 
acquisition, on any Call Report of Condition or similar report re-
quested by the Board. 
It is understood that MMINC1s notes will be payable only 
outside the" United States and, therefore, will not be subject: to 
Regulations D and Q. The Board also understands that Marine Midland 
Bank-New York ("MMB-NY") might guarantee payment of the obligations 
issued by MMINC. 
Such a guaranty would make the notes direct, primary 
obligations of MMB-NY. 
If MMB-NY1s obligation under the guaranty is 
Payable at any of Its offices in the United States, such notes would 
be "deposits" of MMB-NY under Section 204.1(f) of Regulation D and 
Section 217.1(f) of Regulation Q, unless one of the exceptions specified 
those Sections were applicable. 
(See Federal Reserve Bulletin for 
February 1970, page 140.) 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the foreign lending and investment activities of MMINC will be gov-
erned by the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines, in particular by 
those provisions which call for the foreign assets of MMINC, minus 
outstanding amounts of foreign borrowings by MMINC of an original 
maturity of three years or more, to be consolidated with the foreign 
8sets of your Corporation for the purposes of the Guidelines. 

242, 
Marine Midland 
International Corporation 
-4-
Your application indicates that Marine Midland Banks, 
Inc.., may wish to invest $12,500,000 to complete the payment on the 
preferred stock of Intermarine, should that be required. 
In this 
connection, at such time as that is contemplated, an application 
should be submitted to the Board in accordance with its regulations 
adopted pursuant to Section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
242r 
item No. 10 
9/16/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T H T H E 
D O A R O 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 21, 1971, the Board 
o f Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("CMOBC") to con-
tinue to hold the shares of Chase Manhattan Trust Corporation 
Limited ("CMTC"), Nassau, Bahamas, after CMTC acquires up to 43 per 
cent of the shares of Standard Bank (Channel Islands) Ltd. ("SBCI"), 
ersey, Channel Islands, at a cost of -approximately $600,000, pro-
vided such shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
ietter. 
In view of CMTC's management direction of SBCI, the Board's 
consent is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That CMOBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in SBCI if SECI at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the 
consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if SBCI establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Jersey or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to CMOBC; 
(2) 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, CMOBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of SBCI as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by SBCI 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if SBCI were a corporation 
organized under Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 

2424 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by SBCI in Jersey, 
Channel Islands, in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of SBCI. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment will be made with resources of CMTC and will not involve 
any transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from the United 
States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

2425 
Item No. 11 
9/16/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION, 
Miami, Florida, 
approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
First National Beach Bank, Jacksonville Beach, 
Jacksonville Beach, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
SGction 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Southeast Banking Corporation 
( Applicant"), Miami, Florida, a registered bank holding company, 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
m ° r e of the voting shares of First National Beach Bank, Jacksonville 
Beach ("Bank"), Jacksonville Beach, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
tK 
G Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The 
Comptroller recorr.mended approval of the application. 

242C 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on July 10, 1971 (36 Federal Register 13004), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
°f the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and mana-
gerial resources and future prospects of Applicant and the banks con-
cerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
and finds that: 
Applicant presently controls 13 banks with aggregate deposits 
o f $1,050 million, representing 7.5 per cent of total commercial bank 
deposits held by Florida's banks, and is the State's second largest 
inking organization. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1970, 
and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by 
the Board through July 31, 1971.) Applicant's acquisition of Bank, 
With deposits of approximately $22 million, would not represent a 
significant increase in Applicant's share of total deposits in the States 
Bank is located at Jacksonville Beach, a coastal community 
Duval County, approximately 20 miles east of Jacksonville. 
On 
fche basis of deposits, Bank is the seventh largest of 16 banking 

242° 
-3-
organizations in the Jacksonville banking market, which is approximated 
by Duval County, and holds 1.7 per cent of the commercial bank deposits 
in this market. Acquisition of Bank by Applicant would result in 
Applicant's control of 3.2 per cent of the Jacksonville market as the 
sixth largest banking organization operating therein. No significant 
competition appears to exist between any of Applicant's subsidiary banks 
and Bank. The closest of Applicant's subsidiaries to Bank is located 
in downtown Jacksonville, approximately 17 miles west of Bank; and, 
on the basis of the facts of record, notably, Florida's restrictive 
branching laws and the fact that the 17-mile intervening area contains 
a number of banks, an intra-coastal waterway and a 10-mile undeveloped 
area, it appears that meaningful future competition between Applicant's 
subsidiaries and Bank is not likely to develop. 
Based upon the record, the Board concludes that consummation 
o f the proposed acquisition would have no significant adverse effect 
°n competition in any relevant area. The financial conditions and 
managerial resources of Applicant and its subsidiary banks are regarded 
a s generally satisfactory, and the prospects for each appear favorable. 
Bank's financial condition appears generally satisfactory; and Applicant 
has stated that it will provide capital and personnel to Bank as needed. 
T he major banking needs of the Jacksonville Beach community apparently 
are being served adequately by the existing banking institutions. 
However, there appears to be a growing need for trust services in the 
immediate area Bank serves, which are not conveniently available to the 

242° 
-4-
Jacksonville Beach community. Applicant proposes to assist Bank in 
establishing a trust department. Considerations under the convenience 
and needs aspects of this proposal are consistent with approval of the 
applic ation. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the pro-
Posed acquisition would be in the public interest and that the appli-
cation should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the Board's findings and 
reasons summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
( a ) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) 1 ater than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such time be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 16, 1971. 
x* < 
> 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
(SEAL) 
Tynan Smith" 
Secretary 

I > 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 222] 
[Itag. Y] 
BAUIC HOLDING COMPANIES 
Item No. 12 
9/16/71 
Notice of Oral Presentation Regarding Disclosure of 
Information Filed with Applications 
The Chase Manhattan Corporation has filed an application with 
«>e Board of Governors for permission under section 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
folding Company Act to acquire all but directors' qualifying 8 h a r e s 
o f 
3 P r 0 p 0 s e d 
b a a k 
b 0 located in Melville, Suffolk County, Hew York. 
Chase has requested confidential treatment of certain deposit data and 
CCl'tain financial information concerning its nonbanking subsidiaries. 
the Board's procedures, such data and information, when included 
8 8 P £ " ° f "" • P P " « " o i » , are made available for public inspection and 
Spying. Absent Board action granting the request for confidential 
tr°atment, Chase has asked for a hearing on its request. 
The Board has ordered a public oral presentation on this matter 
t o he conducted before its General Counsel and the Director of its 
l V i S l ° " 
Supervision and Regulation commencing at 2:30 p.m. on 
Fr in 
a y ' O c t o b e r 15, 1971, i„ Room 1202 of the Federal Reserve Building, 
^ 
£ t r e e t a n d Constitution Avenue, Washington, D. C. A transcript 
• «-.e proceeding will be prepared, copies of which may be purchased 
l / 3 r d a n d P a u 1 ' 4 1 0 Firnt Street, S. E., Washington, D» C. 
Persons interested in presenting views should file with the 
" y of the Board by October 9, 1971, a request for permission to 

2430 
-2-
•do so. 
Written material for the record may be submitted in lieu of 
oral presentation,. Also, written comments on material submitted by 
participants in the oral presentation uill be considered if received 
by the Secretory before October 31, 1971, 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 23, 1971* 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 

.ox 
'tyCK&P?'' 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
2431 
Item No. 13 
9/16/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C C 
T U T H E 
B O A R D 
September 20, 1971 
Mr. Robert C. Baker 
Chairman of the Board 
American Security and Trust Company 
Washington, D.C. 
20013 
Dear Mr. Baker: 
This is to advise you that the Board of Governors has 
adopted the enclosed amendments to Regulation Y. The Board's staff 
will be glad to discuss with officers of your organization or your 
counsel the application of these amendments to the particular facts 
and circumstances of American Security and Trust Company and American 
Security Corporation in order that your organization may be brought 
^-nto compliance therewith at the earliest practicable date. 
At the same time, the Board has decided not to initiate pro-
ceedings for the issuance of an order under authority of section 5(b) 
°f the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 to require American Security 
Corporation to divest itself of any shares of bank stock acquired by 
it prior to January 1, 1971, the ownership of which has been heretofore 
reported to the Board. 
In reaching these decisions, the Board noted that your organi-
sation made timely reports of these acquisitions to Federal, regulatory 
agencies. 
The Board also took into consideration the fact that the 
invocation of its adjudicatory power under section 5(b) in an attempt 
to invalidate past transactions, which were completed at a time when 
different statutory standards were in force, would raise substantive 
and procedural issues which are materially different from those in-
volved in the exercise of the Board's rulemaking power on a prospective 
basis to determine precisely what kinds of companies must register under 
the Act and to govern their future conduct. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Enclosure 
