MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 15, 1971 

3380 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, December 15, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 11:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
••' •••. . • 
"i; r „ •. ,• ., 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the 
application of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, New York, 
New York, to organize a corporation under section 25(a) of the Federal 
f 
Reserve Act to be known as Morgan Guaranty International Bank of San 
Francisco, to be located in San Francisco. A copy of the letter sent 
to the applicant, with which a preliminary permit was transmitted, is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Consideration of the application of Barnett Banks of Florida, 
Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of Mercantile National 
t OV: 
t 
Bank of Miami Beach, Miami Beach, Florida, was deferred for exploration 
°f a question that was raised. 
1/ 
Attended afternoon session only. 

33S1 
12/15/71 
-2-
The Board unanimously approved the application of United 
Missouri Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares 
o f The Brookfield Banking Company, Brookfield, Missouri, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Zions Utah 
Bancorporation, Salt Lake City, Utah, to retain shares of Arvada 
1st Industrial Bank, Arvada, Colorado, and authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Securities 
Investor Protection Corporation, Washington, D. C., regarding the 
. a- , 'j.-i.-Jou, . U I ? - • " v» ; « 
. : 
reappointment of Mr. J.^Charles Partee as a member of the board of 
directors of the Corporation. A copy of the letter is attached as 
* K :> • ?. : , 
- .a ' ' • 
' • • - - '-if ; 
I^gmjjo. 4t 
The Board authorized issuance of an order, in a form incorporating 
a revision suggested by Governor Maisel, reflecting denial on Decern-
oer 10, 1971, of the application of BTNB Corporation, Birmingham, Alabama, 
v 
•"IT , 
iiOL"MOO0f 
AviVXrf'js r , 
X'-' 
'-?•>• 
'it 
CXon-ii 
? HKUV.-0 
acquire shares of Cobbs, Allen & Hall Mortgage Company, Inc., also 
Birmingham. Attached as Item No. 5 is a copy of the order in the 
in which it was issued. 
> i it .« 
The Board authorized issuance of an order, in a form incorporating 
a revision suggested by Governor Maisel, reflecting approval on 
Lnrion 

3382 
12/15/71 
-3-
December 10, 1971, of the application of Central National Chicago 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to acquire shares of Union Realty 
Mortgage Company, Inc., also of Chicago. Attached as Item No. 6 is 
a copy of the order in the form in which it was issued. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened at 2:10 p.m. in the 
Board Room, with Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, 
Maisel, and Brimmer present and the following staff in attendance: 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Layton, Director of Equal Employment Opportunity 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Althausen, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
u 

338 
o 
12/15/71 
-4-
Mrs. Semia and Miss Key, Technical Assistants, Office 
of the Secretary 
Messrs. Gardner and Plotkin, Senior Attorneys, Legal 
Division 
Other supporting staff 
Boston and Philadelphia building programs. On December 13, 
1971, the Board discussed, but deferred action pending further con-
sideration, recommendations by the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations in memoranda of December 2 and November 29 regarding the 
Boston and Philadelphia Reserve Bank building projects, respectively. 
•The Division recommended, with specified reservations and understand-
lrigs, approval of the schematic design phase of the Boston project 
and of the design development phase of the Philadelphia project. In 
a memorandum of December 6, 1971, the Committee on Organization, Com-
pensation, and Building Plans stated its concurrence with the 
recommendations. 
Today's discussion stressed the expectation that square footage 
c°sts would be reduced for the Boston project and the desirability of 
observing the quality standards in the Board's guidelines, without 
Unjustified and expensive extras in any project. The question of the 
aPpropriateness of visitor facilities provided for the Philadelphia 
Project was given special attention. Governor Brimmer expressed 
Ejections to certain elements of the design for the Boston project. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board unanimously 
gEgroved the Division's recommendations. Copies of the letters sent 
t 
S 
P. 
"H 
€ 
r 

33 
12/15/71 
-5-
to the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston and Philadelphia are attached 
a s Jtems 7 and 8, respectively. 
"Shell" branches. In a memorandum of December 3, 1971, 
Mr. Holland suggested that the Board consider the pending applications 
shell branches, rule on the question of the permissibility of 
interlocking personnel among branches in Nassau, Bahamas, and direct 
the staff to pursue certain studies related to the issues underlying 
the shell branch question. After preliminary discussion on December 7, 
the Board deferred action pending the availability of documentation 
uPon which work was in progress. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum of December 8, 1971, 
from Mr. Robert Solomon attaching an analysis, prepared by Mr. Gemmill 
a t the request of Governor Brimmer, of the possible use of a Euro-
dollar facility as a substitute for the Voluntary Foreign Credit 
Restraint Program. 
In a memorandum of December 15, Mr. Dahl referred to the concern 
Members of the Board had expressed regarding the possible use of shell 
branches to obtain funds for home office use or to make loans for 
domestic purposes, free of the restraint of reserve requirements and 
interest rate ceilings. Mr. Dahl suggested that, as a special condition 
t° approval of the shell branch applications now pending, the Board 
might revoke the 90-day period provided by Regulation M, Foreign 
• 
.. 
J-.-* 
.'•{,, 
V-,-.'. 
v — ' S ? 
v • 
I n 
' p . ' . 
»
j 
t-H C-? 3 
t l C 
^•Ctivities of National Banks, during which a reserve-free base might 

3385 
12/15/71 
-6-
be built up, thus making any funds advanced by those branches to head 
offic es or any loans to United States residents for domestic purposes 
immediately subject to a 20 per cent reserve requirement. 
Today's agenda grouped pending applications for shell branches 
into three categories, the first of which was comprised of applications 
from banks that at present had no foreign branches. 
Chairman Burns expressed the view that it would be desirable, in 
view of the drastic reduction of Euro-dollar borrowing, to review the 
Board's regulations with respect to the special reserve requirement placed 
otl those borrowings to see whether they should be abandoned or substan-
tially modified. 
Governor Mitchell agreed that the time had come for regulatory 
overhaul. He had wrestled with the problems of the underlying issues 
to arrive at a posture in which he could feel comfortable. As the 
P r i n c i p a l elements of such a p o s t u r e he s u g g e s t e d the 
f o l l o w i n g : 
Foreign branches and affiliates of United States banks 
should be subject to the regulations and policies of 
foreign countries, rather than those of the United States, 
to the extent that their operations do not impinge on 
domestic United States interests. 
Pursuant to the foregoing premise, foreign offices, 
whether in tax havens or not, should be permitted to 
accept foreign deposits and make foreign loans sub-
ject to whatever regulations foreign sovereigns impose. 
The United States interest, however, can be affected 
by the operations of foreign offices when foreign funds 
are used to finance operations in the United States or 
when branches or affiliates of United States banks are 
used to circumvent the tax or monetary constraints placed 
on United States persons--natural or corporate. 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 

3386 
12/15/71 
-7-
(4) To deal with foreign financing of United States 
activities, direct loans by affiliates or branches, 
or Nassau branches, to United States citizens or 
corporations should be prohibited. Branches could 
make advances to their home offices, subject to the 
same reserve requirements as a deposit of like term. 
A Nassau branch might make a 30-day advance (treated 
as a 30-day certificate of deposit) and obtain the 
funds on a day-to-day basis. If the advance were 
for less than 30 days, demand deposit requirements 
would apply. There would be no reserve-free base 
and no application of Regulation Q. Governor Mitchell 
would be disposed to prohibit sale of domestic assets 
to foreign affiliates (outright or contingent), but 
not to interpose barriers to outright or contingent 
sale of assets in the United States. 
(5) To insure the integrity of United States tax and 
monetary controls, tax haven offices should not be 
permitted to accept deposits from United States 
citizens or corporations — except non-interest-bearing 
convenience accounts for household or day-to-day 
business operations (demand deposits). 
Some problems would probably be encountered, Governor Mitchell 
c°ntinued, such as defining United States corporate citizens and phas-
ing out reserve requirement-free bases. However, the approach he had 
'M 
outlined was one that he could live with, and he thought Mr. Dahl's 
Suggestion that the period to establish a reserve-free base be eliminated 
was consistent with that approach. The staff had emphasized the inequity 
°f the long delay in acting upon the pending applications; Governor 
Mitchell was willing to approve them if there could be agreement to 
move reasonably promptly to consideration of the underlying issues. 
ft 
Governor Daane advocated approving the eight applications in 
y 
Category I, with the elimination of the period to establish a reserve-
free base, as a holding operation pending debate of an approach to the 

3387 
12/15/71 
-8-
basic issues such as Governor Mitchell had suggested. He believed 
that while Governor Brimmer's suggestion of the possibility of sub-
stituting a Euro-dollar facility for the VFCR was worthy of considera-
tion and the Board might eventually want to make such a move, 
consideration of it at present would be premature and the long-term 
Possibility should not inhibit action on the pending applications. 
Discussion of the proposal to eliminate the period for 
establishing a reserve-free base included exploration of its possible 
relationship to the motives for establishing shell branches. Governor 
Brimmer said he would not want to see the opportunity for developing 
a reserve-free base eliminated unless the Board set a specific deadline 
for reviewing both the reserve requirement on Euro-dollar borrowings 
• 
•• • 
and the issues related to shell branches. 
Governor Maisel proposed that the eight applications in 
Category I be approved, with a warning given to the applicants that a 
searching review of these types of facilities was being conducted by 
the Board, as a result of which approval might be withdrawn or modified. 
views expressed with respect to this proposal were evenly divided. 
' 
}•:•.-..i\ 
.-.J? < a l.h • ' 
• • . 
• ' 
Discussion developed majority support for a proposal to approve 
'the eight applications in Category I, with elimination of the oppor-
tunity to establish a reserve-free base. Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer took a negative view. Chairman Burns stated that he supported 
the proposal without prejudice to his future position regarding either 

33S8 
12/15/71 
-9-
the kind of posture Governor Mitchell had advocated or the elimination 
°f the opportunity for establishing a reserve-free base. Although 
he did not know enough about shell branches to have formed a firm view, 
no one had ever convinced him that there was a good reason for denying 
the applications. Yet some of the uneasiness several members of the 
Board had expressed had affected his own attitude. 
The Board thereupon approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
dissenting, applications from the following banks to establish branches 
In Nassau, Bahamas. Copies of the letters sent to the applicants are 
attached as indicated. 
Society National Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
Merchants National Bank and Trust 
Company of Indianapolis, 
Indianapolis, Indiana. 
Fidel ity Union Trust Company, 
Newark, New Jersey. 
-^he Omaha National Bank, 
°^aha, Nebraska. 
lutv.vi <':vjcribcd ':h«> ivoe .-urn; ,;t 
Central National Bank in Chicago, 
^icago, Illinois. 
National Newark & Essex Bank, 
Newark, New Jersey. 
•^e First National Bank of Atlanta, 
Georgia-. : 
UnitedStatesuNat^BAal B&nk, 
san Diego, California. 
Item No. 
10 
11 
• ; 
• 
12 
13 
14 
15 
•Vs ,';: 
16 

r*> 
12/15/71 
-10-
Category II was comprised of applications involving the 
question of multiple shell branches for banks without full-service 
foreign branches. The applications of the following institutions 
W e r e approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting, with 
elimination of the opportunity to establish a reserve-free base with 
respect to the applications of the three subsidiaries of United 
Virginia Bankshares. 
United Virginia Bank/State Planters, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
Item No. 
17 
L - Hi , ; 
' • ' ' < 
United Virginia Bank/First & Citizens National, 
Alexandria, Virginia. 
United Virginia Bank/Seaboard National, 
Norfolk, Virginia. 
State Street Bank Boston International, 
New York, New York. 
18 
19 
20 
Category II also included the application of Union Bank, Los 
Ange les, California, to establish a shell branch in Paris, France. 
I n a memorandum of June 28, 1971, the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation described the reasons given by the applicant for wanting 
to establish a Paris facility. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that it would be unwise 
to allow Union Bank to open a branch in a foreign city where other 
United States banks had full-service branches. If the bank wanted to 
compete for Euro-dollar business in the Paris market, it should do so 
h-- 
jv.fy,l.\ '.. r.~. j 11 < • 3, iT'- cTrr^ *JV' r«, .t. *»^ 
• ^ *» •>- " < , .— 
' 
* ; . y 
m 

33S0 
12/15/71 
-11-
°n the same competitive level as the United States banks that were 
already in that market. If there was question about the wisdom of 
shell branches in Nassau, he thought there was greater question about 
shell branches in Paris, and he doubted that approval would be consistent 
with the Board's authority to permit establishment of foreign branches 
If they contributed to the foreign commerce of the United States. 
After further discussion a vote was taken, which indicated 
that Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell and Daane were in favor of 
approval, while Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer were opposed. 
The applicant was informed of this failure to approve in a letter in 
the form attached as Item No. 21. 
Category III consisted of applications by Bank of America, 
New York, New York, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, San 
F*ancisco, California, to establish branches in Nassau, Bahamas. Both 
o f the applicants had existing full-service foreign branches. 
The applications were approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
dissenting, with elimination of the opportunity to establish a reserve-
free base with respect to the application of Wells Fargo Bank. A copy 
o f the letter sent to Bank of America is attached as Item No. 22, and 
a copy of the letter sent to Wells Fargo Bank is attached as Item No. 23. 
Interlocking personnel among Nassau branches. The Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas had referred to the Board an inquiry as to 
whether Regulation L, Interlocking Bank Relationships under the Clayton 

3381 
12/15/71 
-12-
A-ct, prohibited the use of the same personnel to represent two or 
more banks at their branches in Nassau, Bahamas. 
The Legal Division analyzed the question in a memorandum of 
July 28, 1971, and stated that, while an opposite conclusion was 
legally supportable, the Division believed the better view was that 
such interlocking personnel relationships were not prohibited by 
section 8 of the Clayton Act. A draft letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas was attached. 
The letter was approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
dissenting. A copy is attached as Item No. 24. 
First Union National Bancorp. At the meeting on December 10, 
1971, the Board discussed, but deferred action on, the application of 
First Union National Bancorp, Inc., Charlotte, North Carolina, to 
acquire shares of Reid-McGee & Company, Jackson, Mississippi, a mort-
gage servicing company. The Division of Supervision and Regulation 
had recommended approval in a memorandum of December 6, 1971. 
1 L" t 
' 
• 
During discussion at today's meeting Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer reiterated their views that the proposal involved anticompetitive 
effects that would not be offset by public benefits. 
The Board approved the application, Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer dissenting, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision. A copy of the order is attached under Item No. 25, along 
with a copy of the dissenting statement of Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 

3392 
12/15/71 
-13-
First Chicago Corporation. At the meeting on December 10, 
1971, the Board discussed, but deferred action on, the application 
°f First Chicago Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to acquire shares of 
J. Markin & Co., also of Chicago, a mortgage banking firm. The 
Divi sion of Supervision and Regulation had recommended approval in a 
memorandum of October 4, 1971. 
At today's meeting Governor Mitchell indicated a favorable 
Position on the ground that the share of the market involved was not 
substantial, but the corporate advantage was relatively great. He 
thought that the mortgage business of both First Chicago Corporation 
and of I. J. Markin were small in the Chicago area, and therefore the 
acquisition should have a minimal impact. 
Governor Maisel expressed an adverse view because it seemed 
to him that since both First Chicago Corporation and I. J. Markin 
specialized in downtown property, there would be some loss of both 
listing and potential competition. 
Governor Robertson cited the advisory report from the 
department of Justice as presenting good reasons for denial. He thought 
the proposal would eliminate potential competition, with almost no 
benefits to the public. 
At the conclusion of the discussion a vote was taken, which 
indicated that Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell and Daane favored 
approval, whereas Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer were opposed. 
Ihe application therefore failed of approval. 

12/15/71 
-14-
The meeting then recessed to permit participation by the 
Board members in a ceremony comprising a part of the Board's Christmas 
Program. The meeting reconvened at 4:30 p.m. with all members of the 
Board present and substantially the same staff attendance as at the 
time of recess. 
Chemical New York Corporation. At the meeting on December 7, 
1971, the Board deferred action, pending exploration of questions 
that were raised, on the application of Chemical New York Corporation, 
New York, New York, to acquire shares of the successor by merger to 
Eastern National Bank of Long Island, Smithtown, Suffolk County, New 
Y°rk. The Division of Supervision and Regulation had recommended 
aPproval in a memorandum of November 10, 1971. 
After discussion during which Governor Mitchell indicated that 
questions he had raised had been resolved, the Board approved the appli 
Cation, Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting. It was understood 
fchat an order reflecting this decision would be prepared for the Board' 
c°nsideration, and that a dissenting statement also would be prepared. 
" -a u 
, •,.; 
- . 
- • , • 
Civil rights. At the meeting on December 7, 1971, there was 
' 
Lr--.-- 
Mii-
a§reement that Governor Brimmer should continue negotiations he had 
Ur*der way looking toward coordinated issuance of statements by Federal 
supervisors of financial institutions regarding implementation of 
Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968, relating to nondiscrimina-
tion in housing financing. The Board had earlier approved in principle 

3384 
12/15/71 
-15-
' S I S if / I 
a proposed statement. In a memorandum of December 14, 19 71, Mr. Leavitt 
reported the tenor of discussion at a meeting Governor Brimmer and Board 
staff members had had with representatives of the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development. A draft press release regarding the Board's 
statement was submitted by Mr. Leavitt with a memorandum of December 10. 
At today's meeting Governor Brimmer commented on his conferences 
with representatives of HUD and the supervisory agencies. HUD had 
advanced an eight-point program, and although it considered the actions 
c°ntemplated by the agencies insufficient, they constituted a forward 
step. Governor Brimmer believed that the Federal Reserve had in fact 
taken more steps to promote enforcement of the nondiscrimination provisions 
o f the statute than it was being given credit for, and he suggested a 
number of revisions in the statement and in the press release to give 
a more complete picture of the efforts that had been made. 
The ensuing general discussion included a recommendation by the 
^egal Division that, since there were serious doubts about the authority 
the Board to issue regulations in this area, the statement and press 
release 
avoid giving any impression that the program represented 
regulatory action. 
After agreement upon a number of changes, the press release and 
statement were approved unanimously in the form attached under Item No. 26. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Holland then withdrew. 

12/15/71 
-16-
Chairman Burns commented in general terms on the status of 
i s;: i-; 
' H •>: it • .. 
... 
international monetary negotiations. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

O O O vj> 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 1 
12/15/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
December 15, 1971 
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company 
of New York 
23 Wall Street 
New York, New York 10015 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated October 8, 1971, 
Morgan Guaranty International Bank of San Francisco, San Francisco, 
California, and there is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing 
that Corporation to exercise such of the powers conferred by Sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary 
to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
issue its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
or secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; (2) 
that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned by 
citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling interest 
in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered under 
the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States or# 
bV firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned by 
citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital 
stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent 
has been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individually 
Paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. There-
after the treasurer or secretary shall certify to the payment of the 
remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with 
law. 

3337 
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company 
of New York 
-2-
Your attention is directed to the fact that Morgan Guaranty 
International Bank of San Francisco will have no separate base under 
the foreign credit restraint effort and that any foreign loans and 
investments will need to be made under the ceiling of Morgan Guaranty 
Tyust Company of New York. Accordingly, the foregoing approval is 
given with the understanding that any foreign loans and investments 
o f t h e Corporation will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to your bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

3398 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
DFTHE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D.C. HOS5! 
December 15, 1972 
\ 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated October 8, 1971, of MORGAN GUARANTY INTERNATIONAL BANK OF 
SAN FRANCISCO duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that 
MORGAN GUARANTY INTERNATIONAL BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO is authorized 
to exercise such of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) 
as are incidental and preliminary to its organization pending the 
issuance by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of 
a final permit generally to commence business in accordance with 
the provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules ?nd regulations 
°f the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
Pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
S E A L 
B y 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3399 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/15/71 
UNITED MISSOURI BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Missouri Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, a 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
12 < 
vU.S.c. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent (plus directors' qualify-
in8 shares) or more of the voting shares of The Brookfield Banking Com-
Pany, Brookfield, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
acc°rdance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
al1 comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
°f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls 8 banks with total deposits of $489.1 
toill-t 
x°n, amounting to 4,3 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks 
n the State, Acquisition of Bank would increase Applicant's control of 
Grcial bank deposits in the State by ,1 per cent and Applicant's 
as the fourth largest multi-bank holding company in the State 
remain unchanged. Bank ($14.4 million in deposits) is the 
at§est of nine banks in the Brookfield banking market (approximated 
^ ^inn County and the northernmost part of Chariton County), controll-
31.x per cent of market deposits. (Banking data are as of June 30, 
1971 
> and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
th*°ugh October 31, 1971.) 

-2-
3400 
No meaningful competition exists between Bank and any of 
applicant !s subsidiaries. The nearest subsidiary of Applicant is Kemper 
State Bank, Boonville, Missouri, which is located approximately 100 
^iles from Bank. In view of Missouri's restrictive branching law and 
the area's low population to bank ratio which makes de novo entry 
^attractive, it appears unlikely that consummation of this proposal 
w°uld foreclose any significant potential competition between this and 
a n y °ther of Applicant's subsidiaries and Bank. It is unlikely that 
applicant would enter the market through acquisition of one of the 
SllQaller banks in the market due to the fact that its chief executive 
of£icer has been a major stockholder of Bank since 1959. Consummation 
the proposal would have no adverse effects on existing or potential 
c°mpetition nor would it have adverse effects on any competing bank. 
Bank is in generally satisfactory financial condition. However, 
because of recent deposit growth it is in need of additional capital which 
filiation with Applicant will supply. Accordingly, considerations re-
nted to the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
lend some weight toward approval. Affiliation with Applicant woul< 
n a M e Bank to meet the growing credit needs of the market's largest 
katik 
farrning and industrial organizations. Applicant also intends to assist 
0 tirh 
Gnt assistance through its lead bank, and to assist Bank in expanding 
in applying for trust powers, to provide Bank with industrial devel-
nen 
s of the community to be served lend weight toward approval. It is 
Present facilities. Considerations related to the convenience and 
need 
the Board's judgment that the transaction is in the public interest and 

-3-
3401 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 15, 1971, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
Voting for this action: vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
^tchell, Maisel, and Briirmer. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
and Governor Daane. 

340 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/15/71 
ZIONS UTAH BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Industrial Bank 
Zions Utah Bancorporation ("Zions"), Salt Lake City, Utah, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act o f 1956, as amended, has applied for the Board's approval under 
3 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y to 
tet*in all of the voting shares of Arvada 1st Industrial Bank ("Arvada 
lst'»\ * 
Arvada, Colorado, Notice of the application, affording opportunity 
| o 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been duly 
klished. The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
received have been considered. 
The operation by a bank holding company of an industrial bank 
Is a n activity that the Board has determined is closely related to 
Dunki-
ng if conducted in the manner authorized by State law, so long 
e institution does not both accept demand deposits and make 
^ercial loans and the activities of the institution are not con-
ducted < 
a manner that is inconsistent with limitations the Board 
stablished pursuant to § 4(c)(8) of the Act (5 225.4(c) of 
N a t i o n *). 
It appears that Arvada 1st does not accept demand deposits 
neajges^so.la3cy-in~fche-act±vitic^~described in § 225.4(a)(2) of 
l o n Y. Accordingly, the activities of Arvada are closely 
c e d to banking. 

3403 
-2-
Arvada 1st, has total assets of about $400,000; It serves 
a Portion of the suburban area surrounding Denver, Colorado, Zions 
c°ntrols five industrial banks in Colorado, One of these, the 
Llttleton 1st Industrial Bank (total assets $1,7 million) 
located in a suburb on the opposite side of Denver from the 
location of Arvada 1st, about 15 miles from Arvada 1st, Within the 
Denver market area, numerous financial institutions compete with 
^rvada 1st for loans and deposits. There is no substantial existing 
c°GQpetition which would be foreclosed by the proposed transaction 
between Littleton 1st and Arvada 1st. 
Zions acquired Arvada 1st in 1969 at a time when Arvada 1st 
experienced serious loan losses. Zions reoriented Arvada lst's 
l°an portfolio and after the write-off of substantial losses during' 
the 
e 1970 period, Arvada has shown no loss in 1971. Retention of Arvada 
Is t' 
s shares by Zions would continue Arvada's access to Zions1 capital 
and Management strength, thus making likely its continued improvement 
Placing it in a position better to serve its customers and provide 
°re effective competition in its market area. 
There is no significant existing competition between any of 
° n s' subsidiaries and Arvada 1st and disaffiliation with Zions would 
Substantially increase competition in the Denver area. There is 
evidence in the record indicating that retention by Zions of Arvada 
1st 
w°uld result in any undue concentration of resources, unfair com-
^ition, conflicts of interest, unsound banking practices, or other 
ac*vetse effects on the public interest. 

3404 
-3-
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
lr*terest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
favorable, Accordingly, the proposed activity is a proper incident to 
inking or managing or controlling banks within the meaning of that 
Section and the application is approved. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
December 15, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
3 4ft 
c 
Item No. 4 
12/15/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D K R E S P D N D C N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 16, 1971 
Mr. Byron D. Woodside 
Chairman 
Securities Investor 
Protection Corporation 
485 L:Enfant Plaza, S.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20024 
Dear Chairman Woodside: 
Pursuant to authority vested in the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System under section 3(c) of the Securities 
Investor Protection Act of 1970 the Board has today reappointed, 
as a member of the board of directors of the Securities Investor 
Protection Corporation, Mr. J. Charles Partee. The Board under-
stands Mr. Partee1s reappointment will be for a full three-year 
term expiring December 31, 1974. Mr. Partee currently serves as 
Adviser to the Federal Reserve Board and as Director of its 
division of Research and Statistics. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
* ' ' • . ; 1 - I'/fil 
:" 'r 
' ' 
h 
" 
i ! , 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

34rt6 
Item No. 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/15/71 
BTNB CORPORATION 
OrH 
e r Denying Determination under § 4(c)(8) of Bank Holding Company Act 
BTNB Corporation, Birmingham, Alabama, a bank holding company 
wlthin the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, 
H a S aPP!ied for the Board's approval under section 4(c)(8) of the Act 
and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y to acquire all of the 
Voting shares of Cobbs, Allen & Hall Mortgage Company, Inc. ("Company"), 
mingham, Alabama. Notice of the application affording opportunity 
°r interested persons to submit comments and views, was duly published 
(36 
Federal Register 21382). The time for filing comments and views 
as expired and all received have been considered, including those 
Sented orally and in writing in connection with a Board hearing 
n November 8, 1971, pertaining to mortgage banking in general, and 
t h l s appH c a t l o n in particular. 
The operation by a bank holding company of a mortgage company 
is a n 
activity that the Board has determined to be closely related to 
the Rainess of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). A bank holding company 
cquire a company engaged in this activity so long as the proposed 
quisition is consistent with the relevant factors specified in 
8ection 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
Applicant owns the Birmingham Trust National Bank ("Bank"), 
the tu., 
largest banking organization in Alabama. Bank's total 
s of $346,1 million represent 6.9 per cent of all commercial 
b^k d 
^ 
eposits in the State, and 25.6 per cent of those within the 
tlnlr*gham banking market. Within this banking market, Bank is engaged 

.2- 
34o7 
extending credit secured by real property through (1) permanent 
m°rtgage loans on one-four family residential properties, (2) perma-
nent mortgage loans on income producing properties, and (3) construc-
tion loans. In 1970, Bank originated $11.5 million in construction 
i°ans, which represented its primary activity connected with credit 
Secured by real property. However, in the same year, Bank also 
°riginated $0.3 million of permanent one-four family residential 
and $0,6 million of permanent mortgages on income producing 
Pr°perty. Bank also services its own mortgages and, as of December 1970, 
these represented a $16.5 million mortgage portfolio in the Birmingham 
Market. 
Company originated over 90 per cent of the permanent mortgage 
i°ans on income producing properties placed by mortgage banks in the 
Birmingham area in 1970. The existing competition between Applicant 
atl<^ Company seems to be minimal, since each specializes in a different 
t y p e 
activity within the mortgage banking market. Applicant's 
etnPhasis in mortgage banking is directed toward construction loans; that 
^ Company is directed more toward the origination of loans on income 
Pr°ducing properties. 
Company, the twentieth largest mortgage banking firm in the 
^ited States, services a mortgage portfolio of approximately $632.6 
mil i, 
Alon, 
of which approximately $234 million are in the Birmingham 
^ k e t alone. In addition to offices in Birmingham, Huntsville, Mobile, 
Montgomery, Alabama, Company operates offices in Metairie, Louisiana, 
Pensacola, Florida. 
Based on servicing portfolio as of December 31, 1970. 

-30-
34nS 
Both Applicant and Company seem to have the resources and 
expertise to expand their mortgage originating activities into those 
types of activities in which the other now specializes. (They already 
operate in the same geographical market.) Thus, the proposed acquisi-
tion is regarded as one that would eliminate potential competition. The 
Board is concerned also about the concentration of economic resources in 
the Birmingham area that would result from the proposed acquisition. 
The Board concludes that the public benefits to be derived 
f*om the proposed acquisition do not outweigh the probable adverse 
effects indicated above. Applicant claims that it will provide 
additional funds to Company in an effort to increase the latter's 
activity in the construction loan market, and that the acquisition would 
increase competition in the commercial and industrial mortgage market. 
While the acquisition of a mortgage company by a bank holding company 
could have the effect of strengthening the company in certain markets, 
l t appears certain that such increased ability and service, if it came 
from a bank holding company not now competing or not likely to compete 
i n the market, would have a substantially more desirable impact on the 
Public interest. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
^ the record, the Board has concluded that the public interest factors 
the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) are not favorable 

-4-
3 4 0 9 
to the requested determination and do not outweigh possible adverse 
s; and that the request should be denied. Accordingly, the 
aPplication is hereby denied. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
December 15, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
jjjJ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
itchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 

3410 
Item No. 6 
12/15/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
/ w / J -
CENTRAL NATIONAL CHICAGO CORPORATION 
°rder Approving Acquisition of Union Realty Mortgage Company, Inc. 
Central National Chicago Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, 
a b*nk holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t of 1956, as amended, has applied for the Board's approval under 
8ection 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y 
to 
acquire all of the voting shares of Union Realty Mortgage Company, 
Inc* ("Company"), Chicago, Illinois. Notice of the application afford-
lnS °PPOrtunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
W a s duly published (36 Federal Register 18438). The time for filing 
c°®ments and views has expired and all received have been considered, 
Eluding those presented orally and in writing in connection with a 
ji 
°ar<* hearing on November 8, 1971, pertaining to mortgage banking in 
ral» and this application in particular. 
The operation by a bank holding company of a mortgage company 
ia an activity that the Board has previously determined to be closely 
telated to the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). A bank hold-
^ 
Company may acquire a company engaged in this activity so long as 
th 
e Proposed acquisition is consistent with the relevant factors 
8pecified in section 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
Applicant, parent holding company of Central National Bank 
tn Chicago ("Bank"), has consolidated assets of $591 million, includ-
es Bank's total assets of $578 million. Bank is the sixth largest 
in Chicago, with 1.9 per cent of the commercial bank deposits 

-33-
3411 
Cook County. Within the six-county Chicago SMSA which Bank designates 
a s its service area for originating and servicing mortgages, Bank has 
million of real estate loans outstanding. This represents but 
per cent of an approximate $14.3 billion of mortgage loans out-
3tanding at commercial banks, savings and loan associations and those 
Currently serviced by mortgage companies within the Chicago SMSA. 
Company is engaged in the business of originating and servicing 
mortgage loans, primarily for the construction and purchase of single 
fatnily dwelling units and small residential apartment buildings, in Cook 
and Du Page Counties. Based on the dollar amount of loans serviced, it 
ranks tenth among the mortgage companies with offices in Chicago. The 
$86,8 million of loans so serviced, as of December 31, 1970, represent 
°.6 per c e n t 0£ t h e t o t ai mortgage loans outstanding within the Chicago 
SMSA, Thus, the combined share of Applicant's and Company's mortgage 
i°ans outstanding in this market approximates 1 per cent. 
All of Bank's outstanding mortgages remain in its own 
Po*tfolio. whereas those of Company are sold to its institutional 
investors. The minimal competition that presently exists between 
^PPlicant and Company is not likely to increase, inasmuch as Applicant 
been unable to find a secondary market for its present mortgage 
l°an portfolio and thus make its funds available on a continuous basis. 

-3-
3412 
Based upon the foregoing, and the record before it, the Board concludes 
that the proposed acquisition would have only slightly adverse effects 
° n existing competition. 
It is anticipated that, following consummation of the proposal, 
b°th Applicant and Company will be able to increase significantly the 
amount of their real estate loan originations, particularly in the 
field of middle and lower cost housing units. As a result, each should 
in a position to better serve its customers and to provide more 
Effective competition in its market area. On balance, the Board con-
clndes that these public benefits outweigh any possible adverse effect 
°n competition* 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
i n the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) 
1,8 favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
termination is subject to the Board's authority to require reports 
and make examinations of, holding companies and their subsidiaries 
to require such modification or termination of the activities of 
a Elding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds neces-
8ary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act 
the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent 
*vasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors," December 15, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
SI V°ting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
tchelij Maisel, and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
3415 
Item No. 10 
12/15/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
December 29, 1971 
Mr. Frank E. Morris, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 02106 
Dear Mr. Morris: 
The Board has considered the schematic design phase of 
the proposed new building project as presented by the Bank's 
letter of November 9, 1971, and other supporting material submitted 
b7 the bank. 
The Board interposes no objection to the basic schematic 
design concept and authorizes you to proceed with the design 
development phase, subject to reservations concerning the project 
budget, tour group facilities, certain design elements, building 
efficiency, and other questions which need to be explored. The 
resolution of these problems should be resolved by the Bank and its 
architect and the Board's staff and consulting architect during the 
next phase. 
On the matter of the project budget, the Board is seriously 
concerned over the cost of the proposed new building and it does not 
vish to establish a new "high water mark" for Reserve Bank buildings. 
With this in mind, the Board requests that the cost of the Boston 
Proj ect not exceed—and preferably come in under—a unit cost of 
per gross square foot, the unit cost established for the 
Philadelphia building. Allowance would be made for location and 
timing differences. 
By way of explanation, at the time the Board considered 
the Philadelphia schematic design submission, a unit cost ceiling 
$55 per gross square foot was established for the project. This 
tigure represented the September 1970 building costs in the Phila-
delphia area and included a 5 per cent contingency fund, architect s 
ees, and a 1 per cent artwork allowance; but excluded site improve-
ment and normal current expense charges associated with new building 
Programs (vault doors, special security items, communication equip-
ment, partition and interior finishes were included in the basic 

3414 
Mr. Frank E. Morris 
- 2 -
building cost). Since that time, the Philadelphia Bank, partially 
in response to the Board's concern over the project unit cost, 
has effected meaningful reductions, well below the ceiling unit 
cost. 
The Board feels that the cost reduction can be accomplished 
without altering the proposed design concept and would not be 
inclined to approve a contract price which exceeds the established 
budget unless there were unforseen circumstances of a major nature. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

^ U e s ^ . ' ' 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
3415 
Item No. 8 
12/15/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1971 
Mr. David P. Eastburn, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Philadelph ia, Pennsylvania 
19101 
Dear Mr0 Eastburn: 
The Board has considered the design development docu-
ments of the proposed new building as indicated in your letter 
°f November 4, 1971, and other supporting material submitted by 
the Bank. 
The Board interposes no objection to the basic design 
development documents and authorizes the Bank to proceed with the 
construction document phase, subject to reservations pertaining 
to certain planning and protection considerations, and some details 
°f construction. In this regard, the Board believes that the sig-
nificant problems relating to the functional aspects of the build-
ing project can be resolved by the Bank and its architect, and the 
Board's staff and consulting architect and suggests that an early 
meeting for this purpose would be desirable. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

341* 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 9 
12/15/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R t S P O N D E N l I E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1971 
Society National Bank 
Cleveland 
Cleveland, Ohio 44114 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Society National Bank of Cleveland, Cleveland, Ohio, 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve 
to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and 
Maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and 
°f Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, It is understood that the branch 
Wu-ll be. used for developing new international business and not as a 
^eanc 0f shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
Public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
^y* at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
o f these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
° r Modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
a§ainst deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
^ithout benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of 
ection 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
ti°n 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate information 
covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your head 
office and will be available to the Board and its accredited repre-
sentatives. The Board should be promptly informed of any modification 
the branch's methods of operation, including changes in any con-
tact under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before January 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
Wanted will automatically terminate on that date. 

39 
Society National Bank 
of Cleveland 
-2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland, when the branch is opened for business, 
^umishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
oard should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only 
at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
nited States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitations 
rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
ePosits at such brandies are not generally subject to the reserve 
5e(}uirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
ls to allow foreign brandies of United States banks to compete abroad 
^ith foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
Gposits by United States residents at foreign brandies of United States 
anks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
itions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
ac*vances , or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
Payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
conduct 
of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
^sources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
rcdit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3418 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
O P 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 10 
12/15/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1971 
Merchants National Bank and 
Trust Company of Indianapolis 
Indianapolis, Indiana 46204 
^fltlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
permission to Merchants National Bank and Trust Company of 
ndianapolis, Indianapolis, Indiana, pursuant to the provisions 
Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch 
n Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and maintain such branch subject 
° the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
"All be used for developing new international business and not as a 
^ans of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
Public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
» at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
®regoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
° r modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
a£ainst deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
^ithout benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of 
Action 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
ion 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate information 
covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your head 
°^fice and will be available to the Board and its accredited repre-
sentatives . The Board should be promptly informed of any modification 
11 the branch's methods of operation, including changes in any con-
tact under which services are supplied to the branch. 
k 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
^iness on or before January 1, 19 73, all rights granted hereby 
bhali be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
Wanted will automatically terminate on that date. 

3419 
Merchants National Bank and 
Trust Company of Indianapolis 
-2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitations 
on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign brandies of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
actions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
Payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that any investment; required will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tyann Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

• I * 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
3420 
Item No. 11 
12/15/71 
A D D R E S S 
O T F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
F J O A R D 
December 17, 1971 
Fidelity Union Trust Company 
765 Broad Street 
Newark, New Jersey 07101 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Fidelity Union Trust Company, Newark, New Jersey, 
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Federal 
Rf-serve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate 
and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Sections 
and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
will be used for developing new international business and not as a 
^eans of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
Public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
f°regoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
° r modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
a£ainst deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
Without benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of 
Section 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
tion 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate information 
covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your head 
office and will be available to the Board and its accredited repre-
sentatives . The Board should be promptly informed of any modification 
in 
the branch's methods of operation, including changes in any con-
tact under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before January 1, 19 73, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abcindoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 

, s • 
3421 
Fidelity Union Trust Company 
-2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitations 
on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign brandies of United States 
banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
actions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
Payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
c°nduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
8 to 
od that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

SOFCOW-
W i i & g - -
ia \ 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 10 
12/15/71 
A D D R E S S 
D F F I C I A L 
C 3 R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1971 
The Omaha National Bank 
Farnam at Seventeenth 
Omaha, Nebraska 68102 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to The Omaha National Bank, Omaha, Nebraska, pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to 
establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas , and to operate and maintain 
such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation 
M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
w i l l be used for developing new international business and not as a 
means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
Public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
Nay, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
against deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
vithout benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of 
Section 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
tion 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate information 
covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your head 
°ffice and will be available to the Board and its accredited repre-
sentatives . Hie Board should be promptly informed of any modification 
in the branch's methods of operation, including changes in any con-
tract under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before January 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 

^ e Omaha National Bank 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
Tile Board should also be promptly informed of any future change 
-Ln location of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitations 
°n rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
Requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
l s to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
hanks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
Necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
actions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital; 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
V7ith minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
Payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
r°sources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
3423 
-2-
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

b d a r d 
d f 
g o v e r n o r s 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 10 
12/15/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1971 
Central National Bank 
in. Chicago 
La Salle and Monroe 
C h i c a g o , Illinois 60603 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Central National Bank in Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and 
Maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and 
°f Regulation M. 
* 
. 
• 
. ; . . 
' 1 . , r f j 
' »i. ' 
r ( j : '< i,l 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
will be used for developing new international business and not as a 
weans of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
l t is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
Public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
^ay, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
°f these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
° r modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
against deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
without benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of 
Section 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
tion 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate information 
covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your head 
office and will b e 
a v a i l a b l e to the Board and its accredited repre-
sentatives. The Board should be promptly informed of any modification 
^ the branch's methods of operation, including changes in any con-
tr act under which services are supplied to the brunch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before January 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
fitanted will automatically terminate on that date. 

3425 
Central National Bank 
in Chicago 
-2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 3.9 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitations 
°n rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
l s to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
actions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
V;itta minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
Payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
Resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

o p 
B O A R D 
O F G O V E R N O R S 
' 
D F T H E 
Item No. 14 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
12/15/71 
W A S HI N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
<V .* 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 19 71 
Rational Newark & 
Essex Bank 
144 Broad Street 
Newark, New Jersey 07101 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to National. Newark & Essex Bank, Newark, New Jersey, 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and 
Maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and 
Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
wili be used for developing new international business and not as a 
^aris of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
Public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
m ay, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
° r modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
Against deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
vithout benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of 
Action 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
tion 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate information 
00vering the branch's operations will be maintained at your head 
fice and will be available to the Board and its accredited repre-
sentatives. The Board should be promptly informed of any modification 
ixi the branch's methods of operation, including changes in any con-
tact under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
usiness on or before January 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
sl*all be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
• Wanted will automatically terminate on that date. 

342 
Natl .onal Newark & 
Essex Bank 
-2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
^oard should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
°nly at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitation 
rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
Requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
v-xth foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
c°ntinues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
anks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
no-cessary purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
itions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
t the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
Wlth minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
Payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
c°nduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
redit Pvestraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
3428 
.#91SPiV' • 
D F T H E 
I t e m N o # 
1 5 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
12/15/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
December 17, 1971 
The First National Bank 
of Atlanta 
P. 0. Box 4148 
Atlcuita, Georgia 30302 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to The First National. Bank of Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia, 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and 
maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and 
Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
vill be used for developing new international business and not as a 
means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
Public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
o r modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
against deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
vithout benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of 
Action 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
tion 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate information 
covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your head 
°ffice and will be available to the Board and its accredited repre-
sentatives . The Board should be promptly informed of any modification 
l n the branch's methods of operation, including changes in any con-
tact under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before January 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
Stanted will automatically terminate on that date. 

34.29 
The First National Bank 
of Atlanta 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change m 
location of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 1.9 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any 
^
f 
on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of ^ese exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to ^courage 
d e p o s i t s by United States residents at foreign b r a n c h e s of United States 
banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international tran. 
actions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated ^pital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as f,sreign 
of t h e foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the B o a r d s concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the b a l M oi 
Payments, the above consent is given with the understanding tha. in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it # 
stood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
C r e d i t Restraint Guidelines as they 
apply t o y o u r bank and affiliate-. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B D A R D 
• F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Vi/ASH I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
343C 
Item No. 16 
12/15/71 
A D D R E S S 
n r n C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1971 
United States National Bank 
190 Broadway 
san Diego, California 92112 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
•^s permission to United States National Bank, San Diego, California, 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and 
maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and 
°f Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
will be used for developing new international business and not as a 
™Gans of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
t is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
Public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
may* at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
°regoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
° r Modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
a8ainst deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
^i-thout benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of 
Action 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
° n 213 .7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate information 
covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your head 
fice and will be available to the Board and its accredited repre-
.°ntatives. The Board should be promptly informed of any modification 
n the branch's methods of operation, including changes in any con-
a°t under which services are supplied to the branch. 
k 
< 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
ysiness on or before January 1, 19 73, all rights granted hereby 
all be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
' Wanted will automatically terminate on that date. 

343 
United States National Bank 
-2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitations 
°n rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to' allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
Necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
actions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
o f the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
Payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

;432 
B G A R D G F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
I t e m NO. 17 
K 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
12/15/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20E! 
I D D H E B S 
n r r t c i A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T U T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1971 
United Virginia Bank/State Planters 
Box 6E 
RichtiiOnd, Virginia 
23214 
Gentleman: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to United Virginia Bank/State Planters, Richmond, 
Virginia, pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, 
^ d to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions 
of such Sections and of Regulation M. 
The foregoing permission is 
granted subject to any necessary approval by the Commissioner of 
Banking of the State of Virginia.. 
jV 
|i ! 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
will be used for developing new international business and nut as a 
^ans of shifting loans or deposits from offices In the dnited oua,es. 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
Public at the branch H and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
way, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In virv of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission i s granted subject to (1) a c o n t i n u i n g review 
of these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
or modified 
(?) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
deposits In this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
:i&thoiit benefit of the deduction provided in; subparagraph (ii) or 
Section 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) ox bee-
tioa '>] 3 7(b) and (3) the further condition that adequate information 
covering'the branch's operations will be maintained at your ^ a d 
office and will be available to the Board and its accredited rep.e 
sentatives. The Board should be promptly informed of any modification 
in the branch's methods of operation, including changes m any con-
tract under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before January 1, 1973, all 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority heieby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 

United Virginia Bank/State Planters 
3433 
- 2 -
Please adv:I.se the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. Hie 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside, of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitation: 
on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
J-s to^allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
ank;5 unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
actions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign brandies, funds 
Provided by home, office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
^ the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
'J-th minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
Payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
redit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3431 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F" T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
H0551 
Item No. 18 
12/15/71 
A D D R E 3 B 
O F F I C I A L 
C O H P E S I ' O N O E N B E 
T O T H E 
Q O A R D 
December 17, 1971 
United Virginia Rank/ 
First & Citizens National 
Box 179 
Alexandria, Virginia 22313 . 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to United Virginia Bank/First & Citizens National, 
Alexandria, Virginia, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions 
of such Section and of Regulation M„ 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
will be used for developing new international business and not as a 
tfeans of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States, 
ft :i.s also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
ttay, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
°f these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
°r modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
against deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
without benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of 
Section 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
tion 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate information 
eovering the branch's operations will be maintained at your head 
office and will be available to the Board and its accredited repre-
sentatives. The Board should be promptly informed of any modification 
in the branch's methods of operation, including changes in any con-
tract under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before January 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
Slanted will automatically terminate on that date. 

343 
United Virginia Bank/ 
First & Citizens National 
-2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change 
in location of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitations 
on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
actions outside the United States. 
With respect to ("he establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
Payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
V 
. < f 
i- J-
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
343G 
"OF THE 
ffitsf)I19 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
?or-51 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1971 
United Virginia Bank/ 
Seaboard National 
3127 
Norfolk* Virginia 23514 
^ntlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
permission to United Virginia Bank/Seaboard National, Norfolk, 
irginia, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
es^rve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate 
and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section 
of Regulation M. 
. 
, 
granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
^. 7 b o u^ed for developing new international business and not as a 
lt
anr' o f shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
^ lie at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
£ _ 
view of the special character of this operation, the 
0^rGSolng permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
^ these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
gainst deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
s
 
l°ut benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of 
tiol l 0 a 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
c0°n 
311 d 
the further condition that adequate information 
t h e branch Ts operations will be maintained at your head 
s
 
xce and will be available to the Board and its accredited repre-
in ' a t^ v e s * T^e Board should be promptly informed of any modification 
the branch's methods of operation, including changes in any con-
cl°t under which services are supplied to the branch. 
b 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
8h°i S S 8 o n o r before January 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
c 
deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
nted will automatically terminate on that date. 

343? 
Una. ted Virginia Bank/ 
Seaboard National 
-2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch, 
•pie Board should also be promptly informed of any future change 
in location of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section .19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
united States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitations 
°n rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
deposits at such brandies are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
l s to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at. foreign brandies of United States 
oonks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
necessarv purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
actions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign brandies, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
Payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
redit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

^Uv.sv-V 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R 5 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
3438 
Item No. 20 
12/15/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1971 
State Street Bank 
Boston International 
20 Exchange Place 
New York, New York 10005 
: t'rio • 
• 
; i,; ; • ' • ' ; 
.. .. 
. 
: - •? 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to State Street Bank Boston International, New York, 
New York, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate 
and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section 
and of Regulation K. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
**ot as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no contact 
vith the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract 
by another party. 
I!,:: • 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to a searching review of 
these types of facilities now being conducted by the Board and after 
due notice may be withdrawn or modified. The foregoing permission 
l s also granted on the condition that adequate information covering 
the branch's operations will be maintained at your head office and 
w H l be available to the Board and its accredited representatives, 
•^he Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the 
^ranch's methods of operation, including changes in any contract 
under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before January 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
sball be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
Wanted will automatically terminate on that date. 

».,' 
• • 
,.. 
= > rf >:•••:. • - 
• 
>• 
. 
-V "'/•:/ 
- ' 
State Street Bank 
Boston International 
-2-
' 
' 
• 
' 
... 
• 
• 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 
Section 211.7(c) of Regulation R subjects only the deposits 
received in the United States by Edge Corporations to the requirements 
°f Regulations D, as to reserves, and Q, as to the payment of i n t e r e s t , 
thus exempting deposits received and payable only at foreign branches 
°f the Corporations from those requirements. The general purpose of 
these exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United States banking 
institutions to compete abroad with foreign banks. In these circum-
stances, it has long been and continues to be the policy of the Federal 
Reserve System to discourage deposits by United States residents at 
foreign branches of United States banking institutions unless such 
deposits have been placed to serve a definite, necessary purpose in 
connection with foreign or international transactions outside the 
United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign 
assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In 
View of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
ith the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
Maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
ni-ted States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
recluired will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to your Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3440 
B D A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
.^qVcoV/-. 
• f TH e 
Item No. 21 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/15/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 29, 1971 
Union Bank 
445 South Figueroa Street 
Los Angeles, California 
90017 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of August 27, 1970, re-
questing permission of the Board of Governors to establish a branch 
in Paris, France. Your letter stated that the proposed branch would 
conduct limited operations in the Eurocurrency markets, would have no 
contact with the local public, would operate only on the initiative 
and on authorization from head office, and that quarters, staff, and 
bookkeeping for the limited service branch would be supplied under 
contract by a French bank. 
Your application was considered in connection with a thor-
oughgoing review of limited-service foreign branches of U.S. banks, 
which are organized in a way similar to the branch proposed. The 
Board has approved such branches in Nassau, Bahamas, for a number of 
member banks, subject to continuing observation and review, and the 
Board noted that your bank already has such a branch in that location, 
^he Board is continuing to observe the operations of those branches 
in order to better appraise their consistency with the public pur-
Poses to be served by foreign branches of member banks. 
A majority of the Board failed to approve your application 
for the branch as proposed. The three Board members voting to deny 
the application believed that it would not be in the public interest 
JJt the present time to permit the proliferation of branches of this 
type by individual banks. 
Very truly yours, 
,5 ' 
, 
. .. ;. •• 
• . . ,, 
i 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
. Tynan Smi th 
I 1 
i.. 
Secretary of the Board 
•J 

3441 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20S51 
Item No. 10 
12/15/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1971 
Bank of America 
41 Broad Street 
New York, New York 
10004 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Bank of America, New York, New York, pur-
suant to the provisions of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and 
Maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and 
°f Regulation K. 
£ U;. ! 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
Stanch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no contact 
wi-th the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by 
another party. 
. J , 
^ 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to a searching review of 
these types of facilities now being conducted by the Board and after 
due notice may be withdrawn or modified. The foregoing permission 
also granted on the condition that adequate information covering 
the branch's operations will be maintained at your head office and 
Will be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the 
Stanch1s methods of operation, including changes in any contract 
Under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before January 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 

3442 
Bank of America 
-2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Re 
serve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 211.7(c) of Regulation K, only the deposits 
received in the United States by Edge Corporations are subject to 
the requirements of Regulation D, as to reserves, and Regulation Q, 
a s to the payment of interest, thus exempting deposits received and 
Payable only at foreign branches of the Corporations from those 
requirements. The general purpose cf these exemptions is to allow 
foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad with 
foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and con-
tinues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United 
States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
actions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
f°r purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the 
Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments 
°n the balance of payments, the above consent is given with the under-
standing that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reli-
anc.e will be placed on resources obtained outside the United States. 
Accordingly, it is understood that any investment required will be 
made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to 
Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association and its 
af filiates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3443 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D
r 
T
H
E
 
T , 
XT 
OO 
Item No. 23 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
12/15/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1971 
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association 
464 California Street 
San Francisco, California 94120 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, 
San Francisco, California, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 
the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions 
°f such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
n o t as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no contact 
vi-th the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract 
by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
°r modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
a§ainst deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
vithout benefit of the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
tion 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate informa-
tion covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your 
head office and will be available to the Board and its accredited 
rePresentatives. The Board should be promptly informed of any modi-
fication in the branch's methods of operation, including changes in 
any contract under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
Usiness on or before January 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
G r a n t e d 
V 7 i l l automatically terminate on that date. 

3111 
Wells Fargo Bank, 
National Association 
-2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Res erve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change 
in location of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitations 
on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
deposits at such brandies are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
Necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
actions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
Payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

<2 A & 
-
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E 
Item No. 24 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
12/15/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
U F T I C I A L 
C U R C E O P O N U C N L ' t 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 16, 1971 
Mr. Thomas R. Sullivan 
Vice President 
Pederai Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Dallas, Texas 75222 
Dear Mr. Sullivan: 
Reference is made to your letter of November 18, 1970 
Requesting advice as to whether Federal Reserve Regulation L, 
Interlocking Bank Relationships under the Clayton Act", prohibits 
fie use of the same personnel to represent two or more banks at 
branches of such banks in Nassau, Bahamas. We regret the delay in 
responding to this inquiry but the Board has been studying the 
entire subject of Nassau branches. 
It is understood that First National Bank of Dallas has 
0 contract with Arawak Trust Company Limited, of Nassau, pursuant 
t o Vhic.h Arawak agrees to provide two members of its executive 
staff for appointment as manager and assistant manager, respectively, 
,;illd as authorized agents of the bank's Nassau branch. First 
National's present contract provides that "such members [are] not 
fill similar positions with any other similar banking organiza-
tions to which Arawak may provide services". However, Arawak has 
*n^icatcd that it would like the individuals now representing First 
ational to serve also as manager and assistant manager of the 
Nassau branch of a national bank headquartered in Rhode Island. 
First National's contract with Arawak provides that the 
Appointed manager and assistant manager of the Nassau branch "shall 
Perform the usual duties connected with such position" but have no 
Power to commit the Bank without specific instructions from author-
^ed officers in Dallas. Further, the contract provides that the 
appointed manager and assistant manager are not considered to be 
r°Ployees as such of the bank in any sense, thus excluding them from 
any employee benefits. 
As you know, section 8 of the Clayton Act and Federal 
escrve Regulation L prohibit directors, officers, and employees of 
eruber banks, or any branch thereof, from serving at the same time 

Mr. Thomas R. Sullivan 
9 
as a director, officer, or employee of any other bank "or any 
branch thereof". However, the Board understands that the shell 
branches of U.S. banks in the Bahamas are distinctive in that 
th ere is no contact with the public, local or otherwise, and that 
no transactions are initiated or effected by the branch; all sub-
stantive transactions are made by the branch's head office in the 
United States, or, in some cases by other foreign branches of the 
bank. Further, a "manager" and "assistant manager" for the branch 
are necessary to meet the requirements imposed by Bahamian author-
ities, although neither the manager nor the assistant manager has 
any independent authority to commit the branch in any transaction; 
their functions are limited to maintaining financial records and 
to conducting routine correspondence with the government and to 
signing routine confirmations of the status of accounts. 
In Lhe situations presented, it would appear that a 
"manager" and "assistant: manager" of a Nassau shell branch of a 
U.S. bank are not "officers" of the bank or the branch since they 
have no authority to perform and, in reality, do not perform the 
duties usually performed by an officer (Gf. Interpretations *l 3775) 
and they are not "employees" of the branch since they are to be 
supplied by Arawak and no master-servant relationship is created. 
Accordingly, the Board has concluded that: service by the same 
individuals in the capacities indicated, at the Nassau branches of 
U.S. banks is not of the type intended to be prohibited by section 8 
of the Clayton Act and Federal Reserve Regulation L. 
The Board wishes to emphasize, however, that this inter-
pretation is based on the special facts presented, and should not 
be viewed as a precedent for interlocking personnel relationships 
in full service banks. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

3447 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
l t e, m 
2 5 
12/15/71 
FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. 
Otder Approving Acquisition of Reid-McGee & Company 
First Union National Bancorp, Inc., Charlotte, North Carolina, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956, as amended, has applied for the Board's approval under 
Action 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y 
to acquire all of the voting shares of Reid-McGee & Company ("Reid-McGee"), 
Jackson, Mississippi. Notice of the application affording opportunity 
interested persons to submit comments and views was duly published. 
Xh 
e time for filing comments and views has expired and all received have 
been considered, including those presented orally and in writing in 
c°nnection with a Board hearing on November 8, 1971, pertaining to mort-
banking in general, and this application in particular. 
The operation by a bank holding company of a mortgage company 
an activity that the Board has previously determined to be closely 
Elated to the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). A bank holding 
c°mpany may acquire a company engaged in this activity so long as the 
es of the institution proposed to be acquired are not conducted 
ln a manner inconsistent with the limitations the Board has established 
Purauant to § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
Applicant owns the First Union National Bank of North Carolina, 
°3e deposits of $1.0 billion represent 13.6 per cent of the total 
0ttl®efC|^| fcaftfc deposits in North G&tpMiXa*, 
I ft addition to subsidiaries 

St 
3448 
-2" 
engaged in factoring, insurance, and real estate development,"*" Applicant 
.,. 
• 
Jj 
also owns Cameron-Brown Company ("Cameron-Brown"), Raleigh, North Carolina, 
2/ 
the ninth largest mortgage banking firm in the United States. 
Host 
°f Cameron-Brown's mortgage activity is confined to the Atlantic coastal 
States from Maryland to Georgia.' 
• 
fl 
Reid-McGee is the largest of five mortgage banking firms 
I 
In Mississippi, and ranks ninety-ninth among mortgage banking firms 
3/ 
in the country.~ 
Reid-McGee is active in the origination of permanent 
mortgages on one-four family residential properties, construction loans, 
and permanent mortgages on income producing properties throughout 
ij 
Missis sippi and the northern half of Louisiana. None of Cameron-Brown s 
rl 
Mortgage activity extends into local markets where Reid-McGee does 
business, nor does Reid-McGee engage in any mortgage activity within 
local markets served by Cameron-Brown. 
Although no direct local market competition exists between 
APPlicant and Reid-McGee, consummation of the proposed acquisition 
1/ 
Real estate development is not an activity that the Board has deter-
mined to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling 
^anks as to be a proper incident thereto. Since it appears, however, 
that 
Applicant was engaged in that activity through Cameron-Brown prior 
to June 30, 1968, it may continue to engage therein in accordance with 
the provisions of § 4(a)(2) of the Act. However, in approving Applicant's 
accluisition of Reid-McGee, the Board understands and relies upon the facts 
that Reid-McGee has not engaged in real estate development activities, and 
fchat Applicant's real estate development activities are presently limited 
to geographic areas served by Cameron-Brown; accordingly, the Board's 
aPProval herein is premised on the expectation that Applicant's future 
teal estate development activities will be similarly limited. 
y Ranking is based on a $932.4 million mortgage servicing portfolio 
a s of june 30, 1971. 
y Based on a $206.6 million mortgage servicing portfolio as of 
n e 30, 1971. 

3440 
-3-
may have slightly adverse effects on potential competition, since 
Applicant has both the resources and expertise to enter de novo 
those areas served by Reid-McGee. However, because of the many 
Potential entrants into the Louisiana-Mississippi mortgage market, 
the elimination of Applicant is not a substantially adverse 
consideration. The procompetitive benefits offered by a de novo 
et*try, compared to an entry by acquisition, would be minor in this 
case of expansion into a geographical market outside the market area 
o f Cameron-Brown. 
Both northern Louisiana and Mississippi are capital deficit 
a t e a s % 
T he affiliation of Reid-McGee with Applicant will provide 
increased quantity of mortgage funds for those areas. Moreover, 
applicant's record of operation demonstrates its ability to promote 
fusing construction for purchasers having low and moderate incomes. 
Such housing in the Louisiana-Mississippi region, considered as 
underdeveloped by U.S. standards, would be a substantial benefit. 
°n balance, the Board concludes that these public benefits outweigh 
Possible adverse effect on competition. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
ln the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
nterest factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) 
la favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
etGttnination is subject to the Board's authority to require reports 
by 
' a n d make examinations of, holding companies and their subsidiaries 

-4-
3450 
and to require such modification or termination of the activities 
°f a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds 
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of 
the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or 
to prevent evasion thereof. 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
December 17, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
aJ!ne» a n d Maisel. Voting against this action: Governors Robertson 
*nd Brimmer. 

3451 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
First Union National Bancorp, Inc., headquartered 
in Charlotte, North Carolina, controls 16 financial subsidiaries 
addition to its $1.0 billion (deposit size) First Union National 
Bank of North Carolina. One of these subsidiaries, Cameron-Brown 
Company, ranks as the ninth largest mortgage company in the nation. 
with offices in twenty-two cities, Cameron-Brown serves mortgage 
Markets in North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Maryland, 
Vlr8inia, and Washington, D. C., representing 10 of the 17 most 
rapidly growing metropolitan areas in the southeast. It is at present 
b u t one State removed from the area served by Reid-McGee, the largest 
m°rtgage banker headquartered in Mississippi. Cameron-Brown's past 
record of expansion, coupled with its announced intentions to con-
lnue expanding in the southeast, leads to an inescapable conclusion -
h a t it is one of the leading potential entrants Into those mortgage 
a r k G t s ° n t h e periphery of its present service area. 
The Applicant in this case clearly possesses the requisite 
*Perti3e and resources that would enable its mortgage banking sub-
ary> Cameron-Brown, to make a successful de novo entry into 
n y m°rtgage banking market in the United States. The only question 
C l n g Applicant ig where to enter, not how. Having chosen the 
Uisiana-Mississippi region as a desirable area for expansion, 
C a n t should be required, in our view, to assume whatever costs 
aEld tiak 
Ks that de novo expansion into that area would entail. 

3452 
Congress Authorized the tiodfd in § 4(c)(8) of tha Bank 
folding Company Atit to differentiate betweetl fchode honbanking 
activities 
tommericiecl de novo and activities commenced by the 
acquisition of a going concern. It is clear from the Act's 
legislative history that Congress found d£ novo entry preferable 
to entry by acquisition. That is the real significance of the 
action taken by Congress in providing in section 4(c)(8) that 
"in 
An orders and regulations under this subsection the Board may 
differentiate between activities commenced de novo and activities 
commenced by acquisition, in whole or in part, of a going concern'1.""^ 
We believe the instant proposal presents the very situation 
which the Congress had in mind in passing the Bank Holding Company Act 
Atn^ndments of 1970, Certainly de novo entry by Applicant would bring 
to 
the Louisiana-Mississippi region a strong, viable mortgage banking 
°r8aniEation, capable of promoting competition. Cameron-Brown's 
8Uccess in the Atlantic coastal States gives it the size, resources 
expertise to expand successfully in Louisiana and Mississippi 
t virtually wherever it chooses. 
i T r r -
3"Ould be noted that the Supreme Court has indicated that the 
i n t
y t o n A ct rests on a "premise . . . that corporate growth by 
Uni!r*}al expansion is socially preferable to growth by acquisition." 
"(l9g|y--^tStes v. Philadelphia National Bank. 374 U.S. 321, 370 

345° 
U 
-3-
As a result of the Board's approval action, Applicant 
will acquire the largest mortgage servicing portfolio held by 
any mortgage banker in Mississippi, and the incentive which 
Applicant may have had to generate competition in the Louisiana-
Mississippi region is lost through the acquisition of a going 
co 
ncern. 
Replacing one large, successful mortgage banker 
in Mississippi with an even larger firm does not serve the 
p ubHc interest. The probable effect will be to stifle compe-
tition rather than promote it, for it eliminates the Applicant 
hiding Company as a potential new competitive force in a market 
** is capable of entering. 
This being so, the Board is required by the law itself 
to disapprove the application unless it finds that the possible 
adverse effects on competition are outweighed by "benefits to 
^e public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, 
0t gains in efficiency". 
We conclude that any foreseeable public benefits - and 
th 
Gy are few indeed - do not outweigh the anticompetitive effects 
tbat 
result from this acquisition. Cameron-Brown's stated 
*ntent to make mortgage funds available in the Louisiana-Mississippi 
te8ion is dependent on the ability and desire of its institutional 
*nVestors, not the ability or desire of Cameron-Brown. Under these 
f( 
v. Proctor & Gamble 386 U.S. 568 (1967), and U.S. v. 
•£aso Natural Gas 376 U.S. 651 (1964). 

3454 
-4-
circumstances, we would require a clear showing that the institutional 
investors themselves intend to inject additional capital into the 
Louisiana-Mississippi mortgage market. Since the record is silent on 
t h l s Point, any public benefits to be derived from the acquisition 
a r e Problematical at best, and at least, are equally susceptible of 
achievement through Applicant as presently structured, in a less anti-
c°mpetitive way. 
We would deny the application. 
Member 17, 1971 

Item No. 26 
12/15/71 
December 17, 1971 
use in papers of 
Monday, December 20, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
today issued a statement directing the 1,150 State chartered banks 
are members of the System to give public notice that their 
real estate financing is nondiscriminatory. 
At the same time, the Board disclosed that it has been 
seeking to improve compliance by banks under its supervision with 
C3-vii rights legislation applying to real estate lending by use of 
a civil rights questionnaire in bank examinations. 
The Board's statement, and the questionnaire, are steps 
in 
a series of actions through which the Federal Reserve System is 
w°rl:ing with banks to encourage nondiscriminatory lending and to 
help the public to understand and use its civil rights in the real 
Gstate lending area. 
The Board said it was issuing its statement because 
"i 
nc*eased public awareness of nondiscrimination requirements, and 
t'n 
e availability of complaint procedures," are ncccssary for affirm 
t i v e implementation of those provisions of the 1968 Civil Rights Act 
Erected at the real estate lending activities of financial institu-

mm 
7 •:' 
.. 
3456 
- 
2 
-
a*.-.: 
The statement, to become effective March 1 — simultaneously 
with actions by other Federal agencies with regulatory responsibilities 
in the real estate lending field -- called for banks and other lenders 
t o display posters in their lobbies announcing that they are an 
ll r< 
Equal Housing Lender" and giving directions for filing complaints. 
It also required that advertising signify nondiscriminatory real 
estate lending. 
Federal Rese 
rve Bank examiners have been using a civil 
l3-Shts questionnaire (copy attached) in all regular bank examinations 
since October. Answers to the questions come from the examiners1 
Nervations of the banks1 conduct of its affairs, or from informa-
tion supplied by the bank management. The examiner is authorized to 
> •;'1' 
conduct such investigation as is needed to secure information neces-
SarV to answer the questions. 
The questionnaire to monitor banks' compliance with the 
17 also requires answers to questions which indicate the banks' 
knowledge of the Civil Rights Act. This statute makes it unlawful 
r a bank to deny a loan or other financial assistance for the 
Impose of buying„ building, improving, repairing or maintaining 
a Celling because of the loan applicant's race, color, religion 
Or national origin. The questionnaire also directs attention to 
Pr°visions making it unlawful to stiffen the terms of a loan in 
' nV way for such reasons. Prohibitions against discrimination, 
it i 
is noted, apply also to any person associated with a loan 
J-cant, any property owner, lessee or tenants and occupants. 

- 3 -
345? 
If a bank makes real estate loans, the examiner seeks 
answers to such questions as, how real estate loans made to minority 
group members compare to the bank's total real estate loan3, rela-
tive to the proportion of minority groups' population in the total 
nervice area population; whether the bank refuses to make loans in 
n°ighborhoods with high percentages of minority populations; and if 
c makes loans to minority group members to purchase real estate in 
areas where there are no or few minority group persons. 
The new requirements in the Board's statement were 
^escribed as "minimum procedures" for all financial institutions 
Subject to the Board's supervision. They were: 
1. Posting in the lobbies of banks -- and each of their 
Ranches — display size notices that the lending institution is an 
Equal Housing Lender." These posters are to display a logotype 
R/tnbol indicating nondiscriminatory real estate lending. 
The posters are also to assist the public in registering 
^^plaints, by providing a toll free number for reporting complaints 
'to ^ 
the Department of Housing and Urban Development from anywhere in 
United States. 
2» Prominent indication in the lender's advertising --
Aether the advertising is done directly or through a third party 
f.i 
| 
t its real estate lending is free from discrimination. 
3. Banning of "words, phrases, symbols, directions, 
0rr"«, models or other means" that would imply discrimination. 

4. Inclusion in advertising of the logotype symbol for 
nondiscriminatory lending. 
The Board's statement affects State chartered banks that 
members of the Federal Reserve System, Similar statements, 
aPplyin^ to other banks — and savings and loan associations — 
arc being issued by the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal 
^ePOsit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Home Loan Bank 
fcoard. 
The Board has earlier taken other steps to implement 
Clvii rights legislation affecting real estate lenders. These 
include: 
— A special course of study in Federal Reserve schools 
:f O 
1 bank examiners. The course, given to all examiners in recent 
schools, has been aimed at acquainting them with the provisions of 
Vil rights legislation as they apply to financial institutions, 
the objective of increasing their ability to encourage and 
^nitor compliance. 
-- In response to a request from the IJ. S. Treasury 
Partment, at each bank examination, an inquiry is made by the 
banl-
v examiner to determine whether all required Equal Employment 
•°rtunity reports have been submitted to the Equal Employment 
^P°rtunity Commission and the U. S. Department of the Treasury, 
tonally, examiners determine if banks employing 50 or more 

3459 
- 5 -
Persons have on file a written Affirmative Action Plan for 
minority group employment«> Examiners forward copies of their 
report to the Director of Equal Employment Opportunity, U. S. 
Trea sury. Copies of those reports that indicate questions as 
{V:. 
. . 
to compliance are forwarded to the Board's Director of Equal 
Employment Opportunity. 
£ t z .. 
The Board's statement, logotypes to be used in lenders' 
Premises and in advertising, and the questionnaire in use by 
federal Reserve Bank examiners, are attached. 
Attachments. 

3460 
STATEMENT 
on 
Civil Rights Act Nondiscrimination Requirements 
in Real Estate Loan Activities 
Section 805 of Title VIII of the C i v i l Rights Act of 1968 
(42 U.S.C. 3605) makes it unlawful for any bank, building and loan 
' snociation, insurance company or other corporation, association, 
firm, or enterprise whose business consists in whole or in part in 
tlle Baking of real estate loans, to deny a loan or other financial 
a s sistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of purchasing, 
o" 
°nstrueting, improving, repairing, or maintaining a dwelling, or to 
dlQcriminatG against him in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, 
Station, or other terms and conditions of such loan or other financial 
distance, because of his race, color, religion, or national origin. 
• ' ** i l ' ' 
I-.'-' 
Recognizing that increased public awareness of nondiscrimi-
nati0n requirements and the availability of complaint procedures is 
r,Cccanary for effective implementation of the Civil Rights Act's 
^visions Imposed on financial institutions, the Comptroller of the 
. e 
ency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal 
^ I Loan Bank Board and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
Syst 
nave adopted the following as minimum procedures to be 
> b h • -1 ' 
^Uzed by all financial institutions subject to their supervisory 
Quthority. 

O /I C* A 
- 
2 -
1. Advertisement Notice of Nondiscrimination Compliance. 
After March 1, 1972, any financial institution which 
directly or through third parties engages in any form of advertising 
real estate lending services shall prominently indicate, in a 
banner appropriate to the advertising media and format utilized, 
that the financial institution makes real estate loans without 
regard to race, color, religion, or national origin. No words, 
Phrases, symbols, directions, forms, models or other means shall 
L 
DG used to express, imply, or suggest a discriminatory preference 
°r policy of exclusion in violation of the provisions of Title VIII 
of the Civil Rights Act of 1968. Written advertisements relating 
t o real estate loans should include a facsimile of the logotype 
is attached in order to increase public recognition of the 
indiscrimination requirements and guarantees of Title VIII. 
2. Lobby Notice of Nondiscrimination Compliance. 
After March 1, 1972, every institution engaged in 
^tending real estate loans shall conspicuously display in the 
Public lobby of each of its offices a notice that incorporates a 
^Qcsimiie of the attached logotype and attests to that institu-
te i 
° n s policy of compliance with the nondiscrimination require-
ments of Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1963. Such notice 
include the address and phone number of the Department of 
shall 
Hou sing and Urban Development as the agency to be notified con-
c°l'ning any complaint alleging a violation of the nondiscrimi-
nation provisions of Title VJ.II. 
/1 

* !'• 
• 
' * 
FR 858 (Rev. 12-71) 
34 
(Name and Address of Bank) 
(Date of Examination) 
civil RIGHTS QUESTIONNAIRE 
Pursuant to Station 805 Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1 % 3 , it is 
unlawful for a bank in connection with loans or other financial assistance, because 
the race, color, religi-.-n or national origin of (!) loan applicant, (2/ any person 
as rciated wit!, the I nan anplleant, (\) any present or prospective owner of the dwelling, 
: :cr. lessees (5) any tenants or occupants, to deny a loan or other financial assistance 
for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing, or maintaining a 
dwelling. 
Further, it is unlawful in connection with any of the loans mentioned to 
d i s c r i m i n a t e in the fixin ; of (a) amount, (b) interest rates, (c) duration, or (d) other 
terms. 
In an effort to determine the bank's knowledge and compliance with this law, 
the examiner is requested to complete the following questions from information obtained 
iron personal observations and investigations as well as information supplied by bank 
isanage;:.ent. 
(Circlc appropriate answer where indicated; otherwise supply data reques! "d.) 
1-• Does the bank make loans for residential purposes, including: 
a. 
Purchase 
Yes 
No 
b. 
Construction 
Yes 
No 
c. 
Improvement, repair, and maintenance 
Yes 
No 
Are the bank's loan officers and executive management aware 
of the provisions of Title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968? 
Yes 
No 
Is a notice posted in a conspicuous place in the bank notifying 
the public of the provisions of the above mentioned law? 
Yes 
No 
<{• Bo es the bank include a statement as to its nondiscriminatory 
practices in all advertising of real estate loans? 
Yes 
No 
What is the estimated population of the bank's primary service 
area ? 
What is the estimated minority group-/ population of the bank's 
primary service area? 
What is the estimated number of residential real estate loans 
made by the bank during the past calendar year? 
What is the estimated number of residential real estate loans 
made to minority group borrowers during the past calendar year? 
What is the estimated number of residential real estate loan 
applications received during the past calendar year? 
10. What is the estimated number of residential real estate loan 
applications received from minority group members during the 
past calendar year? 
1/ 
For the purpose of this form, minority group is defined as Negro/Black, American 
Indian, Spanish American, Oriental or Other Minorities (such as Eskimos). 
Members 
of the white race are considered non-minority. 

FR 858 (Rev. 12-71) 
3463 
-2-
11. Arc there neighborhoods or other areas of high concentrations of 
minority group members in which the bank refuses to make renl 
estate loans? 
If so, specify area and reasons for such refusal. 
Yes 
No 
12. 
J>oe3 the bank refuse to make loans to members of minority groups 
seeking to purchase residential property in areas where there 
are no or few minority group residents? 
If so, specify area and 
reasons for such refusal. 
Yes 
No 
13. 
Are there any residential areas with high concentrations of 
minority group members within the bank's primary service area 
where the bank has no or relatively few residential real estate 
loans? 
If so, specify areas and reasons for such, 
Yes 
No 
U 
A 
Are there any residential areas with no or few minority group 
members within the hank's primary service area where the bank 
bas no, or relatively few, residential real estate loans? 
If 
so, specify areas and reasons for such. 
Yes 
No 
15. 
Ar<-' loan terms, i.e., amount., interest rate, duration etc., set 
w'thout regard to borrower's race, color, religion or national 
0 rigin? 
Yes 
No 

ADVERTISING LOGO 
3464 
t^prnp-; 
tsm 
: 
^V*R7?~-~RY' "V 
"" 
-• •;/• %-»,-•• 
• 
' . 
' 
•
•
•
•
•
.
' 
,':* 
• . 1 
" • - , • . ' • • • • 
••• 
. . . w r f , n' .' •, 
. m m . 
i t . . 
-i 
..< 
11 > r 
<•< 
. - 
• i . ' . i i . y 

EQUAL HOUSING POSTER 
3465 
10" X 10" or proportional enlargement or reduction. 
TITLE VI11 OF THF CIVIL. RIGHTS ACT OF 1960 
PROHIBITS DISCRIMINATION IN REAL ESTATE LENDING. 
COMPLAINTS SHOULD BE SENT TO: 
HUD 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
20410 
CALL TOLL FREE 800-424-8590 
(In Washington D. C. 755-5490) 
