Minutes for 
February 16, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chm. Martin 
Gov. Robertson 
Gov. Shepardson 
Gov. Mitchell 
Gov. Daane 
Gov. Maisel 
Gov. Brimmer 

544 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, February 16, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Koch, Deputy Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Poundstone, Review Examiner, Division of 
Examinations 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Bank of America, New York, New York, 
granting consent for Banca d'America e d'Italia, 
Milan, Italy, to purchase and hold shares of 
ADELA Investment Company, S. A., Luxembourg. 

545 
2/16/67 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to the Chairman of the House Committee 
2 
on Ways and Means reporting on H. R. 950 and 
H. R. 4765, bills relating to the income tax 
treatment of certain distributions pursuant 
to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as 
amended in 1966. 
With respect to Item No. 2, Governor Maisel inquired whether 
the fact that Equity Corporation, New York, New York, had relinquished 
its status as a registered investment company meant that its affiliate, 
Financial General Corporation, Washington, D. C., which became a bank 
holding company by virtue of the 1966 amendments to the Bank Holding 
Company Act, would have to spin off its nonbanking interests more rapidly 
than the time period allowed by the 1966 amendments. 
(Equity Corporation 
had registered under the Investment Company Act in 1940, and the Bank 
Holding Company Act, prior to the 1966 amendments, had provided exemption 
fr om holding company status for an affiliate of a company so registered 
before 1955.) Mr. Cardon indicated that he believed the terms of the 
1966 amendments would govern, but it was understood that the staff would 
check this point. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
of The Maybrook National Bank, Maybrook, New York, into County National 
Bank, Middletown, New York, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Comptroller. 
The conclusion read as follows: 

4 
2/16/67 
-2-
Consummation of the proposed merger would eliminate some 
existing competition between County National Bank, Middletown, 
and The Maybrook National Bank. While Middletown Bank is not 
the largest commercial bank operating offices in Orange County, 
it is the largest commercial bank headquartered in the county 
and holds the largest share of county deposits. This position 
would be slightly enhanced by the proposal. The overall effect 
of the proposed merger on competition would be somewhat adverse. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Myerstown Bank 
and Trust Company, Myerstown, Pennsylvania, and American Bank and Trust 
Co. of Pa., Reading, Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Corporation, the conclusion being stated as follows: 
There is little, if any, competition existing between 
American Bank and Trust Co. of Pa., Reading, and Myerstown 
Bank and Trust Company. 
While the proposed merger would expose the banks located 
in the Myerstown area to competition of a substantially larger 
bank, it does not appear that it would have serious consequences 
on such banks. 
American Bank and Trust Co. of Pa. is presently by far the 
largest bank operating in its service area, and it would be by 
far the largest institution in the area now served by Myerstown 
Bank and Trust Company. However, since the proposal represents 
American Bank and Trust Co. of Pa.1s expansion into a new area, 
the overall competitive effects do not appear to be significantly 
adverse. 
Unanimous approval was given to the transmittal of a report to 
the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in 
the proposed merger of The First National Bank of Shickshinny, Shickshinny, 
Pennsylvania, with The Wyoming National Bank of Wilkes-Barre, Wilkes-Barre, 
Pennsylvania. 
The conclusion stated that the proposed merger would have 
no adverse effect on competition. 

547 
2/16/67 
-2-
Review of operations in domestic securities. There had been 
distributed a memorandum from Mr. Molony dated February 14, 1967, to 
which was attached a review of open market operations in domestic 
securities in 1966 prepared by the Manager of the System Open Market 
Account and proposed for inclusion in the Board's Annual Report for 
1966. 
The review was approved for inclusion in the Annual Report, 
subject to certain editorial changes that might be made. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: 
Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letters to Dr. Frederic D. Chapman, Washington, D. C., confirming 
arrangements for (1) the annual physical examinations of all employees 
in the Board's cafeteria at a fee of $125; and (2) the annual physical 
examinations of the Board's chauffeurs and messenger-drivers at a fee 
of $28 for each examination. 
Memorandum from the Division of Administrative Services dated 
February 10, 1967, recommending the employment of Karl Steger, a retired 
employee of the Mechanical Force, on a contractual hourly basis during 
1967 with compensation at the rate of $2.78 per hour (a) during emer-
gencies and (b) throughout the 1967 expanded evening and weekend air 
conditioning schedule. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta (copy attached as 
Item No. 3) approving the appointment of Edmond C. Rackley, Jr., as 
assistant examiner. 

548 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
2/16/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L CO R R CB P D N OE N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 16, 1967. 
Bank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 30, 
1967, the Board of Governors grants consent for Banca 
d'America e d1Italia, Milan, Italy, to purchase and 
hold shares of ADELA Investment Company, S.A., 
Luxembourg, at a cost of approximately US$250,000, 
provided such stock is acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

549 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
2/16/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
3 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
February 16, 1967 
The Honorable Wilbur D. Mills, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Ways and Means, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to Mr. Irwin's letter of February 9, 
1967, requesting the Board's views on H.R. 950 and H.R. 4765, 
both of which relate to the income tax treatment of certain distri 
butions pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as 
amended last year. 
The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 prohibits any bank 
holding company from engaging in any nonbanking business or 
acquiring more than 5 per cent of the voting shares of any such 
business, and requires bank holding companies to divest any such 
interest previously acquired. As enacted in 1956, the Act includes 
provisions designed to avoid unfavorable tax consequences to a 
company's shareholders where the Bank Holding Company Act forces 
the company to dispose of property, and this is done through a 
distribution to the shareholders. The Board believes that this 
same principle should apply to divestitures required as a result 
of the 1966 amendments. Accordingly, we recommend enactment of 
H.R. 4765 and the first section of H.R. 950. 
Since the provisions of section 2 of H.R. 950 do not 
relate to the Board's area of responsibility, we have no comments 
with respect to that section. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Wm. McG. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

550 
T E L E G R A M 
T , 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
Item NO . 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/16/67 
WASHINGTON 
February 16, 1967. 
STEPHENSON - ATLANTA 
Reurlet February 10, 1967, Board approves appointment of 
Edmond C. Rackley, Jr. as an assistant examiner for Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Please advise effective date of 
appointment. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
CARMICHAEL 
