MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 10, 1969 

rmmmm 
116 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, January 10, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1J 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
All members of the research divisions except Messrs. Brill, 
Partee, and Ettin of the Division of Research and Statistics then 
withdrew from the meeting, as did Mr. Morgan, and the following entered: 
< 
:' ... '..• 
'' i • 
s 
.. '<, > I" 
o. I ' '.'"'•* ; i : '' .' 
Tj Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

117 
1/10/69 
-2-
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Via of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cloth, Sanford, and Shuter of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bouck, Consultant 
Mr. Olin of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco on 
January 9, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Foreign banking matter. The Board approved unanimously a 
letter to American International Bank, New York, New York, granting 
consent to its proposed acquisition of the shares of Banque Europeenne 
de Financement, Paris, France. A copy is attached as Item No. I. 
Proposed amendments to margin regulations. In December 1968 
the Board had published for comment proposed amendments that would 
make credit extended in connection with equity funding plans or 
programs subject to the margin and other requirements of Regulation G, 
Credit by Persons Other Than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers for the 
Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity Securities, and 
Regulation U, Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or 
Carrying Registered Stocks. 

118 
1/10/69 
-2-
The foregoing proposal was combined with another under which 
(1) any security issued by an investment company would be subject to 
the margin regulations unless 95 per cent of the company's assets 
were invested in "exempted" securities and (2) publication of the 
Board's List of Securities Registered on a National Securities 
Exchange and of Securities of Certain Investment Companies would be 
discontinued. 
Comments were to have been received by January 13, 1969, but 
several requests for postponement of the deadline had been made to 
permit persons interested in the equity funding aspect additional time 
to prepare comments and to discuss the proposed amendments with the 
Board's staff. Also, the Board had been asked to extend the effective 
date of the equity funding aspect beyond January 31, 1969, to provide 
additional time to clear new prospectuses with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission, to change operations, and to reorient personnel. 
In a memorandum of January 9, 1969, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation recommended that the time for comment on the equity 
funding proposal be extended to February 14, 1969, and that the date 
after which the offering and sale of such programs would cause credit 
extended in connection therewith to be subject to the margin regulations 
be advanced to March 31, 1969. 
As to the other proposal published at the same time, no 
extension of the deadline for comments was recommended since no 
comments or requests with respect thereto had been received. 

119 
1/10/69 
-2-
After discussion the staff recommendations were approved 
unanimously, except that the effective date in connection with the 
equity funding matter was deferred to April 30, 1969, rather than 
March 31, 1969. 
A copy of the extension notice, in Federal Register form, is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
Bank holding company question. The Board approved unanimously 
a letter to Security New York State Corporation, Rochester, New York, 
regarding the permissibility under the Bank Holding Company Act of its 
proposed acquisition of the stock of a personal property leasing 
corporation. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
Truth in lending. The Board had previously discussed in a 
preliminary way a memorandum from Mr. Olin dated December 17, 1968, 
with regard to the question of retaining a public relations firm to 
render professional assistance in mounting an educational and 
informational effort in support of the regulation on truth in lending 
(Regulation Z) scheduled to be issued by the Board shortly. 
In a supplemental memorandum of January 7, 1969, Mr. Olin 
discussed printing and distribution of the proposed Regulation Z 
and estimated the total cost at around $145,000. He advised that 
eight of the nine Government agencies having enforcement 
responsibilities in connection with the regulation had agreed to 
undertake distribution of the regulation to creditors falling under 
their respective jurisdictions and that the ninth agency (the Federal 

120 
1/10/69 
-2-
Trade Commission) probably would also agree to perform that function. 
Accordingly, he recommended that the Federal Reserve confine itself to 
printing the regulation and developing a related program of education 
and information. 
In a memorandum of January 8, 1969, Mr. Solomon confirmed that 
the truth in lending staff recommended that the Federal Reserve System 
undertake the printing of the regulation, along with some basic 
supplemental material concerning it, and leave the distribution of the 
regulation and supplemental material to the nine enforcing agencies. 
The printing expense was estimated at $65,000, including an estimate 
of $40,000 for printing the regulation itself. 
Mr. Solomon indicated that the staff also recommended that the 
firm of Ruder & Finn of Washington, D.C., Inc., be engaged, initially 
for six months, to work with the Board's staff in developing and guiding 
an educational and informational effort directed at creditors, at an 
estimated professional fee of $30,000. As the educational and 
informational effort developed, specific parts of the program would 
involve production expenses, and it was the view of the staff that the 
following Ruder 6c Finn proposals had merit: (1) production of 
customized information kits at an estimated expense of $15,000; (2) 
development of a film strip at an estimated expense of $20,000; (3) 
development of regional and industry seminars at an estimated expense 
of $15,000; and (4) provision of mass media material to publicize 

121 
1/10/69 
-2-
that July 1, 1969, would be the day on which disclosures under the 
regulation by creditors would begin to be required, at an estimated 
expense of $5,000. 
In discussion, Board members expressed the view that the 
Federal Reserve should proceed cautiously and that only basic steps 
should be decided upon at the moment. This view reflected in part a 
degree of uncertainty as to how broadly the scope of responsibilities 
of the Federal Reserve should be defined, particularly in relation 
to the responsibilities of the enforcing agencies. There was also 
uncertainty as to the extent to which a program of education and 
information should be aimed at creditors in contrast to consumers. 
Further, it was pointed out that no provision for such a program had 
been made in the Board's budget for this year and that the overall 
budget concept was one of stringency. Likewise, it was mentioned that 
in a matter of this kind the Board must be careful not to enter into 
expenditures that should be made out of appropriated funds. 
It was generally conceded that the Board must assume 
responsibility for printing an appropriate number of copies of the 
truth in lending regulation, and accordingly the printing of such 
copies was approved unanimously at an estimated cost of $40,000 along 
with the printing of certain supplemental material at an estimated cost 
of $25,000. This action constituted approval of the resulting 
overexpenditure in the pertinent account of the Board's budget. 

8 
1/10/69 
-2-
When it came to the question of retaining a public relations 
firm for one or more of the purposes outlined in Mr. Solomon's 
memorandum, Governor Robertson suggested that if the Board made a 
decision at this time to retain such a firm, that should be for the 
limited purpose of providing the services and materials most urgently 
and obviously needed in an effort to improve understanding on the part 
of creditors with respect to the requirements of the new regulation. 
Later, after experience had been gained in working with the firm 
selected, the Board could make further determinations on use of the 
firm. In any event, Governor Robertson felt that it would be 
inadvisable to proceed too far until after the forthcoming meeting of 
the Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending. 
It developed from the ensuing discussion that there were 
reservations, expressed principally by Chairman Martin, with regard to 
retaining a public relations firm. Accordingly, possible alternatives 
were mentioned, principally the possibility of adding persons with the 
required expertise to the Board's staff, presumably on a temporary 
basis. The feasibility of such a procedure was discussed, with some 
problems noted, and it was agreed that Mr. Molony would consider the 
alternatives further and report back to the Board. 
Adoption of Regulation P. With further regard to the question 
of issuing a regulation to implement the Bank Protection Act of 1968 
in its application to Federal Reserve Banks and State member banks, 
Governor Robertson noted that copies of a proposed Regulation P, 

1 2 3 
1/10/69 
-2-
Minimum Security Devices and Procedures for Federal Reserve Banks and 
State Member Banks, and of a proposed press release had now been made 
available to the members of the Board. 
Governor Robertson went on to relate that following the Board's 
previous discussion (on January 7) of its proposed regulation he 
received a telephone call from Chairman Randall of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, who said that the directors of the 
Corporation had met on the proposed regulation and that he was sending 
over a draft incorporating certain changes, including some suggested 
earlier at staff level. 
Governor Robertson then reviewed point by point the changes 
that had been suggested. In his view there was, even without such 
changes, substantial conformity with the expressed desire for 
uniformity in the regulations to be issued by the respective supervisory 
authorities. In the circumstances, he recommended that the proposed 
Board regulation be adopted for issuance next Monday, that copies be 
sent to the other agencies, and that it be left to them to decide 
whether to conform precisely or not. 
Other Board members agreed. As to procedure, Governor Sherrill 
suggested that the other agencies be advised that in the Board's 
opinion the respective regulations were substantially in agreement and 
that the Board planned to release its regulation at a specified time 
and would like to coordinate the timing with them if possible. It was 
understood that Governor Robertson would talk with Chairman Randall and 
with the Comptroller of the Currency on that basis. 

•/ s'f 1/10/69 
-9-
K.r\\. r. 
• . , 
Regulation P was then adopted by unanimous vote effective 
"UiV'A'i 
January 13, 1969. A copy of the regulation, as adopted, is attached 
q'; 
-
a s Item No. 4, and a copy of the press release issued is attached as 
Item No. 5. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
.I-1., i-
Secretary 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 20551 
Item No. 1 
1/10/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 10, 19 69. 
American International Bank, 
120 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
November 13, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("AIB") to purchase and hold all the shares, of Banque 
Europeenne de Financement ("BEFC") Paris, France, at a cost of approx-
imately $2,464,754, provided the shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. In this connection, the Board also ap-
proves the purchase and holding of shares of BEFC by your Corporation 
in excess of the applicable limitations set forth in the provisions of 
Section 25(a)(12 U.S.C. 615(c)) of the Federal Reserve Act and Section 
211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of BEFC by AIB is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That AIB shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in BEFC if BEFC at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if BEFC establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in France or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act not engaged in banking; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, AIB 
will furnish the Board of Governors with such reports 
regarding the activities of BEFC as it may require 
from time to time; 

1 2 6 
American International Bank 
-2-
(3) That AIB shall not carry on its books the shares 
acquired of BEFC at a net amount in excess of its 
proportionate share of the book capital accounts of 
BEFC, after giving effect to the elimination of all 
known losses; and 
(4) That any share acquisition or disposition by BEFC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if BEFC were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board suspends, 
until further notice the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the second 
paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions on loans 
granted by BEFC in France in the currency of that country. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the 
investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines established 
under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to 
the foreign lending and investment activities of your Corporation and that 
due consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

127 
Item No. 2 
1/10/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Parts 207 and 221] 
[Reg. G and U] 
CREDIT BY PERSONS OTHER THAN BANKS, BROKERS, 
OR DEALERS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR 
CARRYING REGISTERED EQUITY SECURITIES; 
LOANS BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING 
OR CARRYING REGISTERED STOCKS 
Notice of Extension of Time for Comment 
in Connection With 
Proposed Rulemaking 
On December 17, I960, notice of proposed rulemaking regarding 
amendments to 12 CFR 207 and 12 CFR 221, by the Board of Governors, 
Pursurnt to the authority contained in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
U.S.C. 78g), was published in the Federal Register (33 F.R. 13629). 
The purpose of the proposed changes was to establish that credit to 
finance programs for the combined purchase of registered equity securities 
(including securities issued by most investment companies registered 
Pursuant to Section G of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. G0a-8>) 
end goods, services, other securities, or investments ("equity funding") 
is subject to the regulations. In addition, the changes would clarify 
that credit to purchase or carry securities issued by most investment 
cotnprnies is subject to the regulations, and would eliminate the need for 
Publication of the Board of Governors' "List of Stocks Registered on a 
National Securities Exchange and of Securities of Certain Investment 
Companies". Comments were to have been received not later than 
January 13, 1969. 
The Board having determined that it is appropriate for the 
convenience of the public, the period within which interested persons are 

invited to submit, in writing, relevant data, views or arguments regarding 
the proposal to bring "equity funding" plans or programs under the regu-
lations, is hereby extended to the close of business on February 14, 1969. 
Time to comment on the proposals that any security issued by an 
investment comnany is subject to the regulations unless 95 per cent of its 
cSsets is invested in "exempted" (chiefly government) securities, and that 
Plication of the Board of Governors' "List of Stocks Registered on a 
National Securities Exchange and of Securities of Certain Investment 
Companies" would be discontinued, was not, however, extended beyond 
Janucry 13, 1969. 
In connection with the extension of time in which to comment 
°n the proposal to bring "equity funding" plans or orograms under both 
p 
l68ulrtions Gand U, the words "after January 31, 1969" are changed to 
read "rfter April 30, 1969" in the proposed amendments to paragraph (d) (2) 
of section 207.2 and paragraph (b) (3) of section 221.3. 
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) of Title 5, 
United States Code, and 5 262.2(a) of the rules of procedure of the Board 
o f Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 262.2(a)). 
As before, all comments should be submitted to any Federal 
p serve Bank and, under the Board's rules regarding availability of 
inf 
formation (12 CFR 261), such materials will be made available for inspec-
j 
°n and copying to any person upon request unless the person submitting 
the material requests that it be considered confidential. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 10 day of Jfnuary, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1 2 9 
Item No. 3 
1/10/69 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
B O A R D 
10, 1969 
Mr. Frederic J. Buse, 
Assistant to the President, 
Security New York State Corporation, 
1 East Avenue, 
Rochester, New York. 14604 
Dear Mr. Buse: 
This refers to your inquiry submitted on behalf of Security 
New York State Corporation, a registered bank holding company under 
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as to whether Security may 
Acquire all of the shares of Tocash, Inc., a corporation that will 
engage solely in purchasing, owning, and leasing automobiles, trucks, 
and other vehicles and equipment. Your original request has been 
supplemented by subsequent written and oral communications with the 
Board's staff, including your letter of September 3, 1968, wherein 
you contend that the proposed stock acquisition is permissible pursuant 
to both section 4(c)(1) and section 4(c)(5) of the Act. 
It is understood that Tocash will conduct its operations at 
1 East Avenue, Rochester, which is the location of Security and of one 
°f its subsidiary banks. Vehicles and other equipment will be purchased 
and leased by Tocash only to the extent that it has entered into so-
called "full pay-out" leases - that is, leases under which the lessee 
is obligated to Tocash in an amount not less than the entire cost to 
Tocash of the leased vehicles or other equipment.* 
Section 4(a) of the Act generally forbids a holding company 
to acquire "any voting shares of any company which is not a bank". 
Section 4(c), however, prescribes a number of exemptions from this 
* It is unobjectionable if a lease contemplates that the lessee will 
actually pay to Tocash less than the entire cost of the equipment and 
that the remaining cost will be recovered by Tocash through sale or 
trade-in of the leased equipment, provided that the lessee is obligated 
to make Tocash whole on the transaction in the event Tocash's recovery 
from the used equipment is less than the difference between its cost to 
Tocash and the aggregate lease payments theretofore received by Tocash 
from the lessee. 
B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
T O 
T H I 
Januar 

130 
Mr. Frederic J. Buse 
- 2 -
general prohibition, and the question in this case is whether the 
proposed acquisition by Security of voting stock of Tocash is 
covered by either the section 4(c)(1)(C) or the section 4(c)(5) 
exemption. 
i p 
1. Section 4(c)(1)(C) permits a holding company to acquire 
and retain shares of a company "engaged solely in . . . furnishing 
services to or performing services for such bank holding company or 
its banking subsidiaries". It is the position of the Board of 
Governors that this so-called "servicing" exemption does not in any 
event authorize a holding company to acquire stock of a corporation 
that will engage in a business which neither the holding company nor 
any of its banking subsidiaries may lawfully conduct directly. By its 
very nature, a corporation could hardly be regarded as performing 
services for a parent or affiliate which is not legally authorized to 
engage in the business to which the services relate. In this case, the 
holding company may not lawfully engage directly in the leasing of per-
sonal property, and neither of its banking subsidiaries (both of which 
are State banks) may acquire and lease vehicles registered and used 
principally for passenger conveyance (McKinney's New York Banking Law, 
section 96.12). Passenger vehicle leasing is one of the functions pro-
posed for Tocash. Accordingly, the section 4(c)(1)(C) exemption is not 
applicable. 
2. Section 4(c)(5) of the Act permits a holding company to 
acquire and hold "shares which are of the kinds and amounts eligible 
for investment by national banking associations under the provisions 
of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes" (12 U.S. Code 24). 
The Board of Governors has taken the position that section 5136 
permits a national bank to purchase and hold all (but not less than all) 
of the "shares of a corporation to perform, at locations at which the 
bank is authorized to engage in business, functions that the bank is 
empowered to perform directly." (Federal Reserve Bulletin, August 1968, 
PP. 681-682) Accordingly, the question whether Security is permitted 
by section 4(c)(5) to purchase and retain the stock of Tocash depends 
on whether a national bank could lawfully do so. 
In the opinion of the Board, section 5136 permits a national 
bank to engage in the business of purchasing and leasing personal 
property in the manner described in the second paragraph of this letter, 
either directly or through a wholly-owned subsidiary corporation. 
Accordingly, section 4(c)(5) of the Holding Company Act permits a hold-
ing company to acquire and hold all of the stock of such a corporation, 
as is planned with respect to Tocash. 

Mr. Frederic J. Buse 
-3-
131 
It is emphasized that this interpretation of the Bank 
folding Company Act is based upon the facts as understood by the 
Board and summarized herein. Your letter of September 3 1968 it 
is noted states that "We, of course, cannot project what provisions 
tuture [lease] contracts will include." Needless to say, if Tocash 
entered into leasing contracts of a kind other than the type described 
nerein, or engaged in other activities, the section 4(c)(5) exemption 
rrom the general prohibition of section 4 might cease to be applicable 
In order to avoid the possibility of a violation of the Act, you may " 
consider it advisable to inform the Board, sufficiently in advance, of 
any significant proposed changes in Tocash's operations. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1 3 
Item No. 4 
1/10/69 
REGULATION P 
(12 CFR 216) 
Effective January 13, 1969 
MINIMUM SECURITY DEVICES AND PROCEDURES 
FOR FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND STATE MEMBER BANKS* 
SECTION 216.0—SCOPE O F P A R T 
Pursuant to the authority conferred upon the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
by section 3 of the Bank Protection Act of 1968 
(82 Stat. 295) with respect to State banks which 
are members of the Federal Reserve System and 
to Federal Reserve Banks 1 the rules contained in 
this Part— 
(a) establish minimum standards for the instal-
lation, maintenance, and operation of security de-
vices 
and 
procedures 
to 
discourage 
robberies, 
burglaries, and larcenies and to assist in the identi-
fication 
and apprehension of persons who commit 
such acts; 
(b) establish time limits for compliance; and 
(c) require the submission of reports. 
SECTION 
216.1—DEFINITIONS 
For the purposes of this Part— 
(a) The term "State member bank" means any 
hank that is a member of the Federal Reserve Sys-
tem (other than a national bank or a District of 
Columbia bank). 
(b) The term "banking hours" means the time 
during which a banking office is open for the nor-
mal 
transaction 
of 
business 
with 
the 
banking 
public. 
(c) The term "banking office" includes the main 
office of any State member bank and any branch 
thereof. 
* This text corresponds to the Code of Federal Regula-
tions, Title 12, Chapter II, Part 216, cited as 12 CFR 216. 
The words "this Part," as used herein, mean Regulation P. 
' S e e section 216.7 regarding the applicability of this 
Part to Federal Reserve Banks. 
(d) The term "branch" includes any 
branch 
bank, branch office, branch agency, additional of-
fice, or any branch place of business located in any 
State of the United States or in any Territory of 
the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, or the Vir-
gin Islands at which deposits are received or checks 
paid or money lent. 
(e) The term "Board" means the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
(f) The term "teller's station or window" means 
a location in a banking office at which bank cus-
tomers routinely 
conduct 
transactions 
with 
the 
bank which involve the exchange of funds, includ-
ing a walk-up or drive-in teller's station or window. 
SECTION 216.2—DESIGNATION O F 
. 
SECURITY 
O F F I C E R 
On or before February 
15, 1969 
(or within 
thirty days after a State bank becomes a member 
of the Federal Reserve System, whichever is later), 
the board of directors of each State member bank 
shall designate an officer or other employee of the 
bank who shall be charged, subject to supervision 
by the bank's board of directors, with responsibility 
for the installation, maintenance, and operation of 
security devices and for the development and ad-
ministration of a security program which equal or 
exceed the standards prescribed by this Part. 
SECTION 216.3—SECURITY 
DEVICES 
(a) Installation, maintenance, and operation of 
appropriate security devices. Before January 
1, 
1970 (or within thirty days after a State bank be-
comes a member of the Federal Reserve System, 

133 
REGULATION P 
whichever is later), the security officer of each 
State member bank, under such directions as shall 
be given him by the bank's board of directors, 
shall survey the need for security devices in each 
of the bank's banking offices and shall provide for 
the installation, 
maintenance, 
and operation, 
in 
each such office, o f — 
(1) a lighting system for illuminating, during 
the hours of darkness, the area around the vault, 
if the vault is visible from outside the banking 
office; 
(2) tamper-resistant 
locks on 
exterior 
doors 
and exterior windows designed to be opened; 
(3) an alarm system or other appropriate device 
for promptly notifying the nearest responsible law 
enforcement officers of an attempted or perpetrated 
robbery or burglary; and 
(4) such other devices as the security officer, 
after seeking the advice of law enforcement officers, 
shall determine to be appropriate for discouraging 
robberies, burglaries, and larcenies and for assist-
ing in the identification and apprehension of per-
sons who commit such acts. 
(b) Considerations relevant to determining ap-
propriateness. For the purposes of subparagraph 
(4) of paragraph (a) of this section, considerations 
relevant 
to determining 
appropriateness 
include, 
but are not limited to— 
(1) the incidence of crimes against the particu-
lar banking office and/or against financial institu-
tions in the area in which the banking office is or 
will be located; 
(2) the amount of currency or other valuables 
exposed to robbery, burglary, or larceny; 
(3) the distance of the banking office from the 
nearest responsible law enforcement officers and 
the time required for such law enforcement officers 
ordinarily to arrive at the banking office; 
(4) the cost of the security devices; 
(5) other security measures in effect at the 
banking office; and 
(6) the physical characteristics of the banking 
office structure and its surroundings. 
(c) Implementation. It is appropriate for bank-
ing offices in areas with a high incidence of crime 
to install many devices which would not be prac-
ticable because of costs for small banking offices 
in areas substantially free of crimes against 
finan-
cial institutions. Each bank shall consider the ap-
propriateness of installing, maintaining, and oper-
ating security devices which are expected to give a 
general level of bank protection at least equivalent 
§ 216.4 
to the standards described in Appendix A of this 
Part. In any case in which (on the basis of the 
factors listed in paragraph 
(b) 
or similar ones, 
the use of other measures, or the decision that 
technological 
change 
allows 
the 
use 
of 
other 
measures judged to give equivalent protection) it is 
decided not to install, maintain, and operate de-
vices at least equivalent to these standards, the 
bank shall preserve in its records a statement of 
the reasons for such decision and forward a copy 
of that statement to the Federal Reserve Bank for 
the District in which its main office is located. 
SECTION 216.4—SECURITY 
P R O C E D U R E S 
(a) Development 
and administration. 
On 
or 
before July 15, 1969 (or within thirty days after 
a State bank becomes a member of the Federal 
Reserve System, whichever is later), each State 
member bank shall develop and provide for the 
administration of a security program to protect 
each of its banking offices from robberies, bur-
glaries, and larcenies and to assist in the identifica-
tion and apprehension of persons who commit such 
acts. This security program shall be reduced to 
writing, approved by the bank's board of direc-
tors, and retained by the bank in such form as will 
readily permit determination of its adequacy and 
effectiveness, and a copy shall be filed with the 
Federal Reserve Bank for the District in which the 
main office of the bank is located. 
(b) Contents of security programs. Such secu-
rity programs shall— 
(1) provide for establishing a schedule for the 
inspection, testing, and servicing of all security 
devices installed in each banking office; provide 
for designating the officer or other employee who 
shall be responsible for seeing that such devices 
are inspected, tested, serviced, and kept in good 
working order; and require such officer or other 
employee to keep a record of such inspections, 
testings, and servicings; 
(2) require that each banking office's currency 
be kept at a reasonable minimum and provide pro-
cedures for safely removing excess currency; 
(3) require that the currency at each 
teller's 
station or window be kept at a reasonable minimum 
and provide procedures for safely removing excess 
currency and other valuables to a locked safe, 
vault, or other protected place; 
(4) require that the currency at each teller's 
station or window include "bait" money, i.e., used 
Federal Reserve notes, the denominations, banks 

: 
1 3 4 
§§ 216.5-216.7 
REGULATION P 
of issue, serial numbers, and series years of which 
are recorded, verified by a second officer or em-
ployee, and kept in a safe place; 
(5) require that all currency, negotiable securi-
ties, and similar valuables be kept in a locked 
vault or safe during nonbusiness hours, that the 
vault or safe be opened at the latest time prac-
ticable before banking hours, and that the vault 
or safe be locked at the earliest time practicable 
after banking hours; 
(6) provide, where practicable, for designation 
of a person or persons to open each banking office 
and require him or them to inspect the premises, 
to ascertain 
that 
no unauthorized 
persons 
are 
Present, and to signal other employees that the 
premises are safe before permitting them to enter; 
(7) provide for designation of a person or per-
sons who will assure that all security devices are 
turned on and arc operating during the periods in 
which such devices arc intended to be used; 
(8) provide for designation of a person or per-
sons to inspect, after the closing hour, all areas of 
each banking office where currency, negotiable se-
curities, or similar valuables arc normally handled 
or stored in order to assure that such currency, 
securities, and valuables have been put away, that 
no unauthorized persons are present in such areas, 
and that the vault or safe and all doors and win-
dows are securely locked; and 
(9) provide for training, and periodic retrain-
ing, of employees in their responsibilities under the 
security program, including the proper use of secu-
rity devices and proper employee conduct during 
and after a robbery, in accordance with the pro-
cedures listed in Appendix B of this Part. 
SECTION 216.5—FILING OF REPORTS 
(a) Compliance reports. As of the last business 
day in June of 1970, and as of the last business 
day in June of each calendar year thereafter, each 
State member bank shall file with the Federal Re-
serve Bank for the District in which its main office 
is located a statement certifying to its compliance 
with the requirements of this Part. The statement 
shall be dated and signed by the president, or 
cashier, or other managing officer of the bank and 
may be in a form substantially as follows: 
"I hereby certify, to the best of my knowledge 
and belief, that this bank has developed and ad-
ministers a security program that equals or ex-
ceeds the standards prescribed by §216.4 of 
Regulation P; that such security program has 
been reduced to writing, approved by the bank's 
board of directors, and retained by the bank in 
such form as will readily permit determination 
of its adequacy and effectiveness; and that the 
bank security officer, after seeking the advice of 
law enforcement officers, has provided for the 
installation, maintenance, and operation of ap-
propriate 
security 
devices, 
as 
prescribed 
by 
§ 216.3 of Regulation P, in each of the bank's 
banking offices." 
(b) Reports on security devices. On or before 
March 15, 1969, and upon such other occasions 
as the Board may specify, each State member bank 
shall file with the Federal Reserve Bank for the 
District in which it is located a report on Form P-l 
(in duplicate) for each of its offices that is subject 
to this Part. 
(c) External crime reports. Each time a rob-
bery, burglary, or nonbank-employee 
larceny is 
perpetrated or attempted at a banking office oper-
ated by a State member bank, the bank shall, within 
a reasonable time, file a report in conformity with 
the requirements of Form P-2. One copy of such 
report shall be filed with the appropriate State 
supervisory authority and three copies of such re-
port shall be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank 
for the District in which the head office of the 
reporting bank is located. 
(d) Special reports. Each State member bank 
shall file such other reports as the Board may 
require. 
SECTION 216.6—CORRECTIVE 
ACTION 
Whenever the Board determines that the security 
devices or procedures used by a State member bank 
arc deficient in meeting the requirements of this 
Part, or that the requirements of this Part should 
be varied in the circumstances of a particular bank-
ing office, it may take or require the bank to take 
necessary corrective action. If the Board determines 
that such corrective action is appropriate or neces-
sary, the bank will be so notified and will be fur-
nished a statement of what the bank must do to 
comply with the requirements of this Part. 
SECTION 216.7—APPLICABILITY TO 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
The provisions of this Part apply to each Federal 
» 

REGULATION P 
135 
§ 216.8 
Reserve Bank and its branches 2, except that re-
ports and other writings required or permitted to 
he filed by a State member bank with the Federal 
Reserve Bank for the District in which it is located 
must, in the case of a Federal Reserve Bank, be 
filed with the Board; provided, however, that the 
applicability of the Bank Protection Act of 1968 
and of this Part to Federal Reserve Banks and 
their branches does not preclude the Board from 
requiring, by virtue of its authority under other 
provisions of law, that Federal Reserve Banks and 
.o !v. 
their branches comply with higher standards re-
specting the installation, maintenance, and opera-
tion of security devices and procedures than those 
that are prescribed by this Part. 
SECTION 216.8—PENALTY 
PROVISION 
Pursuant to Section 5 of the Bank Protection 
Act of 1968, a State member bank or Federal 
Reserve Bank that violates any provision of this 
Part shall be subject to a civil penalty not to ex-
ceed $100 for each day of the violation. 
"A branch of a Federal Reserve Bank means an office 
established pursuant to section 3 of the Federal Reserve 
Act (12 U.S.C. § 521). 

136 
APPENDIXES 
APPENDIX A 
MINIMUM 
STANDARDS 
FOR SECURITY 
DEVICES 
(1) Surveillance systems, (i) General. 
Surveil-
lance systems should be: 
( A ) equipped with one or more photographic, 
recording, monitoring, or like devices capable of 
reproducing images of persons in the banking of-
fice with sufficient clarity to facilitate 
(through 
photographs capable of being enlarged to produce 
a one-inch 
vertical 
head-size 
of persons 
whose 
•mages have been reproduced) 
the identification 
and apprehension of robbers or other suspicious 
Persons; 
(B) reasonably silent in operation; 
(C) so designed and constructed that necessary 
services, repairs, or inspections can readily be made. 
Any camera used 
in such 
a system should 
be 
capable of taking at least one picture every two 
seconds and, if it uses film, should contain enough 
unexposed film at all times to be capable of operat-
•ng for not less than three minutes, and the film 
should be at least 16mm. 
(ii) Installation, maintenance, and operation of 
surveillance systems providing surveillance of other 
than walk-up or drive-in teller's stations or win-
dows. Surveillance devices for other than walk-up 
or drive-in windows should be: 
( A ) 
located 
so 
as 
to 
reproduce 
identifiable 
images of persons either leaving the banking office 
°r in a position to transact business at each such 
station or window; and 
(B) capable of activation by initiating devices 
located at each teller's station. 
(iii) Installation, maintenance, and operation of 
surveillance 
systems 
providing 
surveillance 
of 
walk-up or drive-in teller's stations or windows. 
Surveillance dcvices for walk-up and drive-in tel-
ler's stations or windows should be located in such 
a manner as to reproduce identifiable images of 
persons in a position to transact business at each 
such station or window and areas of such station 
or window that arc vulnerable to robbery or lar-
ceny. Such devices should be capable of activation 
by one or more initiating devices located within or 
'n close proximity to such station or window. Such 
devices could be omitted in the case of walk-up or 
drive-in teller's station or window in which the teller 
is effectively protected by a bullet-resistant barrier 
•rom persons outside the station or window, but if 
the teller is vulnerable to larceny or robbery by 
members of the public who enter the banking of-
fice, the teller should have access to a device to 
activate a surveillance system that covers the area 
of vulnerability or the exits to the banking office. 
(2) Robbery alarm systems. A robbery alarm 
should be provided 
for each banking office at 
which the police ordinarily can arrive within five 
minutes after an alarm is activated. Robbery alarm 
systems should be: 
(i) designed to transmit to the police, either 
directly or through an intermediary, a signal (not 
detectable 
by 
unauthorized 
persons) 
indicating 
that a crime against the banking office has occurred 
or is in progress; 
(ii) capable of activation by initiating devices 
located at each teller's station (except walk-up or 
drive-in teller's stations or windows in which the 
teller is effectively protected by a bullet-resistant 
barrier and effectively isolated from persons, other 
than fellow employees, inside a banking office of 
which such station or window may be a part); 
(iii) safeguarded against accidental transmission 
of an alarm; 
(iv) equipped with a visual and audible signal 
capable of indicating improper functioning of or 
tampering with the system; and 
(v) equipped 
with an independent 
source 
of 
power (such as a battery) sufficient to assure con-
tinuously reliable operation of the system for at 
least twenty-four hours in the event of failure of 
the usual source of power. 
(3) Burglar alarm systems. Burglar alarm sys-
tems should be: 
(i) capable of detecting promptly an attack on 
the outer door, walls, floor or ceiling of each vault, 
and each safe not stored in a vault, in which cur-
rcncy, negotiable securities, or similar 
valuables 
are stored 
when 
the office is closed, 
and 
any 
attempt to move any such safe; 
(ii) designed to transmit, to the police, either 
directly or through an intermediary, a signal (not 
detectable 
by 
unauthorized 
persons) 
indicating 
that any such attempt is in progress; and in the 
case of a banking office at which the police ordi-
narily cannot arrive within five minutes after an 
alarm 
is activated, designed 
to activate a 
loud 
sounding bell or other device that is audible inside 
the banking office and for a distance of approxi-
mately 500 feet outside the banking office; 

REGULATION P 
137 
APPENDIX A 
(iii) safeguarded against accidental transmission 
of an alarm; 
(iv) equipped with a visual and audible signal, 
capable of indicating improper functioning of or 
tampering with the system; and 
(v) equipped with an independent source of 
power (such as a battery) sufficient to assure con-
tinuously reliable operation of the system for at 
least eighty hours in the event of failure of the 
usual source of power. 
(4) Walk-up and drive-in teller's stations or 
windows. Walk-up and drive-in teller's stations or 
windows contracted for after February 15, 1969, 
should be constructed in such a manner that tellers 
are effectively protected by bullet-resistant barriers 
from robbery or larceny by persons outside such 
stations or windows. Such barriers should be of 
glass at least one and three-sixteenths inches thick,1 
or of material of at least equivalent bullet-resist-
ance. Pass-through devices should be so designed 
and constructed as not to afford a person outside 
the station a direct line of fire at a person inside 
the station. 
(5) Vaults, safes, and night depositories. Vaults 
and safes (if not to be stored in a vault) in which 
currency, negotiable securities, or similar valuables 
are to be stored when the office is closed, and 
night depositories, contracted for after February 
15, 1969, should meet or exceed the following 
standards: 
(A) Vaults. Vault walls, roof and floor con-
tracted for after February 
15, 1969, should be 
made of steel-reinforced concrete, 
at 
least 
18 
inches thick; vault doors should be made of steel 
or other drill and torch-resistant material, at least 
three and one-half inches thick, and be equipped 
with a dial combination lock and a time lock and 
a substantial, lockable day-gate; or vaults 
and 
vault doors should be constructed of materials that 
afford at least equivalent burglary-resistance. 
(B) Safes. Safes contracted for after February 
15, 1969, should weigh at least 750 pounds empty, 
°r be securely anchored to the premises where 
located. The door should be equipped with a com-
bination lock, and with a relocking device that 
will effectively lock the door if the combination 
lock is punched. The body should consist of steel, 
at least one inch in thickness, with an ultimate 
tensile strength of 50,000 pounds per square inch, 
either cast or fabricated, and be fastened in a 
manner equal to a continuous one-fourth 
inch 
penetration 
weld 
having 
an 
ultimate 
tensile 
strength of 50,000 pounds per square inch. One 
hole not exceeding 3/16-inch diameter may be 
provided in the body to permit insertion of elec-
trical conductors, but should be located so as not 
to permit a direct view of the door or locking 
mechanism. The door should be made of steel 
that is at least one and one-half inches thick, and 
at least equivalent in strength to that specified for 
the body; or safes should be constructed of ma-
terials that afford at least equivalent 
burglary-
resistance. 
(C) Night depositories. Night depositories (ex-
cluding envelope drops not used to receive sub-
stantial amounts of currency) contracted for after 
February 15, 1969, should consist of a receptacle 
chest having cast, or welded, steel walls, top and 
bottom, at least one inch thick; a combination 
locked steel door at least one and one-half inches 
thick; and a chute, made of steel that is at least 
one inch thick, securely bolted or welded to the 
receptacle and to a depository entrance of strength 
similar to the chute; or night depositories should 
be constructed of materials that afford at least 
equivalent burglary-resistance. The depository en-
trance should be equipped with a lock. Night de-
positories should be equipped 
with a burglary 
alarm and be designed to protect against the "fish-
ing" of a deposit from the deposit receptacle, and 
to protect against the "trapping" of a deposit for 
extraction. 
Each device mentioned in this Appendix should 
be installed and regularly inspected, tested, and 
serviced by competent persons, so as to assure 
realization of its maximum performance capabili-
ties. Activating devices for surveillance 
systems 
and robbery alarms should be operable with the 
least risk of detection by unauthorized 
persons 
that can be practicably achieved. 
1 It should be emphasized that this thickness is merely 
bullet-resistant and not bullet-proof. 

APPENDIX B 
_ 138 
REGULATION P 
APPENDIX B 
PROPER EMPLOYEE CONDUCT DURING 
AND AFTER A ROBBERY 
With respect to proper employee conduct dur-
mg and after a robbery, 
employees 
should 
be 
instructed: 
(1) to avoid actions that might increase danger 
to themselves or others; 
(2) to activate the robbery alarm system and 
the surveillance system during the robbery, if it 
appears that such activation can be accomplished 
safely; 
(3) to observe the robber's physical 
features, 
voice, 
accent, 
mannerisms, 
dress, 
the 
kind 
of 
weapon he has, and any other characteristics that 
would be useful for identification purposes; 
(4) that if the robber leaves evidence (such as 
a note) try to put it aside and out of sight, if it 
appears that this can be done safely; retain the 
evidence, do not handle it unnecessarily, and give 
it to the police when they arrive; and refrain f r o m 
touching, 
and 
assist in preventing 
others 
from 
touching, articles or places the robber may have 
touched or evidence he may have left, in order 
that 
fingerprints 
of the robber may be obtained; 
(5) to give the robber no more money 
than 
the amount he demands, and include "bait" money 
in the amount given; 
(6) that if it can be done safely, observe the 
direction of the robber's escape and the description 
and license plate number of the vehicle used, if 
any; 
(7) to telephone the local police, if they have 
not arrived, and the nearest office of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation, or inform a designated 
officer or other employee who has this responsi-
bility, that a robbery has been committed; 
(8) that if the robber leaves before the police 
arrive, assure that a designated officer or other 
employee waits outside the office, if it is safe to 
do so, to inform the police when they arrive that 
the robber has left; 
(9) to attempt to determine 
the names 
and 
addresses of other persons who witnessed the rob-
bery or the escape, and request them to record 
their observations or to assist a designated officer 
or other employee in so doing; 
(10) to refrain from discussing the details of 
the robbery with others before recording the ob-
servations respecting the robber's physical features 
and other characteristics as hereinabove described 
and the direction 
of escape and description 
of 
vehicle used, if any. 

Item No. 5 
1/10/69 
For release in morning papers of 
Tuesday, January 14, 1969. 
January 13, 1969. 
The Federal Reserve Board announced today its rules 
implementing the Bank Protection Act of 1968 covering State banks 
that are members of the Federal Reserve System as well as Federal 
Reserve Banks and their branches. The rules, designated Regulation 
are effective immediately under terms of Public Law 90-389 (signed 
July 7, 1968) enacted to discourage crimes against financial insti-
tutions and to assist in the apprehension of perpetrators of such 
crimes. 
The Federal Reserve Regulation is based on preliminary 
proposals released for public comment on November 6, 1968. The final 
version is the result of extensive consultation with the banking com-
®unity, law enforcement officials, insurance representatives and 
security equipment specialists as well as among the four agencies 
charged with enforcing the Bank Protection Act (the Federal Reserve 
Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Comptroller of 
the Currency and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board). 
Pursuant to the statute, the new Regulation: 
(1) Provides minimum standards for security devices and 
procedures both to discourage robberies, burglaries and larcenies 
involving financial institutions and to facilitate the identifi-
cation and apprehension of persons who commit such crimes; 
(2) establishes time limits for compliance and procedures for 
reporting on compliance, as required by statute; and 

- 2 - 
1 1 0 
(3) assures flexibility in application of such standards 
to accommodate differing circumstances of individual banking 
offices (such as size of assets at stake and degree of risk at 
particular offices). 
The Bank Protection Act originated in response to public 
concern over the steady rise in crimes against financial institutions 
during the past 15 years. Testimony before Congress prior to enact-
ment of the statute indicated that bank robberies have risen more 
rapidly than other types of robberies. For instance, Federal Bureau 
Investigation statistics showed that between 1960 and 1966, bank 
robberies increased 154 per cent (in contrast with gas station hold-ups, 
which increased 80 per cent, and street robberies, which increased 43 
Per cent). Latest FBI data estimate there were approximately 2,658 
violations of Federal bank robbery statutes during 1968 compared with 
2>551 in 1967, 1,871 in 1966 and 526 in 1953. These totals include 
armed robbery, burglary and larceny. Armed robbery alone accounted for 
1,806 violations in 1968, compared with 1,730 in 1967, 1,164 in 1966 
a**d 248 in 1953. 
In 1967 -- the latest year for which detailed FBI information 
i s available -- total financial losses to banking institutions due to 
robberies, burglaries and larcenies exceeded $15 million. Even more 
important, during the same year 23 persons were killed and 61 were in-
Jured in the course of bank robberies. 

The main objective of the new Act and implementing Regulation 
to identify minimum protection standards for deterring such crimes 
and to provide appropriate methods for confirming compliance. The 
Regulation, which affects some 1,200 main offices and 3,500 branches of 
State member banks, requires each State member bank to develop a 
security program and provide for its administration in specified stages. 
The Regulation gives State member banks until February 15, 
969, to designate a security officer to administer the protection pro-
gram for each bank. On or before March 15, 1969, each bank must file 
a report (Form P-l) on its existing protection facilities. On or before 
J u lV 15, 1969, each bank must develop a written program, approved by 
Its board of directors, based on nine minimum procedural requirements 
listed in the Regulation. 
(These range from establishing schedules for 
inspection, testing and servicing of the bank's security equipment to 
Providing for training, and periodic retraining, of employees in how to 
^°llow the security procedures.) Banks are required to file a copy of 
their program with the appropriate district Federal Reserve Bank. By 
January 1, 1970, the bank must survey its security needs in each banking 
°ffice and provide for installation, maintenance and operation of a vault 
area lighting system, tamper-resistant exterior door and window locks, 
a n alarm system or other appropriate device for promptly notifying the 
nearest responsible law enforcement officers, and such other devices as 
bank security officer shall determine appropriate after seeking the 
8(*vice of local law enforcement officers. On the last business day of 

- HZ 
-4-
V. 
June in 1970 and annually thereafter a certification of compliance must 
be filed with the district Federal Reserve Bank by the president, 
cashier or other managing officer of the bank. 
An Appendix to the Regulation sets forth minimum standards 
for installation, maintenance and operation of security devices, 
generally as consistent with the individual banks' circumstances. 
In its section on "implementation," the Regulation states: 
'It is appropriate for banking offices in areas with a high incidence 
of crime to install many devices which would not be practicable because 
of costs for small banking offices in areas substantially free of 
crimes against financial institutions." 
The Regulation lists six considerations relevant to what 
devices are appropriate, and also makes provision for use of improved 
measures that become available as technological change occurs. 
The Regulation requires filing of a special crime report 
(Form P-2) after any attempted robbery, burglary or larceny. 
Under terms of section 5 of the Bank Protection Act, violation 
carries a civil penalty not exceeding $100 per day of violation. 
The complete text of Regulation P, two Appendices and Forms P-l 
and p-2 are attached. 
- 0 -
Attachments 
