MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 17, 1970 

3464 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, December 17, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members 
portions of the meeting. 
also attended 

« ) 
« £ » J — 
12/17/70 
-2-
Southeast Bancorporation. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated December 8, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers, including a proposed order, had been distributed in connection 
with an application of Southeast Bancorporation, Inc., Miami, Florida, 
to acquire shares of First Bank & Trust Company of Jacksonville, 
Jacksonville, Florida. 
The application was approved unanimously. After discussion 
that resulted in agreement with a suggestion that the order be expanded 
to cover certain additional points, the issuance of the order was 
authorized. A copy of the document, as issued, is attached as Item No. 1. 
'>" 
i . 
i". 
i 
. , 
" . . "•• 
A memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
dated December 7, 1970, and other pertinent papers also had been distri-
buted in connection with an application by Southeast Bancorporation to 
acquire shares of Deerfield Beach Bank and Trust Company, Deerfield 
Beach, Florida. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Ameribanc. A memorandum from the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation dated December 14, 1970, and other pertinent papers had 
been distributed in connection with an application of Ameribanc, Inc., 
St. Joseph, Missouri, to become a bank holding company through acquisi-
tion of shares of the successors by merger to The American National Bank 
of St. Joseph and Belt National Bank of St. Joseph. 

3466 
12/17/70 
-3-
The application was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's consid-
eration. 
First National Charter Corporation. A memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated December 9, 1970, and 
other pertinent papersj including a proposed order, had been distributed 
in connection with an application of First National Charter Corporation, 
Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of Webster Groves Trust Company, 
Webster Groves, Missouri. 
The application was approved unanimously and the issuance of 
the order was authorized. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
First National Bancorporation. On November 10, 1970, the 
Board denied the application of The First National Bancorporation, Inc., 
Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of Montbello State Bank, also of 
Denver, Chairman Burns and Governors Daane and Sherrill dissenting. The 
majority's view that the application should be denied had been based in 
part on the potentially anticompetitive consequences of the developers' 
position that the Montbello area should be served by only one bank. The 
dissenting members gave considerable weight to the convenience and needs 
fa 
ctor, noting that in the absence of an alternative that would assure 
competitive banking facilities, approval of the present application 
would provide one convenient source of full banking services. 

3467 
12/17/70 
-4-
Before an order and statement had been presented for the Board's 
consideration, counsel for First National Bancorporation discussed the 
proposal with the Legal Division. Subsequently, First National Bancor-
poration advised by telegram that the Montbello developers would be 
willing (1) to release First National from its obligation to sell stock 
to them, and (2) to modify the proposal to the extent that a second 
bank might be permitted to enter the area under certain circumstances. 
In a memorandum dated December 16, 1970, submitting a draft order and 
statement that would reflect the November 10 decision as well as a 
draft dissenting statement, the Legal Division suggested that the Board 
might wish to reconsider the application. 
Upon motion by Governor Mitchell, the Board voted to reconsider 
the application. 
However, comments by members of the Board indicated that their 
positions were unchanged. Accordingly, the application was again denied. 
Chairman Burns and Governors Daane and Sherrill dissenting. It was 
understood that the majority statement would be revised and brought back 
to the Board for further consideration along with the draft order and 
dissenting statement,, 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The State Bank of Lapel, 
Lapel, Indiana, into Anderson Banking Company, Anderson, Indiana, was 

3468 
12/17/70 
-5-
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The State Bank of 
Lapel into Anderson Banking Company would eliminate direct 
competition between the proponents and increase the market share 
of the largest bank in the area. There is presently a high 
degree of concentration of deposits in the largest banking insti-
tutions. Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition 
would be adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Lawrence Savings and Trust Company, New Castle, Pennsylvania, 
into First Seneca Bank and Trust Company, Oil City, Pennsylvania, was 
approved for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
Little competition now exists between First Seneca Bank 
and Trust Company, Oil City, and Lawrence Savings and Trust 
Company, New Castle. Consummation of the proposal would 
eliminate the potential for greater competition. Overall, 
the effect of the proposal on competition is slightly adverse. 
Governor Roberts on dissented because he endorsed the conclusion 
of the Bank Examinations Department of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland that the competitive effects of the proposed merger would be 
adverse. 
Bankers Trust Company. On December 8, 1970, the Board authorized 
the issuance by Bankers Trust Company, New York, New York, of subordinated 
notes as nondeposit obligations. 
At today's meeting Governor Robertson reported that Bankers Trust 
Company had requested that notice of the Board's action be withheld from 

3 4 
m 
12/11/10 
- 6 -
the public information file because the proposal had not yet been 
approved by the bank's board of directors and premature disclosure 
would be detrimental to the success of the issue. Governor Robertson 
had indicated that under the provisions of the Public Information Act 
the Board had no choice but to make known its action. However, at the 
Board's discretion, it might be possible to withhold publication for 
a reasonable length of time. 
After further discussion with the bank's counsel, the Board's 
legal staff had concluded that the Board's letter of authorization 
should be made a matter of public information without delay, but 
suggested deletion of the bank's identity and the amount of the issue. 
Upon announcement by the bank of the offering of the notes, the complete 
text of the letter would be made available through the public informa-
tion file. It was the view of the Legal Division that such a procedure 
would be consistent with the Public Information Act and the Board's 
Rules Regarding Availability of Information as well as the Board's 
statement regarding the Act as it appeared in the July 1967 issue of 
the Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
During discussion, one view expressed was that if the proposal 
had in fact been presented to the Board prematurely, it should be 
withdrawn and resubmitted at the appropriate time. Concern was also 
expressed over the possibility that the procedure proposed by the Legal 

3 4 7 0 
12/17/70 
-7-
Division would appear to involve preferential treatment. Another view 
was expressed, however, that under the circumstances it would seem 
appropriate to hold the matter in camera until such time as release 
of the information would not be harmful to Bankers Trust. Further 
comments were directed to procedures followed by the Securities and 
Exchange Commission with respect to release of information. 
The discussion, as it developed, indicated a willingness on 
the part of the Board to withhold release of the December 8 action 
temporarily, provided Bankers Trust would be in a position to make 
^ i, v} • 
v..) * • N j i v t f .•.-,. 
known the terms of its proposed issue of capital notes within a short 
period of time. If not, the bank should be advised to withdraw its 
application. 
It was understood that the staff would inform Bankers Trust 
Company accordingly. 
(Note: Bankers Trust subsequently withdrew its 
application.) 
Other actions. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated: 
Item No. 
Letter to Mcllroy Bank, Fayetteville, 
3 
Arkansas, approving an investment in 
bank premises and the issuance of 
capital notes incident thereto. 

3 4 7 1 
12/17/70 
-8-
Item No. 
Letter to Worthen Bank and Trust Company, 
4 
Little Rock, Arkansas, approving the 
issuance of capital notes. 
Letter to Harris Trust and Savings Bank, 
5 
Chicago, Illinois, granting permission 
to organize a corporation under section 
25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act to be 
known as Harris Bank International Corpora-
tion, New York, New York, and transmitting 
a preliminary permit. 
Letter to First Pennsylvania Banking and 
6 
Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
approving the establishment of branches in 
Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas, and in 
Christiansted, St. Croix, Virgin Islands. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
7 
Francisco relating to the request of 
Beverly Hills National Bank, Beverly Hills, 
California, for permission to continue to 
carry reduced reserves following the opening 
of a branch in downtown Los Angeles. 
Presidential Commission. In a memorandum dated December 14, 
1970, the Office of the Secretary presented a request from the Presi-
dential Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation that the Board 
underwrite five study papers approved by the Commission. The under-
writing would involve payment of $1,750 for each paper as well as 
reimbursement for actual expenses incurred in travel arranged by the 
Commission staff in connection with the presentation of the papers. The 
view was expressed by the Board's staff that the underwriting of the papers 
could be j ustified if the papers would be of value to the Board. 

12/17/70 
-9-
Initial comments indicated that some Board members would not 
object to underwriting all of the papers, but there was also a view 
in favor of denying the request. Further discussion developed support 
for the intermediate position of underwriting such papers as would be 
of value to the Board and its staff. 
Following additional discussion of the alternatives, it was 
agreed to underwrite four of the five papers in question, the other 
being considered to have only peripheral value to the Board, and to 
i 
advise the Commission that the Board might be willing to underwrite 
i > ; r 
additional papers depending on the subject matter. Governor Brimmer 
dissented, it being his view that the Board should adhere to its origi-
nally established position against making financial contributions to 
the work of the Commission. 
S. 3431. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to the Office 
of Management and Budget indicating that the Board favored approval of 
enrolled bill S. 3431, "To amend sections 13(d), 13(e), 14(d), and 
14(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in order to provide addi-
tional protection for investors." A copy is attached as Item No. 8. 
Foreign credit restraint. Governor Brimmer referred to the 
desirability of making an announcement with respect to the Voluntary 
Foreign Credit Restraint Program before the end of the year. He indi-
cated that at a minimum a statement should be made to the effect that 

3473 
ii/ii 
n o 
- 1 0 -
the 1970 program would continue in operation until further notice. 
Such action, he felt, would be advisable pending a decision with respect 
to possible changes in the program administered by the Commerce Depart-
ment. It was agreed that Governor Brimmer should draft an appropriate 
release. 
Open Market Committee. At Governor Maisel's suggestion, it 
was agreed that subsequent to each meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee, presumably in connection with the next ensuing staff economic 
and financial review, the Board should have a discussion for the purpose 
of achieving a clear understanding of the conclusions as to operations 
that had been reached by the Manager of the System Open Market Account 
and the Committee staff in the light of the Committee meeting and the 
current economic policy directive adopted. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland and Kenyon then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
currently Assistant Director of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations, as Director of that Division, effective January 23, 1971, 
upon the retirement of Mr. Farrell, with annual salary at the rate of 
$31,500. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Staff appointment. The Board appointed James A. Mcintosh, 
JL 
Secretary 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
Item No. 1 
12/17/70 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
SOUTHEAST BANCORPORATION, INC., 
' 
Miami, Florida, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
' 
First Bank & Trust Company of 
' 
Jacksonville, Jacksonville, Florida. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Southeast Bancorporation, Inc., 
Miami, Florida, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
Prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of First Bank & Trust Company of Jacksonville, Jacksonville, 
Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Banking for the State of Florida and requested his views and recommendation 
^he Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 

3175 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 29, 1970 (35 Federal Register 16757), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing coirments and views has expired, and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors 
set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources of the Applicant and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such consideration, 
the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the second largest banking organization in Florida, 
controls 10 banks which hold combined deposits of approximately 
$824 million, representing 6.8 per cent of total deposits held by 
Florida's commercial banks. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, 
adjusted to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
by the Board to date.) Upon acquisition of Bank, Applicant's control of 
deposits in the State would remain under 7 per cent. 
Bank, with deposits of $16.6 million, ranks ninth among 
17 banking organizations in Duval County, which is regarded as the 
relevant banking market, and holds 1.5 per cent of deposits in the 
county. Acquisition of Bank by An-1leant will mark its ini-
tial entry into the north Florida banking market. 
Inasmuch 
as no subsidiary of Applicant Is located within 125 miles 

-3-
3 4 7 6 
of Bank and Florida law prohibits branch banking, it appears that 
consummation of the proposal herein would not result in the elimination 
of any significant present competition nor the foreclosure of any sig-
nificant potential competition between Bank and any of Applicant's sub-
sidiaries. On the other hand, acquisition of Bank by Applicant may serve 
to enhance competition in the Jacksonville market among Applicant and 
the three other large holding companies that already serve that market 
and are dominant therein. On the record before the Board, considerations 
relating to the financial condition, management, and prospects of Appli-
cant, its present subsidiaries and Bank are consistent with approval of 
the appl ication. Although all banking needs of the Jacksonville area 
appear to be served adequately, consummation of the proposed acquisition 
would afford Bank the means with which to offer larger loans and a 
greater range of services and to become a more effective competitor in 
the Jacksonville area. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, pro-
vided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time shall 

3177 
-4-
i 
be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta, pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 17, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and 
Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

3478 
Item No, 2 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
12/17/70 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
FIRST NATIONAL CHARTER CORPORATION, 
' 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
1 
Webster Groves Trust Company, Webster 
1 
Groves, Missouri. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First National Charter Corpora-
tion, Kansas City, Missouri ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Webster Groves Trust Company, 
Webster Groves, Missouri ("Bank"). 

3179 
>4-
• • 
1.1 •.. 
, i 
i 
' 
As required by sectioti 3(b) 6f the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Finance for 
the State of Missouri and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Commissioner offered no objection to the approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 27, 1970 (35 Federal Register 16656), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the application. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration, Time for filing,comments and views lias expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and 
managerial resources and future prospects of Applicant and the banks 
concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the third largest registered bank holding company 
and the fourth largest banking organization in Missouri, has three 
subsidiary banks with $369 million in deposits, which represent 3.6 
per cent of the total deposits of all banks in the State. (All bank-
ing data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company 

3 1 8 0 
I 
*3-
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date). This 
proposal represents Applicants initial effort to expand into the 
greater St. Louis area through acquisition of Bank which is located 
10 miles west of downtown St. Louis. 
Bank (deposits $35.4 million), the larger of two banks in 
Webster Groves and the largest of 9 banks serving Webster Groves and 
environs, is the ninth largest of 43 banks serving St. Louis County 
(which does not include the city of St. Louis). Applicant's closest 
subsidiary is located 140 miles west of Bank, and neither it nor any 
other of Applicant's present subsidiaries compete with Bank to a 
significant extent. Nor does it appear likely that such competition 
would develop because of the distances between Applicant's present 
subsidiaries and Bank,and Missouri's restrictive branching law. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consumma-
tion of the proposed acquisition would not have significant adverse 
effects on competition in any relevant area. The banking factors 
are regarded as consistent with approval of the application as they 
relate to Applicant and its subsidiaries, and lend some weight in 
support of approval as they relate to Bank, since affiliation with 
Applicant would provide Bank with greater management depth. Considera-
tions relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
served lend additional weight in support of approval; Applicant pro-
poses to expand Bank's trust department and to assist Bank in 

3 
-4-
providing an additional source for meeting the'credit and service needs 
of local businesses. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of 
the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the 
application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered; On the basis of the findings summarized 
above, that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that 
the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period 
is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 17, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. ICenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 3 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
12/17/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20S51 
ADDRESS OFriCIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
December 17, 1970 
Board of Directors, 
Mcllroy Bank, 
Fayetteville, Arkansas 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 24A of the 
Federal Reserve Act, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System approves an investment in bank premises of 
$1,073,063 by Mcllroy Bank, Fayetteville, Arkansas, for the 
construction of a new bank building. Pursuant to section 217.1 
(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of 
Regulation D, the Board also approves the issuance of one million 
dollars in subordinated convertible capital debentures by 
Mcllroy Bank, Fayetteville, Arkansas, as proposed in your 
letter of October 28, 1970, to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
St. Louis. It is understood the debentures are to be sold 
by means of a preemptive rights offering to stockholders 
of the bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/17/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
2055! 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1970 
Board of Directors 
Worthen Bank and Trust Company 
Little Rock, Arkansas 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1 (f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the ssuance 
of $3 million in subordinated notes by Worthen Bank rid Trust 
Company, Little Rock, Arkansas, as proposed in your Setters 
of October 27 and November 19, 1970, to the Federal Fiserve 
Bank of St. Louis. It is understood that any advertising 
with respect to the obligations will, in addition to oeing 
in compliance with the provisions of section 217.6 of 
Regulation Q, clearly distinguish the nature of the obligation 
from a deposit, including by setting forth in bold face type 
that the obligation is subordinated to the claims of depositors 
and not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

3 1 8 4 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
12/17/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P • N D E N C E. 
T D 
T H E 
B D A R D 
December 17, 1970 
Mr. Kenneth V. Zwiener, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Harris Trust and Savings Bank, 
111 West Monroe Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Zwiener: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated November 9, 
1970, of Harris Bank International Corporation, New York, New York, 
and there is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing that Corpora-
tion to exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the 
Board authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the 
Board will issue its final, permit to commence business, the presi-
dent, treasurer, or secretary, together with at least three of the 
directors, must certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the 
United States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock 
is held and owned by citizens of the United States, by corporations 
the controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United 
States, chartered under the laws of the United States or of a State 
of the United States, or by firms qr companies the controlling in-
terest in which is owned by citizens of the United States; and 
(3) that of the authorized capital stock specified in the Articles 
of Association at least 25 per cent has been paid in in cash and 
that each shareholder has individually paid in in cash at least 
25 per cent of his stock subscription. Thereafter, the treasurer 
or secretary shall certify to the payment of the remaining instal-
ments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 

Mr. Kenneth V. Zwiener 
- 2 -
3185 
Your attention is directed to the fact that Harris Bank 
International Corporation will have no separate base under the 
foreign credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or investments 
will need to be made under the ceiling of Harris Trust and Savings 
Bank. Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with the under-
standing that any foreign loans and investments of the Corporation 
will be made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your bank and that due consideration 
V.Till be given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OFTHE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
2 Q 5 5 I 
December 17, 1970 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated November 9, 1970, of HARRIS BANK INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION 
duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that HARRIS BANK 
INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION is authorized to exercise such of the 
powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental 
and preliminary to its organization pending the issuance by the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final permit 
generally to commence business in accordance with the provisions 
of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
By'. 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

Of CQV' 
.. 
^ L R E & V 
B O A R D • F D D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
3187 
Item No. 6 
12/17/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C C R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
Q U A R D 
December 17, 1970 
FirsL Pennsylvania Banking 
and Trust Company, 
15th and Chestnut Streets, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors grants its permission to First 
Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, pursuant to the provisions 
of Sections 9 and 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish two 
branches in the U.S. Virgin Islands, to be located at 80 Kronprindsens 
Ga do, Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas, and 12-13 King Street, 
Christiansted, St. Croix, and to operate and maintain such branches 
subject to the provisions of such Sections and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branches are actually established and opened 
for business on or before January 1, 1972, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Re serve Bank of Philadelphia, when the branches are opened for busi-
ness. The Board should also be promptly informed of any future 
change in location of the branches in Charlotte Ainalie and Christiansted, 
and also of any changes which may occur in the licenses under which 
they will be permitted by local authorities to operate a trust busi-
ness in the Virgin Islands. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
3188 
• F THE 
Item No. 7 
12/17/70 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1970 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings 
Senior Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
In regard to the letter received from The Beverly Hills 
Nat ional Bank, Beverly Hills, California, dated October 20, 1970, 
requesting continued permission to carry the reserves required of 
banks not in a reserve city following its opening of a de novo 
branch in downtown Los Angeles, it: is felt that the bank*s letter 
may deserve some additional response. 
The Board would therefore like to suggest that the bank 
be advised that no final approval is possible at this early date 
clue to the lack of final information; nevertheless, it is under-
standable that the bank has certain planning needs, and if present 
conditions continue to prevail regarding the nature of the bank's 
business, especially as it relates to the proposed de novo branch, 
then the Board at this time sees no reason why permission to carry 
reduced reserves should be discontinued. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

3 4 8 9 
'As 
CHAIRMAN O F THE BOARD O F G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 8 
12/17/70 
December 18, 1970 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
I am writing in response to your request of 
December 16, 1970, for views and recommendations of the 
Board of Governors with respect to enrolled bill S. 3431, 
"To amend sections 13(d), 13(e), 14(d) and 14(e) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 in order to provide addi-
tional protection for investors." 
The Board favors Presidential approval of the 
bill. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
