MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 23, 1970 
i Is 
I J 
A'. 

1005 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, June 23, 1970. The Board met in the Special 
Library at 8:45 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
There was distributed a revised draft of press release 
intended for use if the Board took action to suspend the interest 
rate ceilings applicable to certificates of deposit in denominations 
of $100,000 or more with maturities of 30 to 89 days. 
The draft was reviewed and several changes were suggested, 
some of which were agreed upon and others of which were withdrawn 
after discussion. Among other things, it was agreed that it should 
be specified in the press release that the action had been taken 
after consultation with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. It was also decided not to 

1906 
6/23/70 
-2-
retain in the press statement a paragraph that had been included 
in the draft with regard to discount window accommodation that 
would be provided to member banks under certain circumstances in 
the present situation. 
The form of press release having been decided upon, the 
Board voted, with Governor Robertson dissenting, to amend the 
Supplement to Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, effective 
June 24, 1970, to suspend the maximum limitations on the rate of 
interest permitted to be paid by member banks on single-maturity 
deposits of $100,000 or more that mature 30 days or more but less 
than 90 days after the date of deposit. 
C 
It was understood that the press release would be issued 
after the close of the market today, but that the Reserve Bank 
Presidents would be advised of the Board's action at the beginning 
of today's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. 
A copy of the press release, as issued later in the day, 
is attached under Item No. 1, together with a copy of the amendment 
to the Supplement to Regulation Q as published in the Federal 
Register. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

"* 
" 
" 
" 
; 
jM^r 
11?-4 \ 
f % £tiflo* 1 
™™R 0 K I f M -•-" •• • 
f i'/'^r1'! rn'r 
-4' rrfiri b~ ' ' 
.•'"&>•>•<' • • 
V! •-'• ' 
•f^ALRt^-
Item No. 1 
6/23/70 
For immediate release. 
June 23, 1970. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
today suspended, effective tomorrow (Wednesday, June 24), ceilings on 
interest rates payable by member banks on certificates of deposit and 
other single-maturity time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or 
more with maturities of 30 through 89 days. 
Prior to the suspension, which will remain in effect until 
further action by the Board, the ceilings on such deposits had been 
6-1/4 per cent for maturities of 30-59 days and 6-1/2 per cent for 
maturities of 60-89 days. 
In taking the action, the Board recognized that there 
could be unusual demands upon commercial banks for short-term credit 
accommodation as a consequence of current uncertainties in financial 
markets. If this occurs, such increases in bank loans would not 
constitute an increase in total credit flows, to the extent that they 
simply represented a transfer of borrowings from other financing 
avenues, as for example the commercial paper market. 
Under these circumstances, appropriate accommodations in 
bank lending, the Board said, would be a constructive element in the 
Process of adjustment to changing financial conditions and would not 
interfere with the continuing objective of curbing inflation. 
i 

1908 
- 2 -
The Board's action was taken after consultation with the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Home Loan Bank 
Board. 
No change was made in the ceilings applicable to longer-
term certificates of deposit of $100,000 or more, which remain at 
6-3/4 per cent for maturities of 90-179 days, 7 per cent for 180 
days to one year, and 7-1/2 per cent for one year or more. Likewise, 
no change was made in the ceilings on savings deposits or time 
deposits (including certificates of deposit) of less than $100,000, 
on which the maximum rates payable range from 4-1/2. to 5-3/4 per 
cent. 
Attached is the text of an amendment to the Board's rules 
governing the payment of interest on deposits (Regulation Q), 
effecting the Board's action. 
- 0 -

1 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[ReS. Q] 
PART 217--INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Suspension of Maximum Rates on Certain Single Maturity Time Deposits 
li Effective June 24, 1970, subparagraph (a)(1) of § 217.7 
(Supplement to Regulation Q) is amended to read as follows: 
(1) Deposits of $100,000 or more. No member bank shall 
pay interest on any single maturity time deposit of $100,000 or more 
at a rate in excess of the applicable rate under the following schedule: 
Maturity 
Maximum per cent: 
30-G9 days 
No maximum pres-
ently prescribed 
90-179 days 
6-3/4 
lo0 days or more but less 
than 1 year 
7 
1 year or more 
7-1/2 
2a. This amendment is designed to suspend, effective June 24, 
the maximum limitations heretofore prescribed by Regulation Q 
0t* the rate of interest that member banks may pay on single maturity 
deposits of $100,000 or more that mature 30 days or more but less 
fchan 90 days after the date of deposit. Prior to the amendment, such 
^posits maturing in 30 to 59 days uere subject to a maximum limitation 
o f 6-1/4 per cent, and those maturing in 60 to 09 days to a maximum 
^imitation of 6-1/2 per cent. 

1 5 J 1 0 
- 2 -
b. The amendment was adopted because, as a consequence of 
current uncertainties in financial markets, it appeared that there 
could be unusual demands upon commercial banks for short-term credit 
accommodations. If this were to occur, such increases in bank loans 
would not constitute an increase in total credit flows, to the extent 
that they simply represented a transfer of borrowings from other 
financing avenues, as for example the commercial paper market. In 
these circumstances, appropriate accommodations in bank lending would 
be a constructive element in the process of adjustment to changing 
financial conditions and would not interfere with the continuing ob-
jective of curbing inflation. 
c. The requirements of section 553(b) of Title 5, United 
States Code, with respect to notice, public participation, and deferred 
effective date were not followed in connection with this amendment 
because the Board found that the credit situation and the public in-
terest compelled it to make the action effective no later than the date 
adopted. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 23, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary, 
(SEAL) 
