Minutes for 
March 9, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal. Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

902 
>N 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 9, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Forrestal, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Approved items. The following letters were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective item numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Pendleton Banking Company, Pendleton, 
1 
Indiana, approving the establishment of an 
in-town branch. 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
2 
California, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Marina, Monterey County, and urging 
that consideration be given to means of 
strengthening the bank's capital position. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
3 
approving its acting as fiscal agent with 
respect to a proposed issue of bonds by the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development. 

903 
3/9/67 
-2-
Question under Regulation Q (Item No. 4). There had been dis-
tributed a letter from President Hickman of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Cleveland recommending that the Board give sympathetic consideration 
to a request by the Treasurer of the State of Ohio for an amendment to 
Regulation Q, Payment of Interest on Deposits, that would exclude public 
monies from the definition of "multiple maturity time deposits" or for 
some alternative exclusion. It was understood that bids by banks for 
inactive public funds would be received on March 20, 1967, and deposits 
of such funds would be made during a two-year period beginning April 3, 
1967. According to the Ohio Revised Code, the deposit of inactive 
monies shall be evidenced by negotiable certificates of deposit, each 
of which shall provide on its face that the amount of such deposit is 
Payable upon written notice to be given a specified period before the 
date of repayment, which period shall in no event be less than 30 days 
or more than a year and a day. 
A draft of reply that had been distributed expressed the view 
that a regulatory exception favoring one class of depositor over another 
Would not be warranted. The draft letter would point out, however, that 
if a bank and the State were willing to enter into a contract for a 30-
day deposit of $100,000 or more not automatically renewed, the bank could 
Pay up to 5-1/2 per cent interest (rather than 5 per cent). Such a con-
tract would require an affirmative act by the depositor each 30 days to 
redeposit the funds for a like or longer term. 

904 
3/9/67 
-2-
Mr. Hooff pointed out that the Board could, of course, make an 
amendment to Regulation Q if it so desired. The draft reply had been 
prepared on an assumption that an exception favoring one class of 
depositor over another would not be considered warranted. 
The position taken in the draft reply was concurred in by the 
members of the Board. 
Messrs. Hackley and Hooff pointed out that a bank and the State 
could enter into a contractual commitment for a two-year period under 
which the bank would agree to issue single maturity certificates for 
Periods of 30, 60, or 90 days. On each certificate the bank could 
obligate itself to pay a rate as high as 5-1/2 per cent. Even if the 
Board should reduce the maximum permissible rate of interest under 
Regulation Q, the bank could continue to pay the rate to which it had 
agreed. They inquired whether such a suggestion should be included in 
the reply, but Board members indicated that they saw no reason to go 
that far. 
Accordingly, the letter was approved unanimously; a copy is 
attached as Item No. 4. 
Travel by field examining staff. Governor Shepardson pointed 
out that the problem of continual travel status had been a major obstacle 
in recruiting and maintaining staff for the field force of the Division 
°f Examinations. As indicated when its 1967 budget was submitted, the 
Division had been studying the problem and would like to obtain the 

905 
3/9/67 
-2-
reactions of the field staff to a proposal that, in general terms, would 
allow the members of the field staff to make more trips home during the 
year, perhaps at a rate of two a month. It seemed desirable to have 
this consultation before a proposal was formalized for Board considera-
tion. On the other hand, it seemed advisable first to have a general 
reaction from the Board to some plan along the lines indicated, which 
would run in the direction of practices followed increasingly by many 
companies. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that something of this 
nature would have to be done, but he added that at this point he did 
not have any firm view as to what would be the best procedure. If the 
field staff was divided so that the prospective number of long trips 
between home and place of duty was reduced, he would feel easier. He 
agreed that the problem should be taken up with the field staff in 
general terms to explore the whole range of possibilities that might 
be considered, but he would not want to have any commitment made at 
this stage. 
Governor Shepardson said it was contemplated that the plan would 
have built into it certain provisions that would limit the number of 
long-distance trips. 
Governor Brimmer referred to possibilities that had been dis-
cussed by the Board some time ago looking toward a stronger recruitment 
Program, and Mr. Solomon indicated that several of the possibilities 

906 
3/9/67 
-2-
then mentioned were either in effect or in process of exploration. 
Governor Brimmer said he attached a great deal of importance to the 
recruiting effort. The Board should try to improve working conditions 
and fringe benefits for examiners already employed, but it must also 
come to grips with the basic problem of recruitment, which included 
widening the base of contacts through which personnel might be secured. 
Mr. Solomon referred to discussions that had been held with 
certain companies with a view to enlisting their assistance in recruit-
ing personnel. It had developed that some of the companies considered 
such a project out of their line. In other cases the scale of fees 
would be so high that it did not seem justifiable to pursue that avenue 
of recruitment. 
Governor Shepardson mentioned that Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Chief 
Federal Reserve Examiner, was devoting a major portion of his time to 
the recruitment effort and had been studying a variety of sources of 
Personnel. However, the fact of continual travel status was proving 
to be a major obstacle to recruitment. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the possibility might be explored 
with the field staff of providing opportunity for wives of examiners to 
travel to their husbands' places of duty occasionally, and Mr. Solomon 
agreed that that alternative seemed to merit consideration. 
In response 
to a question from Governor Robertson, he gave assurance that efforts 
Were made on a continuing basis to develop suggestions from members of 

907 
3/9/67 
-6-
the field staff, not only concerning possible improvements in travel 
conditions but also concerning all aspects of the examining work. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that con-
sultation with the field staff would take place to the extent that had 
been suggested by the comments at this meeting. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Extension of appointment 
Lula B. Bierly, Clerk, Division of International Finance, for an 
additional 90 days beginning March 10, 1967, with no change in basic 
annual salary at the rate of $5,256. 
Salary increases, effective March 12, 1967 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Board Members' Offices 
Athens J. Messick, Secretary to 
$10,166 
$10,481 
Governor Mitchell 
Office of the Secretary 
Mary E. Chester, Minutes Clerk 
4,776 
4,936 
Research and Statistics 
Paul L. Kelty, Economist 
9,221 
9,536 
Samuel M. Rosenblatt, Economist 
13,769 
14,217 
International Finance 
Catherine Hichborn, Secretary 
7,451 
7,649 

908 
3/9/67 
-2-
jalary increases, effective March 12, 1967 
(continued) 
Name and title 
Division 
Basic annual salary 
From 
To 
Examinations 
Joseph B. Dunn, Assistant Federal Reserve 
Examiner 
Personnel Administration 
Gary P. Cochran, Personnel Assistant 
Administrative Services 
Lovair Dingle, Messenger-Driver 
William T. Houser, General Mechanic-
Operating Engineer 
Clifton N. Johnson, Mail Clerk-Messenger 
Phillip M. Wiggins, Lead Messenger 
Transfer 
$9,262 
$9,523 
6,451 
4,058 
6,448 
4,191 
4,191 
6,664 
4,191 
6,781 
4,324 
4,324 
Helen K. Black, Statistical Assistant, Division of Data Processing, 
to another budget position in the Financial Statistics Section, with no 
change in basic annual salary at the rate of $5,507, effective March 12, 
1967. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Cynthia Y. Young, Clerk, Division of International Finance, effec-
tive the close of business March 11, 1967. 
Governor Shepardson also approved today 
on behalf of the Board a request from 
James M. Howell, Economist, Division of 
Research and Statistics, for permission 
to participate, on March 22, 1967, in a 
conference on agricultural credit in the 
developing countries of the world spon-
sored by the International Independence 
Institute. 

909 
3/9/67 
-2-
Governor Shepardson today noted on behalf 
of the Board a memorandum advising that 
Ralph A. Young, Senior Adviser to the 
Board, had filed application for retire-
ment effective March 21, 1967. 

91.0 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/ 9/ 6 7 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 9, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Pendleton Banking Company, 
Pendleton, Indiana. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Pendleton Banking 
Company, Pendleton, Indiana, of a branch at 105 South 
Pendleton Avenue, Pendleton, Indiana, provided the branch 
is established within six months from the date of this 
letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

9 1 
BOARD D F G DVERN • RS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
3/9/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 9, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
United California Bank, 
Los Angeles, California. 
GentlemenI 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment of a branch by United 
California Bank, Los Angeles, California, at the north-
east corner of the intersection of Reservation Road and 
Vista Del Camino, Marina, Monterey County, California, 
provided the branch is established within one year from 
the date of this letter, and provided further that branch 
operations now conducted at 342 Reservation Road, Marina, 
are discontinued simultaneously with the opening of the 
new branch. 
As noted in the Board's letter of February 27, 
1967, approving two branches for United California Bank, 
the Board urges careful consideration be given to all 
means to strengthen your bank's capital position. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

912 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R 5 
* Of GOV, 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F THE 
Item No. 3 
3/9/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E : 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 9, 1967 
Mr. Harold A. Bilby, 
Vice President and Senior Adviser, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr, Bilby: 
This refers to your letter of March 3, 1967, and enclosures, 
concerning the proposed issue by the International Bank for Reconstruc-
tion and Development of its Two Year Bonds of 1967, due March 15, 1969, 
in an aggregate principal amount to be determined by a designated officer 
cf the International Bank but not to exceed $100 million. In this regard, 
you state that it is proposed to amend Schedule A of the Fiscal Agency 
Agreement, dated as of February 6, 1950, between the International Bank 
and your Bank to include the bonds in question. 
You also advise that it is proposed to amend paragraphs 
3, 13, 15, and 16 of the Fiscal Agency Agreement to reflect the actual 
titles of authorized representatives of the International Bank from 
whom your Bank will receive instructions, directions, and advice in 
respect of transactions to be effected for the International Bank under 
the Agreement. These conforming amendments are necessary in order to 
bring the Fiscal Agency Agreement into accord with the provisions of the 
International Bank's recently amended Bond Regulation No. 1, which con-
tains a revision relating to the titles of authorized representatives 
of the International Bank. 
The Board of Governors approves of your Bank acting as fiscal 
agent with respect to the proposed bond issue, and approves the execution 
and delivery by your Bank of an agreement with the International Bank 
substantially in the form of the proposed Supplement No. 30, to be dated 
as of March 6, 1.967, enclosed with your letter. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

B D A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
3/9/67 
ADDRESS OrriCtAL CDRREBPONOENCF 
TO THE BOARD 
March 9, 1967 
Mr. w. Braddock Hickman, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
This refers to your letter of February 27, 1967, recommending 
that the Board give sympathetic consideration to the request by the 
Treasurer of the State of Ohio for an amendment to Regulation Q which 
would exclude public monies from the definition of "multiple maturity 
time deposits" or some alternative exclusion prior to March 15, 1967. 
it is stated that bids by banks for inactive public funds will be re-
ceived March 20th, and deposits of such funds will be made during a 
two-year period beginning April 3, 1967. 
The Treasurer states in his letter of February 23rd that the 
°nio Revised Code provides that the deposit of inactive monies 
"... shall be evidenced by negotiable certificates of 
deposit, each of which shall provide on its face that 
the amount of such deposit is payable upon written 
notice to be given a specified period before the date 
of repayment, which period shall in no event be less 
than thirty days or more than one year and a day;.,.", 
the State is willing to enter into a contract providing for no less 
than 90 days' notice, the bank may pay interest up to 5 per cent. It 
Appears from the Treasurer's letter, however, that the State would like 
to receive a rate of interest higher than 5 per cent. 
As you know, member banks are authorized to pay up to 5-1/2 per 
on time deposits of $100,000.00 or more that have a single maturity 
at least 30 days. However, a deposit although made for a specific 
e rm that is payable at any time on a certain number of days' notice is 
deluded within the definition of multiple maturity deposits, and as 
Such, cannot receive this maximum rate of 5-1/2 per cent. 

to. W. Braddock Hickman 
-2- 
j j i 
The Board does not believe an exception to the regulation 
favoring one class of depositor over another is warranted. It would 
e difficult to justify such an exception if the Board were confronted 
y the same request from individuals or corporations wishing to deposit 
inactive funds; the reservation of the right to withdraw the funds on 
relatively short notice would permit the depositor to circumvent the 
provisions of the regulation. Even if inactivity were the test, there 
ls no assurance that the funds would remain inactive. 
In this connection, it should be pointed out that there is 
Nothing in the regulation to prohibit a bank from paying interest up to 
^1/2 per cent on a deposit of $100,000.00 or more for a definite term 
o f as short a period as 30 days. Therefore, if the bank and the State 
are willing to enter into a contract for a 30-day deposit not automatically 
the bank may pay up to 5-1/2 per cent interest. Such a contract 
"*Ust, of course, require an affirmative act by the depositor each 30 days 
0 redeposit the funds for a like or longer term, and if such action is 
taken, the deposit will become automatically a demand deposit at the 
ermination date and it could bear no interest thereafter until 
^deposited as a time deposit. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
