Minutes for 
January 18, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chm. Martin 
Gov. Robertson 
Gov. Shepardson 
Gov. Mitchell 
Gov. Daane 
Gov. Maisel 
Gov. Brimmer 
j ( 

189 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, January 18, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mr. Forrestal, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Messrs. Goodfellow and Pounds tone, Review 
Examiners, Division of Examinations 
Approved letters. The following letters, copies of which are 
attached to these minutes under the respective item numbers indicated, 
W e r e approved unanimously after consideration of background information 
ttlat had been made available to the members of the Board: 

3 
1/18/67 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company, 
1 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch in the vicinity of 10th and 
Walnut Streets, approving an investment in bank 
premises, and commenting on the bank's capital 
Position. 
Letter to The Commercial Trust & Savings Bank, 
2 
Storm Lake, Iowa, approving the declaration of 
a dividend. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
3 
approving the payment of salary to Robert E. 
Harlow as Assistant Cashier, Louisville Branch, 
at the annual rate fixed by the Board of Directors. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency of a report on 
the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of National 
Bank of Commerce, Paragould, Arkansas, and First National Bank of 
Paragould, Paragould, Arkansas, the conclusion reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of National Bank 
of Commerce of Paragould and First National Bank of Paragould 
would eliminate a significant amount of existing and poten-
tial competition between the two institutions and reduce the 
alternative banking facilities in Greene County from three 
to two. It is concluded that the overall competitive effect 
of the proposal would be substantially adverse. 
Application for branch in Puerto Rico. Virgin Islands National 
Bank, Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, (an "agreement" 
corporation wholly owned by a Philadelphia member bank), had made appli 
Cation for permission to establish a branch in the Hato Rey section of 
S an Juan, Puerto Rico. 

191 
1/18/67 
-3-
A distributed memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated 
January 10, 1967, noted that the views of the Secretary of the Treasury 
of Puerto Rico had been requested, in accordance with the practice 
customarily followed on matters relating to the Commonwealth, and that 
che Secretary had obj ected to the establishment of the proposed branch. 
A copy of the Secretary's letter was attached to the memorandum, along 
with a copy of a letter addressed to the Secretary by the President of 
the Puerto Rico Bankers Association. Both letters expressed an opinion 
that the banking system in Puerto Rico was well balanced and was provid-
lng good services to the community, that there was no need for another 
outside bank on the island, and that the establishment of the proposed 
branch would affect the existing balance adversely. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York had advised that on the 
basis of competitive factors and prospects for successful operations 
alone, it would not be inclined to recommend disapproval of the branch 
aPplication. However, there appeared to be no real need for an addi-
tional banking office in the Hato Rey area at this time, and prospects 
for success were somewhat diminished by the fact that the Secretary of 
the Treasury of Puerto Rico objected to the establishment of the branch. 
The New York Bank was inclined to the view that the position of the 
Secretary should be respected. 
The Division of Examinations pointed out that with Board approval 
the proposed branch could be established notwithstanding any objections 

192 
1/18/67 
-4-
of the Puerto Rican authorities. There was the policy question, how-
ever, whether the Board would wish to override such objections. If the 
tioard did not want to override them, the application could be denied on 
the grounds that the area where the proposed branch would be located 
appeared to be adequately served by banking facilities at present. 
In discussion, members of the Board suggested that the principal 
question involved had to do with the role that the Board should play in 
the evolution of the banking system in Puerto Rico. One possible course 
would be to follow substantially the views of the local authorities and 
the local banking community. Another possibility would be to consider 
aPplications, such as the one now before the Board, according to the 
general standards that would be applied in considering applications to 
establish branches in the respective States of the United States. 
It was pointed out that the Comptroller of the Currency would 
have authority to charter a new national bank in Puerto Rico. It was 
n°t known whether the Comptroller, upon receipt of such an application, 
would consult the local authorities, and he had not responded to an 
xuvitation to comment on the application now before the Board. 
Mr. Sammons observed that the constitutional arrangements in 
effect between the United States and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico 
aPpeared to be based on the premise that matters internal to Puerto 
Rico should be left to the Puerto Rican authorities to decide. He 
hoped personally that the Board would take account of the views of the 

193 
1/18/67 
-5-
Puerto Rican Government in this case. Whether the letter from the 
Secretary of the Treasury fully represented the considered views of the 
Puerto Rican Government was another matter. He also pointed out that 
national banks in the United States were not permitted to expand branch-
wise across State lines. 
There followed consideration of what procedures would seem appro-
priate in an effort to reach a decision on the policy question that 
members of the Board saw in the instant application. After discussion 
various possibilities, it was understood that Mr. Sammons would pre-
pare for Board consideration a memorandum expressing his views on the 
subject more fully. It was also understood that the staff would assemble 
a ny additional information, such as data with regard to competitive 
factors, that might appear pertinent, including any further comments of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, but that for the time being no 
additional request would be made of the Secretary of the Treasury of 
Puerto Rico. 
Several members of the staff withdrew from the meeting at this 
Point. 
Above-maximum salaries at Boston (Item No. 4). A letter from 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston dated January 5, 1967, reported 
that recent and imminent changes in actual salary rates and salary 
structure levels of firms in the Boston area, especially banks, indi-
cated that staff salaries at the Reserve Bank should be increased. 

1 9 4 
1/18/67 
-6-
After extensive review of the Reserve Bank's position among firms in 
the Boston labor market, the Bank's Board of Directors had approved an 
increase in annual salaries of $150 or 3 per cent (computed to the 
nearest $10), whichever was higher, for all members of the staff other 
than officers, effective January 18, 1967. The directors requested 
approval by the Board of Governors for the payment of salary to 58 
staff members at rates that would exceed their respective grade ceil-
lngs as a result of the general increase. The Reserve Bank indicated 
that after an exchange of end-of-March salary data among participating 
firms in the Boston survey group, it would proceed immediately with a 
Proposal for adjusting the Bank's salary structure. 
In a distributed memorandum dated January 16 the Division of 
^rsonnel Administration recommended that the Reserve Bank's request 
approved, since it believed that the request was reasonable and 
appropriate under standards of sound salary administration. 
In a discussion of the matter, Mr. Johnson pointed out that 
the Reserve Banks had been delegated the responsibility for operating 
Wlthin employee salary structures approved by the Board. Whenever it 
W as proposed that salaries be paid at rates below or above the minimum 
° r maximum rates for the respective grades, the Reserve Banks had to 
c° m e to the Board for approval. Such requests usually involved limited 
time periods. In the present case the Boston Reserve Bank felt that it 
should await the forthcoming labor market survey before formulating a 

195 
1/18/67 
-3-
proposed revision of the Bank's salary structure. However, commercial 
banks included in the Reserve Bank's survey group had decided to go 
ahead with salary increases immediately in recognition of a rapidly 
rising market. Accordingly, the Reserve Bank felt that it would be 
Placed in an unfavorable position if it did not at this time also pro-
vide a pay increase for its employees. As a result of such increase, 
the salaries of a number of employees would be at least temporarily in 
excess of the applicable grade maximum. 
In the circumstances cited, the request of the Boston Reserve 
Bank was approved. A copy of the letter sent to the Bank is attached 
a s -*-tem No. 4. 
Governor Maisel, however, reiterated a question that he had 
raised on previous occasions as to whether the practice of granting 
across-the-board pay increases was compatible with the basic theory 
involved in the establishment and maintenance of employee salary struc-
tures at the Reserve Banks. He indicated that he would like to have 
further consideration given to that question. 
Examination of San Francisco Bank. The report of the examina-
tion of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco made by the Board's 
e^amining staff as of September 6, 1966, had been circulated to the 
^embers of the Board, along with the usual supplemental memoranda. 
Mr. Smith summarized information developed in the course of 
the examination, and it was agreed that there did not appear to be any 
matters requiring action on the part of the Board. 

9 
1/18/67 
-3-
Annex building. Governor Shepardson referred to questions 
left unresolved as the result of Board discussions, most recently at 
yesterday's meeting, concerning plans for an annex building to be 
located across C Street. He observed that those questions could not 
be resolved until all of the members of the Board were again available 
However, it was his suggestion the architects go ahead with a study of 
staff requirements in terms of interior arrangements. He recommended 
that the architects be authorized to proceed with that part of their 
work, and on the understanding that if the Board's final decision on 
the preliminary building plans required changes to be made the Board 
would be prepared to compensate the architects for any added expense 
that they might incur in connection with the study of interior arrange 
wents. 
The architects were authorized to proceed with studies of the 
nature described and subject to the understanding stated by Governor 
N 
Shepardson. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to the Director of the United States Secret Service agree-
lrig to reimburse the Secret Service for expenses incurred by it in 
conducting any subsequent surveys of Protection Departments in Federal 
Reserve Bank offices, such reimbursement to be on an actual cost basis 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (copy attached as 
-^gSLNo. 5) approving the appointment of Martin M. Bednarik as assis-
t a nt examiner. 

197 
1/18/67 
-9-
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Ruth Bradford as Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,776, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Dorothy E. Swink as Statistical Assistant, Division of Research 
and Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,211, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 

1/ 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2055! 
Item No. 1 
1/18/67 
AOORESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 18, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Company, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Fidelity-Philadelphia 
Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, of a branch in 
the vicinity of the intersection of 10th and Walnut Streets, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, provided the branch is established 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board of Governors also approves pursuant to 
section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act an investment of 
$50 ,000 in bank premises incident to the establishment of 
this branch. 
It is the Board's understanding that discussions 
are being held between senior management of your bank and 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia regarding your bank's 
capital position. The Board is hopeful that these discussions 
will result in early plans for improvement. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

199 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O f THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
1/18/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TD THC BOARD 
January 18, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Commercial Trust & Savings Bank, 
Storm Lake, Iowa. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves, under the provisions of paragraph 6 of 
Section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act and Section 5199(b) 
of United States Revised Statutes, the declaration of a 
dividend of $6,000 by The Commercial Trust & Savings 
Bank, Storm Lake, Iowa, in January of 1967. This letter 
does not authorize any future declaration of dividends 
that would require the Board's approval under the fore-
going statutes. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

200 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 2 
1/18/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON* Q* C. 20551 
• F THE 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRCSPONOCNCC, 
TO THC BOARD 
January 18, 1967 
GQNFmmTIAL (FR) 
Mr.. Darryl R. Francis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St- Louis, Missouri. 63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salary to Mr. Robert E. Harlow as an Assistant Cashier at 
the Louisville Branch at the rate of $12,000 per annum for 
the period March 1 through December 31> 19^7 • ^ i s is 
the rate fixed by your Board of Directors as reported in 
Mir- Lewis1 letter of December 9, 19&>. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman; 
Secretary* 

2 0 1 
BDARD OF GDVERNDRS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
1/18/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 18, 1967 
Mr. George H. Ellis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 02106 
Dear Mr. Ellis: 
As requested in your letter of January 5, 
and because of circumstances reported therein, the 
Board of Governors approves the payment of salaries 
to the 58 employees concerned at rates which are above 
the maximums of the grades in which their positions 
are classified. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

202 
BDARD DF GDVERNDRS 
O F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
1/18/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 19, 1967 
Mr. Leland M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of January 12, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of Martin M. Bednarik as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. Please advise 
the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
