609 
Minutes for 
January 24, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, January 24, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Wernick, Eckert, Keir, 
Baker, Beck, Burns, Ettin, Fry, Kelty, and 
Kichline of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
a • ..... 
, • . 
Messrs. Ghiardi, Hersey, Norwood, Wood, Altmann, 
Bradshaw, Bryant, and Stem of the Division 
of International Finance 
Money market review. Today's review included comments by Mr. 
Baker on the Government securities market, by Mr. Fry on bank credit, 
and by Mr. Stem on the foreign exchange and gold markets. Copies of 

2 6 8 
1/24/69 
-2-
the tables and charts distributed in connection with the review have 
been placed in the Board's files. 
There followed a lengthy general discussion of current credit 
conditions against the background of the prevailing monetary policy. 
A number of questions were raised by members of the Board relating to 
whether additional steps toward monetary tightening were indicated, 
and at the end of the discussion Chairman Martin suggested that the 
problem be discussed further later in the meeting. 
Members of the research divisions except Messrs. Brill, 
Solomon, Partee, Axilrod, and Norwood then withdrew and the following 
entered: 
Messrs. Hexter, Shay, Heyde, Lynch, and Noble, and 
Mrs. Duerson of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Lyon and McAninch of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Cleaver of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Banca Commerciale Italiana (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval 
W as given to a letter to the State of New York Banking Department 
expressing no objection to the application of Banca Commerciale 
Italiana, Milan, Italy, for a license to establish a branch in New 
York City. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
Policy record entry. With a memorandum from Mr. Broida dated 
January 21, 1969, there had been submitted a draft of policy record 
entry covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on 
October 29, 1968. The entry was submitted for final review by the 

1/24/69 
-3-
Board prior to release to the press, which was contemplated on Monday, 
January 27. The entry had been approved by the Board on January 2, 
and no further suggestions had been received. 
The release of the entry to the press on January 27 was 
approved unanimously. 
Application of First Financial Corporation. After considera-
tion of staff material that had been distributed under date of Janu-
ary 17, 1969, concerning the application of First Financial Corporation, 
Tampa, Florida, to become a bank holding company through acquisition of 
stock of five banks in the State of Florida, the application was 
approved unanimously with the understanding that an order and statement 
reflecting the decision would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Republic National Bank (Item No. 2). On December 11, 1968, the 
Board considered questions that had been raised as to whether Republic 
National Bank of Dallas, Dallas, Texas, had violated provisions of 
Regulation Q, Payment of Interest on Deposits, in a transaction where-
by its affiliate, The Howard Corporation, and its Executive Vice Presi-
dent, Rex D. Johnson, agreed to pay a 6.42 per cent rate of interest on 
funds of the Dallas Independent School District. The Board asked the 
Legal Division to reconsider the matter in the light of section 21 of 
the Banking Act of 1933 and the Board's proposed advertising regulations. 
The results of the reconsideration were set forth in a memo-
randum from the Legal Division dated January 23, 1969. The Division 

277 
1/24/69 
-4-
believed, on the basis of available information, that the bank had 
not violated Regulation Q, that neither The Howard Corporation nor 
Mr. Johnson had violated section 21 of the Banking Act of 1933, and 
that Mr. Johnson's use of the bank's stationery in submitting a bid 
to act as Treasurer of the Dallas Independent School District could 
not be prevented through the Board's authority to regulate the adver-
tisement of interest on deposits. The Division did believe that the 
Dallas Reserve Bank should be aware that a violation of Regulation Q 
could occur through a misuse of the bank's assets in dealing with The 
Howard Corporation. 
The Division also believed that the Reserve Bank 
should attempt to discourage a recurrence of the use of Republic 
National Bank's stationery. A revised draft of letter to the Reserve 
Bank was submitted. 
Governor Brimmer commented that, while he could not contest 
the legal findings, the purpose of Regulation Q went beyond assuring 
soundness and safety and attempted to assure some moderation of the 
competition for savings funds. In essence, Republic National Bank 
was using a device that permitted it to attract funds at a rate higher 
than the maximum permitted by Regulation Q. From the standpoint of 
using interest rates as an instrument of competition, the Board should 
stop the practice. Nevertheless, the lawyers appeared to say that it 
could not do so, and perhaps it was necessary to accept that finding. 
Mr. Hexter pointed out that such a practice was hard to stop 
as long as affiliates were permitted by law. If the Board felt that 

. 1 
1/24/69 
-5-
some types of affiliates should be prohibited, it could, of course, 
propose legislation to the Congress. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the problem be added to the 
list of those involved in the study of one-bank holding companies. 
Governor Daane said that, although he agreed with the sub-
stance of the Legal Division's memorandum, he was troubled about 
writing a lengthy letter that concluded simply with an expression 
of concern about use of the bank's stationery by Mr. Johnson. He 
suggested that the expression of concern in that regard be made less 
Prominent. 
Governor Robertson commented that the whole device was in 
effect one aimed at circumventing the regulation. The Legal Division 
was correct in its analysis of the law, but the practice was bad and 
at some stage the Board would have to consider it further. He agreed 
with Governor Maisel's suggestion for studying the matter in connec-
tion with the question of one-bank holding companies. 
Unanimous approval then was given to a letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
Truth in lending (Item No. 3). Governor Robertson advised 
fchat a letter was being sent to the firm of Ruder & Finn of Washington, 
^•C., Inc., concerning services, as previously agreed upon by the 
Board, that the firm would undertake in connection with the program 
informing creditors of the provisions and application of 

o n o 
/O 4 
1/24/69 
-6-
Regulation Z, Truth in Lending. The letter, he said, would be made 
part of the Board's files on the subject. 
A copy of the letter referred to by Governor Robertson is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rates. Chairman Martin noted that a telegram had 
been received from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis yesterday 
afternoon advising that the Executive Committee of the Bank's Board 
of Directors had established, subject to review and determination by 
the Board of Governors, a discount rate of 6 per cent (an increase 
from 5-1/2 per cent). 
Chairman Martin suggested that the Board consider the current 
situation carefully but not be too concerned about attempting to 
rectify mistakes that may have been made during the second half of 
1968. Such mistakes could not be corrected overnight. The Treasury, 
he said, found itself confronted with a real problem in terms of the 
debt ceiling, a problem that the new Administration had not understood 
was so severe. He believed it would be unwise to change the discount 
rate or change reserve requirements at least until after the forth-
coming Treasury financing was out of the way. In any event, he had 
not talked with the Secretary of the Treasury since advice of the St. 
Louis discount rate action was received, and he would not want to make 
any policy move without a chance to sit down and talk with the Secretary. 

^ f I .) 
1/24/69 
-7-
Governor Daane supported that view, stating that the pending 
financing was a delicate one for the Treasury, that the Treasury 
probably would have to go to the Congress with a request for an 
increase in the debt ceiling, but that it might be necessary to turn 
to other devices in the meantime. The Treasury financing was so close 
at hand that an overt policy step did not appear feasible. However, 
he hoped that open market operations would be pursued as vigorously as 
possible under the terms of the outstanding directive. 
Governor Mitchell agreed that the Chairman should talk with 
the Secretary, adding that in his view the Secretary should be advised 
that the Board was inclined to feel that something more in the way of 
tightening needed to be done at as early a date as possible. He would 
not, however, go along with the discount rate proposed by the St. Louis 
directors. He did not care for 1/2 percentage point discount rate 
changes, and in any event such a change would be too large in the 
present environment. He would prefer to take an action affecting the 
availability of credit and then use open market operations to accom-
plish whatever more needed to be done. That would have a better 
Psychological effect than a change in the discount rate. 
Governor Maisel said that if the discount rate were to be 
raised, he would prefer an increase of 1/4 percentage point the next 
time a change was made. If Euro-dollar borrowings by U.S. banks con-
tinued to increase, he would be concerned and would want to do something 

1/24/69 
-8-
about that. However, he was inclined to feel that most of the increase 
that might have been expected had already occurred. The critical ques-
tion, in his opinion, was one of avoiding a credit crunch. In his 
view, the Board should be satisfied with the way the numbers were 
coming in and ride with the situation for quite a long time. If the 
numbers started to vary in either direction, the Board should do some-
thing. 
Chairman Martin referred to the effect of CD rate ceilings in 
the credit-tightening process and to observations on that point made 
by Professor Tobin at yesterday's meeting of the Board's academic 
consultants. 
Chairman Martin suggested that at some point the Board 
might want to consider an increase in reserve requirements linked with 
a modest increase in the ceiling rates applicable to CD's of $100,000 
and over. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the Board should 
reject the St. Louis discount rate proposal promptly. He would not 
favor a discount rate change at this time, even a 1/4 point change. 
The problem related instead to availability of credit, particularly 
through a few large banks that were in position to continue expansion 
°f credit through the borrowing of Euro-dollars. He agreed that it 
would be helpful to talk with the Secretary of the Treasury, and he 
hoped that somewhere along the line discussion would be initiated on 
the relationship between the central bank and the Treasury's financing 

1/24/69 
-9-
Problems. He was not convinced that the Federal Reserve should con-
tinue to track even keel to the extent that it had. He would not be 
happy to let the numbers run as they were for any considerable length 
°f time. There should be growth in the monetary aggregates over the 
long run, but in the shorter run there was a problem for the Federal 
Reserve not simply in terms of undoing what happened in 1968 but in 
Positioning itself. As he saw it, the Federal Reserve was in danger 
°f losing its grip on the situation because of extraneous factors 
Such as Euro-dollar borrowings. 
Governor Sherrill said that, in his view, more restraint was 
heing accomplished than other Board members seemed to believe. The 
^sired degree of restraint was taking a little time to achieve 
because the initiation of the current policy had found many money 
Market banks in a rather liquid position. But they were now running 
through their liquidity and the effects of the policy of restraint 
w°uld begin to show up increasingly. 
In any event, if it were decided 
to apply more restraint, he would not be inclined to move through the 
discount rate, at least at this time. Also, if a move were made, it 
should be 1/4 point rather than 1/2 point. 
As to Euro-dollars, Governor Sherrill said he did not believe 
^ey were a perfect substitute for CD's and he thought bankers were 
^e8inning to realize that. Euro-dollars were a less reliable source 
funds in terms of roll-over, and he felt that the banks would become 

1/24/69 
-10-
more and more reluctant to use them. If CD's continued to run off, 
Euro-dollar borrowings would not be a continual source of replacement. 
If there were any change in policy, Governor Sherrill added, 
an increase in reserve requirements would produce the greatest impact, 
perhaps more than was really needed. Such a move might have to be 
offset by action on the rate ceilings applicable to CD's above 
$100 ,000. However, he was not convinced that enough time had elapsed 
since the current program of monetary restraint was initiated to 
warrant additional action as yet. 
Chairman Martin suggested that the staff produce a memorandum 
on possible courses of action that the Board could consider next Monday. 
He added that it would be his inclination simply to take no action at 
this time on the St. Louis rate proposal. 
Mr. Holland noted that on some recent occasions directors of 
Federal Reserve Banks had expressed a preference for the Board to 
turn down proposed discount rates if the Board was not prepared to 
aPprove them. He added that the St. Louis Reserve Bank had indicated 
that a letter explaining the reasons for the action by the directors 
was en route. 
Members of the Board agreed that it would be advisable to 
await the St. Louis letter, although some expressed the view that 
once the letter was received it would be desirable to take action 
without undue delay. 

277 
1/24/69 
-11-
The establishment without change by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston on January 13, by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
on January 21, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, 
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas on 
January 23, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Holland then withdrew. 
Report by Chairman. Chairman Martin reported on his attendance 
at the first meeting of the new Quadriad with President Nixon. All 
members of the Quadriad (Secretary Kennedy, Budget Director Mayo, 
Chairman McCracken of the Council of Economic Advisers, and himself) 
were present. The discussion had dwelt upon procedures for carrying 
on periodic Quadriad discussions, and the relevance of the indepen-
dence of the Federal Reserve to such arrangements. 
Chairman Martin 
indicated that he felt the proper role for the System was to allow 
Administration officials to evolve such arrangements as they deemed 
best for communication and coordination with the Federal Reserve. 
In addition, Chairman Martin indicated that he had conveyed 
to the President and the new Quadriad the current status of monetary 
Policy, and the difficulties it faced in maintaining a proper balance 
in the present situation. He had given his view that circumstances 
might develop in a way which would require some further restraining 
action on the monetary side. 

278 
* 
- 4 
v:'^j'-i 
• ' ••*«.. , 
1/24/69 
-12-
Various other matters were discussed at the Quadriad meeting, 
Chairman Martin said, the one most relevant to Federal Reserve respon-
sibilities being the desire of Administration officials to relax the 
foreign credit restraint program as soon as possible. 
There followed brief discussion of a memorandum from Dr. 
Kissinger of the White House staff on the establishment of an inter-
agency group on international financial policy to succeed the so-
called "Deming group." The Chairman reported that because of some 
differences of view within the Administration on organizational 
issues, this matter was being held in abeyance at this time. He 
expected the Board would be notified at a later date when an agree-
ment on organization was reached, and at that time a Board representa-
tive 
on the group would be selected. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

JaTSS^-' 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• P THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
1/24/69 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20851 
a o d h i i i 
o r r i o i A L 
c d r m i c o n m n o i 
TD THE BOARD 
January 24, 1969 
Mr. James P. Gargan, 
Assistant Deputy Superintendent, 
State of New York Banking Department, 
100 Church Street, 
New York, New York. 10007 
Dear Mr. Gargan: 
zul 
• -
This is in response to your letter of December 23, 
1968, requesting the views of the Board of Governors re-
garding the application of Banca Commerciale Italiana, 
Milan, Italy, for a license to establish a branch in New 
York. The Board of Governors interposes no objection to 
establishment of the proposed branch. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
^hujvc i ar 
i . r 
; o J v. U 
, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
id './ 

2 S 0 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item N o- 2 
.•^OVgoi^ .. 
d f t h e 
1/24/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E 3 P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 24, 1969 
Mr. Thomas R. Sullivan, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Station K, 
Dallas, Texas. 75222 
Dear Mr. Sullivan: 
This is in response to your letter of September 27, 1968, 
with respect to whether the Republic National Bank of Dallas is 
violating the provisions of Regulation Q through an arrangement 
substantially as follows: 
On June 25, 1968, Rex D. Johnson, Executive Vice President 
of Republic, submitted a bid under Republic's letterhead to the 
Dallas Independent School District to act as treasurer of the District 
for a term ending August 31, 1970. The bid indicated Johnson's willing-
ness to pay a rate of 6.42 per cent per annum on the average daily net 
balance of all funds of the District - a rate in excess of the maximum 
under Regulation Q on any deposit in a member bank. 
The District accepted the bid. Johnson then entered into an 
agreement with The Howard Corporation wherein Howard agreed to pay 
Johnson interest at the rate of 6.42 per cent per annum on the average 
daily net balance of all funds of the District delivered by Johnson 
to Howard. All of the shares of The Howard Corporation are held by 
trustees for the benefit of shareholders of Republic. The trustees are 
James W. Aston, Chairman of the Board of Republic, James W. King, 
President and Director of Republic, and James D. Berry, Vice Chairman 
of the Board of Republic. 
It appears from this and similar transactions in previous 
years that Howard places with Republic approximately 40 to 50 per cent 
°f the funds, on which Republic pays Howard the maximum applicable rates 
°f interest permitted by Regulation Q. It also appears that about 20 to 
25 per cent of the District funds are placed with other commercial banks, 
Presumably at the maximum rates under Regulation Q. The remaining 25 to 
40 per cent of the funds are invested by Howard, presumably at a rate of 
return exceeding 6.42 per cent. 

2 8 1 
Mr. Thomas R.*Sullivan 
-2 
Howard itself ia not subject to the interest rate limitations 
of Regulation Q. The question is whether it is necessary for the pur-
poses of that regulation to disregard the corporate existence of Howard 
and attribute its acts to Republic. 
Although Howard is an affiliate of the bank, it is not owned 
directly or indirectly by Republic. The materials forwarded with your 
letter do not suggest that assets of Republic are in any way involved 
in the payment of a rate of interest in excess of the Regulation Q ceil-
ings (despite the inappropriate use of Republic's stationery, which in 
certain circumstances could be misleading). Unless there are related 
transactions that indicate that assets of Republic are being used to 
enable Howard (or Johnson) to pay to the School District on its funds 
deposited with Republic a rate of interest in excess of the rate permit-
ted by Regulation Q, the Board does not consider that the arrangement 
described in this letter involves any violation of that regulation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No 
• F T H E 
1/24/69 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E 
5Y5TEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C, 
2 D 5 5 I 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
January 24, 1969. 
Mr. Raymond W. Nathan 
Vice President 
Ruder & Finn of 
Washington, D. C., Inc. 
1812 K Street, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 
20006 
Dear Mr. Nathan: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Sys-
tem has given consideration to your letters of December 11 
and January 21 to Mr. John Olin. These set forth prelimi-
nary proposals of Ruder & Finn to help us develop materials 
to inform creditors of the provisions and application of 
Regulation Z. As agreed upon in subsequent discussion with 
you, your firm is hereby engaged (beginning immediately) to 
prepare materials, and to work on and to make suggestions 
on materials supplied by us, in connection with these areas: 
1. Content of the initial Press Release covering the 
publication of the final Regulation Z in the Fed-
eral Register. 
2. Form and content of the pamphlet to be prepared for 
direct mail distribution to creditors by the en-
forcing agencies. This pamphlet will include the 
Regulation and other materials needed to inform 
creditors of the obligations imposed upon them by 
the law and Regulation. 
3. Development of more general and simplified materials 
to explain the provisions and application of the Reg-
ulation, for use by enforcing agency personnel, Fed-
eral Reserve Bank personnel, and others. 
4. Development of materials to explain the application 
of the Regulation to particular areas of consumer 
credit. 

Mr. Raymond W. Nathan:--#2 
Along with the preparation of these materials, it 
is understood that your firm will be consulting and advis-
ing us regarding the various alternative methods that might 
best be utilized to convey such information. 
Final approval of the form and content of all ma-
terials rests with the Board of Governors. 
Payment for the above services will be at a basic 
fee rate of $5,000 a month for six months, payable Febru-
ary 1, and the first of each month thereafter, through and 
including July 1. As indicated in your letters, out-of-
pocket expenses will be billed as incurred, in addition to 
the basic fee. Should it appear that they will exceed $500 
in any month, advance approval will be obtained from us. 
Any additional services agreed upon, as the work proceeds, 
will be compensated in accordance with the understandings 
then reached and set forth in subsequent communications. 
Sincerely, 
(signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
