MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 29, 1971 

306 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, January 29, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Morgan of the Office of the Secretary 
Staff presented the usual weekly economic and financial review. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files along with copies of the individual brief-
ings. 
Members of the staff who had been present for the purpose of 
the weekly review then withdrew from the meeting and the following 
entered: Messrs. O'Connell and Plotkin of the Legal Division; Mr. Leavitt 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

307 
1/29/71 
-2-
and Miss Hart of the Division of Supervision and Regulation; and 
Mr. Stoffels of the Division of Research and Statistics. 
Possible violation of margin regulations. The report of an 
examination of United California Bank, Los Angeles, California, had 
listed as specially mentioned loans aggregating several hundred thou-
sand dollars to employees of an underwriting subsidiary of the brokerage 
firm of F. I. duPont Glore Forgan to enable the employees in turn to 
make subordinated loans to the company. 
The employees did not furnish 
the bank with collateral, or with statements of net worth to support 
the loans. The Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco had asked for 
advice whether the loans violated the Board's margin regulations T 
or U. 
In a memorandum dated January 28, 1971, the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation described the circumstances relating to the loans 
in question, reviewed the evidence suggesting violation of the margin 
regulations, and suggested steps that might be taken. In a related 
memorandum, also dated January 28, Mr. Stoffels explored the rationale 
for regulatory prohibition of loans of the type believed to be involved 
in this case and discussed the capital and financial condition of the 
brokerage firm involved. 
The memoranda noted that there were indications 
that similar loans had been made by banks other than United. 
It was the view of the Board that, while violations of the regu-
lations should not be sanctioned, it would be unwise to take any action 

308 
1/29/71 
-3-
that might create repercussions in the securities industry in the absence 
of further information, particularly in light of the indications that 
the practice of granting loans of the kind in question might be rather 
widespread and in light of the reportedly tenuous financial condition 
of the duPont firm. Accordingly, the staff was requested to proceed in 
discreet fashion, through the San Francisco Reserve Bank, to obtain com-
plete information on the loans made by United California Bank in order 
that an informed judgment might be reached as to whether they involved 
violations of the regulations and, if so, what type of action on the part 
of the Board would appear to be appropriate in view of all the circumstances 
involved. The staff advised that it should be able to make a further 
report to the Board within a relatively short time. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
