Board 
MINUTES 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 29, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 3 Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
increase at Federal Reserve Banks of 
Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, 
and Kansas City. 

2G98 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, September 29, 1972. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 2] 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 2/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of Citizens State Bank, Clark, South Dakota, for admission to 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. A copy of the letter sent to 
the bank is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bank of 
Lemmon, Lemmon, South Dakota, for admission to membership in the Federal 
1/ Entered the meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
2/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2 6 S 7 
9/29/72 
-2-
Reserve System. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached 
as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to First Pennsylvania 
Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a bank holding company, granting 
consent to the acquisition of shares of First Northamerica Leasing, Ltd., 
Toronto, Canada. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to First City National 
Bank of Houston, Houston, Texas, granting permission to the establishment 
of a branch in London, England. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to Bank of Virginia 
Company, Richmond, Virginia, a bank holding company, granting consent 
to the acquisition of additional shares of Continental Discount Corpo-
ration, La Sarre, Quebec, Canada. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 5. 
As recommended in a memorandum from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation dated September 27, 1972, the Board unanimously approved 
the use by national securities exchanges of reporting forms for supplying 
information on borrowings by specialists to position blocks of stock. It 
was understood that a letter reflecting this decision would be sent to the 
appropriate parties. A copy of the letter subsequently sent to all brokers 
and dealers is attached as Item No, 6. 

9/29/72 
-3-
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Chairman Burns entered the meeting at this point. 
Staff presented the regular weekly economic and financial review. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Rippey reviewed pertinent legislative developments, after 
which the meeting continued with limited staff attendance. 
Discount rate. The directors of five Federal Reserve Banks had 
voted to establish, subject to review and determination by the Board of 
Governors, a rate of 4-3/4 per cent (an increase from 4-1/2 per cent) 
on discounts for and advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act and correspondingly higher rates on advances 
under other sections of the Act. These actions had been taken by the 
directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on September 18, by the 
directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and 
Kansas City on September 21,and by the directors of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago on September 28, 1972. Prior consideration had been given 
by the Board on September 21 to the increase proposed by the directors 
of the Boston Reserve Bank and the Board had agreed to defer action on 
the proposal until a later meeting. 
Communications from Reserve Bank directors who had voted to raise 
the discount rate stressed that they were strongly influenced by a desire 
to maintain a relatively close alignment between the discount rate and 

24JS9 
9/29/72 
-4-
short-term market rates. The directors made reference to the rise in 
the latter rates that had taken place over the course of recent weeks, 
and they indicated a preference for making small but prompt adjustments 
in the System's lending rate to changes in market rates, partly to avoid 
the disturbing impact of larger adjustments and the difficulties of admin-
istering the discount window when money market rates were substantially 
above the discount rate. The directors also took note of the projections 
for strong expansion in economic activity and indicated a concern about 
the related risks of intensifying inflationary expectations, particularly 
in light of the outlook for a large Federal budgetary deficit. The views 
were also expressed that a higher discount rate would have a favorable 
effect on the international position of the dollar and that it would not 
be likely to have a disturbing impact on domestic securities markets. 
During the discussion Governor Mitchell noted that interest rates 
had stabilized recently and a relatively tranquil atmosphere had devel-
oped in debt markets. Growth of the monetary aggregates, especially the 
narrowly defined money supply, appeared to have moderated. In these 
circumstances, he felt an increase in the discount rate would provide an 
inappropriate signal of the System's policy intentions. He would be 
prepared, however, to reconsider his view if there occurred a resumption 
of relatively rapid growth in the monetary aggregates and in business 
loan demands at banks or a rise in short-term interest rates. 
Governor Daane said he agreed with Governor Mitchell's assessment 
and policy conclusion. He felt that the arguments favoring a higher discount 

2700 
9/29/72 
-5-
rate were much weaker today than they had been earlier, taking into 
account the recent performance of the monetary aggregates, the level 
of market interest rates, and the general tenor of market expectations. 
In this situation he concluded that an increase in the discount rate 
would constitute a market-leading move and would risk giving a misleading 
signal to the market regarding the thrust of monetary policy. 
Governor Brimmer indicated he would vote to raise the discount 
rate by 1/4 percentage point today. He was not concerned about the 
outlook for the next few weeks but rather was looking toward prospective 
developments over the next several months, including the winter and 
spring of 1973. Given the outlook for economic activity and the related 
demand for funds, short-term interest rates could be expected to trend 
upward, perhaps well before the end of this year. Since there would be 
few opportunities to raise the discount rate in the period immediately 
ahead because of Treasury financing operations and for other reasons, 
he thought it would be desirable to increase the discount rate now in 
order to narrow the gap between the discount rate and market rates. He 
saw some risk that an increase in the discount rate might lead to somewhat 
higher market rates, but he thought that risk should be accepted to avoid 
the greater risk of having the discount rate get substantially out of 
line with market rates and thereby complicate the administration of the 
discount window. 
Governor Sheehan said he was more strongly persuaded now than 
he had been earlier that an increase in the discount rate would not be 

9/29/72 
-6-
appropriate. He had recently reviewed the experience of the last 
several years and had observed that, with perhaps one or two exceptions, 
every increase in the discount rate had been followed by a sudden jump 
in market interest rates. In his view, given the recent discussions 
in the press, a move now would substantiate the expectations of those 
who thought the Federal Reserve was seeking higher interest rates and 
would lead to such higher rates. He would much prefer to use the 
discount rate to confirm movements in market rates rather than to lead 
such rates higher. 
Governor Bucher said he agreed with the views expressed by 
Governors Mitchell and Sheehan. He was especially concerned about 
the bank prime rate and he did not want to give bankers an excuse to 
raise that rate. Accordingly, he would vote to turn down the proposed 
increase today. 
Chairman Burns commented that he had been moving in the direction 
of approving a higher discount rate at the September 21 meeting of the 
Board when he had recommended that a decision on a proposed increase be 
deferred until a later meeting. Developments since that time, however, 
had led him to move away from supporting an increase. Indeed, he saw 
no compelling reasons on market grounds for a higher rate. A tabulation 
prepared by the staff for today's meeting indicated that current differ-
entials between the discount rate and most short-term interest rates 
were smaller than had been the case in the four latest instances when 
the discount rate had been raised. The evidence was quite decisive in 

2702 
9/29/72 
-7-
his view and he also attached importance to the fact that rates of 
growth in the monetary aggregates had slowed significantly from those 
anticipated at the mid-September meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee. 
Chairman Burns added that he had been involved in two Government 
activities which tended to reinforce his inclination not to approve the 
pending increases in the discount rate. As Chairman of the Committee on 
Interest and Dividends he had devoted a good deal of time to efforts 
aimed at restraining the rise in administered interest rates and an 
increase in the discount rate would represent an overt action on the 
part of a Government agency to raise such a rate. While this argument 
was not compelling in his own mind, he thought it needed to be taken 
into account, especially at a time when the Government's Incomes Policy 
appeared to be achieving a degree of success. A second activity, with 
which the members of the Board were acquainted in some degree, was his 
quiet efforts over the past several months to convince Congressional 
leaders of the need for a ceiling on Federal Government expenditures. 
Events of the past week or so had convinced him that the prospect for 
such legislation had improved markedly. Among other arguments, he had 
emphasized in his conversations the salutary effects that a rigid ceiling 
was likely to have on financial markets. It was true that an increase in 
the discount rate was not necessarily inconsistent with the objective of 
moderating upward pressures on interest rates, but such an increase would 

2703 
9/29/72 
-8-
be likely to be misinterpreted by many members of Congress and make 
passage of the ceiling legislation more difficult. 
After brief further consideration, the Board voted to disapprove, 
Governor Brimmer dissenting, the proposed increases in the discount rate. 
It was understood that a letter outlining the reasons for the disapproval 
would be drafted and sent to the five Reserve Banks after review by 
individual members of the Board. A copy of the letter subsequently sent 
to the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, 
and Kansas City is attached as Item No. 7. 
(Note: On October 2, 1972, the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
requested approval of a special rate of 4-1/2 per cent on advances to 
nonmember banks under the last paragraph of section 13 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. The Secretary of the Board informed the Reserve Bank of 
the Board's approval of that rate in special situations where the liqui-
dity of such banks and their ability to serve the community were impaired 
by the implementation of Regulation J.) 
Other discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta and San Francisco on September 21 and 
by the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, St. Louis, Minneapolis, 
and Dallas on September 28, 1972, of the rates on discounts and advances 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

2704 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
.••'oVc^V. 
CFTHE 
9/29/72* 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
''f*AL Rtf?.' 
A^OREBS OFFICIAL CaRRfSPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
September 29, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Citizens State Bank 
Clark, South Dakota 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Citizens State Bank, Clark, South 
Dakota, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except: with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and co its deposit.liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
In connection with foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions 
in the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Secti 
208.7 thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
on 
The Board of Governors also approves the operation of 
branches at Bradley, Vienna and Willow Lake, South Dakota, by 
Citizens State Bank. 

2705 
Board of Directors 
- 2 -
If at any tine a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors ana spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy of 
such resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit 
of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount 
of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership iii the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Sigend) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant: Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
• ••oV'coV^. 
D F T H E 
9/29/72* 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 
2055t 
'•f^LR^V.* 
ADDRESS DF FICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TD THE BOARD 
September 29, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Bank of Lemmon 
Lemmori, South Dakota 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Bank of Lemmon, Lemmon, South Dakota, 
for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, subject to 
the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
In connection with foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation II, regarding membership of State banking institutions 
in the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 
208.7 thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
The Board of Governors also approves the operation of a 
branch at Bison, South Dakota, by Bank of Lemmon. 

2707 
Board of Directors 
- 2 -
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy of 
such resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to acccpt payment for an appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit 
of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount 
of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Beard 
Enclosure 

2708 
^'Ytitiii&E' 
•f^Lrt^V 
- B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
9/29/72 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL. CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
September 29, 1972 
First Pennsylvania Corporation 
Fifteenth and Chestnut Streets 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19102 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of July 18, 1972, the Beard 
of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, 
and Section 2.25.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your Corporation, ("FPC") , 
to purchase and hold all of the shares of First Northamerica 
Leasing, Ltd., ("FNL"), Toronto, Canada, at a cost of approximately 
$2,500, provided such shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under Sec-
tion 4(c)(13), FNL shall confine its activities te international or 
foreign banking and other international or foreign financial op-
erations. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company 
and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2 / 0 9 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R B 
D F T H E 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
9/29/72* 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS DrriCIAL CORrJESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
September 29, 1972 
First City National Bank of Houston 
P. 0. Box 2557 
Houston, Texas 77001 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants its 
permission to First City National Bank of Houston, Houston, Texas, pur-
suant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to 
establish a branch in London, England, and to operate and maintain such 
branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unle ss the branch is actually established and opened for business 
on or before October 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby shall be deemed to 
have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will automatically 
terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas, when the branch is opened for business, furnishing infor-
mation as to the exact location of the branch. The Board should also be 
promptly informed of any future change in location of the branch in London. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds pro-
vided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, advances, or 
otnervJise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes of the foreign 
credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern with minimizing 
the impact of foreign investments on the balance of payments, the above 
consent is given on the condition that in the conduct of the branch's 
operations maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside 
the United States. Furthermore, it is understood that, the investment 
required will be made in conformity with the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to your bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
OP THE 
Item No. 5 
9/29/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
addrebsj ornciAc corkce»ponoence 
TO THE BOARD 
September 29, 1972 
Bank of Virginia Company 
P. 0. Box 25970 
7 North 8th Street 
Richmond, Virginia 23260 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 3, 1972, the 
Board of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1955, 
as amended, and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your 
Corporation to increase its total investment in Continental 
Discount Corporation, ("CDC"), La Sarre, Quebec, Canada, to 
approximately $4,500,000 by acquiring additional shares of 
CDC at a cost of about $500,000, provided such shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this, letter. 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under 
Section 4(c)(13) , CDC shall confine its activities to inter-
national or foreign banking and other international or foreign 
financial operations. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smi tn 
Secretary of the 5oard 

2711 
B O A R D G F 
G O V E R N O R S 
or the 
6 
• ot<"'OK-". 
9/29/7? 
F E D E R A L - R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
' r>{> ' ; 
U-- 
WASHINGTON, D. C, 20551 
• 
; -Ti 
:':: 
ui' 
• ^ W m M F - 
AOD«ESS OFFICIAL COROESPONOENCE 
1,1 
' 
TU THE BOARD 
October 12, 1972 
^ X i il iiA 
Dear Mr. 
This supplements cur previous letter of March 3, 1972, 
with regard to credit to specialists for the purpose of financing 
their activities as registered specialists on your exchange. As 
you have probably already read in the press, the Board of Governors 
has recently adopted amendments to Regulations T and U (12 CFR 
220 and 221), providing for good faith valuation of collateral 
pledged by third-market makers end block positioners in connection 
with credit they obtain for financing their market-making and 
block-positioning activities. These amendments will become 
effective on October 16, 1972. A copy of the Board's press 
release dated September 12, 1972, with copies of the amendments 
attached thereto, is enclosed. 
Over-the-counter market makers had a special exemption 
prior to these amendments, as did those specialists whose exchanges 
were designated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System as requiring reports suitable for supplying current 
information regarding the specialist's use of credit pursuant to 
the exemptions in Regulations T and U. 
The amendments which become effective on October 16, 
1972 no longer include the requirement that the Board of Governors 
make such designation in order to qualify specialist's credit for 
exemption. In its place, the amendments permit a specialist to 
obtain credit against: the good faith loan value of eligible collateral 
if his exchange is a national securities exchange which requires 

2712 
- 2 -
and submits to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
reports suitable for supplying current information regarding such 
specialist's use of credit obtained pursuant to the exemptions 
provided by section 2.20.4(g) of Regulation T and 221.3(o) of 
Regulation U. A form upon which such reports would be furnished 
has been adopted by the New York Stock Exchange and approved by 
the Board after staff consultation with representatives of the 
Exchange. 
Since you have previously indicated to this staff that 
your exchange would cooperate in requiring the contemplated reports 
regarding the use of credit by specialists and submitting such reports 
to the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, there are 
enclosed herewith copies of the forms adopted by the NYSE for that 
purpose. Since the NYSE reports have been approved by the Board, 
you may wish to adopt reports which are substantively identical. 
If you should wish to devise your own reports and submit them to 
the Board for approval, you may of course do so, but if your exchange 
adopts reports substantively identical to those adopted by the 
NYSE they need not be submitted to the Board for approval. NYSE 
Form SBT is a monthly report completed by specialists acquiring 
blocks on exempt credit with a market value of $400,000 or more. 
Form SBT-A is a report required from specialists on any block 
transaction acquired on exempt credit with a market value of $200,000 
or more that has not been liquidated within 20 business days. The 
third form is a summary of Forms SBT. 
The amendment relating to credit for block positioners 
will also require, in section 221.3(z)(4) of Regulation U, the 
cooperation of your exchange (by a regularly constituted committee) 
in passing upon applications for one or more 5-day extensions of 
the 20-day holding period during which credit for positioning a 
block may remain ourstanding on good faith loan value. The Board 
of Governors will adopt a Form for such extensions of time. It is 
anticipated that the block positioner seeking extensions of time 
will obtain this form from the Federal Reserve Bank serving his 
district, so that it will not be necessary that your exchange keep 
a supply of this form on hand. 
If you should have any further questions regarding the 
above, please address them to Messrs. Hodgdon, T.acoste or Schoedel 
of this staff, (Telephone 737-4171, area code 202). 
Very truly yours , 
(\ !/ 
''1 
\ Wbi 
/h , 
Michael A. /freensVan, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosures 

FEDERAL RESERVE 5Y1 
2V13 
BOARD OF G LIVER N • RS 
Item No. 7 
•F THE 
9/29/72 
C 
? ' 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
TEM 
ADDRESS OfFICIAL CDRRrSPONCENCE 
TD THE ROARD 
October 2, 1972 
Mr. Frank E. Morris, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Dear Mr. Morris: 
The Board of Governors took action on September 29 to dis-
approve the pending increase in your Bank's discount: rate from 4-1/2 to 
4-3/4 per cent which your directors voted to establish on September 18. 
In reaching this decision the Board reviewed a variety of considerations 
and concluded that an increase in the discount rate at this time would 
not constitute a timely action in support of the economic stabilization 
effort, given current economic and market conditions. 
The Board's decision was influenced in part by the latest 
information suggesting that bank reserves and the monetary aggregates 
were expanding at a more moderate pace than had been anticipated earlier. 
In addition, the Board took note of the emergence of a more settled 
atmosphere in financial markets and the accompanying tendency for short-
term interest rates to stabilize around levels which are not so far out 
of line with the current discount rate as to impel a change. In these 
circumstances, the Board felt that to increase the discount rate at this 
time would be leading market interest rates rather than following them 
and might well be misinterpreted as an overt signal of further tighten-
ing of monetary policy, with a consequent risk of fostering higher short-
t erm mar k e t ra t. er.. 
While the Board arrived at a judgment that differs from that 
previously reached by your Bank's directors, the Board gave careful con-
sideration to their views. The Board wishes to thank your directors for 
the expression of their considered judgment in fulfilling their statutory 
responsibility. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
IDENTICAL LETTERS SENT TO PRESIDENTS 01- FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS CF 
NEW YORK, PHILADELPHIA, CHICAGO, AND KANSAS CITY 
