1 609 
Minutes for 
April 10, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary-
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will, indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

1348 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, April 10, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Forrestal, Plotkin, and Porter of the 
Legal Division 
Mr. Greenspun, Economist, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Goodfellow, Lyon, and Poundstone 
of the Division of Examinations 
Application of Union County Trust Company (Items 1-3). There 
had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's approval on March 20, 1967, of the application of Union County 
Trust Company, Elizabeth, New Jersey, to merge with Hillside State Bank, 
Hillside, New Jersey. A dissenting statement by Governors Maisel and 
Brimmer had also been distributed. 

±353 
4/10/67 
-6-
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 1 and 2. A copy of 
the dissenting statement of Governors Maisel and Brimmer is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
Study of loopholes in Bank Holding Company Act (Item No. 4). 
There had been distributed a memorandum dated April 6, 1967, from 
Governor Maisel relating to the study of loopholes in the Bank Holding 
Company Act being undertaken at the request of the Board under his gen-
eral supervision. The task force conducting the study had determined 
a need for certain types of information with respect to (1) one-bank 
holding companies, (2) chain banking organizations, and (3) the use of 
loans secured by bank stock as a control device. Attached to the memo-
randum was a proposed letter to the Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks describing the purposes of the inquiry and submitting question-
naires to be completed by the Reserve Banks. 
Following summary comments by Governor Maisel and discussion of 
certain points raised in the interest of clarification, unanimous approval 
was given to the transmittal of a letter to the Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
Truth-in-lending legislation. Pursuant to the understanding at 
the meeting on April 5, 1967, there had been distributed a draft of 
statement with respect to S. 5, the truth-in-lending bill. 

L ' s s o 
4/10/67 
-3-
Governor Robertson recalled that Chairman Proxmire of the 
Financial Institutions Subcommittee of the Senate Banking and Currency 
Committee had requested that the Board testify at hearings on S. 5 
beginning on April 13, 1967. Governor Robertson now proposed that he 
and Chairman Martin call on Senator Proxmire for the purpose of dis-
cussing in general terms a possible approach to Board testimony and 
obtaining the Senator's reaction. They would first restate the posi-
tion consistently taken by the Board in the past with respect to earlier 
truth-in-lending bills to the effect that while the Board endorsed the 
objective of requiring creditors to disclose their finance charges, it 
would prefer not to administer such legislation. However, they would 
then say that if Congress found no better-qualified agency the Board 
would be willing to accept the responsibility. In that event, though, 
there were certain changes the Board would like to have made in the 
legislation. The legislation should be cast in broad terms of general 
objectives, leaving the specifics to be formulated through regulations 
that could be amended from time to time. Additionally, the legislation 
should provide an incentive for individual States to take the initiative 
in requiring disclosure of the type contemplated in S. 5 by granting 
exemption from the Federal law if States enacted comparable legislation. 
Also, specific provision should be made to relieve the Board from the 
requirement of ascertaining whether there had been failure to comply 
with the regulations, and complete responsibility for enforcing the 
Federal law should be assigned to the Department of Justice. 

1851 
4/10/67 
-4-
Governor Robertson went on to outline additional changes in 
the bill that would be suggested, such as granting to the Board the 
authority to prescribe formulas and define terms and conditions. It 
would be suggested that no specific deadline be fixed for the issuance 
of regulations, and that sufficient leeway be provided for reimburse-
ment of advisory committee members in order that the services of out-
standing persons might be obtained. The details of such changes in the 
legislation could be worked out at staff level between the Board and 
the Committee. 
If Senator Proxmire was receptive to such an approach, Governor 
Robertson said, Board testimony would be redrafted and the new draft 
would be brought back to the Board for consideration. 
Governor Mitchell said he was dissatisfied with the initial 
draft testimony because it carried a tone of grudging acceptance of 
responsibility. He had made some changes in the draft that he would 
like to see incorporated for the purpose of changing the tone of the 
statement somewhat, and he believed they were in line with the approach 
that Governor Robertson had been describing. 
Governor Mitchell also said that he had not had an opportunity 
to review the details of the proposed legislation and that, in his 
view, detailed recommendations could best be handled on a staff basis, 
as Governor Robertson had indicated. The Board's position would then 
relate only to the broad issues involved in the administration of truth-
in-lending legislation, whether by the Board or by someone else. 

1852 
4/10/67 
-5-
Governor Robertson said that the draft testimony had already-
been edited substantially with the object of bringing it in line with 
views such as Governor Mitchell had been expressing. 
It was understood that members of the Board would send their 
editorial comments to Governor Robertson for use in preparing a further 
draft of testimony at the appropriate time. 
It was then agreed that the procedure described earlier by 
Governor Robertson should be followed and that Chairman Martin and 
Governor Robertson would report to the Board following their discussion 
with Senator Proxmire. 
Application of Fidelity International Corporation. The applica-
tion of The Fidelity International Corporation (The Company for Invest-
ing Abroad prior to April 3, 1967), Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a 
section 25(a) corporation, for consent to acquire a minority interest 
in Balthex International, Inc., also of Philadelphia, was discussed 
most recently at the meeting on March 20, 1967, at which time the staff 
was requested to prepare alternative statements that would support 
approval or denial of the application. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated April 6, 1967, 
from the Examinations and Legal Divisions submitting such statements as 
well as drafts of alternative letters that might be sent to Fidelity 
International Corporation depending on the Board's decision. 

±353 
4/10/67 
-6-
Governor Brimmer reported that Governor Daane had expressed an 
interest in participating in the discussion when a decision was reached 
on this application. Accordingly, it was agreed that such discussion 
would be deferred until tomorrow, when it was expected that all of the 
members of the Board would be present. 
Governor Maisel noted that an argument for approval of the 
application seemed to be that if a bank could do certain things within 
its own organizational structure, it should be permissible for the bank 
to do such things indirectly through a subsidiary in which an invest-
ment was made by the bank's Edge Act affiliate. He inquired whether 
there were instances where the law permitted a bank to perform functions 
indirectly through partial ownership of a domestic corporation as opposed 
to full ownership; in other words, whether any distinction should prop-
erly be drawn in that regard. 
Mr. Shay referred to the statutory provisions permitting banks 
to engage on a cooperative basis in the establishment of bank service 
corporations. He pointed out that if such a corporation were estab-
lished on a cooperative basis, all but one of the banks could conceiv-
ably withdraw thereafter, with the result that the remaining bank would 
have full ownership of the service corporation. Mr. Forrestal referred 
to investments permitted by banks in small business investment companies. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the draft of alternative letter 
to Fidelity International Corporation that would approve the proposed 

t.'ts 4 
4/10/67 
-3-
investment in Balthex was of a perfunctory nature. He suggested that 
the draft letter be revised by the inclusion of additional language 
indicating in effect that the proposed investment had been studied 
carefully by the Board and had been recognized as involving some border-
line questions of policy and statutory interpretation. 
Request from Department of Justice (Item No. 5). Governor 
Shepardson reported that a request had been received from the Department 
of Justice that an employee in the Fiscal Agency Department of the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of Cleveland prepare a memorandum and testify in a 
tax case involving the reissuance of Series E Savings Bonds. The Legal 
Division felt that compliance with the request was appropriate and sug-
gested that letters be sent (1) to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
interposing no objection to the Reserve Bank's authorizing its employee 
to testify in response to a subpoena; (2) to the Tax Division of the 
Department of Justice explaining the fiscal agency character of the 
Reserve Bank's actions relating to reissuance of Series E Bonds; and 
(3) to the Bureau of Public Debt, Treasury Department, forwarding the 
request of the Justice Department for appropriate attention. 
Unanimous approval was given to the transmittal of the proposed 
letters. A copy of the letter to the Cleveland Reserve Bank is attached 
as Item No. 5. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Governor Shepardson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 

1355 
4/10/67 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
April 3, 1967, recommending the establishment of a new research assis-
tant position in the Government Finance Section. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
April 5, 1967, recommending the establishment of a new economist posi-
tion in the National Income, Labor Force, and Trade Section. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
April 5, 1967, recommending the establishment of a new "visiting pro-
fessor" position in the Banking Section. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
April 5, 1967, recommending the establishment of a new economist posi-
tion in the Business Conditions Section. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis (copy attached as 
Item No. 6) approving the appointment of Ronald W. Seymour as assistant 
examiner. 

1356 
Item No. 1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
4/10/67 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
UNION COUNTY TRUST COMPANY 
for approval of merger with 
Hillside State Bank 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1828(c), Public Law 89-356), an 
application by Union County Trust Company, Elizabeth, New Jersey, a 
State member bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior 
approval of the merger of that bank and Hillside State Bank, Hillside, 
New Jersey, under the charter and title of Union County Trust Company. 
As an incident to the merger, the sole office of Hillside State Bank 
Would become a branch of the resulting bank. Notice of the proposed 
merger, in form approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to 
said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
Proposed merger, 

1357 
-2-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after said date, 
Dated at Washington, D, C,, this 10th day of April, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson, and 
Governors Shepardson, Mitchell, and Daane, 
Voting against this action: Governors Maisel 
and Brimmer, 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin 
(signed) Merritt Sherman 
Ilerritt Sherman, 
Secretary, 
(SEAL) 
c 

1358 
Item No. 2 
BOARD 61f GOVERNORS 
4/10/67 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY UNION COUNTY TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
HILLSIDE STATE BANK 
STATEMENT 
Union County Trust Company, Elizabeth, New Jersey ("Union 
Bank"), with total deposits of $157.6 million, has applied, pursuant 
to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c), as amended by Public 
lax; 89-356), for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that 
bank with Hillside State Bank, Hillside, New Jersey ("Hillside Bank"), 
1/ 
t'hich has total deposits of $5.8 million. 
The banks would merge 
under the charter and name of Union Bank, which is a member of the 
federal Reserve System. As an incident to the merger, Hillside Bank's 
single office would become a branch of Union Bank, increasing the 
2/ 
number of its offices to 14. 
Competition. - Union Bank is the second largest of 15 banks 
in Union County, New Jersey, the area of effective competition, holding 
18 per cent of the county's deposits. Upon consummation of the 
Proposal, the bank would control approximately 19 per cent of total 
county deposits; however, its size relationship to other county 
banks would not be appreciably changed. The largest bank in the area 
1/ Deposit figures are as of June 30, 1966. 
V Includes an additional branch in Linden, New Jersey, that has not 
Vet opened. 

-2-
1359 
holds 21 per cent of the county deposits. The third and fourth 
largest banks in the county each hold approximately 13 per cent of 
county deposits, and the other banks' holdings range from 1 to 8 per 
cent. The four largest Union County banks currently control about 
66 per cent of the aggregate deposits and operate 58 per cent of the 
banking offices in the county. 
Elizabeth, New Jersey, in which Union County's main office 
is located, and Hillside are adjoining communities. The main offices 
of the two banks are about four miles apart. Union Bank operates a 
branch system over a sizeable portion of Union County and its Westminster 
office is about three and one-half miles from Hillside Bank with no 
intervening banking offices. There are, however, two branches of 
National State Bank, Elizabeth, New Jersey, the county's largest bank, 
located in Hillside. In addition, there are branches of large Newark 
banks in adjoining Essex County, which are within a two-mile radius of 
Hillside and compete for business in that community. 
It would appear that the area served by Hillside Bank is 
within the area served by Union Bank and some actual and potential 
competition would be eliminated by the merger. However, due to the 
difference in the size of the two banks and certain internal problems 
of Hillside Bank, as hereinafter described, it is the Board's opinion 
that no significant existing competition between the two institutions 
would be eliminated by the merger proposal and, further, that the proposed 
merger would not eliminate any significant potential competition, 

1.3G0 
because it appears unlikely that Hillside Bank will develop into a 
viable competitor. The degree of increase in concentration in banking 
resources in Union County that would result from the merger is not 
regarded as significant. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the over-all effect of 
the merger on competition would not be significantly adverse. 
Financial and Managerial Resources and Future Prospects. -
Hillside Bank has had operational problems since it opened for business 
in November 1962. It sustained substantial operating losses in the 
first two years of its operation and, faced with the need for additional 
capital, two groups of stockholders vied for control of the bank in 
January 1965. Since that time efforts to raise additional capital have 
been blocked and the bank's capital position has worsened. In 1966, 
the bank experienced heavy loan losses and it appears that it would be 
extremely difficult at this time to attract new capital into the bank. 
Hillside Bank has also experienced serious management problems. 
It 
has had three presidents in its relatively brief existence and, 
although the present president is believed to be capable, further 
executive personnel are necessary if Hillside is to continue as an 
independent bank. In view of the bank's formidable internal problems, 
it is believed that it x*ould be difficult to attract qualified officers. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
°f Union Bank are satisfactory and would not be adversely affected by 
effectuation of the proposal. 

In vlett of the above, the Board is of the opinion that the 
i 
banking factors give substantial weight for approval of the merger. 
Convenience and Needs of the Community. - The major banking 
needs within the service areas of these banks are presently being 
served and approval of the merger proposal would have no significant 
effect upon the Hillside community. 
Summary and Conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, 
consummation of the proposal would not result in any significantly 
adverse consequences for banking competition and xoould provide a 
reasonable solution to Hillside Bank's internal problems. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
be approved. 
April 10, 1967. 

1 3 6 2 
Item No. 3 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS MAISEL AND BRIMMER 
4/10/67 
Union Bank is the second largest bank in Union County, 
Neu Jersey, with 18 per cent of the county's deposits and 17 per cent 
of the county's banking offices; The four largest Union County banks 
currently control about 66 per cent of aggregate deposits and operate 
58 per cent of the banking offices in the county. 
The majority concedes that the Hillside community is within 
the area currently served by Union Bank and that "some" actual and 
potential competition would be eliminated by the merger proposal, 
although it concludes that the merger would not result in any "signifi-
cant" elimination of competition. The majority further indicates that 
Hillside Bank has formidable internal problems, impairing its ability 
to compete effectively, that would be solved by the merger. 
We believe that approval of this merger will result in 
(1) a substantial elimination of competition in the Hillside community, 
(2) diminution of actual and potential competition for Union County, as 
a whole, and (3) an increase in concentration of the banking resources 
this area. Further, in our judgment, this merger will, by reason of 
the elimination of an alternative source of banking services, have an 
adverse effect on the convenience and needs of the Hillside community. 
Accordingly, in our opinion, the approval of the merger would not be in 
the public interest unless Hillside Bank faces difficulty of sufficient 
gravity to warrant remedial action in the interest of maintaining its 1/ 
soundness and there is no feasible alternative solution to its problem. 
Xr~C.£. St. Joseph Valley Bank, 52 Fed. Res, Bulletin 1765 (1966). 

1363 
-2-
It is not contended that Hillside Bank cannot continue as 
an independent bank, despite its present internal problems. It is 
true that the bank has not experienced the growth rate in deposits and 
profitability that was anticipated at its inception. It is also true 
that the bank has experienced serious management problems. Past 
attempts to raise new capital, which is sorely needed, have been 
blocked. However, obstructions that previously existed have now been 
removed. Accordingly, it does not appear that the problems faced by 
Hillside Bank are sufficiently grave as to necessitate the approval of 
this merger. 
Moreover, even if Hillside Bank was in a far more serious 
condition, it has not been demonstrated to us that a sufficient attempt 
has been made to explore possible alternatives to the proposed merger. 
New Jersey banking law prohibits branching across county lines. However, 
there are at least four other banks in Union County with which Hillside 
might be merged without the adverse competitive results of the instant 
Proposal. 
Given these considerations, we are convinced that it is 
Premature and contrary to the public interest to allow the merger at 
this juncture. We would deny the application. 
APril 10, 1967. 

1364 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
4/10/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 5, 1967, 
Dear Sir: 
By letter dated February 20, 1967, you were informed 
that the Board had directed that a study be made of loopholes in 
the Bank Holding Company Act under the general supervision of 
Governor Maisel. The letter noted that the Task Force conducting 
the study would need to obtain various information from the 
Reserve Banks. These studies are aimed at developing more System 
knowledge with respect to problems of: I. One-bank holding 
companies; II. Chain banking organizations; and III, The use of 
loans secured by bank stock as a control device. They also 
represent an initial attempt to determine the extent to which the 
current situation may allow evasion of the general purposes of the 
Holding Company Act or give rise to potential significant super-
visory problems. 
The Task Force has carefully considered the information 
needed, and the Board has approved a request for three types of 
information to be submitted in accordance with specifications 
proposed by the study group as follows: 
I. One-bank holding companies. On the basis 
of pilot studies conducted by members of the Task 
Force, it is believed that the information requested 
on one-bank holding companies (Schedule A enclosed) 
can be obtained from examination reports and data 
available in the files at most of the Federal Reserve 
Banks, It is realized that not all of the informa-
tion requested will be readily available in all cases. 
In such cases, this should be indicated on the 
schedule and further probing will, not be necessary 

- 2 -
1865 
at this time. A list of the one-bank holding com-
panies that owned stock of banks located in your 
District in 1965 is enclosed for your convenient 
reference. It has been estimated that the time 
required for completion of the records will average 
about two manhours per one-bank holding company. 
II. Chain banking. Information is also 
requested on a limited number of the larger chain 
banking organizations in each Federal Reserve 
District, as indicated in Schedule B, also enclosed. 
III. Loans on bank stock. Finally, your 
comments are solicited on the extent to which loans 
on bank stock involve control of banks in your 
District and the supervisory problems entailed by 
this control device. A 1964 report of the House 
Subcommittee on Domestic Finance (The Structure of 
Ownership of Member Banks and the Pattern of Loans 
Made on Hypothecated Bank Stock, October 21, 1964) 
concludes on page 17, in part, 
. . the ties in-
volved in these loans raise questions about the 
establishment of some degree of de facto and, in 
the case of default, de jure control by the lending 
institution over the bank whose stock is pledged." 
Possibly there are some abuses relative to such 
loans secured by bank stock. Please comment with 
regard to banks in your District as to whether you 
believe loans secured by bank stock may have tended 
to establish control by lending banks over banks 
whose stock has been pledged. It may be desirable 
to discuss this with other bank supervisory agencies 
in your District. In the event such discussions 
are held, please report the substance of the comments 
by personnel of other supervisory agencies. 
The information requested on one-bank holding companies 
will require the use of examination reports and possibly other 
records from the regional offices of the Comptroller of the 
Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. You may 
also wish to consult officials of these two agencies regarding the 
questions on chain banking and loans secured by bank stock. The 
Comptroller of the Currency and the Chairman of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation have been informed of.the investigation, and 
it is assumed that there will be no problem? regarding cooperation 

in making the necessary information available. The cooperative 
approach suited to each area can best be decided by each Federal 
Reserve Bank, but should any problems arise, please let us know 
and we shall be glad to take the matter up with the appropriate 
officials in the Washington offices of the agencies. 
As soon as your Bank has had an opportunity to con-
sider this request, the Board would like to know your general plans 
for preparing the information and the name, or names, of those 
who will be primarily responsible for carrying out the work. 
It is planned that a one-day conference will be held at the Board's 
office in Washington, D. C., on Wednesday, May 24, 1967, to be 
attended by representatives from all Reserve Banks. This confer-
ence will be for the purpose of discussing any problems the 
Reserve Banks are having in obtaining the information requested 
and of coordinating the submission of the data to the Board's 
office. The individuals attending the conference should be those 
who are working closely with these matters, and we shall appreciate 
your letting us know promptly who will attend from your Bank. 
In order to achieve maximum benefit from the conference, it is 
suggested that the individuals so assigned complete Schedule A 
for a number of the one-bank holding companies prior to the 
meeting. It would also be helpful if some consideration were 
given to any problems in the completion of Schedule B for chain-
banking systems. Ten copies of Schedule A and two copies of 
Schedule B are enclosed for this purpose. 
The Board is fully aware that this request for information 
will impose more of a burden on some Federal Reserve Banks than 
others. Nevertheless, it is hoped that it will be possible to 
complete the reports requested within 60 days after plans are 
completed and the Washington conference of Bank representatives 
has been held. If any Reserve Bank finds that this time schedule 
cannot be met, an effort will be made to agree on a schedule which 
will not involve an undue burden. 
Very truly yours^ 
Herritt She 
Secretary, 
Enclosures 
Schedule A (10) 
Schedule B (2) 
List of one-bank holding companies 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS. 

1367 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
item No. 5 
• F THE 
4/10/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E B O A R D 
April 10, 1967 
Mr. Fred S. Kelly, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Re: Estate of Lyla Cc Curry, Robert Curry, Exr. 
v. United States - Civil C-65-144 - ND Ohio 
Dear Mr. Kelly: 
In a letter dated April 3, 1967, addressed to 
Mr. Christ Boukis of your Bank's Legal Department, we enclosed a 
copy of a letter dated March 17, 1967, from the Tax Division, 
Department of Justice, requesting the assistance of Miss Alice Fry, 
an employee in your Bank's Fiscal Agency Department, with respect 
to the trial of the above case. On April 5, 1967, Mr. O'Connell of 
the Board's legal staff discussed the Department's request with you 
and Mre Boukis, particularly those aspects thereof dealing with the 
nature and details of the functions performed by Miss Fry. It was 
agreed that Miss Fry's duties, as discussed in the Department's 
letter, were entirely of a fiscal agency nature, and that the matter 
of the Department of Justice's request was therefore the proper sub-
ject of response by the Treasury Department's Bureau of Public Debt. 
Accordingly, it was agreed the matter should be referred to the 
Treasury Department for appropriate action. Enclosed for your infor-
mation are copies of letters from the Board to the Treasury Department 
and the Department of Justice, which are self-explanatory. We assume 
that a member of the Treasury Department's staff will contact you with 
respect to the Department of Justice's request. 
With regard to the possibility that the Government will wish 
Miss Fry's testimony at the trial of this case, the Board has no objec-
tion to your authorizing Miss Fry's response to any subpoena that may 
be issued. In the event that the testimony which may be sought from 
Miss Fry should involve possible disclosure of "unpublished information 
of the Board", we will assume that the procedures set forth in sec-
tion 261.5 of the Board's Rules Regarding Information will be followed. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Enclosures 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1368 
.« oOVCOW 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
item No. 6 
D F T H E 
4/10/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R D 
April 10, 1967 
Mr. 0. 0. Wyrick, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 
63166 
Dear Mr. Wyrick: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of April 3, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of Ronald W. Seymour as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. Please 
advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
