Minutes for 
A P r i l 7> 1 9 6 7 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

1323 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, April 7, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Williams, Axilrod, Gramley, Eckert, Ettin, 
Fry, and Kelty, and Mrs. Peskin of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Katz, Reynolds, Wood, Baker, 
Bryant, Pizer, and Ruckdeschel of the Division 
of International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Kelty commented on developments in 
the Government securities market, following which Mr. Fry discussed 
recent and prospective bank credit developments. 
Copies of distributed tables referred to in the foregoing 
Presentations have been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Brill, 
Solomon, and Sammons then withdrew, as did Miss McWhirter, and the 
foil owing entered: 

1 3 2 4 
4/7/67 
-16-
Messrs. Hackley, Hexter, O'Connell, Forrestal, and 
Plotkin of the Legal Division 
Mr. Partee of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Leavitt, Egertson, and Sidman of the Division 
of Examinations 
Approved letters. The following letters, copies of which are 
attached to these minutes under the respective item numbers indicated, 
were approved unanimously after consideration of background information 
that had been made available to the Board: 
Item No. 
/ 
Letter to County Bank of Santa Cruz, Santa 
1 
Cruz, California, granting an extension of 
time to establish a branch in Santa Cruz 
County and commenting on the bank's capital 
position. 
Letter to First Pennsylvania Overseas Finance 
2 
Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, approv-
ing an amendment to its articles of association 
and granting consent to the acquisition of shares 
of First Pennsylvania Overseas Development Com-
pany, Ltd., Nassau, Bahamas. 
Letter to First State Bank of Spring Valley, 
3 
Spring Valley, New York, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch in New City and commenting 
on the bank's capital position. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given to 
the transmittal of a report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Union Bank and 
Trust Company of Amelia, Amelia, Virginia, into The Fidelity National 
Bank, Lynchburg, Virginia. The conclusion stated that consummation of 
the proposed merger would not have an adverse effect on competition. 

1325 
4/7/67 
-16-
Request for technical assistance. It was reported that a 
request had been received from the Agency for International Development 
for the services of a person to advise the Central Bank of Peru for a 
period of a few weeks in the use of its computer for economic research. 
The Division of International Finance was authorized to ascer-
tain the availability of a suitable person for the Peruvian assignment. 
Questions presented by Banking and Currency Committee (Item 
No. 4). On March 15, 1967, when members of the Board appeared before 
the House Banking and Currency Committee for the stated purpose of 
affording Committee members an opportunity to meet the Board, a number 
of questions were presented to Chairman Martin, or to the Board gener-
ally, with the request that answers be supplied later for inclusion in 
the hearing record. 
There had now been distributed, under date of April 4, 1967, 
proposed replies to the questions along with a draft of transmittal 
letter to Chairman Patman. 
Following agreement upon certain editorial changes suggested 
by comments of Governors Mitchell and Brimmer, the answers to the ques-
tions were approved unanimously for transmittal to Chairman Patman. A 
/ 
copy of the transmittal letter is attached as Item No. 4. A copy of 
the answers to the questions, in the form in which they were sent, has 
been placed in the Board's files. 

1326 
4/7/67 
-16-
Comptroller's disclosure regulations (Item No. 5). On February 2, 
1967, the Comptroller of the Currency published for comment two proposed 
regulations applicable to national banks, the first an amended regulation 
on annual reports to stockholders and the second a new regulation on the 
form and content of financial statements. 
A distributed memorandum from Messrs. Hexter and Sidman dated 
April 4, 1967, pointed out that under the Comptroller's regulations the 
only requirement for compliance by national banks with the registration 
and reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as 
amended, was that such banks file with the Comptroller's Office two 
copies of their annual reports to stockholders. This stood in contrast 
to the requirements under the Board's Regulation F (Securities of Member 
State Banks) and the almost identical regulations of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation. To a large extent, however, the Comptroller's 
proposed regulation relating to the form and content of financial state-
ments paralleled the Regulation F provisions. This was an important 
step in the direction of uniform disclosure by national and State banks, 
and it was basic to achievement of the objective of the law, namely, dis-
closure of comparable information regarding competing corporations, 
thereby enabling investors to make informed judgments. 
The memorandum also pointed out that information with respect 
to national banks was not so conveniently available as information with 
respect to member and nonmember State banks, and that it would seem 

1327 
Ml/61 
-5-
desirable if information regarding all classes of banks could be made 
available at the same places. Furthermore, if investors were in a 
position to compare side-by-side the available information regarding 
national and State banks, the greater adequacy of the information with 
respect to the latter would be apparent and that might stimulate adop-
tion by the Comptroller of more comparable regulations. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to the Comp-
troller expressing satisfaction with the proposal to expand his regula-
tions along the lines he had proposed and urging that information 
regarding national banks be made available at the places where infor-
mation about State banks was now available to the public. 
Also submitted was a proposed enclosure to the draft letter 
containing several suggestions regarding the Comptroller's proposed 
regulation on the form and content of financial statements. The draft 
letter would state that additional suggestions by the Board's staff 
would be transmitted informally at forthcoming interagency conferences. 
Governor Robertson commented that some time ago there had been 
raised with the Comptroller through the Coordinating Committee on Bank 
Regulation the question of requiring more comparable information from 
national banks to be made available. He suggested that the letter to 
the Comptroller include reference to the earlier conversation, and it 
was agreed that that should be done. 

1 f?2'S 
4/7/67 
-6-
Governor Brimmer made inquiry with regard to some of the state-
ments in the attachment to the draft letter relating to the proposed 
regulation on the form and content of financial statements. He noted 
first that the attachment called for a more positive supervisory endorse-
ment of accrual-basis accounting, and he asked to what extent the Board 
had actually endorsed it. 
Mr. Sidman pointed out that Regulation F specifies the accrual 
basis of accounting for all State member banks that are required to 
register their securities under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as 
amended. Governor Robertson added that consideration was given, in 
formulating Regulation F, to the problem that might be posed for smaller 
banks. Thus far, however, no substantial problems had been encountered 
so far as the banks subject to Regulation F were concerned. 
Governor Brimmer then turned to the suggestion in the attach-
ment for consolidating the financial statements of Edge and agreement 
corporations with those of the parent bank. He indicated that he would 
be interested in having the view of people concerned with international 
finance. 
Mr. Hexter commented that such consolidation would not eliminate 
any detail presently available to investors. It simply meant that the 
figures for both Edge and agreement corporations and their parent banks 
would be presented as a single financial statement. Mr. Sidman added 
that the published financial statements of banks usually included balance 

1829 
4/7/67 
-7-
sheets for Edge and agreement subsidiaries, but with scarcely any detail. 
The proposal was that such operations be reflected along with the parent 
bank's operations. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that he would like to reserve judg-
ment, for he wanted to make certain that this step would not indirectly 
lead to the elimination of information available to people interested 
in tracing the progress of Edge and agreement corporations. 
Mr. Hexter remarked that if the Board felt that a particular 
segment of a bank's operations was of sufficient importance to the 
investing public it could presumably require, in addition to a consol-
idated statement, individual statements with regard to certain subsid-
iaries. The question was whether the additional burden on the banks 
would be justified in view of the fact that in most cases the operations 
of Edge and agreement corporations were a minor segment of the total 
activities. 
Governor Brimmer repeated that he would like to have the judg-
ment of people working in international finance. If they assured him 
that the point was trivial and unimportant, he would not pursue it. 
Mr. Partee observed that the purpose of the disclosure regula-
tions was to provide suitable information for investors rather than to 
provide economic or statistical data. He would not recommend consoli-
dation so far as call reports were concerned. 

1 8 3 0 
4/7/67 
-13-
Governor Brimmer replied that if a person was contemplating an 
investment in the stock of a large bank with Edge or agreement subsid-
iaries, that person might want to ascertain how well the subsidiaries 
were doing. 
Governor Maisel commented that the basic issue appeared to be 
one of the importance, from an investor standpoint, of the operations 
of the Edge or agreement subsidiaries, and Governor Mitchell expressed 
the opinion that there were probably only three or four cases where 
such operations were appreciably important in terms of the total opera-
tions of the bank. 
It was noted that the Comptroller's regulations would be appli-
cable to all national banks whereas the requirements of the Board's 
Regulation F applied only to banks having a specified number of share-
holders, and Governor Robertson commented that this was a point that 
would be discussed with the Comptroller before his regulations were 
finally adopted. Mr. Sidman noted that the attachment to the proposed 
letter pointed this out as one of the factors that might obstruct full 
coordination of the regulations for national and State banks. Mr. 
Plotkin said the position of the Board's staff had been that if the 
Comptroller felt that he wanted to apply the regulations to all national 
banks, regardless of size, it was probably not incumbent upon the Board's 
staff to object. 

1.331 
4/7/67 
-13-
It was brought out that the attachment seemed to imply that it 
would be desirable to extend the disclosure regulations to all banks, 
and Governor Mitchell indicated that he doubted whether good reason 
existed for subjecting all State member banks to Regulation F require-
ments . 
Governor Robertson referred, in this connection, to the sentence 
in the attachment stating that extension of the scope of the Comptroller's 
regulations to all national banks represented a positive contribution 
to the disclosure objectives of the law while the requirement in terms 
of compliance by national banks, which would consist solely of filing 
the annual report distributed to stockholders, fell short of the full 
disclosure that investors should enjoy. He suggested revision or dele-
tion of that sentence. While the Board should do what it could to 
achieve coordination of accounting regulations in terms of raising ques-
tions, full comparability could not be hoped for, at least at this stage. 
The memorandum to be sent with the proposed letter should point out 
differences, but not argue or make demands. 
The transmittal to the Comptroller of a letter in the form 
attached as Item No. 5 was then approved. 
Operations subsidiaries. Governor Robertson read a letter that 
he had written to the Comptroller of the Currency with regard to opera-
tions subsidiaries, his thought being to bring about discussion by the 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation, particularly in light of the 

1332 
4/7/67 
-10-
differing interpretations by the Board and by the Comptroller. The 
letter pointed out that the problem was becoming more acute, partic-
ularly by reason of factors such as the rapid development of bank credit 
card plans. 
Governor Mitchell agreed that it would be appropriate for the 
Committee to discuss the subject in a preliminary way. However, he 
felt that all should bear in mind the desirability of promoting the 
quality of services that banks were permitted to offer. From a policy 
standpoint, he felt that the Comptroller's interpretations had been in 
the right direction. If they were considered questionable from a legal 
standpoint, that should be cleared up, but moves to make banking ser-
vices and facilities more conveniently available should be endorsed. 
Governor Brimmer noted that he had discussed with Governor 
Robertson the question of operations subsidiaries in relation to the 
movement of banks into the credit card business. He was glad that the 
general subject was being taken up with the Coordinating Committee, but 
he would be reluctant to have the Board take a stance at this time that 
a proper course might call for the divestment of existing arrangements. 
He hoped some way could be found whereby State member banks could share 
with national banks opportunities for improvement of service through 
the use of operations subsidiaries. 
Governor Robertson replied that the credit card business had 
been cited only as an example in order to point up the problem. He 

12 
4/7/67 
-16-
noted that as of the moment national banks were permitted to have many 
kinds of subsidiaries. He would favor legislation that would specify 
the types of subsidiaries that could be authorized. 
Governor Mitchell observed that the question touched upon the 
whole area of rendering computer services to bank customers. He saw in 
that type of business a great potential, yet he understood that in some 
places it was prohibited by local laws. 
Governor Robertson commented that if Federal laws set the stan-
dard, he would hope that State laws would be amended accordingly. 
Chairman Martin referred to questions that had been presented 
to him by the First National Bank of Boston, Massachusetts, which wanted 
to enter certain types of business and apparently could do so under the 
Comptroller's rulings. The bank, however, was seeking to know whether 
the Board intended to take any position, and he found it difficult to 
say that the bank should postpone its plans indefinitely while other 
banks were going ahead. 
Governor Brimmer commented that he had talked about the matter 
during a recent visit to Boston. First National evidently could do the 
things it desired under the Comptroller's rulings, and it would not have 
to come to the Board. He appreciated the fact that the bank did not 
want to do anything on which the Board would frown, but the bank was 
becoming concerned. 

VVM 
4/7/67 
-12-
Governor Maisel noted that the bank also had to bear in mind 
court decisions on certain matters that were currently in litigation. 
The bank apparently would like to have the Board's views as one indica-
tion of how the law might be interpreted. 
Mr. Hexter pointed out that the Legal Division, in presenting 
the subject to the Board, had taken the view that on balance the bene-
fits of permitting banks to conduct operations through separate corpora-
tions were sufficient to outweigh the difficulties that would be encoun-
tered. With that in mind, legislation had been drafted that might be 
submitted to the Congress if the Board agreed. As to the question of 
divestment, the staff hoped that divestiture would be necessary in only 
a few instances and that regulations could be promulgated jointly by the 
Board and the Comptroller under which banks would be permitted, for the 
most part, to continue their existing activities. 
Governor Robertson said it was his hope that the Coordinating 
Committee would discuss the various facets of the problem. Then the 
Board should promptly give consideration to the legislation drafted by 
the staff and determine whether to seek to have a bill introduced. As 
the legislation stood in draft form, there were two elements with which 
he did not agree. One of these related to the provision whereby regula-
tions would be issued jointly by the Board and the Comptroller. In his 
view this power should be placed with the Board, or at least in some one 
office. Second, he would favor the inclusion of some type of grandfather 
clause. 

4/7/67 
-13-
Michigan National Bank matter. With reference to the suit 
filed by certain Michigan banks against the Comptroller of the Currency 
and the Board of Governors to prevent the acquisition of stock of 
Michigan Bank, National Association, Detroit, by Michigan National 
Bank, Lansing, Mr. O'Connell reported receipt of advice that the present 
Comptroller had decided not to confirm his predecessor's preliminary 
approval of an increase in the capital stock of Michigan National Bank, 
a step essential to implementation of the proposal. In light of that 
fact, plaintiffs' counsel and the Department of Justice were planning 
to file with the court a stipulation for dismissal of the case. Mr. 
O'Connell recommended that the Department of Justice be authorized to 
include the Board as a party to the stipulation. 
Mr. O'Connell was authorized to communicate to the Department 
of Justice the Board's acquiescence in being made a party to the stip-
ulation. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On April 6, 1967, 
Governor Shepardson approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the 
following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Appointment 
Shirley R. Sherman as Secretary, Office of the Secretary, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $6,659, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 

1336 
4/7/67 
-16-
Permission to engage in outside activity 
Glenda Ann Beatty, Statistical Clerk, Division of Bank Operations, 
to work for Strayer Junior College on a part-time basis. 
Governor Shepardson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston (copy attached as 
Item No. 6) approving the appointment of Arthur K. Fitch as examiner. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
March 29, 1967, recommending the establishment of an additional (sixth) 
summer research assistant position in that Division. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Appointments 
Sandra K. Clayton as Clerk-Typist, Division of International 
Finance, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,557, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Michael Hicks as Summer Research Assistant, Division of Interna-
tional Finance, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,451, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Roy J. Watkins as Assistant Federal Reserve Examiner, Division 
of Examinations, with basic annual salary at the rate of $7,696, 
effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Guy M. Fincher as Applications Analyst, Division of Data Processing, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $10,927, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Ronald R. Wise as Programmer, Division of Data Processing, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $7,957, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Transfer 
Mary Mildred Brooks, Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative 
Services, from a part-time position to a full-time position, with basic 
annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective April 9, 1967. 

1337 
4/7/67 
-16-
Salary increases, effective April 9, 1967 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Board Members' Offices 
Mary Lynn Hallett, Secretary to Governor 
$ 9,851 
$10,166 
Brimmer 
Legal 
Cora Lee Hatch, Legal Records Supervisor 
7,055 
7,253 
Research and Statistics 
Loree D. Bernard, Statistical Assistant 
6,263 
6,461 
Levon H. Garabedian, Chief, Division 
10,927 
11,306 
Administration Section 
Edward M. Gramlich, Economist 
11,685 
13,769 
Edward Manookian, Economist 
14,665 
15,629 
International Finance 
Carl Herbert Stem, Economist 
11,306 
11,685 
Examinations 
Robert F. Achor, Review Examiner 
14,217 
14,665 
Phyllis Mulcahy, Clearing and Recording 
5,683 
5,859 
Clerk 
John M. Poundstone, Review Examiner 
14,665 
15,113 
Data Processing 
Genevieve Duarte, Data Control Assistant 
6,563 
7,055 
James E. Miller, Programmer 
5,867 
6,451 
Andrew T. Radigan, Jr., Design Assistant 
7,303 
7,538 
Bernard A. Thomasson, Senior Computer 
6,065 
6,664 
Operator 
Maternity leave 
Frances B. Loveless, Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Adminis-
tration, beginning April 10, 1967. 

1338 
4/7/67 
-16-
Permission to engage in outside activities 
Carroll Hawkins, Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
to work as a parking attendant on a part-time basis. 
Henry Pratt, Jr., Refrigeration Mechanic-Operating Engineer, Divi-
sion of Administrative Services, to work as a mechanic on a part-time 
basis for an electrical company. 
Acceptance of resignations 
John A. Devera, Production Control Clerk, Division of Data 
Processing, effective the close of business April 7, 1967. 
Mary E. Yingling, Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative 
Services, effective the close of business March 24, 1967. 
Governor Shepardson noted on behalf of 
the Board a memorandum from the Division 
of Research and Statistics advising that 
Ann Pike Ulrey, Economist in that Divi-
sion, who had been on extended leave 
without pay and intermittent employment 
status since January 3, 1966, would 
return to the Board as a full-time 
employee in early May 1967. 
As the result of a study of facilities that had been made 
pursuant to the Board's suggestion, Governor Shepardson approved on 
behalf of the Board certain recommendations contained in a memorandum 
from the Director of the Division of Administrative Services dated 
March 30, 1967, including the recommendation that a guard station be 
established at the Constitution Avenue entrance of the Federal Reserve 
Building on a 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. schedule, principally for the pur-
pose of providing information services to visitors and also to provide 
additional security coverage. 

1339 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 6 
4/7/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D< C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
April 7, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
County Bank of Santa Cruz, 
Santa Cruz, California. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to October 15, 1967, the time within 
which County Bank of Santa Cruz, Santa Cruz, California, 
may establish a branch in the vicinity of the inter-
section of Capitola Road and 41st Avenue, Santa Cruz 
County, California. 
It is noted that this branch was originally 
approved on October 16, 1964, and the Board trusts that 
every effort will be made to establish the branch within 
the time allotted by this extension. 
It is further noted that your bank's capital 
position is somewhat less than satisfactory, and the 
Board urges that careful consideration be given to all 
means to strengthen your bank's capital structure. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D D F G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
4/7/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P G 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 7, 1967 
First Pennsylvania Overseas Finance Corporation, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of January 31, 1967, enclosing 
a consent signed under date of January 13, 1967, on behalf of The First 
Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, sole shareholder of your Corpora-
tion, consenting to the amendment of the Articles of Association of your 
Corporation to increase the capital stock to $2,750,000, consisting of 
275,000 shares of the par value of $10.00 each. The Board of Governors 
approves the amendment to Article SEVENTH of your Articles of Association 
Please advise the Board of Governors when the capital increase has been 
effected. 
It is noted that your present capital structure will be increas 
ed by the sale of 75,000 additional shares to The First Pennsylvania 
Banking and Trust Company for $1,000,000, of which $250,000 will be shown 
as capital surplus. 
As requested in your letter, the Board of Governors grants 
consent for First Pennsylvania Overseas Finance Corporation ("FPOFC") to 
purchase and hold 3,500 shares of First Pennsylvania Overseas Development 
Company, Ltd. ("FPODC"), Nassau, Bahamas, at a cost of approximately 
liS$l,500,0()0, provided such shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. It is understood that the investment will consist 
of $1,000,000 in cash and $500,000 in cash or transferred assets of your 
Corporation. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of FPODC by FPOFC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That FPOFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in FPODC if FPODC at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if FPODC establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in the Bahamas or elsewhere, in any manner, which at 
the time would not be permissible to FPOFC; 

1341 
BOARD 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL 
RESERVE 
SYSTEM 
- 2 -
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FPOFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FPODC as it may require from time 
to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FPODC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if- FPODC were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board suspends, 
until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the fourth 
paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions on loans 
granted by FPODC in the Bahamas in the currency of that country. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the 
investment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans and 
investments of your Corporation and The First Pennsylvania Banking and 
Trust Company will not cause the total of such loans and investments to 
exceed the guidelines established under the voluntary foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect and that due consideration is being given 
to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

tmktifa;. 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
Ml/61 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 7, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
First State Bank of 
Spring Valley, 
Spring Valley, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System has approved the establishment of a branch by 
First State Bank of Spring Valley, Spring Valley, New York, 
on the west side of North Main Street, opposite Calvary 
Drive New City, Town of Clarkstown, Rockland County, 
New York, provided the branch is established within six 
months from the date of this letter. 
The Board notes that your bank's capital position 
is less than satisfactory and urges that action be taken 
in the near future toward improving your bank s capital 
structure. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

1343 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
Item No. 6 
4/7/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 D 5 5 I 
O F F I C E O F T H E CH AL R M AN 
April 11, 1967. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
At your Committee's hearing on March 15, 
several questions were put, some of them to me and 
others to Board members generally, with the request 
that answers be supplied for inclusion in the record 
of the hearing. The enclosed replies are submitted 
with the concurrence of the Board. 
Sincerely yours, 
Enclosures 

1 ..'$44 
BOARD OF DDVERNOR5 
Item No. 5 
Q F T H E 
4 / 7 / 6 7 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
WASHINGTON, •. C. 20551 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
April 13, 1967 
The Honorable William B. Camp, 
Comptroller of the Currency, 
Treasury Department, 
Washington, D. C. 20220 
Dear Bill: 
Your recent publication of proposed regulations relating 
to the form and content of financial statements of national banks 
unquestionably will promote the cause of uniform and informative 
financial reporting by the nation's commercial banking system. 
The enclosed memorandum presents our principal comments for the 
consideration of your Office. The Board's staff has a number of 
additional suggestions, principally relating to matters of form, 
which will be transmitted to your staff. 
As Governor Robertson mentioned to^you at a recent 
meeting of the Coordinating Committee, information regarding the 
affairs of State banks whose stocks have relatively wide distri-
bution is now available to the public at the FDIC Building in 
Washington and at each of the twelve Federal Reserve Banks. 
Under this arrangement, a securities analyst in New York, for 
example, can readily inspect the pertinent data in the public 
reference room of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, even 
though the banks whose stock he is analyzing may be located in 
Chicago or San Francisco. If comparable data with respect to 
widely-owned national banks were made available for public in-
spection in the same manner, this would constitute a further 
step toward assuring to the investing public the full benefits 
of the disclosure provisions of the Securities Exchange Act. 
We hope you will give careful consideration to amending your 
regulations in a manner that will accomplish this end. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Bill 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure 

±'M5 
Summary Comments Relating to Proposed Part 18 -
Form and Content of Financial Statements 
On January 9, 1967, the Board's staff had the opportunity to 
discuss the proposed regulation in an inter-agency conference. The 
following paragraphs summarize views expressed by representatives ot 
the Board at that conference. It is thought that elaborations may be 
more effectively communicated in forthcoming inter-agency statt 
conferences. 
Significant advances toward uniformity of bank financial 
reporting and accounting are noted in such areas as ac"ual-basis 
accounting, consolidation requirements, acceptance of bai& discount 
accretion, informative supplemental statements of changes in reserve 
accounts, and a comprehensive statement of earnings 
The benefits 
of such convergence may be enlarged by timely consideration of (1) 
lowering appropriately the size criterion for mandatory use of the 
accrual method'of accounting, (2) consolidating the financial statements 
of Edge and Agreement Corporations with those of the parent bank, in 
view of the increasing contributions made by such units to the operations 
of major domestic banks, and (3) clearer separation of valuation and 
capital reserves, with consistent financial statement treatment to 
reflect such distinction. 
Banks1 divergent methods of accounting for valuation and 
capital reserves have obscured their condition and earnings reports 
in the past, and the need for fair disclosure in this#significant 
area is clear. Without uniform accounting and reporting for the 
different types of reserves, reasonable comparability of bank 
financial statements will not be achieved. 
Of equal importance to the development of improved bank 
accounting, it is suggested additional provisions be considered to 
comprehend'such matters as (1) the basis for carrying bank premises 
and equipment accounts, including instructions as to f c e P t a b l ® d®7 
preciation and amortization of such assets, (2) a restructure of the 
reconcilement of capital accounts statement to set forth intra-capital 
changes such as additions resulting from merger, stock-dividend 
capitalization, and other transfers between capital accounts, Q3) 
minimum topical guidelines for supplemental information to be furnished 
as to notes to financial statements, and (4) separate captioning of 
borrowed capital and equity capital in the balance sheet. 
It is believed that the provision setting forth an objective 
measure of materiality - 3 per cent of total "sources and 5 per cent 
of total operating income - and the permitted combinations of state 
ment captions as stated in notes to the illustrative forms could 

-2-
i . ' M G 
diminish effective disclosure under the proposed regulation. Assum-
ing a conservative relationship of 10 per cent between equity capital 
and total resources and 15 per cent between net operating earnings 
and total operating income, a balance sheet component comprising 
30 per cent of equity capital and an income or expense item amounting 
to 33-1/3 per cent of net operating earnings would not be required 
to be separately stated on financial statements. Such non-disclosure 
would impair meaningful financial communication and is contrary to 
the effective disclosure principle that motivated the proposed 
regulation. 
The proposed regulation would govern all national banks, whereas 
Federal regulations on financial reporting by State banks apply only to 
banks that meet the statutory criteria of the Securities Exchange Act -
total assets of at least $1 million and a class of equity security held 
by at least 500 persons. It is recognized that certain accounting 
practices that are required or recommended by the proposed regulation 
are desirable in the case of small banks as well as large. However, 
some of these practices - for example, accounting entirely on the 
accrual basis - may appropriately be made mandatory with respect to 
those banks (numbering less than a thousand) that have significant pub-
lic investor interest. Regardless of the extent to which the Comptroller 
decides to make the new regulation applicable to small banks, it would 
be most beneficial to the investing public if such sound accounting 
practices were made mandatory in the case of national banks with at 
least 500 stockholders, with provision for exemption in the exceptional 
case of a small bank (under $10 million, perhaps) that, for some unusual 
reason, has that many stockholders. 
It is noted that the proposed regulation would require national 
banks to file for public inspection only their annual reports to stock-
holders, in contrast to the Board's Regulation F and the FDICfs 
Part 335, which require public filing of a comprehensive registration 
statement and periodic and special reports in addition to the annual 
report to stockholders. 

1347 
B D A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 6 
4/7/67 
ADDRESS DFriCIAU CORRESPONDENCE 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
fw RF ^ V 
April 7, 1967 
Mr. Luther M. Hoyle, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Hoyle: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of April 3, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of Arthur K. Fitch, at present an assistant 
examiner, as an examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston. Please advise the salary rate and the effective 
date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
