Minutes for 
June 11, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, June 11, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Hart and Messrs. Plotkin and Porter of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver and Wiles of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Maguire and Poundstone of the Division 
of Examinations 
Application of Fidelity International (Item No. 1). Unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to The Fidelity International Corpora-
tion, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, granting consent to purchase addi-
tional shares of House of Investments, Inc., Makati, Philippines. A 
copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Application of Philadelphia International (Item No. 2). There 
had been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Examinations 

2188 
6/11/68 
-2-
dated May 28, 1968, regarding the application of Philadelphia Interna-
tional Investment Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a subsidiary 
of Philadelphia National Bank, to purchase shares of Banco Caley-Dagnall 
S. A., Managua, Nicaragua. 
Mr. Sammons brought out that Governor Robertson had earlier 
requested that consideration of this application be deferred pending 
determination of the treatment to be accorded a type of instrument 
called deferred letters of credit that banks had developed subsequent 
to the adoption of the foreign credit restraint program. Philadelphia 
National Bank was one of those that had heavy commitments in these 
instruments. Banks had not been reporting deferred letters of credit 
against their foreign credit ceilings on the ground that the assets 
created were contingent rather than real. However, conferences between 
System personnel and a number of bankers had developed agreement that 
the instruments were essentially the same as bankers' acceptances as 
far as contingencies were concerned, and therefore they would be 
included henceforth in determining a bank's position under its ceiling. 
However, the New York Reserve Bank had recommended that this rule not 
be applied retroactively, and the staff was now considering making a 
similar recommendation to the Board unless it turned out that the 
amount of money involved would unduly weaken the foreign credit 
restraint effort. If that position were adopted, Philadelphia National 
Bank would not be over its ceiling. Moreover, it had been the Board's 

2189 
6/11/68 
-3-
practice from the beginning of the program to allow Edge corporations 
and their parent banks to have separate ceilings. The investment pro-
posed in the application was a small one, and in his view approval 
would be warranted. 
After discussion, the application was approved unanimously. A 
copy of the letter informing the applicant of this action is attached 
as Item No. 2. 
Report on competitive factors. There had been distributed a 
draft of report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Farmers Bank, 
Pilot Mountain, North Carolina, into The Northwestern Bank, North 
Wilkesboro, North Carolina. 
Governor Brimmer observed that, although the conclusion of the 
report cited the overall competitive effect as adverse, the Banking 
Markets Section and the Research Department of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond had concluded that the effect would be substantially 
adverse. 
Mr. Egertson replied that "adverse" had been chosen because 
there were two other banks with headquarters nearby. While North-
western Bank had a large percentage of area deposits, the total of 
such deposits was substantial. 
Mr. Wiles agreed that the choice was close. The participating 
banks operated in the same general market. While it was uncertain 

2130 
6/11/68 
-4-
just what market area was most significant, in the smallest area that 
would be relevant the proposed merger would increase Northwestern Bank's 
deposit percentage from about 28 to about 43. If a larger area was 
measured, the percentage would be still higher. 
Governor Robertson then suggested that some of the flavor of 
the memorandum from the Banking Markets Section be incorporated into 
the text of the report. If that were done, he felt that the overall 
effect could properly be described as substantially adverse. 
After further discussion the report was approved unanimously 
for transmission to the Corporation in a form in which the conclusion 
read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Northwestern 
Bank, North Wilkesboro, North Carolina, and Farmers Bank, 
Pilot Mountain, North Carolina, would eliminate existing and 
potential competition and further increase The Northwestern 
Bank's control of deposits in the Pilot Mountain area. The 
overall competitive effect would be substantially adverse. 
Investment in bank premises (Item No. 3). In October 1967 the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, acting under delegated authority, 
approved an investment for construction of a new bank building by 
Farmers State Bank, Lakefield, Minnesota, a subsidiary of First Bank 
System (formerly First Bank Stock Corporation), a registered bank hold-
ing company. The investment was not to exceed $133,000, but it subse-
quently developed that an expenditure of approximately $155,000 would 
be necessary. Since the bank's capital position had been criticized 
in recent reports of examination and had shown signs of further 

. 2 1 3 1 
6/11/68 
-5-
deterioration, the Reserve Bank referred the request for the larger 
investment to the Board. 
In a memorandum dated June 3, 1968, the Division of Examina-
tions suggested that consideration be given to the member bank's 
excellent asset condition and satisfactory management, and to the fact 
that it was a subsidiary of First Bank System. Consideration must also 
be given to the fact that the bank had sold its present quarters, pur-
chased land on which to construct the new building, and presently held 
approval from the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis to invest $133,000 
in. bank premises. The member bank's quarters were out-of-date and were 
so located that drive-in facilities could not be provided. In view of 
these factors, it was recommended that the application be approved. 
Mr. Leavitt, in a memorandum dated June 7, 1968, described 
conferences during which an official of First Bank System indicated 
that the Lakefield area had been reviewed closely, with the conclusion 
that most of the growth of both the area and of Farmers State Bank was 
past. Therefore the holding company believed the most appropriate 
method of improving the capital of the bank would be retention of at 
least 75 per cent of after-tax earnings, which it was estimated would 
amount to about $75,000 over the next two years. If sufficient improve-
ment had not then been accomplished, capital would be provided. Mr. 
Leavitt suggested incorporating in the letter to the bank an under-
standing of the holding company's position. 

213 
6/11/68 
-6-
Governor Robertson said he did not believe any bank holding 
company should be permitted to have one of its banks become seriously 
undercapitalized. Since First Bank System was able to provide adequate 
capital for its banks, it should do so; that was one of the bases for 
authorizing any bank holding company to engage in business and to 
expand. In addition to the language suggested by Mr. Leavitt, Governor 
Robertson thought a letter should be written to the holding company 
saying the Board considered it inappropriate for that organization to 
allow one of its banks to operate with inadequate capital. 
Governor Mitchell expressed agreement that the bank holding 
company should be informed of the Board's view, though perhaps by a 
telephone call from the Reserve Bank. 
Governor Brimmer expressed reluctance to consent to a plan 
under which two years or more might pass before the bank's capital was 
brought into line. If this were an independent bank, such a plan might 
be acceptable. But it seemed to him that more should be expected of a 
bank holding company with respect to one of its subsidiaries. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that the problem was essentially 
one of public relations for the Reserve Bank to handle. He doubted 
that President Galusha would welcome having this holding company and 
member bank stirred up. While the Board might communicate its desire 
for emphasizing to the holding company the need for capital improve-
ment in the subsidiary, he thought the negotiation should be left to 
the Reserve Bank. 

Zli 
6/11/68 
-7-
Governor Brimmer then suggested that the Minneapolis Bank be 
requested to negotiate a firmer commitment on the part of the bank 
holding company. 
Governor Robertson agreed that it might be preferable to 
inform the Reserve Bank of the Board's views, inquire whether the pro-
posed handling of the matter would be satisfactory to the Reserve Bank, 
and ask whether the Reserve Bank would be willing to try to obtain a 
firmer commitment from the holding company. If that procedure was 
agreeable to the Reserve Bank, the draft letter, with the changes 
that had been suggested, could be transmitted. 
The draft letter, as revised, was thereupon approved unani-
mously, subject to the outcome of consultation with the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis along the lines Governor Robertson had suggested. 
Secretary's Note: The suggested procedure 
having been found to be agreeable to the 
Reserve Bank, the letter to Farmers State 
Bank was subsequently transmitted in the 
form attached as Item No. 3. 
Request for exemption from registration (Item No. 4). There 
had be en distributed a memorandum dated June 7, 1968, from the Securi-
ties Credit Regulation Unit regarding a request by J. M. Lummis & 
Company, Inc., New York, New York, for an exemption from the registra-
tion requirement of Regulation G (Credit by Persons other than Banks, 
Brokers, or Dealers for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered 
Equity Securities). The ground for the request was that the firm did 

2194 
6/11/68 
-8-
not extend credit on registered equity securities but merely arranged 
for such credit to be extended, and that the registration form did not 
explicitly require information as to "arranging." The staff agreed 
with the view of the New York Reserve Bank that information on arrang-
ing for credit to be extended should be supplied on Schedule B of 
Form G-l, and that the firm's request should be denied. A draft letter 
was attached. 
Discussion resulted in agreement that some provision should be 
made to insure accurate registration by brokers who merely arranged 
credit. A separate form for that purpose was suggested by one member 
°f the Board, while other members appeared to prefer a revision of the 
Present form that would recognize the difference in function. It was 
understood that the staff would develop recommendations on this point. 
In the interim, there was agreement with a suggestion that Lummis 6c 
Company be required to register on the present form, with appropriate 
notations to conform to the nature of the company's business. 
The letter, revised to convey the instructions suggested, was 
thereupon approved unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
Agency issues. Governor Robertson noted that the Senate Bank-
ing and Currency Committee was considering the bill that would extend 
the provisions of Public Law 89-597, including those authorizing the 
Federal Reserve System to buy and sell Federal agency issues. Senator 
Proxmire wanted to add a provision that would authorize the Federal 

2195 
6/11/68 
-9-
Reserve not only to buy agency issues in the open market but also 
direct from the agencies, with a statement that it was the sense of 
Congress that the authority should be used when alternative means could 
not effectively be employed to permit financial institutions to continue 
to supply reasonable amounts of funds to the mortgage market during 
periods of monetary stringency and rapidly rising interest costs. Gov-
ernor Robertson had sent to Chairman Sparkman and Senator Proxmire let-
ters supplementing his recent testimony on the bill, and Senator 
Proxmire had distributed to the members of the Committee a memorandum 
of rebuttal. Also, the Board's staff had prepared a memorandum, which 
had been sent to the Minority Staff Director of the Committee, setting 
forth arguments in opposition to the proposed amendment, and Treasury 
staff had indicated informally that the Treasury expected to oppose it. 
Governor Robertson expected to be called before the House Banking and 
Currency Committee for testimony next week. He was furnishing the 
other members of the Board copies of the staff memorandum he had men-
tioned, as well as the memorandum Senator Proxmire had distributed to 
the Committee members. The next step would be to consider how best to 
express in the testimony the reasons for opposing the Proxmire amend-
ment. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Attached as Item No. 5 
is a copy of a letter sent today to the 
Secretary of the Retirement System of the 
Federal Reserve Banks with regard to the 
cost of supplemental retirement benefits 
for annuitants under the Board Plan. 

2136 
6/11/68 
-10-
As recommended in a memorandum from 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
dated June 7, 1968, Governor Sherrill 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the transfer of an economist position 
from the National Income, Labor Force, 
and Trade Section to the Special Studies 
Section. 
On June 11, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
_By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Item No, 
Letter to Bank of Jamestown, Jamestown, 
6 
New York, approving the establishment of 
a branch in the Village of Lakewood. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Letter to The Fifth Third Union Trust Com- 
7 
Pany, Cincinnati, Ohio, granting an exten-
sion of time within which to establish a 
branch at Fourth and Walnut Streets coin-
cident with the relocation of the bank's 
m ain office. 
I&the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, 
8 
California, approving the relocation of the 
bank's Sonoma Mortgage Company office in 
Novato from 951 Front Street to 1400 Grant 
Avenue. 

B O A R D CJF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
O F T H E 
6/11/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I D I A L D D R R E B P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 11, 1968 
The Fidelity International Corporation, 
123 South Broad Street, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19109 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of May 20, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation to purchase and hold additional shares of House 6f 
Investments, Inc., Makati, Philippines, at a cost of approximately 
$19,230, provided the shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation and The Fidelity Bank and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours 
( 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2198 
fURtsfr-
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
6/11/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 11, 1968 
Philadelphia International Investment Corporation, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of April 30, 1968, the Board 
°f Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and 
hold approximately 700 shares of Banco Caley-Dagnall S. A., Managua, 
Nicaragua, at a cost of approximately $140,000, provided such shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, and that due consideration is being given to the 
Priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

< > 
A 
«-> 
^ u r e s ^ : - * 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N • 
R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
6/11/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P D N D E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 1, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Farmers State Bank, 
Lakefield, Minnesota. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves, 
Pursuant to section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act, an investment in 
bank premises of $155,493 by Farmers State Bank, Lakefield, Minnesota. 
amount includes $26,000 already expended for land, $14,000 for 
unforeseeable expenses, and $115,493 for the construction of a new 
bank building. 
Prior to approving this application, careful consideration 
as given to your bank's less than satisfactory capital position, which 
p 
i s understood has been discussed by Vice President Gable of the 
ederal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and President Rue. It is noted 
at First Bank System, your bank's parent holding company, recognizes 
t
 e n e e ^ for additional capital funds. In a letter dated May 16, 1968, 
o President Rue, Vice President Turnquist of the holding company 
^ ated that a thorough study of your bank's "capital adequacy problem" 
ad been made and suggested a reduction in the amount of cash dividends 
C o be paid by your bank. 
The Board's approval of this application was based on the need 
° r new quarters and the bank's satisfactory asset condition and manage-
ment. x n approving the Board took into account your program to 
strengthen capital through retention of at least 75 per cent of after 
w-n e a r n* n8 s and an understanding that capital funds from another source 
| be provided if retention of earnings does not adequately strengthen 
CaPital structure. The Board also understands that the relationship of 
P^tal to risk and deposits will be reviewed periodically. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2 2 3 0 
B D A R D O F G O V E R N • R S 
i t e m No. 4 
o r T H E 
6 / 1 1 / 6 8 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 12, 1968. 
J. M. Lummis, 
J* M. Lummis & Company, Inc., 
Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
°ear Mr. Lummis: 
This is in response to your letter of March 14, 1968, to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, which has been referred to 
the Board for reply. In that letter you request an exemption from 
the registration requirement of section 207.1(a) of the Board's 
Regulation G, "Credit by Persons Other Than Banks, Brokers, or 
Dealers for Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity 
Securities." 
As you know, section 207.1(a) of Regulation G requires 
re8istration on Federal Reserve Form G-l with the appropriate 
Federal Reserve Bank by every person who, in the ordinary course 
o f his business, during any calendar quarter ended after October 20, 
1967, extends or arranges for the extension of credit in the amount 
o f $50,000 or more secured by registered equity securities, or has 
such credit outstanding at any time during the calendar quarter in 
the amount of $100,000 or more. 
You state that you are in the business of arranging 
ioans with commercial banks, secured by "marketable" securities. 
Presumably, such loans included at least $50,000 in credits 
secured by registered equity securities in the last calendar 
Quarter of 1967. It would appear, therefore, that you should 
have registered pursuant to section 207.1(a). 
The reasons you advance for not registering, as well as 
f°r requesting an exemption from the registration requirement, are 
th*t Schedules A and B of Form G-l do not specifically provide for 
rePorting credit that has been "arranged" and, in the absence of such 
entry, the other requirements of the form respecting background 
^formation and balance sheet data appear to you valueless. The 
Board is considering a revision of the form which would clarify this 
P°int. Meanwhile, however, you should complete Form G-l in accordance 
with the following instructions. 

• Mr, J. M. Lummis 
- 2 -
Schedule A provides for reporting of securities credit 
"outstanding" at the end of the latest fiscal quarter. A person 
who merely arranged for credit at some time during the quarter 
would not be required to report the credit on Schedule A. 
Schedule B provides for reporting of credit "extended" 
during the previous calendar quarter, and credit arranged for 
during such quarter should be reported on that schedule with an 
appropriate footnote explanation. 
Accordingly, your request for an exemption from the 
registration requirement is denied. It is expected that you will 
file, with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as soon as practic 
able, Form 6-1, completed in accordance with the foregoing instruc 
tions. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
6/11/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 11, 1968. 
Mr. Martin W. Bergin, 
Secretary, Retirement System 
of the Federal Reserve Banks, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Bergin: 
With reference to the Board's letter of May 31, .1963, 
interposing no objection to incorporating into the Board Plan the 
increased retirement benefits provided by Public Law 87-793, it is 
requested that the Retirement System bill the Board for the'cost 
of continuing these benefits to June 30, 1969, for those annuitants 
on the rolls as of June 30, 1968. It is understood that this cost 
will be approximately $27,295 for the period involved. 
It is also requested that the Retirement System continue 
° bill the Board for the individual cost of providing these supple-
mentary benefits to the survivors of eligible annuitants who die 
between July 1, 1968, and June 30, 1969. It is understood that any 
unexpended funds resulting from the death of an eligible annuitant 
before June 30, 1969, will be credited toward next year's billing. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

u 
O ^ ) ^ ' } 
'40A.2-4/67 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F 
N E W 
Y O R K 
N E W YORK. N E W YORK 
10045 
Item No. 6 
6/11/68 
June 11, 1968 
C. Theodore Anderson 
President and Cashier 
*nk of Jamestown 
J*mestown, Bew York 
®aar Mr, Anderson: 
. , 
W e rafor to your bank's application datad April 11, 
requesting pansission to establish a branch office in the 
~nned Zayres Shopping Flasa, Bouts 17J, Village of Lakewood, 
York. After reviewing the application in the light of the 
tors enumerated in Section 265.2(f)(1) of the Rules Regarding 
•«ation of Authority issued by the Board of Governors of the 
d* r*l Beserve System, we have concluded that your application 
^nouid be approved. Accordingly, on behalf of the Board of 
governors, the Federal Beserve Bank of Bew York, aetlng under 
T£*C*ted authority, approves the establishment by your bank of 
1 l w h °ffl<** at the above-mentioned location, provided it is 
"abllshed within one year of the date of this letter. 
s 
We shall appreciate your advising us whsn the branch 
\ 
actually established and opened for business, giving the 
\ 
Isl , c t l v e d*te o f opening, the name, if any, by which it wi: 
bl w 
• 
o f 
the name, if any, by which it will 
*^known, and the official postal address. Including ths sip 
r. 
Kindly acknowledge receipt by signing and returning 
• number. 
the —
v
v
y
/ 
W i 
b U A S 
U V i 
I 
* taamlnatlons Department. 
Sincerely yours. 
jT® •aalosed copy of this letter to Mr. Ben Stackhouse, Nanagsr, 
taamlnatlons Department. 
Thomas M. Tlmlen, Jr. 
Ylce President 
fcteiosure 
^ / a m w 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E BANK O F C L E V E L A N D 
Item No. 7 
6/11/68 
June II, 1968 
Mr. WilliamS. Rowe, President 
The Fifth Third Union Trust Company 
Cincinnati, Ohio 
Dear M r . Rowe: 
O n behalf of the Board of Governors oi the Federal Peierve 
System, acting under delegated authority, the Federal Reserve Bank 
Cleveland has approved your request for an extension of time within 
^hich your bank m a y establish a branch at the northwest corner of the 
Intersection of Fourth and Walnut Streets, Cincinnati, Ohio, coincident 
w*th the relocation of the bank's main office from that location to a site 
°ne block to the north. This extension expires on January 14, 1970. 
' i v.1' 
•• 
••••••• 
O n the day operations are started, will ycu please wire u* 
the branch has been formally opened for business. 
\ 
Very truly yours. 
A 
-
/ 
H. W . Huning 
Vice President 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N FKAWOXSOO, C A U T O I X I A 
941S0 
J i m 11» im 
Item No 
6/11/68 
Mr. Robert H. StMlt, 
Assistant Vice President, 
Wells Vsrgo Bonk, 
464 California Street, 
Sen Francisco, California 94120. 
Deer Mr. Steele: 
Ob behalf of the Boe^ 
Federal Reserve Systea, acting 
of Governor) 
ler delegal 
of the 
authority, 
this Bank has approved the relocation of jrmir bank's 
lonaea Mortgage C 
Novato, Californ 
Novato, provid 
the bank's exi 
with the open 
spproveJL is gi 
ations to be c 
Limited to the 
reel estate nortgage 
Division 
quarter 
1 front Street, 
at 1400 Grent Avenue, 
being conducted at 
discontinued simultaneously 
at the new location. This 
ire tending that the oper-
mt locstion will still be 
protecting, and servicing of 
It 4111 be eppreeieted if you will advise the 
Boerd of Governors it writing, through this bank, when 
offlc^ls actually established end opened for busi-
ness^Trtthe new locstion. 
fery truly yours, 
feigned) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
