FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
March 17. 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
•f ? 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
y\ 
" 
Governor Daane 
!<\ • 
Governor Maisel 
!<\ • 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

6 6 1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, March 17, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Fry, Senior Economist, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Discount rates and reserve requirements. On March 8, 1971, 
the Board discussed action by several Reserve Banks to establish a 
y 
Withdrew from meeting and returned at points indicated in minutes. 

CG2 
3/17/71 
-2-
discount rate of 4-1/2 per cent, subject to review and determination 
by the Board, and possible concurrent reductions in reserve require-
ments. Action had been deferred pending further staff analysis and 
the availability of additional members of the Board. Memoranda dated 
March 11 and 15, 1971, from the Division of Research and Statistics had 
subsequently been distributed. 
The principal reasons given by the six Reserve Banks that had 
now acted to reduce the current 4-3/4 per cent rate were technical 
adjustment to present market rates and the desirability of not appear-
ing to abandon the practice begun a few months ago of making small changes 
relatively frequently to keep the discount rate in reasonable relation 
to market rates. Expressions received from three Reserve Banks that 
preferred not to lower their rates cited international considerations 
and the danger that a further cut might lend credence to the view that 
the degree of monetary ease was excessive. 
A majority of the Board expressed the view that a further cut 
in the discount rate should not be approved at the present time, the 
principal reasons cited being the delicate balance of relationships 
between domestic and foreign short-term rates and the need to maintain 
an even keel for the $5 billion bill issue being offered within a few 
days by the Treasury. There was discussion of the strategy and ratio-
nale understood to underlie the forthcoming bill issue, and of efforts 
to arrive at a Government-wide program to deal more effectively with 

G63 
3/17/71 
-3-
the balance of payments problem. Question was raised, assuming postpone-
ment of action today, as to the earliest future time at which circumstances 
might be favorable for a rate reduction, and there ensued comments on 
the timing of the Treasury issue and on money flows that appeared to be 
developing. 
Some members questioned a mere tabling; it was suggested that a 
point came when deferral amounted to adverse action, that action could 
be taken to disapprove the rate reductions without prejudice to recon-
sideration if they were proposed again, and that in any event it would 
be desirable at least to inform the Reserve Banks concerned of the 
status of their proposals and the reasons for the Board's delay. The 
staff was requested to provide a memorandum on the relative significance 
of tabling, deferral, or disapproval of discount rate proposals. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
question of discount rate reduction would be considered further in 
approximately a week. 
Discussion of possible reserve requirement changes indicated a 
consensus against action at the present time, although there was con-
siderable support for considering such action, whenever the time became 
appropriate, as a move toward a graduated system of reserve requirements 
to the extent that that could be done within present statutory authority. 
Some sentiment was also expressed in favor of reconsidering reserve 
requirement action to inhibit the outflow of Euro-dollars. A question 

664 
3/17/71 
-4-
whether comments should be requested at the present time from the 
Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks brought negative responses. 
Communications procedures. In a memorandum dated March 12, 
1971, Mr. Holland recommended that the Board approve in principle a 
report of the Conference of Presidents Committee on Discounts and 
Credits, endorsed by the Conference on March 8, regarding procedures 
for improving communications with the Presidents and directors of 
Federal Reserve Banks in connection with a more flexible discount rate. 
Summaries of the proposals of the Committee were set out in the memo-
randum, with staff comments. A draft letter to the Reserve Bank Presi-
dents with regard to information that might appropriately be furnished 
to directors was attached. 
There was a general view that the proposals would permit too 
great a degree of latitude in making available to directors informa-
tion regarding current monetary policy. The view was expressed that, 
while the directors should be given as much information as could appro-
priately be supplied, potential conflicts of interest should be borne 
in mind. In this connection, comments were made on the presentations 
to the directors by Reserve Bank research staffs and the use made of 
material developed by the Board's staff in preparation for meetings of 
the Federal Open Market Committee. Further discussion of the research 
function of the Reserve Banks in relation to the Boards of Directors 

G65 
3/17/71 
-5-
resulted in agreement with a suggestion that Mr. Partee obtain from 
the Directors of Research additional information bearing on that point. 
The objectives of the proposals for improving communications 
were then approved in principle, except for the proposal that the dis-
count rate be discussed at meetings of the Presidents' Conference, 
with the understanding that the proposed letter would be redrafted for 
the Board's consideration. 
The following persons then entered the room, accompanied by 
appropriate supporting staff: 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. McClintock, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Consent calendar. Unanimous approval was given to the trans-
\ i. ?; 
. 
mittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a report on 

664 
3/17/71 
-6-
the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The South 
East National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, into Civic Center 
Bank and Trust Co., also of Chicago. The conclusion read as follows: 
While consummation of the proposed merger of The South 
East National Bank of Chicago and Civic Center Bank and Trust 
Co., Chicago, would be unfortunate in that it would eliminate 
a convenient source of banking services from the neighborhood 
served by The South East National Bank of Chicago, little com-
petition would be eliminated. The overall competitive effect 
would be slightly adverse. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Banc 
Group of Ohio, Inc., Columbus, Ohio, to acquire the successor by 
merger to The Citizens National Bank of Wooster, Wooster, Ohio, and 
authorized the issuance of an order reflecting this decision in the 
form attached as Item No. I. 
Legislative proposals. On February 2, 1971, the Board discussed 
legislative proposals that it might wish to include in its Annual Report 
for 1970. In reflection of the views then expressed, the Legal Division 
prepared letters and draft bills, which were submitted with a memoran-
dum dated February 10. 
Discussion of the proposal regarding lending authority of the 
Federal Reserve Banks, which had been submitted in several previous 
years, included a suggestion that it might be omitted this year. How-
ever, the predominant view favored reiterating the recommendation. 
Attention was given to the provisions of the proposal relating to emer-
gency lending. It was observed that earlier versions had contemplated 
emergency credit only for financial institutions, but in view of recent 

664 
3/17/71 
-7-
events such as the Penn Central crisis in 1970 further thought should 
be given to the scope of the proposal. Support developed for speci-
fying that such credit should be available only to financial institu-
tions, for relatively short terms, and for liquidity rather than 
capital purposes. The staff was requested to redraft the proposal 
accordingly. 
Chairman Burns then withdrew from the meeting. 
Discussion of the proposal relating to interlocking directorates 
included comments on applicability of the restrictions to institutions 
that compete nationally and placement of responsibility to determine 
whether or not particular institutions compete. There was agreement 
with a suggestion that, rather than include a recommendation regarding 
interlocking directorates in the Annual Report, a Board position be 
formulated for purposes of a report on H.R. 5700, a bill introduced by 
Congressman Patman that included a number of provisions regarding inter-
locking relationships. 
Unanimous approval was given to the staff proposals relating to 
par clearance, purchase by Reserve Banks of obligations of foreign 
governments, loans to bank examiners, and repeal of the limitation on 
the amount that may be spent to construct Federal Reserve Bank branch 
bui ldings. 
Pursuant to the understanding at the meeting on March 11, 1971, 
the Legal Division, in a memorandum dated March 12, suggested revisions 

664 
3/17/71 
-8-
in a draft bill relating to member bank investment in stock of com-
munity development corporations. 
Although full discussion was deferred until a time when Chair-
man Burns could be present, Governor Maisel expressed the view that it 
was not appropriate to confine the investments to development corpora-
tions engaged in assisting persons of low income in the locality of the 
bank's offices to acquire adequate housing and to acquire, develop, or 
operate business enterprises. In his view, a bank should be able to 
assist its community in a much broader sense. 
Governor Brimmer reviewed the evolution of proposals for partic-
ipation in community development enterprises and expressed the opinion 
the proposed limitations were proper. 
(Note: The legislative proposals were discussed further after 
Chairman Burns returned to the meeting.) 
Directors Day. Pursuant to the Board's decision on February 11, 
1971, to reinstate the Directors Day Program that had been held for a 
number of years until 1970, Mr. Morgan outlined tentative arrangements 
for such a program to be held on May 12-13, 1971. 
Discussion indicated that other commitments would make it impos-
sible for several of the members of the Board to participate on those 
d
ates, and Mr. Morgan was requested to explore other dates. 
"Consent item" procedure. In a memorandum dated March 10, 1971, 
Governor Sherrill referred to the authorization by the Board in Janu-
ary 1971 0 f a procedure for handling certain types of items on the 

G69 
3/17/71 
-9-
agenda as "consent items'.' He now recommended that the procedure be 
broadened to incorporate any item certified by the appropriate Divi-
sion head or comparable senior staff member (or by persons acting on 
their behalf in their absence) as suitable for inclusion on the "consent" 
calendar. Generally speaking, the items so designated would be those 
judged by the staff officer to be noncontroversial and devoid of any 
significant policy implications. As at present, a Board member could 
request that any item assigned to the consent calendar be rescheduled 
for full discussion. 
The recommendation was approved unanimously. 
Audit of Board's books. The Office of the Controller had dis-
tributed with a memorandum dated March 8, 1971, documents entitled 
(1) Financial Statements for the Year Ended December 31, 1970, and 
Report Thereon, and (2) Report on Scope of Examination of Financial 
Statements for the Year Ended December 31, 1970, both submitted by 
Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery following that firm's audit of the 
Board's accounts for the year 1970. 
The reports were accepted, and it was understood that copies 
would be transmitted to the Chairmen of the Senate and House Banking 
Committees. A copy of the letter subsequently sent to the Chairman 
of the Senate Committee is attached as Item No. 2. 
A number of staff members withdrew at this point and returned to 
the room later. 

G7G 
3/17/71 
-10-
Tri-City Bank. 
In a memorandum dated March 10, 1971, Governor 
Robertson recommended, for reasons set forth in an attached staff 
memorandum, that the Board authorize the issuance of subpoenas in con-
nection with the current examination of Tri-City Bank, Warren, Michigan. 
Copies of Governor Robertson's memorandum and its attachment have been 
placed in the Board's files. 
The procedure was authorized and implementation was referred 
to Governor Robertson with power to act. 
Bank Examination School. 
Governor Robertson stated that con-
sideration was being given to a proposal to combine the school conducted 
by the Board for Federal Reserve bank examiners and assistant examiners 
with the similar school conducted by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 
The Corporation could more easily provide suitable quarters. 
Views had been requested from the Reserve Bank Presidents; seven favored 
consolidation, although several attached conditions that the Board should 
have an equal voice on major questions such as curriculum and selection 
of instructors. 
Governor Robertson believed that negotiations could 
result in agreement on mutually acceptable conditions. 
Discussion developed agreement on combining the schools if 
appropriate conditions could be agreed upon, and it was understood that 
negotiations would proceed. 
Messrs. Kelleher and Anderson, Director and Assistant Director, 
respectively, of the Division of Administrative Services, then entered 
fc
he room. 

G7I 
3/17/71 
-11-
Contract for annex building. Governor Sherrill recommended 
that the contract for constructing the Board's annex building be 
awarded to Chas. H. Tompkins Co., Washington, D. C., which had sub-
mitted the low bid of $33,283,000. 
The recommendation was approved unanimously. A copy of the 
press release announcing the award is attached as Item No. 3. 
Chairman Burns then returned to the meeting. 
First Alabama Bancshares. In a memorandum dated March 12, 1971, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of First Alabama Bancshares, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, to 
become a bank holding company by acquiring shares of First National 
Bank of Montgomery, Exchange Security Bank, Birmingham, and First Nation-
al Bank of Huntsville, all in Alabama. The Banking Markets Section 
and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta also recommended approval. The 
State Superintendent of Banks having recommended disapproval in order 
to insure a formal hearing, such a hearing was held with a resulting 
negative recommendation by the hearing examiner, with which the Legal 
Division concurred. The Justice Department concluded that the competi-
tive effect might be significantly adverse. 
After discussion the application was approved, Governors 
Robertson and Maisel dissenting. It was understood that an order and 
statement reflecting this decision would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration, and that a dissenting statement also would be prepared. 

4 & 
3/17/71 
-12-
Governor Brimmer indicated his intention to prepare a concurring state-
ment that would include comments on the par clearance question. 
Legislative proposal. A memorandum from the Legal Division 
dated March 4, 1971, presented a revision of an earlier legislative 
proposal regarding reserve requirements to reflect the general position 
agreed upon by the Board on March 2 that any institution that accepted 
demand deposits should be subject to reserve requirements. 
Governor Mitchell had suggested substitute language that would 
point out that if present trends continued, reserve requirement changes 
as a tool of monetary policy would sooner or later become practically 
ineffective, and would suggest that Congress establish graduated reserves 
through which the burden on smaller institutions could be minimized. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view, in which Governor Daane 
concurred, that if the Board did not call attention to the growing 
limitations on the use of reserve requirements as a monetary tool, the 
question would be raised whether the Board was ready to abandon such 
a tool. In his opinion the power should not be allowed to atrophy. 
Governor Mitchell also suggested that the recommendation for 
imposing reserve requirements on nonbank depositary institutions be 
limited to demand deposits, while Governor Maisel advocated that the 
recommendation encompass only insured institutions. 
Mr. Cardon expressed the view that the legislative recommenda-
tion the Board was considering would fail of enactment, and that the 
e
nd result might be legislation unsatisfactory to the Board. 

673 
3/17/71 
-13-
Governor Sherrill commented that while his views paralleled 
Governor Mitchell's as far as ultimate goal was concerned, he would 
not be in favor of making a recommendation that was likely to be 
defeated. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
further consideration would be given to the question at an early date. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Item No. 
3/17/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
FIRST BANC GROUP OF OHIO, INC.,
 
1 
Columbus, Ohio, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 100
 
1 
per cent of the voting shares (less
 
1 
directors' qualifying shares) of the
 
1 
successor by merger to The Citizens 
' 
National Bank of Wooster, Wooster.
 
1 
Ohio. 
« 
• ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK 
STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l 8
42( a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., 
c
°lumbus, Ohio ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for 
t l l e
 Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent of the 
V o t
i n g shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of a new national 
b
ank into which would be merged The Citizens National Bank of Wooster, 
Foster, Ohio ("Bank"). The new national bank has significance only 
a s a
 means of acquiring all of the shares of the bank to be merged 

675 
-2-
.into it; the proposal is therefore treated as one to acquire shares of 
The Citizens National Bank of Wooster. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller 
offered no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on January 30, 1971 (36 Federal Register 1495) pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for 
its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all tho se received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
t h
e factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
Resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
S u c
h consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the eighth largest banking organization in Ohio, 
^ntrols seven banks with deposits of approximately $584 million, 
^Presenting less than 3 per cent of total commercial bank deposits 
l n fc
he State. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted 
t o r
e f i e c t holding company formations and acquisitions approved by 
th 
e
 Board to date.) The acquisition of Bank, with deposits of $19,3 

G 7 6 
million, would increase Applicant's control of deposits in the State 
less than 0.1 per cent. 
Bank is located 60 miles south-southwest of Cleveland, in 
Wayne County, and is the fourth largest bank in the County controlling 
about 14 per cent of its deposits. Applicant's nearest subsidiary 
to Bank is located 32 miles to the west and one county, served by 12 
offices of five banks, intervenes between the two. It appears that 
no present competition exists between any of Applicant's subsidiaries 
and Bank. On the facts of record and in the light of Ohio's branching 
restrictions, it appears unlikely that consummation of the proposal 
herein would foreclose potential competition. Based upon the record, 
the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
w
°uld have no significant adverse effect on competition in any relevant 
area. 
The banking factors as they pertain to Applicant and Bank 
a r e
 consistent with approval of the application. Considerations 
r
°lating to the convenience and needs of banking customers in Wayne 
c
°unty lend some weight in favor of approval of the application, 
^though the needs of those customers are presently being served, 
c
°nsummation of the acquisition will enable Bank to offer an additional 
c
°mpetitive alternative for such services as trust and credit card 
S G
^vices. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
v
°uld be in the public interest and should be approved. 

18 
-2-
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such time be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, Larch 17, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, iiitchell, Daane, Haisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
[SEAL] 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

17/; 
•> s • 
U'St^'i 
• 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
678 
Item No. 
3/17/71 
A l REV" 
March 17, 1971 
T h e Honorable John S p a r k m a n 
C h a i r m a n 
C o m m i t t e e on Banking, Housing 
and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
D e a r M r . C h a i r m a n : 
past sevt:rr;snc:h;:th the practice ^ 
m a d e by the firm 0f » u h r " "
 
C r
'
C
'°
S e d C
°
p i
°
S
 °
f t h e 
accounts of the B o a r d of r
 a C C
°
U n t a n t S 
t h a t
 
the 
S y s t e m for ^ e 
y
l
T
J
l
t
^
^
J
T
i
S
t
'
S 
include (1) Financial q f af
 
6 l
'
 1 9 
T h e
s e 
Report on Sco^e^of Examination o
T
T
h
e
r
O
O
B 
( 2
> 
lamination of t mancial Statements. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosures 2 
v 

ft ;T }jrv iS- fas 
liT; jr. 
(jr. 
\ / >'£-. 
- 
Item No. 3 
3/17/71 
For immediate release 
H a r c h 
l g > 
1 Q ? 1 
-The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
awarded a contract to the Chas. H. Tompkins-Co., Washington, D.C., 
for construction of an annex building to be located immediately north 
of its present building. 
The Tompkins company submitted the lowest of the six bids 
received on the construction project. Its bid was $33,283,000. Con-
struction is scheduled to begin during the second quarter of this year 
W l t h
 completion expected during 1973. 
Plans for the annex, which will be named in honor of William 
McChesney Martin, Jr., former Chairman of the Board, have been approved 
b
v the Fine Arts Commission and the National. Capital Planning Commission 
Available office space has long been exhausted in the existing 
Pod 
oral Reserve building on Constitution Avenue that was completed In 
1937 
» and several hundred Board employees now occupy rented offices 
n e
arby. 
-0-
I 
