Minutes for March 30, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

122? 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 30, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Messrs. Dahl and Egertson, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Poundstone, Review Examiner, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Cochran and Wood of the Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been made 
available to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under the 
respective item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Valley Bank and Trust Company, 
1 
Springfield, Massachusetts, approving the 
establishment of a branch in East Longmeadow. 

1 2 8 9 
3 / 3 0 / 6 7 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to The Cohocton State Bank, Cohocton, 
2 
New York, approving the establishment of an 
in-town branch. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
3 
Minneapolis approving a revision of the 
employees' salary structure applicable to 
the Bank and its Helena Branch. 
Report on competitive factors. After a discussion during which 
changes in the conclusion were agreed upon, unanimous approval was given 
to a report, for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion, on the competitive factors involved in the proposed acquisition 
of assets and assumption of liabilities of The Community Savings and 
Loan Association by The Sylvania Savings Bank Company, both of Sylvania, 
Ohio. In the form in which transmitted, the conclusion of the report 
read as follows: 
While The Community Savings and Loan Association, 
Sylvania, and The Sylvania Savings Bank Company are 
closely associated, consummation of the proposed trans-
action would eliminate that competition existing between 
them with respect to mortgage loans and time deposits. 
However, with respect to other banking activities, there 
is no competition between the two institutions. 
Investment in Slavenburg's Bank (Item No. 4). In February 1967 
the Board granted consent to The First National Bank of Chicago to pur-
chase shares of N.V. Slavenburg's Bank, Rotterdam, The Netherlands, 
subject to two conditions relating to activities of an associated 
organization, The Slavenburg Corporation, organized under New York law 
and engaged principally in import and export financing in the United 

.] 229 
3 / 3 0 / 6 7 
-3-
States. The first condition required discontinuance of domestic financ-
ing activity by Slavenburg Corporation; the second provided that the 
volume of inventory loans made in connection with imported merchandise 
not be increased. First National Bank of Chicago subsequently requested 
that the Board delete the condition relating to inventory loans and 
modify the condition relating to domestic financing so as to allow that 
activity subject to a stipulation that it not be increased. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated March 29, 
1967, from the Division of Examinations and the Legal Division present-
ing information offered by First National Bank of Chicago in support of 
its requests. On the basis of the information submitted, with respect 
to inventory loans it was the staff's view that those loans were part 
of Slavenburg Corporation's international business directly arising from 
and related to the financing of imports, and that the loans were similar 
to those permitted to be made by Edge corporations in the United States 
in financing temporary storage of imported merchandise pending resale. 
The additional information that had been submitted regarding 
domestic financing activities of Slavenburg Corporation included 
examples of specific transactions. Upon analysis of that information, 
it appeared to the staff that the Corporation was essentially financing 
exporters and importers, and not export and import transactions per se. 
The bulk of the business of these exporters and importers was by far 
the exportation and importation of merchandise, but for some of them a 

1 230 
3 / 3 0 / 6 7 
-4-
relatively small part of their business included domestic purchases 
and sales. In financing all of the business of these customers, the 
Corporation did finance domestic transactions, and this financing 
amounted to perhaps 10 to 15 per cent of the Corporation's business --
an amount too great to be considered covered by the de minimis concept. 
It was the Legal Division's opinion that these domestic financ-
ing activities could not be considered "incidental" to the international 
or foreign business of the Corporation in the strict sense in which the 
Board had heretofore interpreted such a relationship. It was the fur-
ther opinion of the Division, however, that the Board would not be 
legally precluded from applying a broader interpretation that would 
give to "incidental" the quantitative meaning of "relatively minor." 
It was the conclusion of the Division of Examinations that this 
financing was relatively minor and so closely interconnected with the 
international financing done by Slavenburg Corporation that the Board 
would be justified in departing somewhat from the position it had 
heretofore taken. As long as the Corporation did not finance customers 
engaged solely in domestic business, and as long as the financing of 
domestic transactions of exporters and importers was not promoted and 
remained a relatively small portion of the over-all business of the 
Corporation, no substantial advantage would appear to accrue to First 
National Bank of Chicago by reason of its minority interest (11 per cent) 
in Slavenburg's Bank and its consequent indirect affiliation with Slaven-
burg Corporation. 

1 281 
3 / 3 0 / 6 7 
-5-
It was recommended in the memorandum that the condition in the 
Board's letter of consent relating to inventory loans be rescinded. It 
was also recommended that the condition regarding domestic financing 
activity be modified to specify that such activity not be increased. 
Attached was a draft of letter to First National Bank of Chicago couched 
in such terms. 
Mr. Shay began today's discussion by suggesting several changes 
in the draft letter. While some of the changes were editorial in nature, 
one was designed to avoid any impression that activity comprising less 
than a certain percentage of a firm's total business would necessarily 
be regarded as incidental. Another change was designed to carry into 
effect the "relatively minor" concept. 
In further comments Mr. Shay brought out that in the past the 
Board had interpreted "incidental" to mean something that was subordi-
nate to or dependent upon a principal activity, or, in any event, closely 
related to it. Some of the domestic financing activities described in 
this case would seem to fall within the strict interpretation of the 
term. On the other hand, some of the activities were more difficult to 
fit into such an interpretation. However, the Legal Division felt that 
"incidental" could be construed to carry a quantitative meaning and 
include activities that were relatively minor. 
Governor Mitchell said that after reviewing the examples pre-
sented it appeared to him that such domestic financing activities could 

1289 
3 / 3 0 / 6 7 
-6-
be considered clearly incidental to international business. There 
seemed to be sound operating reasons why Slavenburg Corporation engaged 
in such financing. If an importer, for example, had to obtain some 
items domestically to round out a line of merchandise, * the Corporation 
financed those purchases in order to retain the financing of the 
importer's international business. He believed it would be proper to 
rely upon such reasoning and to stay away from a quantitative concept. 
In other words, if the kinds of domestic financing cited continued to 
be typical, he felt that they could be regarded as incidental to inter-
national business. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether it was proposed to say that 
the financing of the domestic portion of an importer's business should 
not increase in absolute terms or in relation to the financing of 
imports. 
Mr. Shay said the suggestion was to use an expression such as 
"relatively minor" rather than a specific percentage, which would per-
mit some flexibility. Mr. Dahl commented that he would interpret the 
proposed language to mean that domestic financing activity would be 
permissible as long as it remained relatively minor and subordinate to 
the major financing. No absolute ceiling would be set. 
With regard to the line of reasoning that had been advanced by 
Governor Mitchell, Governor Shepardson raised the question whether it 
was not necessary to utilize some concept involving a relationship 

1 
2 8 3 
3 / 3 0 / 6 7 
-7-
between the size of the domestic financing activity and international 
operations because the former might grow significantly, over a period 
of time, in relation to the latter. 
After some discussion of this point, Governor Mitchell suggested 
indicating that the domestic financing activity would be regarded as 
incidental as long as the operations that had been described to the 
Board continued to be typical. 
Governor Robertson referred to the language of the governing 
statute, which authorizes U.S. banks to acquire and hold, directly or 
indirectly, stock in foreign banks "not engaged, directly or indirectly, 
in any activity in the United States except as, in the judgment of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, shall be incidental 
to the international or foreign business of such foreign bank." Here 
the proposal was to permit a U.S. bank to own an interest in a foreign 
bank that was engaged, through an associated organization, in financing 
domestic business in the United States. If consent was granted, the 
reasoning could logically be extended to the point of condoning the 
financing of the processing of domestic goods. In his opinion, it 
would go beyond the intent of the statute to permit an investment in 
a foreign bank that was indirectly engaged not only in the financing 
of imports but also in financing the acquisition of goods processed or 
manufactured in this country. It did not appear to him that such activ-
ities could properly be fitted into a description of incidental opera-
tions. As to the "relatively minor" concept, he would be concerned 

1289 
3 / 3 0 / 6 7 
-8-
about going along with a type of financing not contemplated by the stat-
ute simply on the basis that the volume was relatively small. Instead, 
an investigation should be made to see whether domestic financing activ-
ities of the kinds under consideration were incidental in the sense that 
without them the Corporation could not handle its international business. 
There followed a discussion of some of the kinds of financing 
activities that had been cited in this case, during which views were 
expressed as to the extent to which the financing of "international 
business" should appropriately be interpreted to include the financing 
of operations in the U.S. that in some way led up to or resulted from 
an international transaction. It was apparent from this discussion 
that Governor Robertson favored a more restrictive interpretation than 
other members of the Board. In his view, international business should 
not be interpreted to include, for example, financing the production or 
distribution of goods in this country simply because that might eventu-
ally result in an international trade transaction. 
Governor Brimmer observed that the Board had not yet reached a 
conclusion with regard to the application of The Company for Investing 
Abroad, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to purchase stock of Balthex Inter-
national, Inc. He raised the question whether it would be advisable 
to defer action on the Slavenburg matter until the Balthex issue had 
been decided. 

1 2 8 9 
3 / 3 0 / 6 7 
-9-
A decision on the Slavenburg matter was reported by Mr. Dahl to 
be desired by the parties concerned because of the stage of negotiations. 
As to the question whether more information was needed, several members 
of the Board expressed the view that the information at hand was suffi-
cient and that the question came down primarily to a policy decision. 
With reference to Governor Brimmer's question, Mr. Forrestal 
pointed out that the paramount issue in the Balthex case was whether a 
U.S. corporation in which an Edge corporation desired to invest appeared 
to be doing a domestic or an international business. The question of 
incidentality did not arise in that case. In the Slavenburg matter the 
question was whether certain domestic financing activities were or were 
not incidental to over-all operations. In the circumstances, he did 
not believe that it would be particularly helpful to await further con-
sideration of the Balthex case. 
Turning to the statutory language referred to by Governor 
Robertson, Mr. Forrestal suggested that it seemed appropriate, in 
interpreting that language, to bring to bear the experience of the 
Board over the years in applying the identical language of section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act in respect to investments by Edge corpora-
tions. The test of incidentality had been used by the Board on many 
occasions, and the Board's position had been that the conducting of 
some business in the U.S. was permissible if such business was related 
to international transactions. The Board had had no difficulty in 

1289 
3 / 3 0 / 6 7 
-10-
permitting an investment in a foreign institution with an office in the 
U.S. provided the business done at that office was directly related to 
the international business of the foreign institution concerned. Here 
the New York subsidiary was financing importers in their purchases of 
domestic goods. This appeared to the Legal Division to go a little 
beyond the scope of the interpretation that the Board had used in the 
past. However, the activity seemed relatively minor, and the staff 
believed that it could legally be permitted on that basis. Of course, 
if the Board believed that the domestic financing activity was directly 
related to international business, there would be no reason to object 
or impose any condition. The question was whether the financing of 
importers in their acquisition of a package of goods, some domestic, 
involved an activity permissible under the statute. 
Governor Mitchell used one of the examples cited by the applicant 
as indicative of the fact that Slavenburg Corporation would lose all of 
the financing of a particular importer if it was not prepared to finance 
the importer's incidental acquisition of some domestic goods. He felt 
there was clearly a direct relationship between the types of financing 
as a part of a package. 
Governor Robertson urged against confusing the terms "incidental" 
and "relatively minor," pointing out that something minor was not neces-
sarily incidental. 
Governor Mitchell agreed that the emphasis should be on an 
operation that was incidental to international business. If the types 

1289 
3 / 3 0 / 6 7 
-11-
of domestic financing that had been cited in this case continued to be 
typical, it appeared to him that the financing should be permitted on 
the ground that it was incidental. 
Mr. Shay then said he would interpret that line of reasoning 
as suggesting that the proposed letter include language somewhat as 
follows: "The Board has concluded that the activities of The Slavenburg 
Corporation in the United States that were the subject of the conditions 
to the Board's consent are, in the form in which they are presently con-
ducted, incidental to its international financing activities. Accord-
ingly, the pertinent conditions in the Board's letter of consent are 
rescinded, except that the Board may from time to time require informa-
tion concerning the activities of The Slavenburg Corporation in the 
United States." 
Approval then was given to a letter to The First National Bank 
of Chicago in the form attached as Item No. 4. Governor Robertson 
dissented because in his opinion domestic financing activities of 
Slavenburg Corporation of the kind that had been described could not 
properly be regarded as incidental to the Corporation's international 
financing business. 
Bank credit card plans. Governor Brimmer referred to a letter 
that had been received from President Galusha of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis regarding the possibility of offering the Bank's 
facilities for discussion of the mechanics of bank credit card plans. 

1 2 8 9 
3 / 3 0 / 6 7 
-12-
It appeared that the two large bank holding companies in the 
area were anxious to go forward with bank credit card systems, and 
President Galusha had in mind making the facilities of the Reserve Bank 
available for discussion of mechanical problems, such as compatibility 
of systems, with other reserve city bankers also invited. Among other 
things, there was the prospect of inviting an expert from a national 
bank in Chicago to participate in such discussion. 
It was his feeling, Governor Brimmer said, that it would be 
better if a Reserve Bank did not become deeply involved in commercial 
bank discussions of the formulation of bank credit card systems. He 
had ascertained that the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice 
would be glad to talk with the banks concerned if they wished to receive 
the Department's views. In all the circumstances, he would propose 
urging President Galusha to be cautious about going forward with a pro-
gram such as described. 
Mr. Hackley referred to telephone conversations with President 
Galusha and First Vice President Strothman from which it was clear that 
the two large bank holding companies in the area were interested in 
putting credit card plans into effect as soon as possible but were 
hesitant about discussing such plans with each other. Therefore, the 
thought was to arrange discussion of the mechanical aspects of such 
plans at the Reserve Bank. A question raised in the telephone conversa-
tions was whether the Board had means of obtaining some informal indica-
tion of the attitude of the Justice Department toward bank credit card 

1289 
3 / 3 0 / 6 7 
-13-
plans, and Mr. Hackley had advised that the Board was taking steps to 
establish liaison with the Department in this particular area. Thus, 
there were really two questions: 
first, the propriety of a Reserve 
Bank's getting into the matter at all; second, the question of offering 
the facilities of the Reserve Bank. President Galusha's letter con-
tained a suggestion that the use of the offices of the Reserve Bank 
could afford a certain degree of immunity in terms of the antitrust 
laws, and Mr. Hackley felt that it was probably not advisable to sug-
gest that a Reserve Bank could intervene to afford such immunity. 
It was agreed that it would be appropriate for Governor Brimmer, 
in discussing the matter with President Galusha, to express views along 
the lines that he had proposed to state. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (copy attached as 
Item No. 5) approving the reappointment of Sheldon L. Goodman as assis-
tant examiner. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Selma Mclntire as Teletype Operator, Division of Administrative 
Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,331, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Transfers 
Nyart S. Sharigan, Secretary, Board Members' Offices, from budget 
position No. 17 to budget position No. 15, with no change in basic 
annual salary at the rate of $8,243, effective April 9, 1967. 

1 240 
3/30/67 
-14-
Transfers (continued) 
Ruth K. Bradford, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, from Staff Services-Administration to the Banking Markets 
Section, with no change in basic annual salary at the rate of $4,776, 
effective April 9, 1967. 
Samuel Rosenblatt, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
from the Banking Section to the Capital Markets Section, with no change 
in basic annual salary at the rate of $14,217, effective April 9, 1967. 

1241? 
B D A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
OF 
T H E 
3 / 3 0 / 6 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS UKFICIAL CDRRE5PONDENCL 
TO THE BOARD 
March 30, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Valley Bank and Trust Company, 
Springfield, Massachusetts. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Valley Bank and 
Trust Company, Springfield, Massachusetts, of a branch 
in the vicinity of the intersection of Elm and North 
Main Streets, East Longmeadow, Massachusetts, provided 
the branch is established within six months from the 
date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
-A . • > 

B D A R D O F G O V E R N • R S 
item No. 2 
•FTHE 
3/30/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
, 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 30, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Cohocton State Bank, 
Cohocton, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment of a branch by The 
Cohocton State Bank, Cohocton, New York, at 19 Maple 
Avenue, Cohocton, New York, in order that safe deposit 
facilities may be provided the bank's customers at this 
location while other main office operations are tem-
porarily relocated to 14 Maple Avenue, Cohocton, New York. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1243? 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N • R S 
Item No. 3 
•tthe 
3/30/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 30, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 55440 
Dear Mr. Galusha: 
As requested in your letter of March 10, 1967, the Board of 
Governors approves the following minimum and maximum salaries for the 
respective grades of the employees' salary structure at the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and Helena Branch, effective April 15: 
Grade 
Minimum 
Maximum 
1 
2 
$ 2,950 
$ 3,850 
3 
3,050 
4,050 
4 
3,400 
4,500 
5 
3,850 
5,150 
6 
4,300 
5,700 
7 
4,850 
6,450 
8 
5,450 
7,250 
9 
6,050 
8,150 
10 
6,700 
9,000 
11 
7,450 
9,950 
12 
8,300 
11,100 
13 
9,150 
12,350 
14 
10,100 
13,600 
15 
11,100 
14,900 
16 
12,150 
16,350 
The Board approves the payment of salaries to employees within 
the limits specified for the grades in which their respective positions 
are classified. All employees whose salaries are below the minimum of 
their grades as a result of this structure increase should be brought 
within appropriate ranges by July 15, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1244? 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
item No. 4 
• F THE 
3/30/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 30, 1967. 
The First National Bank of Chicago, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of February 17, 1967, 
regarding the Board's letter of February 3, 1967, granting con-
sent for your bank to purchase and hold approximately 2,860 
bearer shares of the capital stock of N.V. Slavenburg's Bank, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands, subject to certain conditions re-
lating to the operations of The Slavenburg Corporation, New 
York, in the United States. 
On the basis of the additional information furnished 
in your letter of February 17, 1967, and discussions with repre-
sentatives of your bank and The Slavenburg Corporation, the Board 
has concluded that the activities of The Slavenburg Corporation 
in the United States that were the subject of the conditions to 
the Board's consent are, in the form in which they are presently 
conducted, incidental to its international financing activities. 
Accordingly, the conditions in the second and third 
paragraphs of the Board's letter of consent of February 3, 1967, 
are rescinded, except that the Board may, from time to time, 
require The First National Bank of Chicago to furnish informa-
tion concerning activities of The Slavenburg Corporation in the 
United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
)0? G<W, 

B O A R D D F G O V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE 5YSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
3/30/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
March 30, 1967 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
Mr. Quackenbush's letter of March 28, 1967, the Board 
approves the reappointment of Sheldon L. Goodman as an 
assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York, effective today. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
