Minutes for February 13, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, February 13, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Plotkin, and Shuter, and Miss 
Hart of the Legal Division 
Mr. White and Miss Durkan of the Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Maguire of the Division of Examinations 
Mr. Waller of the Office of the Controller 

2/13/68 
-2-
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to the State of New York Banking 
1 
Department interposing no objection to 
the establishment by Westminster Bank 
Limited, London, England, of an agency 
in New York, New York. 
Letter to Bamerical International Finan- 
2 
cial Corporation, New York, New York, 
approving an amendment to its articles 
of association to change its home office 
location to San Francisco, California. 
Letter to the Bureau of the Budget regard- 
3 
ing draft legislation to amend the Federal 
National Mortgage Association Charter Act. 
In connection with Item No. 3, it was noted that the proposed 
legislation would place FNMA (now a mixed-ownership corporation) on a 
privately-owned basis insofar as secondary mortgage operations were 
concerned. The approved letter, while supporting the proposed legis-
lation in principle, stressed that it was important that FNMA, in its 
new capacity, should continue to act in concert with Federal agencies 
in the pursuit of national economic objectives. 
Registration under Regulation G (Item No. 4). Pursuant to the 
provisions of section 207.1(a) of the newly-issued Regulation G (Credit 
by Persons Other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers for the Purpose of 
Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity Securities) every person who, 

oard 
2/13/68 
-3-
in the ordinary course of his business, during the last calendar 
quarter of 1967 extended credit secured by registered equity securi-
ties in certain minimum amounts must file a registration statement 
with the Federal Reserve Bank of his District by April 10, 1968. 
With a memorandum dated February 12, 1968, the Legal Division 
submitted for consideration a draft of letter to be sent to nonbank 
lenders and others concerned in each Federal Reserve District that 
would summarize the purposes and provisions of the regulation, includ-
ing the filing requirements, and furnish copies of the regulation and 
of Form G-l (the initial registration form). Also submitted was a 
draft of statement to be returned to the Federal Reserve Bank by per-
sons to whom the mailing was sent who claimed not to be subject to the 
initial registration requirement. 
Miss Hart indicated that the draft letter, as submitted, 
reflected suggestions made by the various Federal Reserve Banks. It 
was contemplated that the Reserve Banks would make distribution of the 
letter and enclosures to those included on lists of potential regis-
trants compiled in each District. However, there was a divergence of 
views among the Reserve Banks as to whether the covering letter should 
be signed by the President of the Reserve Bank or by the Secretary of 
the Board of Governors. 
It was the recommendation of the Legal Divi-
sion that, while the letters should be identical as to content, each 
Bank should be granted its preference as to signature. 

5130 
2/13/68 
-4-
There was general agreement among the members of the Board 
that there should be uniformity as to signature of the proposed let-
ters. A preference was expressed for proceeding on a decentralized 
basis, with the letters to be signed by the respective Reserve Bank 
Presidents. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to the Reserve 
Banks in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
Boston building program (Item No. 5). Pursuant to the under-
standing at the meeting on January 8, 1968, the Division of Bank 
Operations had undertaken a study of the building program at the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston in terms of advantages of expanding 
facilities at the present site as compared with advantages of acquir-
ing another site for the construction of a new Bank building. The 
latter course was recommended by the Board of Directors of the Boston 
Reserve Bank on the basis of a report by Rodgers Associates, an engi-
neering firm retained by the Bank to make an analysis of the Bank's 
space needs. After consideration of several possible alternative 
sites proposed by William H. Dolben & Sons, real estate consultants, 
property between State Street and Faneuil Hall in the Boston Redevelop-
ment Authority Government Center area was deemed by the Reserve Bank 
as the site best suited to its needs, and the Reserve Bank sought 
permission to enter into negotiations looking toward its acquisition. 

531 
2/13/68 
-5-
The study by the Division of Bank Operations, presented with 
a memorandum dated February 9, 1968, recommended, for reasons stated, 
that the Board grant the Reserve Bank permission to secure a site on 
which to construct a new building. 
At the beginning of today's discussion Mr. Farrell stated that 
Governor Mitchell had expressed agreement with the Division's recom-
mendation. Governor Maisel, as a member of the Committee on Organiza-
tion, Compensation, and Building Plans, then expressed the view that 
the Division of Bank Operations had done a thorough job in its study 
and said he also concurred in the Division's recommendation. 
It was 
clear from the study that increased operating efficiencies could be 
achieved, without a large cost difference, by constructing a new 
building. 
Governor Sherrill noted that the Bank was thinking in terms 
of acquiring approximately 100,000 square feet of land. Since diffi-
culties and delays could be encountered in blocking out such an amount 
of space in a downtown area, he suggested that it would be well for 
the Bank to develop alternatives in case negotiations for the desired 
site in the redevelopment area were not successful. Governor Daane 
agreed. 
Following further discussion, it was agreed unanimously that 
the Reserve Bank should be authorized to secure a site on which to 
construct a new Bank building. A copy of the letter subsequently 
sent to the Bank is attached as Item No. 5. 

2/13/68 
-6-
Cincinnati Branch building. There had been distributed a memo-
randum dated February 8, 1968, from Mr. Farrell relating to two points 
raised in connection with the Cincinnati Branch building program. 
Revised preliminary plans for the construction of the new building 
reflecting changes previously agreed upon had recently been received, 
and the cost estimate had risen from approximately $11.8 million to 
$14.4 million. The major portion of the increase appeared to result 
from inclusion in the plans of an underground garage topped by a land-
scaped plaza, and from escalation of building costs. President Hickman 
sought assurance that the Board would not object to the new cost esti-
mate, and Mr. Farrell noted that the estimated cost per square foot did 
not appear to be out of line with other recent building projects. 
The other question related to the thickness of the vault walls. 
On August 9, 1967, the Board approved vault construction in the new 
Cincinnati Branch building with 18-inch walls reinforced with Steel-
crete. However, certain recent tests witnessed by Board staff, Mr. 
Witherell, the Board's Consulting Architect, and representatives of 
the Cleveland Reserve Bank indicated that use of the burning bar 
technique could effect entry through an 18-inch Steelcrete wall in 
five hours, whereas six hours would be required to penetrate a 24-inch 
wall. On the basis of these tests and related considerations, Mr. 
Witherell recommended that the specifications for the new Cincinnati 
Branch building be changed to include 24-inch Steelcrete vault walls. 

2/13/68 
-7-
The Bank's architects estimated that such a change would cost approx-
imately $20,000. 
Mr. Farrell stated that in addition to the immediate question 
with respect to Cincinnati, the Division of Bank Operations sought 
guidance as to the Board's position with respect to the planning of 
new vaults at other Banks and branches. Eighteen-inch Steelcrete 
walls would meet the minimum requirement for top rating set up by the 
insurance underwriters. However, System specifications had usually 
met more than the minimum requirements. 
Mr. Farrell said that the essential question was whether the 
additional one-hour penetration time of a 24-inch wall provided a 
significant protective factor. One approach would be to provide a 
reasonably secure wall, such as the 18-inch Steelcrete wall, and place 
major reliance on alarm systems, liaison with the police, and similar 
arrangements. He understood that Governor Mitchell felt that the 
Board had taken such a position last fall when it approved 18-inch 
Steelcrete walls for the Cincinnati Branch. 
In the ensuing discussion Governor Daane expressed the view 
that it would seem well to follow the advice of experts such as the 
Board's Consulting Architect, if the additional cost was not great. 
Governor Robertson also expressed reluctance to accept the minimum 
standard if some additional protection could be purchased for a 
relatively small increase in cost, and Governor Maisel concurred in 
that view. 

2/13/68 
-8-
On the other hand, Governor Sherrill indicated that he was 
attracted to Governor Mitchell's reasoning. He would prefer to make 
any additional investment in devices that would alert the guard force. 
Moreover, he questioned the accuracy of the $20,000 cost estimate sub-
mitted by the Reserve Bank, for he believed that it might be much too 
low. He suggested that the general issue of adequacy of vault protec-
tion was one warranting further study. Chairman Martin expressed doubt 
that a 24-inch wall would provide, for practical purposes, substantially 
more protection than an 18-inch wall. Therefore, although some advan-
tage might accrue from the public relations standpoint in going beyond 
18 inches, he was inclined to feel that such a standard would be accept-
able. Governors Robertson and Daane indicated that the preference they 
had expressed was based to some extent on their reliance upon the 
accuracy of the estimate of the architects, who had indicated that the 
additional cost of the 24-inch wall would be relatively small. They 
agreed on the importance of developing satisfactory alarm systems. 
Chairman Martin then suggested that Mr. Farrell prepare a 
memorandum for the Board's consideration on the general question of 
vault construction standards, and it was understood that that would be 
done. In the circumstances, no action was taken at this time with 
respect to the question of construction of the vault walls at the 
Cincinnati Branch, but it was understood that the Board would inter-
pose no objection to the other elements of the cost estimates referred 
to in President Hickman's letter of December 14, 1967. 

2/13/68 
-9-
Either at this point in the meeting or earlier, members of the 
staff concerned with the presentation of one or more of the foregoing 
topics withdrew from the meeting and the following entered: 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mrs. Sette, Chief, Economic Editing, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mrs. Ray, Technical Editor (Economics), Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Annual Report. There had been distributed a memorandum dated 
February 9, 1968, from Mr. Molony submitting a draft of Part I of the 
Board's Annual Report for 1967. 
While there was general acceptance of the content of the draft, 
Governor Daane suggested certain changes in emphasis and other changes 
of an editorial nature. Governor Maisel expressed the view that the 
description of the circumstances in which monetary policy evolved 
during 1967 might subject the System to criticism for overreacting 
to problems as they developed rather than planning ahead sufficiently. 
Following further discussion, it was understood that the sug-
gestions made during today's meeting would be taken into account by 
the staff in editing the draft. 
Budget performance report. There had been distributed a memo-
randum from the Office of the Controller dated February 6, 1968, sub-
mitting a review of performance under the Board's budget for the year 
1967. 

O M o 
2/13/68 
-10-
Governor Maisel suggested that in the future consideration of 
budget performance might advantageously be related to forward planning 
rather than looking backward. 
The report was then accepted. It was noted that although 
nearly all budget account overexpenditures had been approved before 
the end of 1967, several items totaling $32,544 had not been submitted 
for approval prior to that time. Acceptance of the budget performance 
report constituted approval of these remaining overexpenditures. 
Annual audit of financial statements (Item No. 6). There had 
been distributed by the Secretary under date of February 9, 1968, docu-
ments entitled (1) Financial Statements and Report Thereon, and (2) 
Report on Scope of Examination of Financial Statements, both submitted 
by the firm of Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery following their audit 
of the Board's accounts for the year ended December 31, 1967. 
The reports were accepted, and it was understood that copies 
would be transmitted to the Chairmen of the Senate and House Banking 
and Currency Committees. A copy of the letter subsequently sent to 
the Chairman of the Senate Committee is attached as Item No. 6. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 

.j 
2/13/68 
11 
Appointments 
Judith Anne Hoffman as Clerk-Typist, Division of Administrative 
Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,764, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Ernest L. Simon as Cafeteria Laborer, Division of Administrative 
Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,776, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 

5 9 3 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
2/13/68 
• P T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 13, 1968. 
Mr. Alexander R. Billington, 
Deputy Superintendent of Banks, 
State of New York Banking Department, 
100 Church Street, 
New York, New York. 10007 
Dear Mr. Billington: 
This refers to your letter of January 25, 1968, 
requesting the views of the Board of Governors regarding 
the application of Westminster Bank Limited, London, . 
England, for a license to establish an agency in New York. 
The Board of Governors interposes no objection 
to establishment of the proposed agency. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
rs'>3 
Item No. 2 
2/13/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 13, 1968. 
Bamerical International 
Financial Corporation, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 
10004 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of January 22, 
1968, enclosing a certified copy of a resolution of share-
holders amending Article THIRD of the Articles of Associa-
tion of your Corporation to change the home office location 
of the Corporation to 300 Montgomery Street, San Francisco, 
California. 
The Board of Governors approves the amendment to 
Article THIRD. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

600 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
2/13/68 
Rt^1; 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 13, 1968. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in reply to your request of February 8, 1968, for 
the Board's views on draft legislation to amend the FNMA Charter Act 
by placing FNMA--now a mixed ownership corporation--on a wholly 
privately owned basis insofar as its secondary market operations 
are concerned. 
The Board believes that the proposed change in FNMA's 
ownership status could provide the basis for improving the flexibility 
of FNMA to operate within the secondary market for Government-assisted 
residential mortgages, and it accordingly supports the objectives of 
the proposed legislation. However, the Board wishes to stress the 
important principle that FNMA, in its new capacity, continue to act 
in concert with other Federal agencies in the pursuit of national 
economic objectives. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
• F T H E 
2/13/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E D 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 14, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
There is enclosed a copy of the covering letter, 
approved by the Board, that is to be sent by the Reserve Banks 
with the initial mailing of Regulation G material to all 
persons who may be extending or arranging for credit of the 
kind described in section 207.1(a) of Regulation G. There is 
also enclosed a copy of the statement to be returned by persons 
claiming not to be subject to the initial registration require-
ment. 
The texts of the letter and statement were sent to 
you by telegram on February 13. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

602 
tO kotoBANK LENDERS AND OTHERS CONCERNED, IN THE (number) FEDERAL 
RESERVE DISTRICT: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
issued, pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, a new Regulation 
G -- Credit by Persons Other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers for Purpose 
of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity Securities. The regulation 
is effective March 11, 1968, but certain of its requirements apply to 
loans made on or after February I, 1968. A copy is enclosed. 
The regulation applies to credit (loans) secured in any way 
by stocks registered on a national securities exchange, or debt securities 
convertible into such stocks ("registered equity securities", as defined 
in the regulation). Persons who have extended or arranged for credit 
so secured in a total amount of $50,000 or more during the last calendar 
quarter of 1967, or had outstanding during such calendar quarter a 
total of $100,000 or more of such credit, are required to register by 
completing and returning two copies of the enclosed Federal Reserve 
Form G-l to this Bank before April 10, 1968, in the enclosed self-
addressed prepaid envelope. Persons who meet the registration require-
ments in any subsequent calendar quarter are required to register 
within 30 days after the end of such quarter. 
The regulation also requires registrants to file quarterly 
reports on a form (Federal Reserve Form G-4) that will be furnished 
later. 

No registration is required at this time of persons who, 
during the last calendar quarter of 1967, extended, arranged for, 
or maintained credit against registered equity securities in less 
than the minimum amounts described above. In such case, please 
complete the enclosed statement to this effect in place of Federal 
Reserve Form G-l, and return promptly. 
If your office is a branch of a larger organization, this 
letter, with enclosures, should be forwarded to the individual within 
your organization who would handle such matters. However, each sub-
sidiary which is separately incorporated must register, if subject 
to the registration requirements. 
Attention is called to some other provisions of the regula-
tion, including (1) margin requirements on certain extensions of 
credit, (2) "retention" requirements applying to withdrawal and 
substitution of collateral in certain circumstances, (3) a requirement 
that a statement on Federal Reserve Form G-3 be obtained from borrowers 
whose loan is secured by any registered equity securities, (4) a 
requirement that persons acting as agent in connection with credit 
that i8 secured by such collateral obtain and accept in good faith a 
statement from the principal that he is not violating any of the margin 
tegulations of the Board of Governors which may apply to him, and (5) 
a Prohibition against arranging for any credit which the arranger 
c°uld not extend (with the exception of arranging for credit to be 
e*tended by banks that are subject to margin regulations). 

A specimen Form G-3 — purpose statement — reduced in size 
is bound with the regulation for your information. Full size specimen 
copies of this form suitable for reproduction are available upon 
request from this Bank. 
It is important that persons subject to this regulation 
register and comply with its provisions, since failure to do so may 
result in criminal penalties. 
We shall be pleased to answer any question you may have 
regarding Regulation G or the forms described above [optional insertion 
°f telephone number and/or name of officer to be called]. 
Signed 

605 
..'tvV-
Statement to be returned to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
by persons not registering under Regulation G in respect to last 
calendar quarter of 1967. 
has not extended or arranged for 
(Name of firm) 
the extension of credit totaling $50,000 or more, secured directly 
or indirectly by anyregistered equity securities, during the 
calendar quarter ended December 31, 1967, and did not have outstand-
ing during such calendar quarter a total of $100,000 or more in such 
credit. 
D a t e _ 
_
_ 
Signature 
(Print or type name and title, if 
any, below signature) 
Name of firm 
Type of Organization 
Address of Principal place 
of business 
Mailing address, if different than 
stated above 

o J o 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
2/13/68 
/4Y 
A D D R E S S 
Q F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 13, 1968 
Mr. George H. Ellis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106. 
Dear Mr. Ellis: 
This refers to your letter of December 22, 1967, 
concerning your Bank's building program and asking for Board 
concurrence in the action of your Board of Directors propos-
ing that another site be secured for the purpose of construct-
ing a new building. The enclosed study was prepared by the 
Division of Bank Operations at the Board's request and evaluates 
the alternative of remaining at the present location. The study 
recommends that the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston be granted 
permission to secure a new site and the Board, in its review 
of the Division's study, concurs in that recommendation. 
The 
Board feels, however, that the Bank should actively consider 
the possibility of alternative sites in the event that the 
property between State Street and Faneuil Hall would not be 
available to the Bank, or would take too long to acquire. 
The Division's study also recommends that your Bank 
re-examine the adequacy of security court provisions at a new 
site and consider the possibility of limiting new construction 
to reasonably foreseeable future needs and of providing for 
long-range contingent requirements through lateral expansion. 
The Board assumes that these matters will be carefully 
considered. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

6 0 7 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WAS H I N9TON 
Item No. 6 
2/13/68 
OFFICE OF THE 
CHAIRMAN 
February 14, 1968 
The Honorable John Sparkman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D.C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In accordance with the practice followed for the 
past several years, there are enclosed copies of the reports 
made by the firm of public accountants that audited the ac-
counts of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System for the year ended December 31, 1967. These include 
(1) Financial Statements and Report Thereon and (2) Report 
on Scope of Examination of Financial Statements. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr 
Enclosures 2 
