PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
M.rrh 
1Q71 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: Amplification of minutes of executive session on Page 7. 

715 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Tuesday, March 23, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
1/ 
Mr. Ma isel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Irvine, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
A/ Entered at point indicated in minutes. 

71G 
3/23/71 
-2-
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Foreign investments. The following letters were unanimously 
approved after consideration of relevant documentation. Copies of the 
letters are attached as indicated. 
i 
. •,,.; . ; , ; 
. i 
Letter to First National City Overseas Investment 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent 
to purchase shares of Taiwan First Investment Trust 
Company, Ltd., Taipei, Taiwan, and to continue to 
hold those shares after the Investment Trust issues 
certain obligations. 
Letter to Bamerical International Financial Corpo-
ration, San Francisco, California, granting consent 
to purchase the entire capital stock of a de novo 
finance company to be established in Panama City, 
Republic of Panama. 
Letter to Chase International Investment Corporation, 
New York, New York, interposing no objection to the 
temporary acquisition of additional shares of Costa 
Rican Farms S.A., San Jose, Costa Rica. 
Export-Import Bank. In a letter of March 11, 1971, Senator 
^roxmire referred to the Board's letter dated February 11, 1971, to the 
Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs regarding S. 19 
a n
d s. 581, to amend the Export-Import Bank Act. He noted that that 
let ter made no mention of the impact upon the balance of payments of 
Item No. 
1 
2 

717 
3/23/71 
-3-
expansion of Eximbank lending, as the legislation proposed, and he in-
quired whether the Board had changed its previous position as expressed 
in a letter to the Committee in September 1970. He also inquired whether 
the proposed expansion of the Eximbank discount loan program would have 
an adverse effect on a restrictive monetary policy. 
A draft reply had been distributed that quoted the paragraph 
from the 1970 letter than had been dropped in the more recent reply, 
and explained that the deletion had been made in the interest of avoid-
ing any implication that the Board's opposition to the exemption of 
Eximbank from the budget stemmed from dissatisfaction with the opera-
tions or management of the Bank. The draft also contained a rationale 
in support of the view that an expansion of Eximbank's discount loan 
Program would not substantially offset Federal Reserve efforts to pur-
sue a restrictive monetary policy. 
During discussion it was suggested that the letter not appear 
to deny the possible offset to the effectiveness of a restrictive 
m
°netary policy. Some support developed for indicating that shifts of 
funds among credit sectors could be reduced by requiring commercial banks 
that discounted loans with Eximbank to certify that the proceeds would 
be used to make export loans they would not otherwise make. 
Chairman Burns expressed the view that, since the paragraph 
a
bout balance of payments effects in the earlier letter had not been 
C e
ntral to the Board's deliberation regarding the 1971 letter, it would 
be better to avoid magnifying its significance. Governor Brimmer, however, 

718 
3/23/71 
-4-
thought a direct answer should be given to Senator Proxmire's question 
whether the Board had changed its position. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that a 
draft of letter revised along the lines that had been suggested would 
be submitted to Chairman Burns and Governor Brimmer for resolution of 
the points that had been raised. 
(Note: A copy of the letter sent to 
Senator Proxmire subsequent to such review is attached as Item No. 4.) 
Report of President's Council. The Board approved unanimously 
a letter to the Office of Management and Budget regarding a request for 
comments on the "Report on Selected Independent Regulatory Agencies" 
submitted by the President's Advisory Council on Executive Organization. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
Governor Mitchell entered the room at this point. 
Regulation Q. 
In a memorandum dated March 22, 1971, the Legal 
Division referred to the expiration of the flexible interest rate control 
authority originally enacted by the Congress in 1966. Although it was 
expected that the authority would be reinstated, the present effect was 
to revert to the pre-1966 terms of the law. Thus, for the time being, 
there was no legal basis for the differentiation in Regulation Q between 
money market and consumer-type certificates of deposits or for the exemp-
tion for foreign official deposits. The lower ceiling rate of interest 
for consumer CD's would become the ceiling also for money market CD's 
including those of 30-89 day maturity. 

/ 
3/23/71 
-5-
The Division discussed several alternatives and recommended 
that the Board adopt clarifying amendments to Regulation Q to eliminate 
the separate rate structure for money market CD's and suspend the exemp-
tion for foreign official deposits. 
The memorandum noted also that some member banks had recently 
lowered the rate of interest paid on savings deposits. Questions had 
been raised whether banks must inform depositors of such changes. The 
staff considered it questionable whether the Board's outstanding inter-
pretation regarding accuracy of advertising was applicable. However, it 
recommended that the Board take the position that a member bank should, 
as a matter of policy, inform depositors when it lowered the rate of 
interest on their deposits. 
After discussion it was agreed that the staff recommendations 
should be discussed with the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank 
Regulation. 
Transportation float. In a memorandum dated March 22, 1971, the 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations referred to action by the 
Conference of Presidents and the Conference of First Vice Presidents 
recommending adoption of a program designed to expedite the collection 
°f checks through establishment of a central transportation function 
(operating from the Chicago Reserve Bank) and three regional transporta-
tion offices. 
The Division was in general agreement with the program. 
It 
therefore recommended that the Board express agreement in principle and 

720 
3/23/71 
-3-
indicate that the Board had requested the Division to keep abreast of 
developments. 
Questions were raised during discussion whether sufficient bene-
fits would result from the program to justify the cost involved and 
whether the contemplated administrative machinery would be effective. 
Assignment to the Board's staff (Division of Federal Reserve Bank Opera-
tions) of significant overall coordinating responsibilities was an 
alternative possibility specifically mentioned. General agreement then 
was expressed with a suggestion that the Conference of Presidents be 
informed that the Board had reservations about the program and had asked 
its staff to confer with appropriate Reserve Bank personnel regarding 
possible alternatives. 
At the conclusion of the discussion unanimous approval was given 
to the sending of a letter in the form attached as Item No. 6. 
Chrysler Corporation. Reference was made to the withdrawal 
by Dun and Bradstreet of the "prime" rating assigned to unsecured corpo-
rate notes sold by Chrysler Corporation and two of its subsidiaries. 
Th is led to discussion regarding the System's role as lender of last 
resort, and a suggestion was made that contingency planning studies be 
accelerated within the System on a confidential basis. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff atten-
dance, and Mr. Mcintosh summarized for the Board's information reports 
that had been received concerning the possibility that on the first of 

721 
3/23/71 
-3-
April there would be demonstrations outside a number of Federal Reserve 
Bank offices by rightist organizations, with the further possibility 
that other groups would take the opportunity to create disruptions. 
Mr. Mcintosh also described precautionary steps that were being taken 
in the circumstances, in consultation with the Federal Reserve Banks. 
All staff members except Mr. Holland withdrew at this 
point. 
Chairman Burns outlined for the Board various matters which 
he had discussed in a meeting with the President on the previous Friday, 
including the desirability of minimizing contentious public debates 
of differences in policy views on the part of Federal Reserve and 
Administration officials. 
successors to the vacant presidencies of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Cleveland and Minneapolis. In this connection, it was reported that 
the Minneapolis directors had contacted a firm specializing in executive 
recruitment to assist them in their efforts. The Board directed the 
Secretary to underline to the Minneapolis Bank the need for confiden-
tiality in the activities of the firm. 
Board members also discussed developments in the search for 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

H 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N • RE5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
3/23/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 23, 1971 
First National City 
Overseas Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 25, 1971, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to pur-
chase and hold, directly and indirectly, up to 50 per cent of the 
shares of Taiwan First Investment Trust Company, Ltd. ("TFIT"), 
Taipei, Taiwan, at a total cost of up to approximately $2,500,000, 
provided such shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of TFIT by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in TFIT if TFIT at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permis-
sible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Re-
serve Act coul"d, with the consent of the Board 
of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if TFIT 
establishes any branch or agency or takes any 
action or undertakes any operation in Taiwan or 
elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time would 
not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of TFIT as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by TFIT 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if TFIT were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 

First National City 
Overseas Investment Corporation 
- 2 -
7 2 3 
(4) That TFIT will confine its leasing activities essen-
tially to the leasing of property under leases under 
which TFIT will recover the full costs of acquisi-
tion and any other expenses expected to be incurred 
by TFIT during the lease, and that TFIT shall not 
acquire property for leasing before the prospective 
lessee has executed the lease agreement. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
o 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by TFIT in Taiwan m 
the 
currency of that country. 
As requested in your letter and on the basis of informa-
tion furnished, the Board of Governors also grants consent for the 
issuance by TFIT of up to approximately $10,000,000 of debt obliga-
tions with maturities in excess of one year. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of TFIT. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of First National City Bank and its subsidiaries, and 
that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

, Of <"'Ol 
B O A R D • F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
3/23/71 
2 1 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 23, 1971 
Bamerical International 
Financial Corporation 
Bank of America Center 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 22, 1971, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("BIFC") to 
purchase and hold 100 per cent of the authorized capital of a de novo 
finance company ("FC") to be established in Panama City, Republic of 
Panama, at a cost of approximately $100,000, provided the shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board
T
s consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of FC by BIFC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That BIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FC if FC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if FC establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Panama or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to BIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FC as it may require from time 
to time; and 

Bamerical International 
Financial Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if FC were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by FC in Panama in the cur-
rency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco, with copies of Articles of Association, Memo-
randum of Association, and By-Laws of FC. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, Bank of America National Trust and Savings Associa-
tion and its other subsidiaries, and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

• « . . 
• 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
3/23/71 
A O O R E 5 5 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 23, 1971 
Chase International 
Investment Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letters of November 19 and 
November 20, 1970, and February 24, 1971, regarding your acquisition 
of additional shares of Costa Rican Farms S.A. ("the Company"), a 
Costa Rican company engaged in growing rice. 
The Board understands that in view of the serious financial 
difficulties of the Company, your Corporation has' now acquired, pur-
suant to the provisions of paragraph 9 of Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act, 50 per cent of the outstanding shares of the Company and 
an irrevocable proxy to vote all of the remaining shares. 
It is fur-
ther understood, that various financial alternatives are being con-
sidered which will result in the orderly liquidation of the Company 
or recapitalization through increased equity funds in which event it 
is-intended to reduce your Corporation's equity interest to approxi-
mately 25 per cent and cancel the irrevocable proxy now in effect. 
In view of the provisions of paragraph 9 of Section 25(a), 
the Board interposes no .objection to the temporary acquisition of the 
additional shares of the Company and your exercise of the proxy to 
Vote the remaining shares. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, at intervals of six months from the date of 
this letter, as to the status of your investment in the Company and 
actions taken for its possible liquidation or recapitalization. 
It 
is contemplated that control of this nonfinancial business will be 
relinquished by your Corporation as soon as practicable and it is 
hoped that this will be accomplished within not more than two years. 
,V/sry truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

727 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m N o . 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
3/23/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
M a r c h 23, 1971 
The Honorable William P r o x m i r e 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Senator P r o x m i r e : 
In vour letter of March 11, you asked two questions about my letters 
2 
h 
c l l i t t e e on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs r e g a r ^ g 
proposals to exempt the Export-Import Bank f r o m the budget totals 
and expenditure ceilings. 
First 
vou note that my letter last year included a paragraph that 
wa^ omitted in this year's letter, and you ask whether its omissron 
y e a r indicates a change in the Board's position. 
The paragraph 
in question reads as follows: 
"The Board is fully aware of the desirability of 
expanding U. S. exports to help improve our balance 
of payments. 
However, not all Export-Import Bank 
loans result in additional, export sales. 
This is 
especially true when the Bank finances the sale of 
U 
S 
goods for which there is little or no competition 
in world markets: 
Frequently the Bank's loans are 
substitutes for other financing in the United States 
or f r o m abroad. 
Finally, to the extent that the 
Bank's credit is used to substitute for offshore 
financing of our exports, our balance of payments 
will suffer. " 
Each of those sentences, taken by itself, seems fair and aecurate. 
The Board is aware of the need to expand exports 
Not all of the 
Bank's loans"expand exports; nobody bats 1. 000. 
And it is 
^ e 
that U 
S 
goods are m o r e easily sold overseas, and so m o r e likely 

The Honorable William Proxmire 
728 
to be exported without assistance from the Bank, where the competition 
is weak. 
If I were rewriting the fourth sentence, I might begin it witn 
some word other than -frequently"--perhaps "occasionally" would be 
nearer the m a r k - b u t with that shift in emphasis, I would let the 
sentence stand. 
The final sentence points out an undeniable fact 
concerning the balance of payments: if Export-Import financing 
substitutes for foreign financing (as may sometimes happen) our 
balance of payments suffers. 
When I prepared this year's letter, however, I saw no advantage in 
Repeating the paragraph and the Board agreed. 
The paragraph 
distracted attention from the Board's principal position on the b i l l -
that special exemptions for lending agencies of this kind would weaken 
procedures designed to limit the demands of the Government on the 
cconomy and to establish priorities among authorized programs. 
This position reflects a principle applicable generally to Federal 
lending programs. 
Yet the paragraph might have been misconstrued 
as indicating that the Board's opposition to the proposed exemption 
stemmed from dissatisfaction with the operations or management of 
the Bank. 
I wanted to avoid such a misunderstanding. 
U t me turn now to your second question: Would the proposed 
expansion of the Export-Import Bank's discount loan program 
"substantially offset efforts by the Federal Reserve Board to pursue 
a restrictive monetary policy"? 
The Board does not believe that it 
Would 
However, the program is likely to result in shifts in the 
relative availability of credit to particular sectors of the economy. 
To the extent that banks hold "approved" export loans, they possess 
Assets that may be discounted with the Export-Import Bank at their 
option 
In a period of tight money the banks are likely to exercise 
^is option in order to accommodate the credit needs of their 
established customers. 
The Export-Import Bank, in turn, would 
finance its acquisitions of such discounted loans by borrowing in 
^ e central money markets, thus tending to put upward pressure 
interest rates and diverting funds from other uses. 
The program would not by itself enlarge the total pool of credit 
Available in the economy beyond that desired as an objective of 
general monetary policy. 
But by providing banks with a ready 
s°urce of funds in time of need, it would make new loans from banks 
easier to obtain and in effect transfer the pressures of such 

The Honorable William P r o x m i r e 
- 3 -
•accommodation to the central money markets. 
It may well be that 
the discount loan program is needed in order to encourage export 
financing in the first instance, but once the Export-Import Bank 
commitment is extended it could result later in an expansion of 
bank credit for other purposes. 
Such an expansion of bank credit would mean less funds available 
from other sources to finance businesses, State and local governments 
Homebuilding, or other sectors. 
The likelihood of such a shift of 
funds could be reduced by a requirement such as suggested in your 
letter, that commercial banks that obtain credit f r o m the Bank under 
the program certify that the proceeds would be used to make an 
e*port loan they would not otherwise make. 
With b est regards, 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 

m 
' • f ^ R t ^ : 
780 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
3/23/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 24, 1971 
Executive Office of the President 
Att: . Mr. Dwight A. Ink, Assistant Director 
Office of Management and Budget 
Room 9001 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Ink: 
A copy of the 0MB Memorandum of March 5 addressed to 
the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies regarding the 
Ash Council recommendations has been received by the Board. 
The Board's own experience does not involve sufficient 
contact with the regulatory agencies on which the study focused 
to make it possible to comment usefully at this time on the 
recommendations in the Report or the points raised in the Memo-
randum. However, we shall study the document, and look forward 
to the results of this important inquiry. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary 

7 3 0 A 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
3/23/71 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 25, 1971 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, Chairman 
Conference of Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
P. 0. Box 442 
St. Louis, Missouri 
63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
The Board has reviewed the recent actions of the 
Conference of Presidents and Conference of First Vice Presidents 
with respect to the creation of a transportation function de-
signed to expedite the collection of checks. During its dis-
cussion, the Board raised several questions with respect to 
the organizational and other aspects of the proposed program. 
Therefore, it directed its staff to pursue these matters with 
appropriate Conference personnel before any further action is 
taken with respect to the creation of the proposed transporta-
tion function. Mr. Mcintosh will be in touch with you shortly 
concerning the necessary arrangements. 
Very truly yours 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
