MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 14, 1969 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, July 14, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance.!/ 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Economic review. The staff presented an economic review of 
the kind customarily offered in advance of meetings of the Federal 
Open Market Committee. The reports were based to some extent on 
materials prepared for tomorrow's meeting of the Committee, and copies 
of such materials have been placed in the files of the Committee. 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Partee, 
Norwood (International Finance), and Ettin (Research) then withdrew 
from the meeting, as did Mr. Morgan, and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Shuter of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

fjt* f o 
7/14/69 
-2-
Unionization activities. Mr. O'Connell reported on the 
status of unionization activities at certain Federal Reserve Banks. 
Mutual fund shares. In a memorandum dated July 11, 1969, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation discussed whether mutual 
fund shares should be valued to include sales commission (load) 
charges for the purpose of determining the maximum permissible loan 
value under margin regulations. Representatives of the equity 
funding industry, currently engaged in adapting their operations to 
conform to newly-adopted amendments to such regulations, had asked 
whether they could select the public offering price (net asset 
value plus load charge) as the "current market value1' of a mutual 
fund share. The Board's ruling on that question would also affect 
others who lent on mutual fund collateral. 
The Division recommended that the Board require that the 
"current market value" of mutual fund shares be based on net asset 
value without regard to any sales commission or load charge. 
In discussion, Governor Maisel presented reasons why he 
believed a ruling different from that recommended by the Division 
would be preferable, and Mr. Partee indicated that he was inclined 
to agree with the view held by Governor Maisel. Other members of 
the Board also agreed, and representatives of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation advised that they would see no great 
problem in such a ruling. 

2274 
7/14/69 
-3-
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to the sending of a 
letter, in response to the question that had been raised, in the form 
attached as Item No. 1, with the understanding that the substance of 
the letter would be published in the Federal Register and the Federal 
Reserve Bulletin. 
Regulation T. Recent amendments to Regulation T, Credit by 
Brokers, Dealers, and Members of National Securities Exchanges, had 
subjected all broker/dealers registered with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission to its provisions. Companies engaged in selling variable 
annuities were among those required so to register. While a number of 
life insurance companies had formed separate subsidiaries for that 
purpose, it now developed that a few had registered the entire company 
as a broker/dealer, with the result that all lending operations became 
subject to Regulation T on July 8, 1969. 
In a memorandum dated July 11, 1969, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation recommended suspension of Regulation T requirements (for 
three months) as to the credit activities of the affected life insurance 
companies other than those relating to variable annuities. Regulation 
G would remain applicable to such other activities, which related chiefly 
to loan portfolio operations. During the period of suspension the Board's 
staff would consider the problem further in consultation with industry 
representatives and the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

2275 
7/14/69 
-4-
The suspension recommended by the Division was approved 
unanimously; a copy of the notice published in the Federal Register 
pursuant to this action is attached as Item No. 2. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Deputy Secretary 
< 

Kd^ 1 vt 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
o r 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20351 
Item No. 1 
7/14/69 
ADCIHCES Of-riCIAL CDDfltSFaNOCNEE 
T O 
T » : E 
B O A R D 
This refers to your letter of June 6, 1969, which asks for an 
opinion of the Board ci Governors as to whether the public offering price, 
of mutual fund shares may be used as a measure of their current market 
Value when the shares serve as collateral for an extension of credit in 
connection with the combined purchase of mutual funds and insurance under 
5 207.4(f) of the Board's Regulation G, "Securities Credit by Persons 
other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers," and § 22.1.3 (x) of the Board's 
Regulation U, "Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying 
Margin Stocks." 
Shares of most mutual funds are sold at a "public offering price" 
which exceeds the "net asset value" (redemption price) by the amount ot 
the sales commission or "load" of about 9.3 per cent. The public offering 
Price thus represents the investor's cost, and the Board concludes that 
It would be appropriate to use this cost as a measure of current market 
value in computing the maximum lean value of such shares in connection with 
sections 207.4(1') of Regulation G and 221.3 (x) of Regulation I). 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 2 
7/14/69 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. T] 
PART 220 - CREDIT BY BROKERS 
AND DEALERS 
Notice of Request and Order for Suspension 
Notice is hereby given that request has been made to the Board 
°f Governors of the Federal Reserve System, by several life insurance 
companies who have registered or expect to register as broker-dealers 
Wltli the Securities and Exchange Commission, that this Part 220 (Regula-
tion T) be amended to enable such conventional lending activities as are 
"^related to the companies' broker-dealer function to be subject only to 
Part 207 (Regulation G) and not to the provisions of this part. 
The insurance companies are presently registered with the Board 
°f Governors under Regulation G in connection with their conventional 
Ending operations which include loans secured by margin securities, as 
"efined by § 207.2(d) of that regulation. In addition, the companies have 
registered as broker-dealers under section 15 of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o) in consequence of the issuance and sale by such 
companies of variable annuity contracts registered under the Securities Act 
1933 (15 U.S.C. .77a). As a result of the recent amendment to the Board's 
regulations (Federal Register of June 11, 1969 (34 F.R. 9191, 9196, 
and 9203)) effective July 8, 1969, the definition of "creditor" in § 220.2(b) 

2278 
- 
2 
-
of Regulation T was revised to cover all registered broker-dealers. 
Accordingly, all extensions of credit and related transactions of insur-
ance companies who are also registered broker-dealers have become subject 
to the requirements of Regulation T. 
Inasmuch as extensions of credit pursuant to certain normal 
lending activities of such insurance companies would be in violation of 
Regulation T, although such extensions of credit are presently permissible 
under Regulation G and are distinct from any broker-dealer activities of 
the companies, the Board deems it appropriate in the public interest to 
consider a request for a remedial amendment, which would allocate lending 
functions of such companies between Regulations G and T, provided that 
such amendment would not contribute to the evasion or circumvention of 
the Board's margin regulations. 
In order to provide relief during a study leading to a more 
definitive resolution of the matter, 
IT IS ORDERED, That pursuant to section 7(c) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g(c)), the provisions of Part 220 be and 
hereby are suspended, for a period of 90 days commencing the date of publica-
tion of this notice in the Federal Register, insofar as they apply to any 
insurance company as defined by section 2(a)(17) of the Investment Company 
Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(17)) which is registered pursuant to sec-
tion 15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o) as a broker-
dealer, in respect of credit unrelated to transactions involving variable 
annuity contracts registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a) 
issued by such insurance company or by a company of which the insurance 

o o w q 
- 3 -
company or an affiliated person thereof as defined by section 2(a)(3) of 
the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(17)) is the principal 
underwriter or investment advisor; provided that such insurance company is 
subject to, and by appropriate registration and otherwise complies with, 
the provisions of Part 207 of this Chapter. 
Dated at Washington, D. C. this 14th day of July, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
• . 
<keal> 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
