PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
April 8, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
/'V J 
' 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, April 8, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
also attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved a letter to 
First Chicago International Finance Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, 
granting consent to acquire shares of First Chicago (Costa Rica) S.A. 
San Jose, Costa Rica. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1 

874 
4/8/71 
-7-
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to First National City 
Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent 
to acquire shares of Citicorp Maritime Lease (SKO), Inc., Monrovia, 
Liberia. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Northern 
Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Bailey's Cross Roads, Virginia, to 
become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of the 
successors by merger to Hamilton Bank and Trust Company, Bailey's 
Cross Roads, Virginia, and First Manassas Bank and Trust Company, 
Manassas, Virginia; the issuance of an order and statement reflecting 
that decision was authorized. The Board also approved unanimously, as 
a related transaction, the applications of Manaport Bank, Manassas, 
Virginia, to merge with First Manassas Bank and Trust Company and to 
become a member of the Federal Reserve System. Attached under Item No. 3 
are copies of the order and statement relating to the application of 
Northern Virginia Bankshares and the order relating to the application 
of Manaport Bank. A copy of the letter approving System membership for 
Manaport Bank is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of Colorado CNB 
Bankshares, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of First National 
Bank of Sterling, Sterling, Colorado, and authorized the issuance of an 
order reflecting this decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 5. 

O 4 v> 
4/8/71 
-3-
The Board approved unanimously two telegrams to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston regarding real estate exchanges and lease termi-
nations related to the Bank's building program. Copies are attached as 
Items 6 and 7. 
Bank of California. In a memorandum dated March 29, 1971, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation expressed the view that, on 
balance, approval of the application of Bank of California National 
Association, San Francisco, California, to establish a branch in London, 
England, would be warranted. 
There was agreement with a suggestion that language be included 
in the letter of approval to alert the bank that the Board's staff would 
be expected to follow developments closely and bring to the Board for 
review any questions that might arise as to the relationship between 
operations of the London branch and the ability of the parent bank to 
provide support in terms of capital and management. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to the sending of a 
letter in the form attached as Item No. 8. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas. Unanimous approval was given to a 
letter to Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, 
New York, denying its request for waiver of reporting requirements 
contained in certain Board consents and in section 211.8(d) of Regula-
tion K, Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing under the 
Federal Reserve Act. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 9. 

87G 
4/8/71 
-4-
First Florida Bancorporation. The Board authorized the issuance 
of an order reflecting approval on March 25, 1971, of the application of 
First Florida Bancorporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of Midway 
Bank at Tampa. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 10. 
City and County Bank. The Division of Supervision and Regulation, 
in a memorandum dated April 2, 1971, recommended denial of the application 
of City and County Bank, Powell, Tennessee, (a proposed new bank), for 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. All factors appeared satis-
factory except management. The proposed new bank had applied for deposit 
insurance in 1970, but had withdrawn the application after the Regional 
Director of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation indicated that he 
would recommend denial. 
In discussion it was noted that there was no indication that the 
regional staff of the FDIC had changed its view in the past few months, 
and it was agreed that an authoritative statement of position should be 
requested from the FDIC's Washington headquarters. 
IRS request. In a memorandum dated April 2, 1971, the Legal 
Division discussed the request of the Internal Revenue Service, in 
connection with expected tax litigation, for (1) access to copies of 
the reports of examination of Gallatin Trust and Savings Bank, Bozeman, 
Montana, for certain years and (2) consent for the Service to interview 
and, if necessary, use as expert witnesses Federal Reserve examiners 

4/8/71 
-5-
familiar with the operations of the member bank during the years in 
question. The Division's recommendation for compliance with the 
request,under certain conditions, was reflected in an attached draft 
letter. 
Discussion developed agreement with somewhat more restrictive 
conditions suggested by Mr. Solomon, as a result of which the letter 
was approved unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 11. 
In this connection the Board delegated to its General Counsel, 
in consultation with the Director of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation, the responsibility of authorizing, in the Board's name, 
such use of the examination reports as might be deemed appropriate to 
the proof of issues at trial. 
State lotteries. In November 1970 the Board, the Comptroller 
of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation took 
• . . . : : • . • ' 
-i 
, i 
rt 
» " 
' 
> ' 
the position that no opposition would be interposed to performance by 
banks of a list of proposed activities on behalf of the New Jersey 
State Lottery Commission. A bank in New Jersey had now inquired 
whether certain activities enumerated in a manual issued by State 
lottery authorities exceeded those authorized under the concept of 
"safekeeping.11 It had become known also that activities described in 
the New Jersey manual apparently were being conducted in New York by 
member banks for the New York State lottery. 

4/8/71 
-5-
In a memorandum dated March 26, 1971, the Legal Division 
presented several alternative positions, the one recommended being 
that the Board find that the activities described in the New Jersey 
manual (and those conducted by the New York member banks) were incon-
sistent with section 9A of the Federal Reserve Act (the "Bank Lottery 
Act") and not in accord with the understanding between the Lottery 
Commission and the respective bank supervisory staffs as to the scope 
of permissible activities. 
Discussion reflected tentative agreement with the recommended 
alternative, but it was felt that in the interest of adoption of a 
uniform position by the three Federal bank supervisory agencies the 
question should be presented by Governor Mitchell to the Interagency 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. It was understood that that 
procedure would be followed. 
Conservation savings bonds. After a discussion during which 
certain changes in language were agreed upon, the Board unanimously 
p r o v e d a letter to the Office of Management and Budget regarding 
s- 43, a bill to authorize the issuance of United States conservation 
savings bonds. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 12. 
Legislative recommendations. With a memorandum dated March 30, 
1971, the Legal Division submitted a printer's proof of legislative 
^commendations for inclusion in the Board's Annual Report for 1970, 
reflecting revisions suggested at the meeting on March 18. 

879 
4/8/71 
-7-
The principal change agreed upon during today's discussion was 
deletion of the last paragraph of the portion of the proof regarding 
lending authority of Federal Reserve Banks, the decision of the Board 
being simply to repeat the recommendation made in the preceding year's 
Annual Report. Other changes were editorial. 
The publication of the recommendations, as revised, in the 
Annual Report was then approved unanimously. 
Nassau visit. Governor Brimmer stated that he would discuss 
with Governor Sherrill a proposal to authorize an appropriate member of 
the staff to make a brief visit to Nassau in the near future to obtain 
first-hand impressions of the banking environment, including the func-
tioning of the Nassau shell branches. 
i 
. 
.. •• 
• 
The meeting then adjourned. 
* 1) 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
4/8/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 8, 1971 
First Chicago International 
Finance Corporation 
One First National Plaza 
Chicago, Illinois 60670 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 5, 1971, and 
on the basis of information furnished, the Board of Governors grants 
consent for your Corporation ("FCIFC") to purchase and hold all of 
the shares of First Chicago (Costa Rica) S.A. ("FCCR"), San Jose, 
Costa Rica, at a cost of approximately $10,000, provided such shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed acquisition and holding 
of shares of FCCR by FCIFC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions : 
(1) That FCIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FCCR if FCCR at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if FCCR establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Costa Rica or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to FCIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FCIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FCCR as it may require from time 
to time; 

881 
First Chicago International 
Finance Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FCCR 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if FCCR were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 
(4) That FCCR will confine its leasing activities essen-
tially to the leasing of equipment under leases under 
which FCCR will recover the full costs of acquisition 
and any other expenses expected to be incurred by FCCR 
during the lease, and that FCCR shall not acquire equip-
ment for leasing before the prospective lessee has 
executed the lease agreement. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by FCCR in Costa Rica 
in the currency of that country,, 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of FCCR. 
The foregoing consent: is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
a s they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, The First National Bank of Chicago, and First 
Chicago International Banking Corporation, and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

382 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
4/8/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 8, 1971 
First National City 
Overseas Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 25, 1971, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to purchase 
and hold all of the stock of Citicorp Maritime Lease (SKO), Inc. ("CML"), 
Monrovia, Liberia, at a cost of approximately $1,000, provided the 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of CML by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in CML if CML at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a cor-
poration in which a corporation organized under Sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with the 
consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and hold 
stock, or if CML establishes any branch or agency or 
takes any action or undertakes any operation in Liberia 
or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time would 
not: be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2.) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of CML as it may require from time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CML be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if OIL were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That CML will confine its leasing activities essentially 
to the leasing of equipment under leases under which CML 
will recover the full costs of acquisition and any other 
expenses expected to be incurred by CML during the lease, 
and that CML shall not acquire equipment for leasing 
before the prospective lessee has executed the lease 
agreement. 

883 
First National City 
Overseas Investment Corporation -2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by CML in Liberia in the 
currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of CML. 
The Board also grants its consent for FNCOIC to continue to 
hold the shares of CML after CML borrows up to $5,000,000 with maturi-
ties up to seven years. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved wi11 be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as 
they apply to the foreign lending and investment, activities of your 
Corporation, First National City Bank and its other subsidiaries, and 
that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

13 
Item No. 3 
4/8/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
NORTHERN VIRGINIA BAN ICS HARES INCORPORATED, 
Bailey's Crossroads, Virginia, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition of 
100 per cent of the voting shares of (1) 
Hamilton Bank and Trust Co., Bailey's Cross-
roads, Virginia, and (2) First Manassas 
fiank and Trust Co., Manassas, Virginia, by 
^rger into two nonoperating banks. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Northern Virginia Bankshares, 
Incorporated, Bailey's Crossroads, Virginia, for the Board's approval 
o f action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares of (1) Hamilton 
B*mk and Trust Co., Bailey's Crossroads, Virginia and (2) First Manassas 

885 
! < 
, . , 
• 
, 
Bdnk and Trust Co., Manassas, Virginia; by merger into two nonoperating 
banks. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Virginia Commissioner of 
Banking and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 4, 1971 (36 Federal Register 2430), which 
Provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 8, 1971. 
Voting for this action: chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

886 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
NORTHERN VIRGINIA BANKSHARES INCORPORATED, BAILEY1S CROSSROADS, VIRGINIA, 
TO BECOLIE A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Northern Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Bailey's Cross-
roads, Virginia ("Applicant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application 
approval of action to become a bank holding company, through the 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares of (1) Hamilton Bank 
Trust Co. ("Hamilton Bank"), Bailey1s Crossroads, Virginia, by 
merger into a nonoperating bank of which Applicant plans to own all 
t he shares, and (2) First Manassas Bank and Trust Co. ("Manassas Bank"), 
Manassas, Virginia, by merger into a nonoperating bank of which Applicant 
Plans to own all the shares. 
The nonoperating banks have no significance except as a means 
t o facilitate the acquisition of all the voting shares of Hamilton Bank 
Manassas Bank. Accordingly, the proposal is treated herein as the 
Proposed acquisition of the shares of these two banks. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 

887 
-2-
receipt of the application to the Virginia Commissioner of Banking, and 
requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner recommended 
approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
°r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
tl*e transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
t o be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into con-
sideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. - The 10 
largest banking organizations in the State of Virginia, six of which 
a re registered bank holding companies, control total deposits of $5.01 
b l U i o n , representing 69.3 per cent of the deposits held by all commercial 
1/ 
anks in the State. 
Consummation of the proposal herein would result 
P ^ A l l banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect 
°lding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to 
^ate. 

-3a 
in Applicant becoming the State's eighth and smallest registered bank 
holding company, controlling .1 per cent of commercial bank deposits in 
the State. 
Hamilton Bank ($G.3 million deposits), located in suburban Washing-
ton, D. C., operates two officca in Fairfax County, Virginia,, and'has 
received permission to open two additional branches in Alexandria and Falls 
Church, Virginia. Hamilton Bank is one of the smaller of the 21 banks 
located in Fairfax County, an area dominated by the State's seven 
largest banking organizations. 
Manassas Bank ($1.1 million deposits) is located in a neighbor-
hood shopping center in Prince William County near the town of Manassas, 
approximately 30 miles southwest of Washington, D. C. Manassas Bank 
is by far the smallest of the competing banks located in the northwest 
Portion of Prince William County, and holds only about 2.4 per cent of 
the commercial bank deposits in that area. 
Hamilton Bank and Manassas Bank are located 25 miles apart, 
and do not appear to be significant competitors, primarily because of 
°verlapping ownership and management. Manassas Bank was organized under 
the leadership of the president of Hamilton Bank. In addition, each 
bank serves its immediate area, and neither derives any significant 
business from the service area of the other. Furthermore, it does 
n o t appear likely that competition between the two banks would develop 
i n the future because of numerous banking alternatives in the area and 
Vir8inia's banking law which precludes either bank from establishing a 
br 
Canch office in the county of the other. 

-4' 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of this proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance in any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any part of the United States, and would 
not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to 
create a monopoly. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicants financial condition and its management appear to be satis-
factory and its prospects, which are dependent upon those of its two 
Proposed subsidiaries, appear favorable. 
The financial condition and management of Hamilton Bank are 
satisfactory, and its prospects are regarded as favorable. The 
financial condition and management of Manassas Bank are satisfactory, 
and its prospects, which are favorable, would be enhanced through 
affiliation with Applicant. 
The Board concludes that considerations relating to the 
banking factors are consistent with approval of the application as 
they relate to Applicant and Hamilton Bank, and lend some weight 
toward approval as they relate to Manassas Bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
major banking needs of the areas served by Hamilton Bank and Manassas 
®ank appear to be adequately served by present banking facilities. Con-
summation of the proposal, however, would enlarge the lending base of each 
fcank; and moreover, Applicant may eventually become an alternative source 

890 
-2-
of expanded banking services to the larger banking organizations now 
represented in the areas involved. 
These considerations are consistent with, and lend some 
support for, approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusions, - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved, 
APril 8, 1971 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Hatter of the Application of ' 
MANAPORT BANK, 
' 
for approval of merger with First 
1 
Manassas Bank and Trust Company 
1 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BAN1CS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C, 1828(c)), an application by 
Manaport Bank, Manassas, Virginia, a proposed State member bank of 
fche Federal Reserve System, for the Board!s prior approval, of the 
Merger of that Bank and First Manassas Bank and Trust Company, 
Manassas, Virginia, under the charter of the former and the name 
°f the latter. Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved by 
the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the record, 
including reports received pursuant to the Act on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger, and in the light of the 
factors set forth 'in said Act, 

832 
- 2 -
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date concerning the application of 
Northern Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Bailey's Crossroads, 
Virginia, to become a holding company that said merger application be 
and hereby is approved, provided that said merger shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
of this Order unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 8, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 
i 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Of 
Coy, 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 4 
4/8/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 8, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Manaport Bank 
Manassas, Virginia 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal^.Reserve System 
approves the application of Manaport Bank, Manassas, Virginia, 
for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, subject to the 
numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
(1) Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and, except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the general character of its business or in the scope o£ 
the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
(2) The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate powers. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
that Manaport Bank will not conduct a banking business with the public 
Prior to its merger with First Manassas Bank and Trust Company, 
Manassas, Virginia. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
23 
- 2 -
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with special reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the Regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the Bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Board 
of Directors of Manaport Bank. A certified copy of such resolution 
should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
is limited to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank 
applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A„ Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosure 

895 
Item No. 
10 
4/8/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
COLORADO CNB BANKSHARES, INC., 
' 
Denver, Colorado, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of at least 
' 
oO p e r cerrt 0f 
voting shares of 
' 
^irst National Bank of Sterling, 
1 
Sterling, Colorado. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STCCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come "before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Motion 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
^2( a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Colorado CNB Bankshares, Inc., 
Denver, Colorado, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
S^ior approval of the acquisition of at least 80 per cant of the 
v°ting shares of First National Bank of Sterling, Sterling, 
Colorado ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller 
of the currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Co 
comptroller recommended approval. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 9, 1971 (36 Federal Register 26^3), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
a H those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
"the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
e£fect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
ari<l managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communi-
ties to be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant is the third largest "banking organization in 
Colorado by virtue of control of 6 banks with aggregate deposits 
o f approximately $282 million, representing 7.1* per cent of all 
^Posit 
s of commercial banks in the State. (All banking data are 
of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company acquisi-
tions approved by the Board through February 28, 1971.) Upon 
of Bank ($6.6 million of deposits), Applicant would 
increase its share of State-wide deposits to 7.6 per cent, and 
applicant 
would retain its relative position among banking 
°rganizations in the State. 

26 
-2-
On the basis of deposits, Bank is the smallest of the three 
banks in Sterling and, with about 16.5 per cent of market deposits, 
Bank ranks third in size among the four banks located in the relevant 
Market, defined as approximately Logan County. The largest bank in 
the market holds 52.8 per cent of deposits in the area. 
Applicant's subsidiary that is closest to Bank is separated 
from it by 115 miles. The record indicates that there is no signifi-
cant competition between Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiary banks, 
and none is likely to develop in the future. Apparently, there is 
kittle likelihood that Applicant would establish a de novo office 
the area served by Bank. Thus, it appears that consummation of 
Applicant's proposal would not eliminate significant existing com-
petition nor foreclose potential competition. Rather, affiliation 
vith Applicant should enable Bank to compete more aggressively with 
^he two larger banks in Sterling. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an 
Averse effect on competition in any relevant area. The financial 
^ 
managerial resources and prospects of Applicant, and its sub-
diaries, are regarded as consistent with approval of the appli-
Ca,tion. Bank's prospects for growth, continuity of management 
^ 
the recruiting and training of management personnel should be 
danced by consummation of the proposed affiliation. Also, Applicant 
e p o s e s to assist in providing customers of Bank with a number of 
landed and improved services with respect to loans and fiduciary 

services* Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the communities involved lend some support to approval of the appli-
cation. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
vould be in the public interest, and that the application should 
b e approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
bindings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
o f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such time is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
V the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
Authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 8, 1971. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

I t e m No. 6 
T E L E G R A M 
4/8/71 899 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
April 8, 1971 
Morris - Boston 
Board will interpose no objection to your Bank's temporary acquisition 
of real estate, as described in Mr. Byrnes' letter of January 15, to 
be used in exchange for termination of Comenitz leases and for 
acquisition of Gulf property, provided that, since the proposed 
exchanges are for the reported purpose of effecting tax savings for 
the parties from whom the Reserve Bank seeks to-acquire its properties, 
the Bank satisfies itself that it is not a party to an unauthorized 
device to evade taxes. This may be done by requiring the sellers 
(Comenitz and Gulf) to provide an opinion of their counsel with 
respect to the legality of the exchange device as well as checking 
with the local office of the Internal Revenue Service as to the 
appropriateness of the procedures proposed to be used. 

Item No. 7 
4/8/71 
T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
900 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
April 8, 1971 
In conjunction with efforts to minimize expenditures for lease 
terminations, it is suggested that a realistic construction date 
be established; then, after careful evaluation of costs, for 
maintenance, management, heating, real estate taxes, etc., con-
sideration should be given to allowing leases that extend only 
up to the anticipated construction date to run to that time. 
The Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building 
Plans should be consulted in the event it appears that the aggregate 
Payments for all lease cancellations will exceed $2 million. 
KENYON 
r 
Morris - Boston 
Reurlet February 22, Board notes without objection the payments of 
$207,000 already made for lease terminations and authorizes your 
proceeding with cancellation of the remaining long-term leases in 
accordance with the action of the Board of Directors on January 11, 
1971. 

B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
'jU. 
Item No. 8 
4/8/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 12, 1971 
The Bank of California National Association 
400 California Street 
San Francisco, California 94120 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission for The Bank of California National Association, San 
Francisco, California, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act to establish a branch in London, England, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject--to the provisions of 
such Section and of Regulation M. 
In passing upon your application for this branch, the Board 
considered the over-all condition of your bank, including its rela-
tively low capital position. This adverse aspect was somewhat tem-
pered by the fact that the proposed operations of the branch appeared 
to be moderate in terms of staffing, quarters, and volume of business 
to be conducted. The Board will have a continuing special interest 
in the operation of the branch and also in plans of the bank to bring 
its capital position into a more appropriate relationship to its ... 
over-all activities, including those at the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before May 1, 1972, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
vill automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened -for busi-
ness, furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch, 
fhe Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in London. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capi-
tal, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for 
Purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the 

902 
The Bank of California 
National Association 
-2-
Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments 
on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with the 
understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum 
reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United 
States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment required 
will be made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your bank and that due con-
sideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Your attention is directed to the enclosed copy of a press release 
of June 4, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Enclosure 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary^ ' 

'oOf cowV. 
MiUi^v 
•f^LRES^' 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
4/8/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P Q N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 8, 1971 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
This is in response to your letter of January 25, 1971, 
requesting specified waivers of the reporting requirements contained 
in certain Board consents and in Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. 
The Board's informational requirements in the fulfillment 
of its supervisory responsibilities in the international field are 
currently under review. Any changes in these requirements that are 
of a regulatory nature will, of course, be applicable to all Corpora-
tions and subsidiaries. In the meantime, the Board does not consider 
that it would be appropriate to grant waivers or suspensions of a 
general nature to the subsidiaries of a single Corporation. 
With regard to your subsidiaries which were acquired under 
Board consents prior to the 1963 revision of Regulation K, it is the 
Board's position that the utilization by those subsidiaries of the 
liberalized provisions of that revision requires the assumption of 
the concomitant requirements. Consequently, any acquisitions of stock 
by those subsidiaries under the provisions of Section 211.8(a) or (b) 
must be reported in accordance with the requirements of Section 211.8(d). 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

904 
Item No. 10 
4/8/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C# 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST FLORIDA BANCORPORATION, 
Tampa, Florida, 
approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Midway Bank at Tampa, Tampa, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY-
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act.of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
lQ42(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Florida Bancorporation, 
"^mpa, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent 
more of the voting shares of Midway Bank at Tampa, Tampa, Florida 
("Midway Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Florida State 

Commissioner of Banking and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application uas published in the 
Federal Register on January 20, 1971 (36 Federal Register 1373), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
l73s forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
tlle factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
e£fect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
ari(1 managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to k 
be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant controls 18 banks with aggregate deposits of 
^Proximately $360 million, representing 2.9 per cent of the total 
c°mmercial bank deposits in the State, and is the sixth largest 
dicing organization in Florida. (All banking data are as of 
3 0 
1970, and reflect holding company acquisitions approved 
thv 
u8h February 20, 1971.) 
Midway Bank (deposits of $6 million) is located in an 
ncorporated area west of the Tampa city limits. Applicant's 

lead bank is located in downtown Tampa; and a much smaller bank sub-
sidiary of Applicant is located near the eastern end of the city. 
These two present subsidiary banks in the Tampa area control about 
14 per cent of market deposits and, as a result, Applicant is the 
third largest banking organization in the market, defined as 
approximately Hillsborough County except for Plant City. Midway 
Sank controls only ,7 per cent of market deposits, which makes it 
the third smallest of the 19 banking organizations in the market. 
Therefore, consummation of the proposal will increase market con-
centration only marginally. 
Midway Bank and Applicant's smaller Tampa bank are not 
Regarded as competitors nor is it likely that they would become 
competitors in the future. They are located at opposite ends of 
'he city, about 15 miles apart, and there are several intervening 
kanks. Nor does Midway Bank compete to a significant extent with 
applicant's lead bank, despite some overlap in the service areas of 
th 
G two banks. Applicant's lead bank is a large wholesale-oriented 
institution, while Midway Bank is a small retail-oriented institution 
in general, they serve customers with different needs, 
^thermore, the two banks have been affiliated since I960 and 
c°^mon directors and officers serve both banks. Because of this 
tion, and the fact that Applicant's lead bank is better 
dipped to provide large credits and more sophisticated banking 

307 
^ 4 
services, it obtains business from I-iidway Bank's service area on a 
referral basis from Midway Bank. In addition, there are a number 
of banks in the area intervening between Midway Bank and Applicant's 
lead bank. On the basis of the facts of record, it seems unlikely 
that the two banks would become competitors in the future. There-
fore, it appears that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
not eliminate any significant existing competition nor foreclose 
significant potential competition; nor does it appear likely that 
consummation would have any undue adverse effects on other banks in 
the areas involved. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
fchat consummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely 
affect competition in any relevant area. The financial condition, 
Management, and prospects of Applicant and its subsidiary banks 
are regarded as generally satisfactory. Under the direction of 
Applicant's lead bank, the financial condition of Midway Bank 
has improved considerably; the management of Midway Bank is 
t6garded as satisfactory and its prospects appear to be favorable. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the corn-
unities to be served lend some weight in support of approval of 
tlle application because Midway Bank, through association with a 
large full-service banking organization, would be able to continue 
to offer specialized services, such as trust, travel, and inter-
national services, and would be assured a source of qualified 

908 
- 5 -
management and additional capital, if needed* It is the Board's 
judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in 
the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
o f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
0rtier, unless such time is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
ky the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 8, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Maisel, and Sherrill, 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Daane, and 
Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL] 
I 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 9 
4/8/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 9, 1971 
Mr. John T. Rogers, Director 
Tax Court Litigation Division 
Internal Revenue Service 
12th Street and Constitution Avenue, No W. 
Washington, D. C. 20224 
Dear Mr. Rogers: 
In connection with the trial of a number of tax cases 
pending before the Tax Court against Edward and Florence Towe and 
certain banks which they control, you request from the Board 
(1) copies of reports of examination made by examiners of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis of Gallatin Trust and Savings 
Bank, Bozeman, Montana, for the years 1965 through 1967, and 
(2) consent to interviewing and, if necessary, using as witnesses 
in the litigation examiners of the Federal Reserve Bank_of 
Minneapolis familiar with the operation of Gallatin Trust during 
those years. 
Pursuant to the provisions of 12 CFR 261.6(b), the Board 
will make available to your representatives information contained 
in reports of examination of Gallatin Trust for the years 1965 
through 1967 which is reasonably relevant to a determination of the 
issues raised in the tax cases pending before the Tax Court, with 
the proviso that such information is to be used for investigative 
purposes only and is not to be disclosed in any administrative or 
judicial proceeding without the Board's prior consent. The Board 
further consents to representatives of your agency interviewing 
examiners of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis familiar with 
the operations of Gallatin Trust during the years 1965 through 1967 
and to your use of one or more of such examiners as witnesses at 
any trial of these issues, it being understood that such attendance 
as witnesses would be secured by issuance of appropriate subpenas 
Squiring their appearance, and that any factual testimony to be 
given by any such witness be restricted to testimony which cannot 
be obtained by IRS from any other source. 

Mr. John T. Rogers 
- 2 -
Any information contained in the reports of examination 
referred to above that meets the "reasonably relevant" requirement 
will be made available for examination by your representatives on 
the premises of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, with the 
opportunity for notetaking and copying. We suggest that your repre-
sentatives communicate with Mr. Lester J. Gable, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, for the purpose of arranging 
a mutually convenient time for the examination of documents and 
personal interviews. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary-— 

Sil 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 12 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/8/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 9, 1971 
Mr. C. William Fischer 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Executive Office of the President 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Fischer: 
This is in response to the request by the Office 
of Management and Budget dated February 19, 1971 for the 
views of the Board of Governors on bill S. 43 "To authorize 
the issuance of United States conservation savings bonds 
in order to afford an opportunity for the people of the 
United States, through the purchase of such bonds, to par-
ticipate in the financing of programs to conserve and improve 
the Nation's environment." 
The Board is in accord with the position of the 
Treasury Department as that position is developed in the 
draft report on S. 43 submitted by the Treasury Department. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
