MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 8, 1969 

2491 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Friday, August 8, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics JJ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
All of the members of the research divisions except Mr. Partee 
of the Division of Research and Statistics and Mr. Norwood of the 
Division of International Finance then withdrew and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Schober, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2 4 
8/8/69 
-2-
Messrs. Doyle and Lynch of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Goodfellow and Hochstatter of 
the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, 
St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco on August 7, 1969, of 
the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
First National City. First National City Overseas Investment 
Corporation, New York, New York, had requested permission to acquire a 
controlling interest in Nan Shan Life Insurance Company, Limited, Taipei, 
Taiwan. 
As brought out in a memorandum from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation dated July 31, 1969, this case was regarded as having 
precedential importance since it was the first time that an Edge 
corporation had sought to acquire directly a controlling interest in a 
foreign company doing a general life insurance business. While the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York recommended that the application be 
approved, the Division favored denial. 
First National City had provided information indicating that 
in addition to Nan Shan there were eight life and/or casualty insurance 
companies in Taiwan. One of them was owned and operated by the Taiwan 

2433 
8/8/69 
-3-
Government, while another was the insurance department of a government 
bank. Shares of all of the remaining insurance companies reportedly 
were held to some degree by local commercial or savings banks; and in 
the case of five of the companies, majority ownership was said to reside 
with banks. 
The available information further indicated that life insurance 
coverage in Taiwan was usually provided in the form of endowment policies 
and that in the case of Nan Shan approximately 94 per cent of its policies 
were endowment contracts. First National City therefore argued that 
Nan Shan was "more in the nature of a savings institution than the kind 
life insurance company commonly understood in the U. S." 
However, 
applicant also noted that there was "a growing demand on the part of the 
public in Taiwan for more imaginative forms of insurance and it will 
probably be necessary for us to meet those demands....". 
The applicant pointed out that its parent's single branch office 
in Taiwan was precluded from accepting any form of local deposits and 
from opening additional branches, that it was important to acquire alter-
native access to the local currency cash-flow stream, and that participation 
in one of the small insurance companies in the Taiwan market would help 
the organization toward its goal of providing more flexible services to 
its customers. 
Counsel for the New York Reserve Bank indicated that although 
the question was not free from doubt, she was inclined to the view that 

8/8/69 
-4-
applicant had provided sufficient evidence to support a determination 
that Nan Shan's business was usual in connection with the transaction of 
banking and financial operations in Taiwan. 
On the other hand, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
believed, on balance, that it had not been demonstrated that the ownership 
of a life insurance company was so usual to banks in Taiwan that denial 
of the pending application would place the applicant and its parent 
bank at a distinct disadvantage vis-a-vis local banks. In the broader 
context, approval of the application would have precedential implications 
in favor of a general entry by U.S. banks into the insurance business 
abroad. 
The Board's discussion of the matter was inconclusive. Three 
members (Chairman Martin and Governors Mitchell and Sherrill) were 
inclined toward approval of the application on the basis of the peculiarities 
of the market situation as it appeared to exist in Taiwan. 
However, 
they noted that possibly the information presented had not afforded a 
sufficie nt understanding of the local environment. 
The other two Board members leaned toward denial. While conceding 
that the question was not open and shut, Governor Robertson expressed 
misgivings about allowing a subsidiary of a U.S. bank to go into the 
insurance business abroad at a time when, in this country, the range of 
permissible activities for one-bank holding companies, including insurance 
activities, was being debated. Also, although the Nan Shan insurance 

2495 
8/8/69 
-5-
company currently provided only a limited range of services, there was 
indication in the application that expansion into additional kinds of 
business was contemplated. 
Governor Brimmer referred to several respects in which the 
information furnished concerning banks and insurance companies in 
Taiwan, and the interrelationships, did not appear complete enough to 
permit reaching a firm judgment. 
If the situation could be clarified, 
he indicated that his present view with regard to the application might 
be changed. He added, however, that First National City Bank must have 
been aware of the restrictions that would be involved when it applied 
for its branch in Taiwan, which led him to wonder why the situation 
had not been developed more fully when that application was made. 
In the circumstances, there was agreement with Chairman Martin's 
suggestion that the application be held over for further consideration 
at a time when other members of the Board could participate in the 
decision. 
It was understood that in the meantime the staff would 
endeavor to develop additional information regarding the Taiwan market. 
Amendment to Regulation Z. The staff had proposed an amendment 
to Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, in regard to a provision relating to 
discounts granted by creditors for prompt payment of bills. Under the 
amendment, creditors offering discounts for prompt payment of single-
payment transactions would be required to state the amount of the 

24 SQ 
8/8/69 
-6-
"finance charge" and the "annual percentage rate" only if the discount 
exceeded 5 per cent, and computation of the "annual percentage rate," 
when it must be stated, was simplified. At present, creditors were 
required to state the "finance charge" and the "annual percentage rate" 
no matter what the discount. 
The reason for the proposal was that it had developed, since 
Regulation Z went into effect, that many creditors had discontinued 
the offering of discounts for prompt payment because of their inability 
to comply with the applicable provision of the regulation or because 
they had found compliance with the provision to be exceedingly difficult. 
That was especially true in the case of agricultural types of credit 
where frequently the amount of the discount was related to weight, 
volume, number, or other physical measure of the products, the prices 
of which also varied from week to week or month to month. The proposed 
amendment was intended to alleviate such problems. It was also proposed 
to clarify the use of discounts in single-payment transactions when they 
were combined with open-end or closed-end credit. 
In explaining the problem, Governor Robertson and the staff 
pointed out that most discounts of the type affected did not exceed 5 
per cent. They also brought out that it had proven extremely difficult 
to find a reasonable means of dealing with the problem without opening 
up the regulation to serious risks of evasion and that a number of 
possibilities had been suggested but discarded. 

8/8/69 
-7-
Other Board members, while expressing appreciation of the problem, 
noted some initial reservations with regard to the proposed amendment 
because it seemed in a sense to run counter to the basic philosophy of 
the truth in lending legislation. It was then suggested as a compromise 
by one member (Governor Mitchell) that the amendment include a requirement 
that the dollar amount of the discount be stated. The inclusion of such 
a requirement was regarded as feasible by the staff; accordingly, it was 
agreed that the proposed amendment should be modified in that manner. 
On that basis, the amendment to Regulation Z was approved 
unanimously, effective immediately, with the understanding that an 
appropriate press release would be issued on Monday, August 11, or such 
other date as proved feasible. 
A copy of the press release issued pursuant to the Board's 
action is attached as Item No. 1, and a copy of the amendment to 
Regulation Z, in Federal Register form, is attached as Item No. 2. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
8/8/69 
For immediate release. 
August 11, 1969. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
issued an amendment to its Truth in Lending Regulation Z to clarify 
one provision relating to discounts granted by creditors on sales to 
their customers for prompt payment of bills. The amendment is effec-
tive immediately. 
Under the amendment, creditors offering discounts for prompt 
Payment of single payment transactions will be required to state the 
'annual percentage rate" only if the discount exceeds 5 per cent. 
They will be required to state the discount in dollars and cents on 
each particular sale. The amendment also simplifies the computation 
°f the "annual percentage rate" when it must be stated. The original 
Provision required creditors to state the "annual percentage rate" no 
matter what the discount. 
Many creditors, for example, offer a 2 per cent discount if 
a bill that is due in 30 days is paid in full within 10 days. In a 
case of this kind, the creditor will no longer be required to state 
an "annual percentage rate." 
It has come to the Board's attention since the Truth in Lending 
law went into effect on July 1 that many creditors have discontinued the 
use of discounts for prompt payment. This is especially true in agri-
cultural types of credit where there has been special difficulty with 

2499 
-2-
compliance. Frequently the amounts of the discount in this area are 
related to weight, volume, number or other physical measure of the 
products such as 1 cent a gallon or $1 a ton. The prices of these 
products also vary from week to week and month to month. 
The Board's amendment is designed to alleviate these problems 
and to make it easier for creditors to continue discounts for prompt 
payment in this special type transaction. Most discounts of this type 
do not exceed 5 per cent and the "annual percentage rate" of those over 
5 per cent may now be calculated more readily. 
Technically, the amendment will replace Section 226.8(o) in 
the original Regulation Z. At the same time the Board clarified the 
use of discounts on single payment transactions when they are combined 
with open end or credit other than open end. 
Although the amendment is effective immediately, creditors may 
use until March I, 1970, any printed forms which were prepared before 
today in an effort to comply with the original provision. 
A copy of the amendment is attached. 

2500 
Item No. 2 
8/8/69 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAFTER 11--FEDERAL 
SERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Z] 
PART 226--TRUTH IN LENDING 
Discount for Prompt Payment of Sales Transactions 
I. Effective August 11, 1969, 5 226.8(o) is amended to 
read as follows: 
5 226,8 
Credit Other Than Open End--Specif1c Disclosures 
(0) Discount for prompt payment of sales transactions.--
(1) For the purposes of this paragraph, a 'transaction subject to 
3 226.8(o)" is a crcdit sale transaction which is not exerr.pt under 5 226.3 
and which is subject to a discount for payment on or before a specified 
d a
t e (e.g. 2% discount if paid within 10 days) or to a charge for delay-
ing payment after a specified date (e.g. $98 cash, $100 if paid in 30 
d a
y s ) . 
Both such a discount and such a charge are referred to in this 
Paragraph as a "discount." 
In the case of any transaction subject to 
5 226.8(o), .notwithstanding the provisions of the last sentence of 
paragraph (a) of this section, the creditor shall disclose on the invoice 
other evidence of such sale, as applicable; 
(1) Tho date of the sale or invoice. 
(ii) The rate of discount, the date by which or period within 
which the discount may be taken, and the date by which or period within 

p t r o i 
^vJiiJL 
- 2 -
which the full amount of the obligation is due and payable. 
(For 
example, "27,/10 days, net 30 days"; or "$1 per 
ton/10 days, net 30 
days.") 
(iii) The information required under § 226.3(b)(4) and (5). 
(iv) The amount of the discount, designated as a "finance 
charge," using that term* 
(v) 
If the discount shown for prompt payment exceeds 5% of 
the obligation to which the discount relates, the "annual percentage 
r
ate," using that term, computed in accordance with subparagraph (2) 
of this paragraph, but subject to the exceptions provided under 5 226.8(b)(2). 
(2) For the purposes of subparagraph (1)(v) of this paragraph, 
the annual percentage rate shall be determined by dividing the amount 
°f the finance charge by the least amount payable in satisfaction of 
the obligation and multiplying the quotient (expressed as a percentage) 
by a fraction in which the numerator is 12, and the denominator is the 
number of whole months (but not less than 1) between the first day of the 
monthly billing cycle in which the transaction is consummated and the 
first day of the monthly billing cycle in which the obligation becomes 
13a/ 
For example, a $1,000 purchase of feed subject to terms of 67o/10 
days net 30 days (or 67,/10 days, net E.O.M. ; or 67,/10 days, net 10th of 
the following month; or 67j20 days, net 30 days; or 67,/30 days, net 
30 days; or 67, discount for cash, net 30 days) results in a finance 
charge of $60, a least amount payable of $940, and an annual percentage 
rate of 76.567„ which may be rounded to 76.50% or 76-1/2/1. Terms of 
67,/20 days, net September 29 applied to an April purchase, assuming 
a calendar month billing,cycle, result in an annual percentage rate of 
15.317, (i.e. 
x ^ 
) which may be rounded to 15. 257, or 15-1/47,. 
In this example the 29 days in September are ignored and the denominator 
(5) is determined by the number of whole months in the period. 

2302 
- 3 -
(3) 
In a transaction with multiple discount rates (for example 
6 V 1 0 days, 47,/20 days, net 30 days), the largest discount shall be used 
f°r purposes of disclosing the amount of the finance charge under sub-
paragraph (l)(iv) of this paragraph and the annual percentage rate under 
subparagraph (1)(v) of this paragraph. 
—
( 
(4) 
In order to determine the applicability of subparagraph 
(D(v) of this paragraph and to facilitate disclosure of an annual 
percentage rate, if the amount of the discount for prompt payment is 
related, pursuant to usual business practice, to weight, quantity, or 
°ther physical treasure (e.g. $1 per ton or 1I per gallon) rather than 
expressed as a percentage of discount, that discount may be converted 
to an approximate discount rate and, under subparagraph (2) of this para-
graph, a reasonably accurate approximation of the annual percentage rate 
by 
using approximate or projected prices per physical unit determined 
°n the basis of past experience, current information, or projected 
a n a l y s i s . — ' ' 
(5) 
If by its terms a transaction 
subject to 5 226.8(o) is 
Payable in a single payment and no finance charge other than a discount 
or may be imposed, and such discount is not utilized for the purpose 
lib/ 
For example, terms of 670/J.O days, 47»/?0 days, net 30 days would be 
treated like terma of 676/10 days, net 30 days, which would represent 
annual percentage rate of 76-1/2%, 
il£./ For example, if terms of $3 discount per ton/10 days, net 30 days 
a
re offered on fertilizer that is expected to sell in a range of about 
to $52 
per ton, the annual percentage rate could be approximated 
f
°r preprinting as if it were 6% (i.e. $3 on $50)/10 days, net 30 days, 
that is, 76-1/27,, 

2503 
- 4 -
°f circumvention or evasion of disclosure requirements, the disclosure 
required by subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall constitute compliance 
w
*th the requirements of 5 226.8 and under j 226.9(a) shall constitute 
'all other material disclosures required under this Part." 
(6) 
If a transaction subject to § 226.8(o) is debited to an 
°Pen end credit account, disclosures shall be made as specified in 
subparagraph (1) of this paragraph and also as specified in § 226.7. 
The full amount of the obligation including the amount of the discount: 
way be debited to the open end credit account, under § 226.7(b)(2), and 
amount of any finance charge representing the discount need not be 
added to any other finance charge for the purpose of computing and 
disclosing the total 
amount of finance charge and the annual percentage 
rate under 5 226.5(a) and § 226.7. 
—
7 
(7) 
If a transaction subject to § 226.8(o) is not debited to 
an open end credit account, but either is subject to an additional finance 
charge or is payable by its terms in more than one payment, disclosures 
shall be made as specified in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph and 
a
lso as specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. In such 
a
 case, if the transaction is payable in more than one payment, the 
amount of the discount shall be deducted for the purpose of computing 
and disclosing the cash price under paragraph (c) (1) of this section and 
shall be added to any other finance charge for the purpose of computing 
I^d/ 
For example, if a $1,000 sale on terms of 27o/10 days, net 30 days, 
^s debited to an open end account on which V/a per month is charged, the 
Periodic statement under <S 226.7(b) (assuming no other transactions in 
the account) would show a previous balance of $1,000, a finance charge 
$10, and an annual percentage rate of 127». 

/ W O v ' i 
- 5 -
and disclosing the amount of the finance charge under paragraph (c)(8)(i) 
of this section and the annual percentage rate under paragraph (b)(2) 
of this section. — '
f
 
If the transaction is payable in a single payment, 
the discount may be disregarded in computing and disclosing such cash 
13f / 
Price, finance charge, and annual percentage rate. 
(8) Notwithstanding the provisions of the second sentence of 
Paragraph (a) of this section, the disclosures required under subpara-
graph (1) of this paragraph made on the invoice or other evidence of sale 
®ay be delivered subsequent to consummation of the transaction. 
(9) Amended paragraph (o) of 5 226.8 shall become effective 
August 11, 1969, but until March 1, 1970, any creditor may at his option 
use any printed forms which were prepared before such effective date in 
accordance with paragraph (o) of 5 226.8 in effect at the time of such 
Preparation. 
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to clarify the appli-
cation of the Truth in Lending Act to those cases in which a credit sale 
transaction is subject to a discount for prompt payment on or before a 
specified date or to a charge for delaying payment after a specified 
date, 
i3e/ 
For example, if a $1,000 sale on terms of 271/10 days, net 30 days 
is subject to an add-on finance charge of $100 and is payable in instal-
ments, the disclosures under 
226.8(b) and (c) would include a cash 
Price of $980 and a finance charge of $120. 
I3f/ 
For example, if a $1,000 sale on August 2 not under an open end 
account is subject to terms of 27,/10 days, net 30 days, thereafter 
Per annum until December 1, the disclosures under 5 22o.o(o 
and (c) 
would include a cash price of $1,000, a finance charge of $19.9j, and an 
annual percentage rate of 8.00X. 

2505 
- 6 -
b . The requirements of section 553 of Title 5, United States 
Code, i,?ith respect to notice, public participation, and deferred effective 
date were not followed in connection with this amendment. 
The effect 
of the amendment in g e n e r a l i s to provide -relief from a restriction and, 
In view of the unnecessary hardship on certain creditors in complying 
with the original 5 226.8(o), the Board found that following such pro-
cedures would result in delay that x^ould be contrary to the public 
interest. 
Adopted August 8, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
. 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 
