MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 31, 1970 

3635 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, December 31, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Western American Bank. Requests had been received from National 
Bank of Detroit, Detroit, Michigan, Security Pacific International Bank, 
New York, New York, and Wells Fargo Bank International Corporation, New 
York, New York, for permission to continue to hold stock of Western 
American Bank (Europe) Limited, London, England, after the latter acquired 
up to 100 per cent of the stock of Eurodeal Limited, London, and Eurodeal 
in turn acquired all of the stock of a securities house to be formed in 
Zurich, Switzerland. 

•3o3B 
12/31/70 
-2-
During initial consideration of this matter at the meeting 
on December 8, 1970, question had been raised by Governor Mitchell as 
to the manner in which the proposed transaction would be handled on 
the balance sheets. In a memorandum dated December 23, 1970, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation discussed the financial state-
ment of Eurodeal, the details of the transaction, the conditions that 
would be imposed, and the effect on Western American Bank. It continued 
to recommend approval. 
Following discussion of accounting principles involved, unani-
mous approval was given to the Division's favorable recommendation. 
Copies of the letters sent to the applicants are attached as Items 1-3. 
First National Bancorporation. Drafts of an order and state-
ment reflecting denial on November 10, 1970, of the application of The 
First National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares 
of Montbell o State Bank, Denver, Colorado, had been distributed,, (Upon 
reconsideration of the application on December 17, 1970, the denial was 
reaffirmed.) A dissenting statement by Chairman Burns and Governors Daane 
and Sherrill had also been distributed* 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents are attached under Item No. 4. along with the dissent-
ing statement. 
Pan American Bancshares. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated December 28, 1970, and other pertinent 

3o37 
12/31/70 
-3-
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of Pan 
American Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of First 
Bank of Plantation, Plantation, Florida. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that an order would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Valley Bancorporation. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated December 28, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of Valley 
Bancorporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of Farmers and 
Merchants Bank, Weyauwega, Wisconsin. The Division recommended denial 
of the application on the grounds that competitive aspects of the proposal 
would be adverse and would not be outweighed by convenience and needs 
considerations and banking factors. The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
also recommended denial. However, the Banking Markets Section recom-
mended approval. It concluded that the competitive effects of the proposed 
acquisition would be only slightly adverse, that there would continue to 
be a relatively large number of alternatives in the market, and that the 
acquisition would not appreciably raise the barriers to entry into the 
market. The Section evaluated the convenience and needs factor as of 
little importance. 
Today's discussion involved principally an examination of the 
pending application in light of the analysis and recommendation of the 
Banking Markets Section, which appeared to suggest approval of applica-
tions where the competitive effects were regarded as no more than 

3838 
12/31/70 
-4-
slightly adverse even though there was little or no showing of benefits 
from the standpoint of convenience and needs of the communities concerned 
or justification from the point of view of the banking factors. During 
the course of the discussion, reference was made to the pertinent pro-
visions of the statute, but there was some difference of opinion as to 
the manner in which those provisions should be interpreted in practice. 
One point of view suggested that the corporate interest was entitled 
to consideration and that proposed transactions should be permitted, 
even though there might be some indication of slightly adverse compet-
itive effects, if the transaction was not shown to be contrary to the 
public interest. Another view was that the language of the statute 
appeared to require denial of applications where there seemed to be no 
balancing factors even though the competitive effect was judged to be 
no more than slightly adverse. The staff was requested to give further 
consideration to this question. 
As to the pending application, some Board members felt that 
there were in fact considerations in favor of approval sufficient to 
counterbalance any adverse competitive effects. Mention was made of 
economies of scale that might be achieved, leading to improvement of 
services to the community, and a restructuring of banking alternatives 
that might be beneficial. Other members held that there was little 
showing of benefits from the standpoint of convenience and needs, at 
least in the documentation that had been presented. 

3639 
12/31/70 
-5-
In the circumstances, it was understood that the application 
would be considered further when additional members of the Board were 
present. 
Regulation Q. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to the 
Kent County Board of Commissioners, Grand Rapids, Michigan, regarding 
their request that the appropriate section of Regulation Q, Interest 
on Deposits, be amended to permit a county to maintain a savings deposit. 
A copy of the letter in the form transmitted is attached as Item No. 5. 
Foreign credit restraint. 
In a memorandum dated December 28, 
1970, Governor Brimmer had presented alternative recommendations regard-
ing actions that might be taken with respect to the Voluntary Foreign 
Credit Restraint Program. 
If there was no relaxation of the Commerce 
Department's Foreign Direct Investment Program, he recommended that the 
guidelines of the VFCR Program not be relaxed and that they simply be 
reissued in a form that would consolidate amendments already made and 
clarify existing language. 
If the FDIP regulations were relaxed moderately, 
he would revise the VFCR Program to exempt from the bank guidelines secu-
rities of international organizations of which the United States is a 
member. 
If examination showed that that would have only a very modest 
effect, he might also revise the guidelines to exempt export credits 
from the Western Europe short-term subceiling. 
It was reported at this meeting that a decision apparently had 
been made by the Administration to relax the Commerce Department regulations 
moderately. However, it was not clear when an announcement would be made. 

3610 
12/31/70 
-6-
Governor Brimmer pointed out that the exemption of securities 
of certain international organizations from the ceilings applicable 
to banks would bring the bank guidelines into conformity with the 
nonbank guidelines and would enable banks to participate in the proposed 
flotation of five-year bonds by the International Bank for Reconstruc-
tion and Development. In the past the World Bank had concentrated 
on long-term issues, but it now wished to move into the intermediate -
term area and participation by U.S. banks was considered necessary in 
order to make the forthcoming bond issue successful. The Bank was 
therefore anxious that an exemption from the bank guidelines be announced 
as promptly as possible. 
Question was raised whether it had not been the intent of the 
Board when the subject was discussed earlier to withhold announcement 
of any changes in the VFCR guidelines until the situation vis-a-vis the 
Government balance of payments program generally had been clarified. 
The proposed exemption for the securities of certain international organi-
zations was favorably regarded. However, some doubt was expressed with 
respect to Chairman Burns' position, particularly the time at which he 
had contemplated that any announcement with regard to changes in the 
VFCR Program would be made. In the circumstances, it was decided that 
no action would be taken today, that Governor Brimmer would inform the 
World Bank that the VFCR Program was being reviewed and some decision 

3641 
12/31/70 
-7-
on it probably would be made next week, and that Governor Brimmer would 
confer with the Chairman following the latter's return to his office 
next week. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Bank of the Commonwealth. Governor Robertson informed the 
Board of developments with respect to Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, 
Michigan, and other Parsons Group banks, in particular the prospect 
that Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), New York City, would 
reduce to possession stock of Bank of the Commonwealth held as collateral 
for loans to persons associated with the Parsons Group and thereby in 
effect assume the management of the Detroit bank. In announcing such 
a move, Chase might want to include a statement from him (Governor 
Robertson) reflecting his concurrence in it, and he would be prepared 
to supply such a statement. 
It was noted that some concern existed among the directors of 
the Detroit Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago with regard 
to continued Federal Reserve lending to Bank of the Commonwealth, and 
Governor Robertson said that he was to meet with the directors next 
month. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Kenyon then withdrew from 
the meeting. 

3S12 
12/31/70 
-8-
The Vice Chairman stated that in the absence of objection he 
would authorize a half-day holiday for Board employees this afternoon. 
No objection was indicated. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3813 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
12/31/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE DDAHD 
'•ffclLRESV. 
January 4, 1971 
National Bank of Detroit, 
Woodward at Fort Street, 
Detroit, Michigan. 48232 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of September 2 and 30, and 
October 16, 1970, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
bank ("NBD") to continue to hold the shares of Western American 
Bank (Europe) Limited ("WAB"), London, England, after WAB acquires 
additional shares, up to all shares not held by WAB, of Eurodeal 
Limited ("Eurodeal"), London, England, at a cost of approximately 
$172,800, provided the shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent regarding the proposed holding of 
the shares of Eurodeal by WAB is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if Eurodeal shall in any manner en-
gage in any activity or take any action whatsoever 
that would not be in accord with the conditions 
regarding WAB's activities detailed in the Board's 
letter of December 4, 1968; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, NBD 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Eurodeal as it may require from 
time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions, for 
its own account other than as underwriter or dealer, 
by Eurodeal be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if Eurodeal were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act; and 

3644 
National Bank of Detroit 
-2-
(4) That WAB shall not carry on its books (i) the shares 
of Eurodeal at a net amount in excess of its propor-
tionate share of the book capital accounts of Euro-
deal, after giving effect to the elimination of all 
all known losses, and (ii) any extension of credit 
to Eurodeal at a net amount not fully protected by 
Eurodeal's sound assets, after first allocating such 
assets to Eurodeal's other liabilities. 
The Board also grants consent for NBD to continue to hold 
the shares of WAB after Eurodeal acquires all of the stock of a 
securities company to be formed in Zurich, Switzerland ("Swiss com-
pany"), at a cost of approximately $116,000, provided such stock is 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. This further 
consent is granted on the same conditions as set forth in the second 
paragraph of this letter, substituting Eurodeal for WAB and Swiss 
company for Eurodeal. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of Chicago, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of Eurodeal and Swiss company. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the acquisition will be made with the resources of WAB and will not 
involve any transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from 
the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

c 1615 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
12/31/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
^ L R E ^ 
January 4, 1971 
Security Pacific International Bank, 
270 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10017 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 2, 1970, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("SPIB") to 
continue to hold the shares of Western American Bank (Europe) Limited 
("WAB"), London, England, after WAB acquires additional shares, up 
to all shares not held by WAB, of Eurodeal Limited ("Eurodeal"), 
London, England, at a cost of approximately $172,800, provided the 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent regarding the proposed holding of 
the shares of Eurodeal by WAB is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if Eurodeal shall in any manner en-
gage in any activity or take any action whatsoever 
that would not be in accord with the conditions 
regarding WAB's activities detailed in the Board's 
letter of December 4, 1968; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, SPIB 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Eurodeal as it may require from 
time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions, for 
its own account other than as underwriter or dealer, 
by Eurodeal be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if Eurodeal were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act; and 

3846 
Security Pacific International Bank -2-
(4) That WAB shall not carry on its books (i) the shares 
of Eurodeal at a net amount in excess of its propor-^ 
tionate share of the book capital accounts of Euro-
deal, after giving effect to the elimination of all 
all known losses, and (ii) any extension of credit 
to Eurodeal at a net amount not fully protected by 
Eurodeal's sound assets, after first allocating such 
assets to Eurodeal's other liabilities. 
The Board also grants consent for SPIB to continue to hold 
the shares of WAB after Eurodeal acquires all of the stock of a 
securities company to be formed in Zurich, Switzerland ("Swiss com-
pany"), at a cost of approximately $116,000, provided such stock is 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. This further 
consent is granted on the same conditions as set forth in the second 
paragraph of this letter, substituting Eurodeal for WAB and Swiss 
company for Eurodeal. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of Eurodeal and Swiss company. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the acquisition will be made with the resources of WAB and will not 
involve any transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from 
the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

3847 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
df" T H E 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/31/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 4, 1971 
Wells Fargo Bank 
International Corporation, 
40 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 8, 1970, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("WFBIC") 
to continue to hold the shares of Western American Bank (Europe) 
Limited ("WAB"), London, England, after WAB acquires additional 
shares, up to all shares not held by WAB, of Eurodeal Limited 
("Eurodeal"), London, England, at a cost of approximately $172,800, 
provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
The Board's consent regarding the proposed holding of the 
shares of Eurodeal by WAB is granted subject to the following con-
ditions : 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if Eurodeal shall in any manner en-
gage in any activity or take any action whatsoever 
that would not be in accord with the conditions 
regarding WAB's activities detailed in the Board's 
letter of December 4, 1968; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, WFBIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Eurodeal as it may require from 
time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions, for 
its own account other than as underwriter or dealer, 
by Eurodeal be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if Eurodeal were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act; and 

3 6 4 8 
Wells Fargo Bank 
International Corporation 
-2-
(4) That WAB shall not carry on its books (i) the shares 
of Eurodeal at a net amount in excess of its propor-
tionate share of the book capital accounts of Euro-
deal, after giving effect to the elimination of all 
all known losses, and (ii) any extension of credit 
to Eurodeal at a net amount not fully protected by 
Eurodeal !s sound assets, after first allocating such 
assets to Eurodeal's other liabilities. 
The Board also grants consent for WFBIC to continue to hold 
the shares of WAB after Eurodeal acquires all of the stock of a 
securities company to be formed in Zurich, Switzerland ("Swiss com-
pany"), at a cost of approximately $116,000, provided such stock is 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. This further 
consent is granted on the same conditions as set forth in the second 
paragraph of this letter, substituting Eurodeal for WAB and Swiss 
company for Eurodeal. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of Eurodeal and Swiss company. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the acquisition will be made with the resources of WAB and will not 
involve any transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from 
the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

3649 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
I t e m No- 4 
12/31/70 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANCORPORATION, INC., 
Denver, Colorado, 
for approval of acquisition of more than 
80 per cent of the voting shares of 
Montbello State Bank, Denver, Colorado. 
ORDER DISAPPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by The First National Bancorporation, 
Inc., Denver, Colorado, a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of more than 80 per cent 
of the voting shares of Montbello State Bank, Denver, Colorado. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Colorado State 
Bank Commissioner and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Commissioner offered no objection to approval of the application. 

3S50 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 11, 1970 (35 Federal Register 14352), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 4, 1971, 
Voting for this action: Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Voting against this action: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Daane, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

3651 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I 
| 
APPLICATION BY 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANCORPORATION * tNC., DENVER, COLORADO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
) 
MONTBELLO STATE EANK, DENVER, COLORADO 
I 
STATEMENT 
The First National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Montbello State Bank, Denver, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Colorado 
State Bank Commissioner of receipt of the application and requested 
his views and recommendation thereon. The Commissioner, replying on 
behalf of the Colorado State Banking Board, offered no objection to 
approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act 
provides that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would 
result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination 
f 
. . 
or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business 

3r r o 
O O / O 
-2-
of banking in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board 
approve a proposed acquisition the effect of which, in any section 
of the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to 
tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in 
restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive 
effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the 
public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. In each 
case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding 
company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant 
controls six subsidiary banks with total deposits of $593 million 
and is, by a small margin, the second largest banking organization 
1/ 
and bank holding company in Colorado. 
Upon acquisition of Bank 
(deposits $1.7 million), Applicant would remain the State's second 
largest banking organization and its share of State deposits would 
increase by only .1 per cent. 
1/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1969, and reflect 
holding company acquisitions approved by the Board to date, including 
Applicant's acquisition of First National Bank of Greeley ($40 million 
deposits), which was approved by the Board on June 9, 1970. Consum-
mation of that acquisition has been delayed by litigation instituted 
by the Department of Justice. 

3853 
-3-
Bank, which was established in February of 19 69, is located 
on a thruway on the southern fringe of the development of Montbello, 
a privately planned residential, commercial, and industrial community 
in Denver. It is envisioned that the Montbello complex will house 
40,000 persons and employ 10,000 to 12,000 persons by 1975. Although 
Bank is a relatively small bank, it has been affiliated since its 
inception with Aurora National Eank (deposits $13 million), which is 
located in Aurora, the nearest community to Montbello. Common stock-
holders own 87 per cent of Aurora National Bank and 91 per cent of 
Montbello Bank. 
Applicant's lead bank, First National Bank of Denver 
("First National") (deposits $507 million) and three other subsidiaries 
are located in the Denver area. The combined deposits of these sub-
sidiaries constitute over 22 per cent of area deposits, the largest 
share held by any banking organization in the Denver market. 
The 
lead bank, situated about 10 miles southwest of Bank, derives business, 
the bulk of which consists of commercial and real estate loans, directly 
from Bank's service area. First National has banking relationships 
with almost half of the firms located in the Montbello industrial park, 
and also operates a facility at Fitzsimmons General Hospital two miles 
south of Bank, which, despite restrictions on solicitation of business, 
has about $3 million in deposits. Consummation of the proposed acqui-
sition would thus eliminate present competition between Bank and 
Applicant's subsidiaries. 

3 8 5 1 
-4-
From Applicant's standpoint, the purpose of the present proposal 
is to obtain a charter to serve the Montbello development. 
The developers 
of Montbello, who control all commercial property within the development, 
refused to lease a site to Bank at the time of its establishment, appar-
ently because of Bank's unwillingness to agree to terms which would pro-
vide the developers a management and ownership interest in Bank. 
Applicant proposes, after acquiring Bank at a high premium,to move it 
to a site within Montbello. Under the proposal originally filed with 
the Board, the developers of Montbello would be allotted two seats on 
Bank's Board, and would have an option to acquire shares of Applicant. 
In considering this application, it has been a matter of 
concern to the Board that, upon its acquisition of Bank, Applicant 
would have the only banking office in the immediate Montbello area, 
and, with the close relationship which would be established between 
Bank and the developers, that situation might be perpetuated. 
Be-
latedly, the Board has been advised that the developers would 
waive their option to acquire shares of Applicant, and would pledge 
that "should the area develop to the point where a second bank is 
necessary or appropriate, and subject to the concurrence of the 
regulatory authorities and the availability of space", additional 
banking tenants would be admitted to the development. Assuming the 
good faith of the developers in giving this assurance, the Board is 
nevertheless of the view that the elimination of a present competitor 
in the area is not justified by the hope that competition will be 
provided by another source. 

3655 
-5-
Applicant reportedly has considered establishing a new bank 
in Montbello, a course which appears most appropriate both to the 
preservation of present and potential competition and to the service 
of the banking needs of the Montbello community. The proposed alter-
native was adopted because it was felt unlikely that chartering 
authorities would authorize a new bank in the area, in view of the 
recent establishment of Bank and the adverse effect which a new bank 
with a locational advantage might have on its operations. It appears, 
however, that Montbello, like most sections of the Denver area, could 
support additional banking institutions. That being the case, con-
sideration of the public interest dictates that Applicant's entry 
into that area be through establishment of a new bank, rather than 
through acquisition of the only bank now located in the area. 
Bank, particularly in view of its affiliation with Aurora National 
Bank, should be capable of withstanding reasonable competition. 
The Board cannot lightly assume, especially in view of the large 
premium contemplated in the present proposal, that both the 
organizers of Bank and its chartering authority incorrectly asses-
sed the prospects of Bank at the time of its establishment. 
Neither can we assume that regulatory authorities with chartering 
responsibility will be less sensitive than the Board itself to the 
benefits which new entry in this growing area would provide to 
competition and the public convenience. Finally, nothing in the 

3o5( 
-6-
present record justifies the Board in conferring on the largest banking 
organization in the Denver area an exclusive license of uncertain 
duration to serve Montbello. 
Consummation of the proposal would eliminate substantial 
present competition, and foreclose significant potential competition 
within the Kontbello community. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is 
generally satisfactory, their managements are capable, and prospects 
of the group are favorable. 
The financial condition and management of Bank are satis-
factory and its prospects, based upon the projected growth of the 
Montbello area, and in the light of its affiliation with Aurora 
National Bank, are favorable. 
These considerations provide no weight toward approval of 
the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of the instant proposal would have no effect on areas 
presently served by Applicant's subsidiaries, with the exception of 
the Montbello area. 
It is contended that because of the size and location, Bank 
is unable to provide for many of the needs of the Montbello area, which 
would be available from an organization of Applicant's size. 
It appears, 
however, that Bank, particularly in view of its affiliation with 
Aurora National Bank, is capable of meeting most needs of smaller 
and medium-sized customers in Montbello. Although its location is 

-7-
3G57 
not as convenient as one within the community, it does not appear to 
represent a serious inconvenience to Montbello residents and busi-
nesses. Commercial needs which cannot be met by Bank can be, and 
are being, met with reasonable convenience by larger banks in down-
town Denver. 
The establishment of competitive facilities in the Montbello 
area by a bank affiliated with an organization such as Applicant would 
represent a major convenience to residents and businesses in that area. 
But the present proposal does not envision competitive facilities; on 
the contrary, its consummation might well preclude establishment of 
consumer alternatives, despite the area's developing needs. Any 
benefits to the community which might result from the proposal could 
be attained through means which do not involve the serious anticom-
petitive effects of this proposal. These considerations, there-
fore, fail to outweigh the adverse effects of the proposal on 
competition. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would have adverse effects on competition which would not 
be outweighed by any other considerations. Consummation of the pro-
posal, therefore, would not be in the public interest and the 
application should be denied. 
January 4, 1971 

3658 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF CHAIRMAN BURNS 
AND GOVERNORS DAANE AND SHERRILL 
In our opinion, Applicant's acquisition of Bank, which has 
been established for less than two years and which has less than 
$2 million in deposits, would have no significant adverse effect on 
competition. The proposal would provide a means for assuring the 
Montbello community full banking services at a convenient location, 
which Bank is unable to do at present. For these reasons, and on 
the basis of the factors set forth in the Bank Holding Company Act, 
we would approve the application. 
Applicant's proposal results from a dilemma jointly faced 
by Applicant, Bank, and residents and businesses in the Montbello 
area. Applicant, desirous of meeting the developing needs of the 
community for convenient banking services, is precluded from estab-
lishing a new bank in Montbello because of the adverse effect which 
such establishment might have on Bank, which, at least partially 
because of a poor location, has developed slowly. Bank, which was 
unable to obtain a site within Montbello, is located on the wrong 
side of a major traffic barrier, is inconvenient to most Montbello 
residents now, and is expected to become more so as traffic increases 
with the anticipated growth of the area. Even if it were able at 
this time to obtain a site within Montbello, the loss which it would 
incur on its large investment in its present premises would likely 
preclude its taking advantage of the opportunity. Because of these 

8859 
-26-
circumstances, residents and businesses in Montbello are likely to 
be denied the benefits of convenient full service banking for some 
time. 
Applicant's proposal represents the only immediately 
feasible solution to this dilemma. 
Blocked from pursuing the pref-
erable and less expensive course of establishing a new bank in 
Montbello, Applicant would acquire Bank, and, accepting the necessary 
losses, would relocate it within Montbello, where it would offer 
full banking services to the community. 
It is unrealistic to suggest that Applicant's proposal 
would have any significant anti-competitive effect. 
Bank, at its 
present location, is not an effective competitor and lacks the 
potential to become one. Moreover, acquisition by Applicant would 
have the pro-competitive effect of eliminating a present obstacle 
to a new entry in the area. 
The majority's real objection to the proposal, it seems 
to us, is based upon its judgment that, if Applicant establishes a 
banking facility within Montbello, the developers of the community 
are unlikely to permit any other bank to obtain a site in the com-
munity. We are no more disposed than is the majority to look with 
favor on this type of entry restriction, but this is a matter 
extraneous to the present application, and one with which the 
Board cannot effectively deal in the present determination. 
The 
effect of the majority's decision is that,.because the developers 
may permit the community only one convenient banking facility, the 
Board denies it any. 

No alternative available to the Board in the present case 
would assure Montbello of competitive banking facilities. That 
being the case, our first objective should be to assure that at 
least one convenient source of full banking services is available. 
To accomplish that objective, we would approve Applicant's proposal. 
January 4, 1971 

3861 
BOARD • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/31/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 4, 1971 
Mr. John H. Brewer, Chairman 
Kent County Board of Commissioners 
300 Monroe Avenue, N. W. 
Grand Rapids, Michigan 49502 
Dear Mr. Brewer: 
The Board of Governors has considered the request, 
contained in your letter of November 3, 1970, to the Comptroller 
of the Currency, which was referred to us, that § 217.1(e) of 
Regulation Q be amended to permit a county to maintain a savings 
deposit. 
The Board has received a number of requests that the 
regulation be interpreted more broadly or that it be amended. 
Before taking action on any of these proposals, the Board con-
siders it desirable to make a thorough study of the effects of 
expanding the eligibility for savings deposits. Thus, the Board 
does not consider it to be in the public interest to act upon 
your proposal at the present time. 
In the meantime we call your attention to the fact that 
a county may have time deposits in a member bank. By staggering 
the maturities of its time deposits, a county might be able both 
to manage its financing satisfactorily and to realize a greater 
return than if it puts its funds into a savings deposit. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
