f 
FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
April 21.. 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
! 
. 
;; 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
i - 
•» i • 
. 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 
p.Uj 

J240 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, April 21, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
v > 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended. 
Merger and holding company decisions. The Board authorized 
issuance of orders and statements reflecting the following decisions, 
the pertinent documents being attached to these minutes under the item 
numbers indicated: 
Approval, on April 14, 1970, of the application of Peoples 
Trust of New Jersey, Hackensack, New Jersey, to merge with 
The Peoples National Bank of Hackettstown, Hackettstown, 
New Jersey (Item No. 1); 

J*> A * 
4/21/70 
-2-
Approval, on April 9, 1970, of the application of BancOhio 
Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire the shares of The 
Community Bank, .Napoleon, Ohio (Item No. 2); 
Approval,on April 14, 1970, of the application of Union Bank 
and Trust Company, Ottumwa, Iowa, to acquire the assets and 
assume the liabilities of Union State Bank, Richland, Iowa 
(Item No. 3). 
Bank holding company applications. The following applications 
were approved unanimously after review of pertinent documentation: 
First Florida Bancorporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire 
shares of Liberty National Bank of St. Petersburg, St. 
Petersburg, Florida; 
Brenton Banks, Inc., Des Moines, Iowa, to acquire shares 
of Northwest Brenton Bank and Trust Company, Urbandale, 
Iowa, a proposed new bank; 
U. N. Bancshares, Inc., Springfield, Missouri, to become 
a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of The 
Union National Bank of Springfield, Springfield, Missouri, 
and Springfield National Bank, also of Springfield; 
Dacotah Bank Holding Co., Aberdeen, South Dakota, to acquire 
shares of Bank of Lemmon, Lemmon, South Dakota. 
It was understood that an order regarding each of these decisions would 
be prepared but that a statement would be prepared only with respect 
v 0 
- ' . 
4 I :.' . • 
. : 
"iU' t' 
to the formation of U. N. Bancshares, Inc. 
1 iiU . 
tic. 
• , ... . • • 
hu 
Margin requirements. Regulations G and U apply margin require-
i < -i 
4 
t, { 
. - 
X 
.• 
• 
, . 
ments to credit extended to purchase or carry shares of mutual funds 
the portfolios of which customarily include registered stocks or stocks 
that are on the Board's over-the-counter list. Until July 1969, both 
regulations permitted a lender to rely on a list of such funds published 
by the Board. 
However, a survey indicated that virtually all funds 

I IplSSB!! 
I '^fit'' 
• 
-f o n * > 
1 
4/21/70 
-3-
belonged on the list. Also, mutual funds were being formed so rapidly 
that the list could not be kept accurate and up-to-date. Therefore, 
effective July 8, 1969, the list was eliminated and the regulations 
amended to make all credit to purchase or carry any mutual fund shares 
j I 
subject to margin requirements. 
The Division of Supervision and Regulation, in a memorandum 
dated April 15, 1970, presented the question whether credits extended 
before the effective date of the amendments to purchase or carry shares 
of mutual funds that were not on the list at the time the credit was 
extended became subject to regulation on July 8. 
One inquiry came from counsel for Nationwide Investment Company 
and its affiliates, which prior to July 8, 1969, had made a practice of 
extending credit on the shares of newly-formed mutual funds before the 
Board's list was revised to include them. If the loans were held to be 
subject to margin requirements, Nationwide would be a lender subject to 
section 221.3(q) of Regulation U, future loans to Nationwide would have 
to meet the collateral requirements of the regulation, and withdrawals 
and substitutions from current and future bank loans to it would also 
have to meet the regulatory requirements, including an adjustment for 
withdrawals and substitutions effected since July 8, 1969. 
The staff recommended that the pre-July 1969 loans be held to 
be subject to margin requirements, but that only the retention and with-
drawal requirements be applied, so that there need be no change until 

jf.Ay t 
4/21/70 
-4-
the borrower substituted or withdrew collateral. Nationwide probably 
would be unable to continue to operate in its present fashion, in which 
customers' securities were rehypothecated and frequent withdrawals and 
substitutions were necessary. However, Nationwide had been consciously 
exploiting a loophole in the regulation. 
The staff recommendation would impose a substantial bookkeeping 
burden on banks that had credits outstanding to Nationwide and had mis-
takenly permitted free substitutions and withdrawals since last July. 
Therefore the staff proposed that the Board authorize application of 
a simplified alternative rule, set out in an attachment to the memo-
randum. 
A second inquiry, from Southern California First National Bank, 
related to complications resulting from a loan to purchase shares of a 
mutual fund that was not on the Board's list at the time. 
In discussion, Governor Maisel expressed reservations about 
what seemed to be ex post facto decisions. Governor Brimmer then in-
quired whether any damage would be done as far as basic objectives were 
concerned if the Board were to rule that, while Nationwide became a 
section 221.3(q) lender as of July 8, 1969, the Board as a matter of 
policy would not require that loans heretofore made be brought up in 
margin status. Staff indicated that the Board had authority to take 
such a position, although it would be well to make it clear that no 
Precedent was thereby being set for the future. 

tzu 
4/21/70 
-5-
Further d iscussion developed a consensus in favor of the position 
Governor Brimmer hadxsuggested, and unanimous approval was given the 
issuance of a revised interpretation and appropriate letters. 
A copy of the interpretation subsequently issued is attached as 
Item No. 4, and copies of the letters sent to Nationwide Investment Com-
pany and Southern California First National Bank are attached as items 5 
and 6, respectively. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
4/21/70 
' 
* 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
PEOPLES TRUST OF NEW JERSEY 
1 
for approval of merger with 
1 
The Peoples National Bank of Hackettstown 1 
I 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Peoples Trust of 
New Jersey, Hackensack, New Jersey, a State member bank of the Federal 
Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that 
bank and The Peoples National Bank of Hackettstown, Hactcettstown, New 
Jersey, under the charter and name of Peoples Trust of New Jersey. As 
a n incident to the merger, the four offices of The Peoples National 
Bank of Hackettstown would become branches of the resulting bank. 
Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, has been 
Published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
Proposed merger, 

1.246 
- 2 -
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 21, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
/signed/ Kenneth /_. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY PEOPLES TRUST OF NEW JERSEY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
THE PEOPLES NATIONAL BANK OF HACKETTSTOWN 
STATEMENT 
Peoples Trust of New Jersey, Hackensack, New Jersey 
("Peoples Trust"), with total deposits of $556 million, has applied, 
Pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's 
Prior approval of the merger of that bank with The Peoples National 
Bank of Hackettstown, Hackettstown, New Jersey ("Hackettstown Bank") 
1/ 
which has deposits of $21.4 million. 
The banks would merge under 
the charter and name of Peoples Trust, which is a member of the 
Federal Reserve System. As an incident to the merger, the four 
offices of Hackettstown Bank would become branches of Peoples Trust, 
increasing the number of its offices to 33."" 
Competition. - Peoples Trust is the fourth largest bank 
in New Jersey's First Banking District and in the State, holding, 
respectively, 7.5 per cent and 4 per cent of the deposits. The 
hank operates its head office and 23 branches in Bergen County 
y Figures are as of December 31, 1969, except the deposits of 
Copies Trust reflect those acquired through its merger with 
p°rt Lee Trust Company on February 20, 1970 (1970 Federal Reserve 
£uUetin 150). 
2/ Includes authorized but unopened offices. 

1.248 
-2-
ahd has received approval to establish two additional branches in 
the County; it also operates a branch in Essex County and in 
Morris County, and has received approval to establish a second 
branch in the latter County. In addition, Peoples Trust is affili-
ated through common shareholders with two recently chartered banks 
in Bergen County, and a third such affiliate is being organized. 
Hackettstown Bank operates its head office in Hackettstown 
(population 10,300) in northeastern Warren County (population 75,500) 
and has received approval to establish an in-town branch; the bank 
operates two branches in the County, both of which are within 
five miles of its head office. The only other banking office in 
Hackettstown is a branch of Warren County National Bank (deposits 
$33 million). The nearest offices of Hackettstown Bank and 
Peoples Trust (including those approved but not yet opened) are 
2 6 miles apart, and there are a number of offices of other banks 
in the intervening area. There is no meaningful competition 
listing between the merger proponents. 
Hackettstown Bank is located in a market that is comprised 
most of Warren County, plus the Townships of Mount Olive and 
Washington, which are located in adjoining Morris County. There 
a r e 21 banking offices in this area, 19 of which are operated in 
Warren County by nine banks. Hackettstown Bank, with 12 per cent 
o f area deposits, ranks third in this respect. Warren County 
National Bank, largest of the eight banks that are headquartered 

in Warren County, is a proposed bank holding company affiliate of 
New Jersey's largest bank; the State's second largest bank operates 
three branches in Warren County. 
New Jersey law permits a bank to establish a de novo 
branch in the banking district in which it is headquartered, sub-
ject, however, to a home-office-protection feature for all munici-
palities and to a branch-office-protection feature for municipal-
ities with populations under 7,500. Hackettstown Bank, largely 
because of its size, does not appear to be a likely entrant into 
the area now served by Peoples Trust. There are 25 municipalities 
in the market in which Hackettstown Bank operates, but only six 
are open to entry by de novo branching, and the populations of 
these range from about 70 to 3,000. It seems unlikely that Peoples 
Trust would find it economically feasible to branch de novo into 
these municipalities now or in the near future. The merger of 
Peoples Trust and Hackettstown Bank would remove home-office-
Protection from Hackettstown, which is the seat of Warren County 
and the second largest of three major population centers in the 
Market in which Hackettstown Bank operates. The National Union Bank 
Dover (deposits $65 million), which is headquartered in Morris 
County, has filed an application to establish a de novo branch 
Hackettstown, contingent on approval of the application in 
this case. 
The proposed transaction would have no more than a slightly 
adverse effect on competition. 

1250 
-4-
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors with respect to each of the banks proposing to 
merge are satisfactory, except the capital of Peoples Trust needs 
to be strengthened. Peoples Trust is fully capable of increasing 
its capital and, it is expected, will do so soon. Thus, the 
banking factors with respect to Peoples Trust following its merger 
with Hackettstown Bank would be satisfactory. 
Convenience and needs of the community. - The effect of 
the merger on banking convenience and needs would be limited to 
the area served by Hackettstown Bank. 
The replacement of Hackettstown Bank by offices of Peoples 
Trust would provide a convenient alternative source of full banking 
services for the residents of the area now served by Hackettstown 
Bank and would remove home-office-protection in the case of the 
Hackettstown community. As was indicated earlier, a bank head-
quartered in Morris County has already filed an application to 
establish a de novo branch in Hackettstown. 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, 
the slightly adverse effect of the proposed merger on competition 
would be outweighed by the benefits for the banking convenience 
and needs of the Hackettstown community and environs. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application 
should be approved. 
April 21, 1970. 

1 . 2 5 1 
Item No. 2 
4/21/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
BANCOHIO CORPORATION, 
1 
Columbus, Ohio, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of up to 100 
1 
Per cent of the voting shares of The 
1 
Community Bank, Napoleon, Ohio. 
1 
- 
- . - i 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
fco section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)) an application by BancOhio 
Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, a registered bank holding company, 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of up to 100 per cent 
the voting shares of The Community Bank, Napoleon, Ohio. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
Notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent of Banks for 
State of Ohio and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Superintendent recommended approval of the application. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published In the 
federal Register on February 20, 1970 (35 Federal Register 3265), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
^as forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
0 r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 21, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary, 
(SEAL) 

12&J 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
BANCOHIO CORPORATION, COLUMBUS, OHIO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE COMMUNITY BANK, NAPOLEON, OHIO 
STATEMENT 
BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, Ohio ("Applicant") a registered 
bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of up to 100 per cent 
°f the voting shares of The Community Bank, Napoleon, Ohio ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
bV section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was 
given to the Superintendent of Banks for the State of Ohio, and his views 
and recommendation were requested. The superintendent recommended 
approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations.- Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
m°nopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
m°nopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, 

-2-
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any 
other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the effect of the transaction in 
meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. In 
each case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant 
is the largest bank holding company and the second largest banking 
organization located in the State of Ohio. It operates 23 banking 
subsidiaries, with total deposits of approximately $1.1 billion.-^ 
Applicant holds 6 per cent of the deposits held by all banking 
organizations in Ohio; its share of such deposits would increase to 
6.1 per cent as a result of the present proposal. 
Bank, which has $16.9 million deposits, operates two offices 
in Napoleon, Ohio (population 8,000), the county seat of Henry County 
(population 27,000). It is the largest of six banks in the county. 
Bank's principal competitor ($6.C million deposits) is 
headquartered in Holgate, Ohio, 11 miles south of Napoleon, and has 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1960, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

Jorrr-
-2-
two branches, including one recently established in Napoleon. Four 
other banks, ranging in deposit size from $3.5 million to $5.1 million 
a r e located in Henry County, 10-22 miles from Napoleon. 
Applicant's present subsidiaries are located in 22 separate 
counties in central Ohio. Henry County is in the northwestern section 
o f the State, and is not contiguous to any county in which Applicant has 
. 
..... 
* 
a subsidiary. Applicant's closest subsidiary is located 62 miles from 
NaPoleon, and no competition presently exists between Bank and any of 
Applicant's subsidiaries. Further, since Ohio law restricts branching 
t o the county in which a bank is headquartered, it does not appear that 
8uch competition is likely to develop in the future. 
Despite the fact that it is the largest bank in Henry County, 
it: does not appear that Bank has been an aggressive competitor. Its 
loan-to-deposit ratio is the lowest of the six county banks, and its 
° V e r l y conservative lending policy is also reflected in the fact that 
a t a time when no other bank had an office within eight miles of Napoleon, 
thr 
e e of them derived between 20 per cent and 25 per cent of their loan. 
bug"4 n 
from residents of that city. During the five-year period ending 
Member 31, 1968, Bank's loans increased by only 1.5 per cent, compared 
ltfl increases ranging from 6.4 per cent to over 74 per cent by the other 
f l v e banks. 
It appears that Bank's greater size, as compared with other 
banks 
u Henry County, is attributable to its more favorable location 
father i-u 
chan its competitive posture. Acquisition by Applicant would 

i ^ J O 
-4-
Ukely result in an increase in Bank's aggressiveness and in greater 
utilization of its resources to benefit its community. It does not 
aPPear that there would be any undue adverse effect on competing banks. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
o f the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly, nor be in 
furtherance of 
any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen 
c°ropetition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
o f the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects.-
financial condition of Applicant and its present subsidiaries is 
^nerally satisfactory and its management is considered competent. 
^uture prospects of the group appear favorable. 
Bank's financial condition is gatsifactory. Its principal 
e*ecutive officer and its cashier, however, have reached the usual 
retirement age, creating potential management succession problems. 
Bank's affiliation with Applicant would provide it with an assured 
8°urce of future management strength, and Applicant is expected to 
etl°ourage greater utilization of Bank's resources. Prospects of Bank, 
^ich are favorable in any event, would be enhanced by these measures. 
The Board concludes that considerations under the banking 
Actors lend some weight toward approval of the application. 

Io r 
-5-
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of the proposal would have no effect on customers 
served by Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
The record before the Board indicates that the major bank 
service requirements arising in Henry County are presently served by 
listing facilities. However, Bank's loan to deposit ratio has been 
low, and, in spite of the fact that Henry County is predominantly 
a8ricultural, only a small percentage of Bank's loans are agricultural. 
The proposed affiliation will encourage the liberalisation of Bank's 
conservative lending policies. In addition, Applicant intends to 
G*pand Bank's services by offering financial counseling, trust services 
at*d international banking facilities. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs factors, 
therefore, weigh in favor of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion.- On the basis of all relevant facts 
c°ntained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth in 
Section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acclnisition would be in the public interest, and that the application 
8h°uld be approved. 
« 
» 
A p r tl 21, 1970. 

12 
Item No. 3 
4/21/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
^ION BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
approval of acquisition of assets of 
union State Bank 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK'S ASSETS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Union Bank and 
Trust Company, Ottumwa, Iowa, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve 
System, for the Board's prior approval of its acquisition of assets 
a n d assumption of deposit liabilities of Union State Bank, Richland, 
and, a s a n incident thereto, Union Bank and Trust Company has 
aPplied, under section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 321), 
r the Board's prior approval of the establishment by that bank of a 
branch at the location of the sole office of Union State Bank. Notice 
^ the proposed acquisition of assets and assumption of deposit lia-
kiliM 
U1es, in form approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to 
t h e Bank Merger Act. 

1259 
-i-
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
fche factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed transaction, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Boardfs 
Statement of this date, that said applications be and hereby are 
aPproved, provided that said acquisition of assets and assumption of 
deposit liabilities and establishment of the branch shall not be consum-
"^ted (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order unless 
S U ch period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April21 , 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
/signed/ Kenneth A, Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 
y.. • 

1260 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY UNION BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF ASSETS OF 
UNION STATE BANK 
STATEMENT 
Union Bank and Trust Company, Ottumwa, Iowa ("Union Bank"), 
with total deposits of $41.8 million, has applied, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval 
°t its acquisition of assets and assumption of deposit liabilities 
o f Union State Bank, Richland, Iowa ("State Bank"), which has total 
d 
. 
1/ 
ePosits of $1.7 million. 
As an incident to the transaction, the 
sole office of State Bank would become a branch of Union Bank, 
^creasing the number of its offices to four. 
Competition. - Union Bank operates its head office and 
° n e branch in Ottumwa (population 35,000); the bank also operates 
a branch at Agency (population 700), about five miles east of 
0ttumwa. All offices of Union Bank are in Wapello County and it 
is fche largest of the three banks that are headquartered in Ottumwa, 
tlle County seat. The other two banks have deposits of $17 million 
y Figures are as of December 31, 1969. 
act?tate l a w P e r m l t s limited-purpose branch offices only; permissible 
lvities include receiving deposits and paying checks. 

^nd $11 million, respectively. The only other bank headquartered 
in Wapello County is at Eldon (population 1,400), about 15 miles 
southeast of Ottumwa; the bank has deposits of $2 million and is 
controlled by the chairman and president of Union Bank. The only 
other bank with an office in Wapello County is headquartered in 
Monroe County and has deposits of $10 million; the bank operates 
a branch at Eddyville, about 16 miles northwest of Ottumwa. 
The sole office of State Bank is in Richland (population 
5o°), which is in Keokuk County, about 37 miles northeast of 
Ottumwa. There is no other banking office in Richland. Three 
banks, with deposits ranging from $2 million to $10 million, operate 
f°ur offices within a nine-mile radius of State Bank. 
There is no competition between Union Bank and State Bank 
due largely to the restrictions of State law respecting branch 
inking, there is no potential for the development of competition 
between them. 
The effect of the proposed merger on competition would 
n o t be adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors with respect to each of the banks are reasonably 
Satisfactory, as they would be with respect to the resulting bank. 
Convenience and needs of the community. - The transaction 
w°uld affect banking convenience and needs only in the area presently 
3e*Ved by state Bank. 

Richland is a small community, the economy of which is 
heavily dependent on agriculture; it is not a trading or market-
ing center, and is not expected to increase in population. The 
nearest relatively large community is Fairfield (population 8,000), 
the seat of Jefferson County, which is 15 miles south of Richland. 
The chief executive officer of State Bank, who owns over 90 per 
°ent of the bank's outstanding shares and who is beyond the normal 
retirement 
age, wishes to dispose of his interest in the bank. The 
Proposed transaction would have the advantage of assuring the con-
tinuance of a banking facility for the Richland community. 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, 
the proposed transaction would not have an adverse effect on 
^ P e t i t i o n 
and would benefit the banking convenience and needs 
o f the Richland community. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application 
8h°uld be approved. 
A p r*l 21, 1970. 

Item No. 4 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
4/21/70 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 221—CREDIT DY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING 
OR CARRYING MARGIN STOCKS 
PART 207—SECURITIES CREDIT BY PERSONS OTHER THAN BANKS, 
BROKERS OR DEALERS 
[Regs. U and G] 
Credit Extended to Carry Mutual Fund Shares 
5 2 2 1 , 1 1 9 
Status after JulyJk 1969, of credit extended prior 
to that date to purchase or carry mutual fund shares „ 
(a) 
Prior to July 8, 1969, the margin and other requirements 
Regulations G and U applied to credit extended to purchase or carry 
shares of a mutual fund (secured by certain described collateral), if 
^ 
the portfolio of the fund did "customarily include" securities that 
0ul(1 themselves have been subject to the regulations and (2) the fund 
a s deluded in a list of such funds that the Board published for this 
Pui-"pose. 
.. .. .. 
(b) It was found that virtually all mutual funds met the 
"cus 
stomarily include" test. Accordingly, for administrative reasons, 
the 
ttoard discontinued publication of the list and restated the rule to 
c°ver nil 
1 mutual funds except those at least 95 per cent of whose assets 
a r e - n t l n u o u s l y l n v e s t e d i n e x e i r p t c d 
s c c u r i t i c 8 . 
(c) 
The Board made these changes, effective July 8, 1969, 
UeSulation G (Code of Federal Regulations, Title 12, Part 207) by 

AddiftS a new § 207.2(d) (while eliminating former § 207.2(c)(3) and 
§ 207.4(b)), and i n Regulation U (Code of Federal Regulations, Title 12 
> 
Part 221.) by adding a new § 221.3(v) (while eliminating former § 221.3(b)(3) 
Q n d S 221.3(d)). 
(d) The Board has received several questions respecting 
the effect of the amendments on certain stock-secured credits that 
V;ete exf!ended prior to July 8, 1969, to purchase or carry mutual fund 
*h«z*8 
and were treated as not subject to Regulations G or U at the 
>, j 
• m e of extension on the ground that the funds were not on the Board's 
P ubli s h e d list. 
(e) The Board has held that whether a loan is for the pur-
P o s e of purchasing or carrying a stock not registered on a national 
Purities exchange depends on the present status of the stock. 
Thus, 
C r e d l t i s tl"eated as one for such a purpose if used to purchase or 
,a s t o c ! : that became registered after the loan was made. 
(1937 
^Gdej-nl n 
-•a -eserve Bulletin 955; Published Interpretations <J 6435). The 
° n V t i : S e i s a l s o true (1938 Federal Reserve Bulletin 90; Published 
lnterpretations 
(f) The same principle applies t:o the closely parallel 
^ s t i o n • 
in the present case. Credits extended before July 8, 1969, to 
putchaSe 
or carry shares in the mutual funds in question were for the 
PuirPosG 
Purchasing or carrying "margin stocks" (Regulation U) or 
Vfr» i n 
^ 
' S C c urities" (Regulation G) even though, at the time of extension, 
funds were not on the Board's published list. Accordingly, if col-
terai• 
l2Gd as specified in the regulations, the credits were subject 

H 
f 
l.MJiJ 
-2-
t 0 t h e Pertinent regulation from the effective date of the amendments, 
July 8, 1969. 
(g) In applying the above interpretation, it should be borne 
in * 
™.nd that the Board's margin regulations are based on (1) the require-
m Q n t 
a n initial deposit in connection with the original extension of 
tcdit, and (2) limitations on substitutions or withdrawals of the 
c°Uateral securing a credit. 
(h) In the latter category, the Board's margin regulations 
PPly a retention requirement to proceeds of a sale of collateral in an 
margined loan (except for a same-day sale-and-purchase substitution) 
° I d c r t o strengthen the margin status of the loan (§ 207.l(j) of Regu-
a t l° U G a n d § 221.1(b) of Regulation I!). While this requirement became 
PPiicable on July 8, 1969, to credit previously extended to purchase 
) a r Q S x n m u tual funds that had not been on the Board's list prior to 
a t date, the Board, in view of all the circumstances, will not insist 
^p o 
^constitution of loans to take account of withdrawals and substi-
tu t * 
ions of collateral before April 27, 1970, the date of issuance of 
this i n t orpretation, even though henceforth all withdrawals and substi-
tiono m u s t comply with the. requirement. 
(i) Application of <S 221 .-UqK Section 221.3 (q) of Regulation U 
pl:ovides tl 
credit extended by banks to a customer who is engaged "prin-
ciPaliy 
o r 
> r as one of the customer's important activities," in the 
busilless 
extending credit to purchase or carry margin securities is 
C°n«idered t-o i 
° D o extended for that purpose. Banks extending credit to 

such customers must treat the credit as subject to that regulation, and 
c r e d*t must comply with all the requirements thereof ''unless the 
C r e d i f : a n d i t s Purposes are effectively and unmistakably separated and 
disassociated from any financing or refinancing, for the customer or 
°thers, of any purchasing or carrying of [margin] stocks." 
(j) Since credit to purchase or carry mutual fund shares (no 
Matter when extended) is credit to purchase or carry margin stocks, 
any person or organization that engages, as an important activity, in 
tending credit to purchase or carry such shares (with the exception 
menti.oned) is a lender subject to 5 221.3 (q) even though .the funds 
Vjere 
o n t h e board's list prior to July 8, 1969. However, as 
stated nl 
auove, as an administrative matter the retention requirements 
of 
le regulations need apply only to all substitutions and withdrawals, 
C°Urring on or after April 27, 1970, of collateral securing such credit. 
0 0 In view of the likelihood that 3 221.3 (q) applies to any 
any financial institution which has pledged or offers to pledge 
mutual f 
und shares, particularly shares which were not on the Board's 
list 
r i ° r t o Jul-y 8» 
a bank should treat any such loan as being 
subjGct 
° the requirements of the regulation unless the borrower 
suppj 
3 clear proof, to be preserved in the files of the bank, that 
W 
does not apply or that the loan is "separated and disassociate* 
sPeci£ied in M 
section. In this connection, a general statement, 
loan to 
the credit is for "working capital" or "general corporate 
E p o s e s " 
i • 
» - insufficient evidence that the requirements of the regu-
^ e not applicable. 

-5-
5 207.107 Status after July S, 1969, of credit extended prior 
to that date to purchase or carry mutual fund shares. 
• 
> 
For the text of interpretation, see 5 221.119 of this 
subchapter. 
• 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 21, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
[SEAL] 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
1 MX 

i Z i ' S 
Item No. 5 
4/21/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRE5PDNDENCC 
TD THE DOARD 
April 27, 1970 
Mrs. Esther Kascle, 
Attorney at Law, 
404 North Roxbury Drive, 
Beverly Hills, California. 
90210 
Dear Mrs Kascle: 
This is iri response to your letter of October 18, 1969, in 
which you request on behalf of Nationwide Investment Corporation an 
interpretation by the Board of Governors concerning the effect of the 
July 
1969 amendments to the Board's Regulation G (Code of Federal 
Regulations Title 12 Part 207); in particular, amending § 207.2(d)(5) 
and eliminating former § 207.2(c)(3) and § 207.4(b), on the status 
of credit extended prior to that date to purchase or carry certain 
mutual fund shares. Under the former section, a lender had been per-
mitted to rely on a list published by the Board in determining whether 
the portfolio of a mutual fund "customarily included" margin stocks. 
Credit to purchase such shares is subject to the margin and other 
requirements of the regulation. 
The enclosed interpretation, which will appear in the Federal 
Register and the Federal Reserve Bulletin, answers the question you 
have raised. Briefly, credit of the kind described in your letter is 
subject to the margin and other requirements of Regulations G and U. 
As to credit extended in reliance on the fact that a particular fund 
did not, at the time of extension, appear on the Boardls list, the 
lender need not take steps to bring the credit into compliance with 
initial margin requirement of the Supplement to the regulation, 
Which accorded a maximum loan value of 20 per cent at the time the 
credit in question was extended. 
However, as you know, the regulations also apply a retention 
rGquirement of 70 per cent to proceeds of sale of collateral in an 
undermargined loan (except for a same-day sale and purchase substitution) 
in order to strengthen the margin status of the loan. As indicated in 
fche enclosed interpretation, on and after April 27, 1970, all withdrawals 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 

Mrs. Esther ICascle 
- 
2 
-
1 2 ( i 9 
and substitutions of collateral from credits described in your letter 
must comply with the retention requirement. 
In view of the fact that credit to purchase or carry mutual 
fund shares (even if extended prior to July 8, 1969) is for the purpose 
of purchasing or carrying margin stocks, and the fact that such credit 
constitutes an important activity of Nationwide Investment Corporation 
and its affiliated organizations, the Board further concludes that 
Nationwide and its affiliates are lenders described in § 221.3(q) of 
the Board*s Regulation U, "Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing 
or Carrying Margin Stocks" (Code of Federal Regulations, Title 12, 
Part 221). Accordingly, banks extending credit to Nationwide and/or 
its affiliates are required to treat such credit as subject to Regulation U, 
unless the credit is "separated and disassociated" as described in that 
section. As stated above, as an administrative matter, however, banks 
need apply the retention requirements of the regulation only to such 
substitutions and withdrawals taking place on or after April 27, 1970. 
Furthermore, in submitting a purpose statement (Federal Reserve Form 
U-l) to any bank, Nationwide and/or its affiliates henceforth should 
either (1) state that the purpose of the credit is to purchase or carry 
margin stock, or (2) supply a clear demonstration for the files of the 
bank that the loan is "separated and disassociated" as specified in 
section 221,3(q). 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 6 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
4/21/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL C O R R E S P • N D E N C E 
TD TH E BOARD 
April 27, 1970 
Gerald E. Olson, Esq., 
Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves 
and Savitch, 
1900 First National Bank 
Building, 
San Diego, California. 
92101 
Dear Mr. Olson: 
This :i s in response to your letter of December 29, 1970, to 
Mr. J. J. Carson, of the Los Angeles Branch, Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco, which has been referred to the Board of Governors for 
reply. You inquire, on behalf of your client, the Southern California 
First National Bank (Southern), as to the application of the Board's 
Regulation U, "Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carry-
ing Margin Stocks" (Code of Federal Regulations Title 12 Part 221) to 
the situation described below. 
In particular you are concerned about 
the amendments adopted effective July 8, 1969, adding a new § 221.3(v) 
and eliminating former § 221.3(b)(3) and § 221.3(d). 
Under the former 
sections, a bank had been permitted to rely on a list published by the 
Board in determining whether the portfolio of a mutual fund "customarily 
included" margin stocks. 
Credit to purchase such shares is subject to 
the margin and other requirements of the regulation. 
In December 1968, a customer of Southern borrowed to purchase 
shares of Cornstock Fund, the credit being collateralized by the 
purchased securities. At that time, although the portfolio of Cornstock 
Fund customarily included registered equity securities, the fund did 
not appear on the Board's list. 
The credit extended by the bank was 
in excess of that permitted under the current Supplement to the 
regulation. 
In December 1969, on the instructions of the customer, 
your client sold the Comstock shares securing the credit to establish 
a tax loss, but the customer did not pay down the loan, his only loan 
at the bank. 
You ask whether the client on behalf of the customer, 
may now repurchase Comstock shares and reinstate the loan on the previous 
bas is. 

Gerald E. Olson, Esq. 
_ 
9 
_ 
1 ; 
f 
<0 <f J_ 
The enclosed interpretation, which will appear in the 
Federal Register and the Federal Reserve Bulletin, answers the 
question you have raised. Briefly, the Board has determined that 
credit of the kind described in your letter is subject to Regulation U. 
Since the credit was extended in reliance on the fact that Corastock 
Fund did not appear on the Board's list, the initial margin require-
ment of the current Supplement to the regulation, which accorded a 
maximum loan value of 20 per cent at the time, did not apply to the 
initial extension of credit:. However, to permit the credit to be 
reinstated at the present time, 011 the original basis, would be 
inconsistent with the Board's interpretation. 
You also urge that Southern should be permitted to reinstate 
the credit on the ground that it made a mistake in good faith in 
allowing the collateral to be withdrawn and sold. Section 221.3(h) 
of Regulation U provides that 
"No mistake made in good faith in connection 
with the extension or maintenance of a credit: 
shall be deemed to be a violation of this 
part." 
This section refers, however, to errors of calculation, not to mistakes 
of fact relating to the applicability of the regulation, nor to 
ignorance of its provisions. As you can readily understand, to construe 
the provision otherwise would tend to contravene the purposes of the 
regulation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 
