Minutes for 
February 19, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

G 5 I 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, February 19, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Eckert, 
Baker, Fry, Kelty, and Kichline of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Hersey, Katz, 
Wood, Bradshaw, Gekker, Ruckdeschel, and 
Stem of the Division of International 
Finanee 
Money market review. Mr. Kelty reported on conditions in the 
Government securities market, Mr. Fry commented on recent and prospec-
tive bank credit developments, and Mr. Ruckdeschel summarized foreign 

2/19/68 
-2-
exchange and gold market developments. Copies of the several charts 
and tables distributed in connection with today's review have been 
placed in the Board's files. 
After discussion based on the staff review, Mr. Bernard and 
members of the research divisions except Messrs. Brill, Solomon, and 
Sammons withdrew from the meeting and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Harris, Coordinator of Defense Planning 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Miss Hart and Mr. Shuter of the Legal Division 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on February 12 and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on 
February 15, 1968, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
1 
New York authorizing the opening and 
maintenance of an account in the name 
°f Banco Central del Uruguay. 

o o o 
2/19/68 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to White & Case, New York, New York, 
2 
setting forth the conclusion that Regula-
tion G, Credit by Persons Other than Banks, 
Brokers, or Dealers for the Purpose of Pur-
chasing or Carrying Registered Equity Secu-
rities, would not be applicable to the 
extension of funds after February 1, 1968, 
pursuant to a firm commitment entered into 
between Foremost-McKesson, Inc., and seven 
insurance companies prior to that date. 
(It was understood that an interpretation 
based on the letter would be published.) 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
3 
Atlanta approving the payment of salaries 
to Dan L. Hendley as Assistant Cashier 
(head office) and W . Ralph Thurman as 
Cashier (Nashville Branch) at the respec-
tive rates fixed by the Bank's Board of 
Directors. 
San Francisco National Bank matter (Item No. 4). Mr. O'Connell 
referred to litigation pending in the Federal courts in California 
arising out of the closing of the San Francisco National Bank by the 
Comptroller of the Currency in 1965. Suits filed by various depositors 
in the closed bank put in question certain aspects of the advances that 
had been made by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco in an effort 
to maintain the liquidity of the national bank. The advances, beginning 
August 28, 1964, amounted to more than $9 million when the bank closed. 
On April 26, 1966, the U.S. District Court entered orders 
granting motions by the Reserve Bank to dismiss the suits, the Court 
citing three reasons for dismissal: 
(1) the Reserve Bank was acting 
Primarily as an instrumentality or "agency" of the United States under 

G54 
2/19/68 
-4-
the Federal Tort Claims Act and consequently the Court's jurisdiction 
was subject to limits imposed therein; (2) the claims of the plaintiffs 
were essentially claims for money damages and, as such, were not main-
tainable under the Act; and (3) the facts alleged failed to disclose 
acts or omissions by the Reserve Bank proximately resulting in loss 
to any plaintiff. An appeal from the dismissal order of the District 
Court was now pending with the United States Court of Appeals. 
By way of background, Mr. O'Connell recalled that Special 
Counsel for the San Francisco Reserve Bank had appeared before the 
Conference of Reserve Bank Counsel in October 1966 to request support 
of the thesis that the Reserve Bank in performing its discount func-
tion was acting as an instrumentality of the United States. A plea 
that the other Reserve Banks file separate briefs or a joint brief 
met with general opposition. 
Subsequently, in a letter dated Novem-
ber 11, 1966, President Swan requested the Board to consider the 
filing of an amicus curiae brief with the Court of Appeals that would 
support the position taken by the Reserve Bank. The request was con-
sidered at the meeting of the Board on December 5, 1966, but action 
was deferred pending consideration of the question of "agency" status 
by the Conference of Presidents. 
M r . O ' C o n n e l l s a i d t h a t a t the m e e t i n g o f the C o n f e r e n c e o f 
P r e s i d e n t s o n D e c e m b e r 1 2 , 1 9 6 6 , a n A d H o c C o m m i t t e e w a s 
a p p o i n t e d , 
w h i c h in t u r n c h a r g e d a n A d H o c S u b c o m m i t t e e o f C o u n s e l to s t u d y t h e 

2/19/68 
-5-
question whether the Reserve Banks are agencies of the United States 
under the Administrative Procedure Act and the Federal Tort Claims 
Act. The Subcommittee report, presented by the Ad Hoc Committee to 
the Conference of Presidents on March 6, 1967, concluded that the 
"agency" status of a Reserve Bank function under the Administrative 
Procedure Act could not be authoritatively established until litiga-
tion on the subject occurred. 
It was the Subcommittee's opinion, how-
ever, that although the matter was not entirely free from doubt, Fed-
eral Reserve Banks were not agencies within the meaning of the Admin-
istrative Procedure Act. The Subcommittee further noted that in their 
judgment the Federal Reserve Banks were not "Federal agencies" under 
the Tort Claims Act, nor were their employees "employees of the 
Government," and consequently the Tort Claims Act should not be con-
sidered as applicable to the torts of a Federal Reserve Bank. 
The 
Conference, with President Swan abstaining, accepted the report. 
Mr. O'Connell expressed the view that the position could be 
defended that the Reserve Bank, in making the advances to San Francisco 
National Bank, was acting as an instrumentality of the United States 
and in that capacity was entitled to the defensive coverage of the 
Tort 
Claims Act. 
In consultations over a period of several months 
with Reserve Bank Counsel he had urged that the Reserve Bank's brief 
be submitted along such lines and be restricted to the first holding 
cited by the District Court; namely, that the Reserve Bank was acting 

2/19/68 
-6-
primarily as an instrumentality of the United States under the Federal 
Tort Claims Act. However, Special Counsel had broadened the thrust of 
his argument to reflect the fundamental concept that the Federal 
Reserve Banks are agencies of the Federal Government, stating that 
to urge such status was the strongest and best position for the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
Oral argument had been set for March 19, 1968, and Special 
Counsel had now renewed his request for the filing of an amicus curiae 
brief by the Board. Special Counsel noted, however, that a restrictive 
position on the part of the Board would be more harmful to the Reserve 
Bank's case than no brief at all. 
In this connection, Counsel for at 
least two Reserve Banks had indicated that if the Board did file a 
brief in support of the San Francisco Reserve Bank's position they 
would feel compelled to recommend to their Presidents the filing of 
opposing briefs. 
Mr. O'Connell recommended that the Board not file an amicus 
curiae brief in the Court of Appeals but advise President Swan that 
the Board's staff would continue to work with the San Francisco 
Reserve Bank in preparation for the oral argument. He observed that 
the brief as drawn was well presented, although the breadth of approach 
could be misleading. Moreover, while there were arguments that would 
support the more narrowly stated position, even that position might be 
subject to broader interpretation by the Court. 
In addition, the 

O O / 
2/19/68 
-7-
position of the Presidents' Conference and the reaction of the Confer-
ence of Counsel, as well as the adverse effects of a split within the 
System, were strong arguments against the filing of a brief. 
Governor Daane raised the question of the extent to which the 
substantive issue would be prejudiced should the argument of the San 
Francisco Reserve Bank prove persuasive. 
Mr. O'Connell replied that much would depend upon the frame-
work in which an opinion was handed down. It could hold to the narrow 
interpretation that in the performance of its discount function the 
Reserve Bank was acting primarily as an instrumentality of the United 
States or it could be couched in the broader terms of "agency" status. 
Governor Robertson observed that the Court would make its 
ruling on the facts and this particular situation arose out of the 
discount function. He would hope that the Court would avoid taking a 
position on the question of "agency" status. Aside from that, however, 
it seemed to him that the Board had no choice. It should not create 
friction by filing a brief. 
Governor Daane indicated that the point he was making was that 
the narrow interpretation was more easily defended. If the Board did 
not specify for the record its objection to the broader interpretation, 
the Board might later find itself in the position of seeming to have 
endorsed the broader view. 

61 
x > D O 
2/19/68 
-8-
Governor Brimmer stated that he would support Mr. O'Connell's 
recommendation. 
However, he was troubled by the ambiguous position of 
the System with respect to the fundamental question of "agency" status. 
He hoped that the staff would review the Ad Hoc Subcommittee's report 
carefully and provide some guidance for the Board. 
Following further discussion, there was general agreement with 
Mr. O'Connell's recommendation that a brief not be filed. 
Accordingly, 
unanimous approval was given to a letter to President Swan in the form 
attached as Item No. 4. 
Guidelines for emergency situations (Item No. 5). At the 
Board meeting on July 25, 1967, Governor Maisel raised the question 
whether adequate guidelines had been established for the conduct of 
Reserve Bank operations in temporary emergencies, such as those result-
ing from riots, power failures, or natural disasters. The matter was 
referred to the Conference of Presidents, and "guidelines" directed at 
Providing for the continuity of Federal Reserve services and operations 
under the most adverse circumstances were developed by the Subcommittee 
°n Emergency Operations of the Committee on Sundry Operations. 
These 
"guidelines" were approved by the Conference of Presidents on Decem-
ber 11, 1967. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum from Mr. Harris 
dated February 15, 1968, recommending that the Board concur in the 
action of the Conference of Presidents approving the "guidelines" for 

XJ 
2/19/68 
-9-
use by Reserve Banks in developing or revising plans to cope with dis-
ruptions in Federal Reserve services as a result of disasters, riots, 
strikes, power failures, etc. Attached to the memorandum was a pro-
posed letter to the Chairman of the Presidents' Conference. 
At today's meeting Mr. Harris commented on the main thrust of 
the "guidelines" and noted that Governor Maisel had expressed general 
approval of them. 
Governor Brimmer observed that in keying preparations to the 
most serious emergencies, arrangements should not be neglected for 
dealing with emergencies of lesser scope. 
In addition, he suggested 
that the "guidelines" be reviewed in the light of recommendations made 
by the President's Commission on Civil Disorders to insure that the 
plans of the Reserve Banks for dealing with emergencies resulting from 
riots would be in harmony with those of Government agencies generally. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the letter to the Chairman 
of the Presidents' Conference, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 5. 
Directors Day. There had been distributed a memorandum from 
Mr. Morgan dated February 15, 1968, outlining a tentative program for 
the meeting with new Federal Reserve Bank and branch directors on 
March 21 (to be preceded by a reception and dinner on the evening of 
March 20). The tentative program had been worked out by staff in con-
sultation with Governor Mitchell. 

£ 6 0 
2/19/68 
-10-
Several suggestions were made for modifications in the program 
that would bring into focus the breadth of System activity, develop 
the thinking of individual members of the Board, and create a more 
informal atmosphere. Among the points suggested for discussion were 
problems encountered in the formulation of monetary policy in light of 
both international and domestic developments, the legislative situa-
tion, and relationships within Government. 
It was understood that the tentative program would be revised 
in the light of the foregoing comments and submitted for further con-
sideration. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, and 
Fauver then withdrew. 
Appointment of director. Chairman Martin related discussion 
that he had had with Chairman Clay of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland with regard to the appointment of a director of the Pitts-
burgh Branch for the unexpired portion of the term ending December 31, 
1970, to succeed Robert Dickey III, President of the Dravo Corporation, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, whose term expired at the end of 1967. 
(Mr. 
Dickey had advised that he would be unable to accept a further appoint-
ment.) 
Chairman Martin said that Mr. Clay favored the appointment of 
B- R. Dorsey, President of Gulf Oil Corporation, Pittsburgh, on the 
basis that such appointment would be the strongest of those under 
consideration. 

2/19/68 
-11-
After discussion, Governor Brimmer stated that he would abstain 
from voting on the appointment because he did not feel that the search 
for candidates had been as broadly based as would have been desirable. 
It was then agreed to ascertain through Chairman Clay whether 
Mr. Dorsey would accept the appointment if tendered, with the under-
standing that if it were ascertained that Mr. Dorsey would accept, the 
appointment would be made. Governor Brimmer abstained. 
Task force on travel. Governor Brimmer referred to his assign-
ment to represent the Board on the task force named by the President 
to recommend means of stimulating travel by foreigners in the United 
States, this objective having been a part of the balance of payments 
program announced by the President at the beginning of this year. 
Governor Brimmer stated that the resultant report was expected to be 
released today, and he went on to mention some of the key recommenda-
tions contained therein. He indicated that he had expressed his reluc-
tance to predict how much the U.S. balance of payments might be likely 
to benefit from implementation of the recommendations. 
FOMC policy record entries. Mr. Holland stated that a request 
had been received from the Joint Economic Committee for the policy 
record entries covering the last two meetings of the Federal Open 
Market Committee in 1967. 
It was agreed that the entries in question would be transmitted 
to the Committee next Monday, February 26, and that they would be 
released publicly at the same time. 

2/19/68 
-12-
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Attached as Item No. 6 
is a copy of a letter sent today to all 
Federal Reserve Banks summarizing infor-
mation that they should provide to assist 
the Board in its consideration of proposed 
real estate purchases. The letter was 
sent pursuant to the discussion at the 
Board meeting on December 4, 1967. 
On February 16, 1968, Governor Robertson 
approved on behalf of the Board the fol-
lowing items: 
Memorandum from the Director of the Division of Data Processing 
dated February 13, 1968, requesting that permission be granted for the 
establishment of an unassigned professional group in that Division for 
certain professional positions (Grade FR-11 and above) for which the 
Division intended to recruit. This request was in line with the fol-
lowing statement included in the 1968 budget of the Division of Data 
Processing: 
"Pursuant to the concurrence of the Office of the 
Controller and in accordance with Board policy on the 
treatment of vacancies in professional positions, no 
provision has been made in the 1968 budget for new 
high-level professional positions for which the Divi-
sion plans to recruit. The proposed new professional 
positions not specifically provided for in the budget 
are primarily related to requirements for applications 
software development and operational production work, 
although it is also intended to increase the Economic 
Graphics experimental design and production capabili-
ties. Every effort will be made to recruit qualified 
personnel for these positions as soon as possible, 
since delay in filling them can result only in addi-
tional requirements for contractor assistance to meet 
the work load requirements." 
Memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administration dated 
February 16, 1968, recommending that William D. Warren, Professor of 
Law at the University of California, Los Angeles, be appointed as a 
consultant on a temporary contractual basis until December 31, 1968, 
with compensation at the rate of $95 per day for each day worked for 

£60 
2/19/68 
-13-
the Board and, when in travel status, transportation expenses and 
per diem to be paid in accordance with the Board's travel regula-
tions. 
(Professor Warren would act as a consultant in connection 
with the truth-in-lending program.) 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
February 14, 1968, recommending that a "visiting professor" position 
in the Banking Section be converted to a permanent economist position. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Acceptance of resignations 
Bernard M . Wennemer, Clearing Assistant, Division of Data 
Processing, effective the close of business February 16, 1968. 
Alonzo M . McLeod, Messenger, Division of Administrative Ser-
vices, effective the close of business February 23, 1968. 
On February 16, 1968, Governor Robertson 
noted on behalf of the Board a memorandum 
advising that Blanche E. Peacock, Charwoman 
in the Division of Administrative Services, 
had filed application for retirement effec-
tive March 1, 1968. 
In this connection, 
Governor Robertson also approved on behalf 
of the Board an advance of sick leave to 
Mrs. Peacock covering the period Febru-
ary 12-29, 1968. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Director of the Division of International 
Finance dated February 15, 1968, recommending that Samuel I. Katz, 
Adviser in that Division, be granted leave without pay for a period 
°f approximately nine months beginning in September 1968 and ending 
in June 1969, in order to permit him to accept a combined teaching 
a n d writing assignment at Harvard University. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
February 16, 1968, recommending the establishment of a "visiting 
Professor" position in the Capital Markets Section. 

jT~» 
St 
£>64 
2/19/68 
-14-
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Salary increase 
Cecilia A . Lawson, Secretary, Board Members' Offices, from 
$5,751 to $6,137 per annum, effective February 25, 1968. 
Transfer 
Carl H. Stem, Economist, Division of International Finance, 
from the Europe and British Commonwealth Section to the Special 
Studies and Operations Section, with no change in basic annual 
salary at the rate of $12,225, effective February 18, 1968. 
• 
Change in title 
John M . Pope, from Acting Captain of the Guard to Captain, Guard 
Force, Division of Administrative Services, with no change in basic 
annual salary at the rate of $6,137, effective February 14, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignation 
it's > 
James R. Carnahan, Captain, Guard Force, Division of Administra-
tive Services, effective the close of business February 13, 1968. 
Governor Robertson today noted on behalf 
of the Board a memorandum advising that 
Eugene E. Bishop, Guard in the Division 
of Administrative Services, had filed 
application for retirement effective 
April 1, 1968. 
. 
On February 16 and 19, 1968, actions 
were taken on behalf of the Board under 
delegated authority as indicated by the 
following letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item num-
bers indicated: 
^SJtebruary 16, 1968 
Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to The Merrill Trust Company, Bangor, 
7 
Maine, approving the establishment of a branch 
Newport. 

2/19/68 
-15-
On February 16, 1968 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, 
New York, New York, approving the establishment 
of a branch in the vicinity of 13th Avenue and 
77th Street, Borough of Brooklyn. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter to The Bank of Virginia, Richmond, 
Virginia, approving the conversion of its 
facility at McGuire Veterans Administration 
Hospital, Chesterfield County, to a branch. 
On February 19, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to The Bank of New York, New York, 
New York, approving the establishment of a 
branch at 90 Washington Street. 
Letter to State Bank of Albany, Albany, 
New York, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch at 
90 South Swan Street-244 State Street. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to The Home Bank, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, waiving the requirement of 
s i x months' notice of withdrawal from 
membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. 

f * 
f ^ i T * 
- - . _ ^ _ . w 
Item No. 1 
M
L
L
L
L
I
1 
2/19/68 
• 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
February 19, 1968 
MARTENSON - NEW YORK 
Your wire of February 15. Board approves opening and maintenance . 
, 
• 
- 
-v 
" 
of an account on books of Federal Reserve Bank of New York in the 
name of Banco Central del Uruguay, Montevideo, Uruguay, subject 
> o '' 
to usual tenns and conditions. It is understood that participation 
in this account will be offered to other Federal Reserve Banks. 
(Signed) Robert C..Holland 
HOLLAND 

6 6 7 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
2/19/68 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 19, 1968 
David W . Swanson, Esq., 
White & Case, 
14 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Dear Mr. Swanson: 
This is in response to your request of February 15, 1968, 
for a ruling by the Board whether Federal Reserve Regulation G, 
"Credit by Persons Other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers for the 
Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity Securities", 
applies to an extension of credit to Foremost-McKesson, Inc., by 
seven insurance companies, under a contract entered into on May 31, 
1967, whereby the insurance companies agreed to purchase notes of 
Foremost totalling $150 million in three "closings" to be completed 
by December 2, 1968. Prior to February 1, 1968, $132,500,000 was 
disbursed. The remaining $16,500,000 is scheduled to be paid on 
February 21, 1968. It is assumed that the purpose of the credit is 
to carry stock that is registered on a national securities exchange, 
and that the credit may become secured by such stock. 
Regulation G, which becomes effective March 11, 1968, will 
apply to credit extended after February 1, 1968, in the ordinary 
course of business to purchase or carry registered equity securities, 
if the credit is secured by such securities. The credit described in 
your letter was the subject of an agreement executed prior to February 1, 
1968, that bound both parties as to the amount, interest rate, term, 
and principal conditions of the credit, although some of the funds still 
remain to be disbursed. 
The Board concludes that the funds described above, to be 
extended after February 1, 1968, will be extended pursuant to a firm 
commitment executed prior to that date. The Board is of the opinion 
that the date a commitment to extend credit becomes binding should be 
regarded as the date when the credit is extended, since (1) on that 
date the parties should be aware of law and facts surrounding the 

David W . Swanson, Esq. 
'i'.W-'VV i.ii? 
! * 
. f 
* 
-2-
transaction and (2) generally, the date of contract is controlling 
for purposes of margin regulations and Federal securities law, 
regardless of the delivery of cash or securities. 
Accordingly, 
Regulation G would not apply to this extension of credit. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C . Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
2/19/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 19, 1968 
•<'7- 
I - 
, 
"•;••. y'yi 
'
 ; V fcc-i. 
r ^ H i 
> 
ifefG.au'ir 
i-^tfUl 5 
i'S
1'! vt 5 i v 
>v a-., 
^ 
J 
• 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
M r . Monroe Kimbrel, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear M r . Kimbrel: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
listed below for the period March 1 through December 31, 1968, 
at the following rates fixed by your Board of Directors, as 
reported in M r . Moody's letter of February 9, 1968: 
Name 
Dan L . Hendley 
W . Ralph Thurman 
Title 
Assistant Cashier 
Cashier 
Annual 
Salary 
$13,500 
13,000 
V. 1.. : 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
'vlW 
iV-i, 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
2/19/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 21, 1968. 
Mr. Eliot J . Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
san Francisco, California. 
94120 
D e a r M r . Swan: 
This acknowledges your letter of November 11, 1966, 
relating 
to dismissal by the United States District Court for the 
Northern District of California of suits against your Bank arising 
°ut of advances made by your Bank to the San Francisco National Bank 
between August 1964 and January 22, 1965. Referring to the pending 
appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit 
from the District Court's dismissal order, you have requested that 
the Board consider the filing of an amicus curiae brief with the 
Court of Appeals that would support the position taken on appeal by 
your Bank. We note that the cases are scheduled to be argued before 
the Court of Appeals on March 19, 1968., In aid of the Board's consid-
eration of this matter, you enclosed a memorandum on the subject 
Prepared by your Bank's Law Department. Your request and the suggested 
scope and nature of the amicus curiae brief proposed have been considered 
y the Board in the light of the brief prepared and filed by your Bank 
with the Court of Appeals. While the Board appreciates the reasoning 
underlying 
your request for its filing of an amicus curiae brief, the 
u°ard is satisfied that the interests of the System as a whole and of 
the Federal Reserve Banks would be served best if the Board did not 
such a brief in this case. 
We need not assure you of the Board's continued interest in 
ne outcome of this appeal. To this end, the Board's staff has been 
Erected to render whatever assistance may be requested of it by your 
c°unsel. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

of Gov*' •. 
^ T r e s ^ * ' 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 4 
2/19/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 19, 1968. 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents, 
. Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
The Board, in its letter dated August 2, 1967, expressed 
concern., that there may be a planning gap between emergency plans 
to cope with disruptions in Federal Reserve services caused by 
enemy action and plans to cope with disruptions caused by power 
failur 
es, strikes, riots, and natural disasters. The Conference 
was requested to review the matter and make appropriate recom-
mendations . 
The minutes of the December 11, 1967, meeting of the 
Conference approved "Guidelines" for use by Reserve Banks in 
developing or revising plans to cope with the disruptive effects 
of power failures, strikes, riots, and natural disasters. 
It is 
understood that the guidelines were formulated after considering 
information gathered from all Reserve Banks concerning measures 
planned or actually used in dealing with such situations, and that 
Reserve Banks have been requested to report future instances of 
disruptions and actions taken to the Subcommittee on Emergency 
Operations in order that all Reserve Banks may be kept informed 
of the experience of others in dealing with such emergencies. 
The Board concurs in the action taken by the Conference 
and wishes to thank the Conference for the prompt and thorough 
consideration given to this matter. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

•o 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
S-2045 
Item No. 6 
2/19/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 19, 1968. 
• 
; v 
D e*r Sir: 
» 
The Board's letter of December 1, 1953, (S-1518, F.R.L.S. 
fJ053) provides that purchases of real estate by Federal Reserve 
Banks are subject to the Board's approval. In order that the Board 
m a y have adequate Information in its consideration of such proposals, 
r equests for authorization to purchase real estate should be accom-
panied by a discussion of all factors, both favorable and unfavorable, 
hat may be pertinent to the proposal. This discussion should cover, 
where applicable, the following: 
(1) Location and area of the site, estimated cost, 
intended use, and the nature of any improvements 
on the site and an indication of any problems 
that might arise because of existing leases. 
(2) Appraised value of the property. (If an 
appraisal report was not obtained because of 
special circumstances, the reason for this 
decision should be set forth along with some 
other indication of prevailing prices for real 
estate in the area.) 
(3) De scription of the general area, including 
particularly the proximity of adjacent buildings 
to the property lines, possibility of undesir-
able neighbors, any local ordinances or regula-
tions that might restrict building height, 
require setbacks, etc., and traffic patterns 
around the site that might result in problems 
because of narrow or one-way streets. 

^'Huit* (4) Results of test borings (if obtainable) and any 
other information indicating the extent of con-
sideration given to the likelihood of construc-
tion problems due to such site factors as sub-
surface conditions, severe grades, and the 
necessity to support adjacent buildings. 
(5) Possibilities of alternative sites, if any, and 
any other information that might be helpful to 
the Board in considering the proposal. 
v.* ^ 
• M 
> L 
Very truly yours, 
yy 
/ r'i/ti*-f/\ Of. 
/jfayrn 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy<Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

^ T r e s ^ . * ' 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
2/25/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 19, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
The Merrill Trust Company, 
Bangor, Maine. 04401 
Gentlemen: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, on behalf 
of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
establishment of a branch by The Merrill Trust Company, Bangor, 
Maine, at 86 Main Street, Newport, Maine, provided the branch is 
established within one year from the date of this letter. 
In considering this application it has been determined 
that your bank's management is satisfactory, that the proposed 
branch would serve the convenience and needs of the community, 
and that establishment of the branch will not tend to create an 
undesirable competitive situation. 
It is understood that careful 
consideration is being given to all means to strengthen your 
bank's capital position. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

0 . y 
G? 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 8 
2/19/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P Q N Q E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 21, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, 
New York, New York, 
Gentlemen: 
• ! 
„ 
. 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, on behalf 
°f the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
establishment of a branch by Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, 
New York, New York, in the vicinity of the intersection of 13th 
Avenue and 77th Street, Borough of Brooklyn, New York, New York, 
Provided the branch is established within one year from the date 
°f this letter. 
In considering this application it has been determined 
that your bank's management is satisfactory, that the proposed 
branch would serve the convenience and needs of the community, 
a n d that establishment of the branch will not tend to create an 
undesirable competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F 
R I C H M O N D 
U J FETE^JFORIND, VIRGINIA 
23213 
Item No, 
2/19/68 
« 
q m 
oi 
i 6 . i t w , 
Board of Directors, 
The Bank of Virginia, 
tichaond, Virginia 23214. 
Oantlea»na 
The M o r a l Rtiirvt Bonk of lichaond, on behalf 
of «nd undar authority delegated by tha Board of Governors of 
tha Federal Reserve System, hat approved tha application of 
tha Bank of Virginia. Richmond, Virginia, to convert its 
facility at McGuire Veterans Administration Boapital. 1201 
Broad Bock toad, Chaatarfiald County. Virginia, to a branch. 
In rcaching thia daciaion, aonaidaration haa baan givan to 
tha bank
1 a capitalisation and miigiatnt, tha convenienee 
and naeda of tha coraunity, tha coaqpetitive aituation in tha 
araa and tha futura pro•pecta of tha branch. 
Vlaaaa adviaa ua whan a dafinita data for converting 
tha facility to a branch haa baan deteradned. Also, we would 
ilka to know tha exact title undar vhlch the branch vill operate. 
Youra very truly, 
/a/ 
Aubrey N . Heflin 
Aubrey fl. Heflin, 
firat Vice freaident. 

/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE B A N K OF N E W YORK 
Item No. 10 
2/19/68 
N E W YORK. N E W YORK 
1 0 0 4 5 
F e b r u a r y 2 0 , I 9 6 & 
Or. 
Mr, Gordon X* Horicoo 
\ Deputy Comptroller 
The Bank of Hew York 
Wr.ll Street 
York, How York 
10015 
>—' Dear Mr. Moriaoai 
We refer to your bank'o application dated Jan.:*-
requesting permission to establish a branch offlcc 
Washington Street, New York, I*ow York, After review:.-: 
ho application in light of tho factors enumerated in Tc 
65.2(f)(1) of tho Rules fto^arding Delegation of Author!t 
iocuod by the Board of Governors of the Federal Socorve 
System, ve have concluded that your application ohould bo 
approved* 
Accordingly, on behalf of the Board of Govern*, 
the Federal Reserve Bank of flew York, acting under dQlej:» 
Authority, approvos the establishment by your bank of c, b 
at tho abovo-nontloned location, provided it is established 
Within three yoars of the date of this letter. 
Ve shall appreciate your advising us when the b-v.nci. 
actually established and oponod for buolnoss, giving tl;o 
ffoctive date of opening, the name, if any, by which it •«:!! 
bo known, and the official postal addross, Including tho -1;? 
Qode numbor. 
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter by cigalas 
returning the encloaed copy to us* 
Very truly yours, 
) 
• 
i 
Fred W. Pldetit, Jr. 
Vice President 
E n c l o s u r e 
.('/ ; " - •> 
" 
V r ' 
- v 5,','. 

87 
'' j • • • 
F E D E R A L RESERVE B A N K OF N E W 
Y O R K 
6 7 8 
Item N o . 11 
2/19/68 
N E W YORK. N E W YORK 1 0 0 4 5 
Mr. A. Gordon Ho la on 
Vice Prosldont 
State Bank of Albany 
Albany, Hov York 
Boar Mr. Zfelsoat. 
nofcrcnco la aade to your latter dated 
February 0, i960, vith attachment, requesting a six-
nonth extension of the tlao within vhich your bank may 
establish a branch at 90 South 8van Street-2kk State 
Street, Albany, How York. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reoarve Syatea, the Federal Reserve Bank of Rev 
York, acting under delegated authority, hae approved 
your requoat and extends to Bovoaber 10, 1968, the tine 
vithin vhich tho oubjoct branch aay be established. 
Ve ohc.Il approolate your advising ue vhen the 
branch io established and opened for business, giving 
the effective dato of opanlng, tho aaae, if any, by vhleh 
tt will be knovn, and the official postal address, includ-
ing the sip code nuober. 
Please acknowledge reeelpt of this letter by 
signing and returning the enolosed eopy to us. 
Very truly yours, 
; m'; K v 
i 1 s. ' : ' 
' .iV „\ 
Kftolosure 
* K P / n a b 
Fred V. Plderlt, Jr. 
Vice President 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
Mr. Jerome I. Hogan, Jr. 
President 
The Home Bank 
2200 Horth Third Street 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 53212 
Dear Mr. Hogan: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank waivee the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal from the Federal Reserve System. 
Under the provisions of 8ectlon 208.10(c) of the Board's 
Regulation H, your institution may accomplish termlmtlon of 
its membership at any time within eight months from the date 
that notice of intention to withdraw from membership was given. 
Upon surrender to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago of the 
Federal Reserve stock issued to your institution, such stock 
will be cancelled and appropriate refund will be made thereon. 
It is requested that the certificate of membership 
be returned to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60690 
(312) HA 7-2320 
2/19/68 
February 19, 1968 
Very truly yours, 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 
LR:hd 
cc - Mr. Robert C. Holland 
C O P 
