Minutes for May 7, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page?and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 3 Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
increase at Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robe^J^on 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

1117 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, May 7, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance If 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Koester, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Cci*i.:-..;!!?'. 
I <' 
r 
^ :.!.i 
/ •'„/•_;.•."/'•'••••• : 
-ui 
Economic and financial review. The staff presented the regular 
• tv : 
I ix.\ ; f .... ; 1,1 
• . . i : : 
:.- 
: 
r 
• vi v 
Weekly review of economic and financial developments, with emphasis on 
: 
» 
i suy 
l-y ... 
-.'i ' 
the current international currency crisis. Copies of the individual 
briefings 
and of the relevant statistical materials have been placed 
sill v • aI 
J. ii.r ;>t:U;> : !l ' «• f' 
r , • . ;:.. - ' v 
'" 
I '• K 
in the Board's files. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 
i.. 

1118 
5/7/71 
-6-
During the course of the review it was suggested that the 
staff consider the possibility of instituting, in cooperation with 
the Reserve Banks, periodic telephone surveys regarding the state of 
loan demand at banks and at nonbank financial institutions. It was 
also suggested that the staff continue its work looking toward the 
possibility of producing monthly flow of funds data. 
Staff members who had attended for the weekly review withdrew 
' • - ! ' . j . 
* 
! 
* 
> 
• 
• 
I 1 . 
. . 
, 
i- 
_ 
at this point. 
Enrolled bill H.R. 4246. The Board unanimously approved the 
sending of a letter (copy attached as Item No. 1) to the Office of 
Management and Budget recommending Presidential approval of enrolled 
! ) 
bill H.R. 4246, to extend certain laws relating to the payment of 
interest on time and savings deposits and economic stabilization, and 
for other purposes. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved a cost-of-
living adjustment in the annuities of Board Plan retirees and survivor-
annuitants, as recommended in a May 4, 1971, memorandum from the 
Division of Personnel Administration, to become effective June 1, 1971, 
and authorized the sending of an appropriate letter reflecting that 
decision to the Secretary of the Retirement Plan for Employees of the 
Federal Reserve System (copy attached as Item No. 2). 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 

5/7/71 
-3-
New York discount rate. The directors of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, at their meeting yesterday, had acted to increase 
the discount rate from 4-3/4 to 5-1/4 per cent, subject to review and 
determination by the Board of Governors. The following reasons were 
given in the telegram received from the Bank: 
The directors took action to raise the discount rate 
because of deep concern over the international currency 
crisis, for which they felt the United States shares responsi-
bility. In their view, prompt action on the discount rate 
could serve as an important signal to authorities in Germany 
and other countries now in the process of making crucial 
decisions and to the currently unsettled foreign exchange 
markets that the United States intends to defend the value 
of the dollar. In taking this action the directors recognized 
that it posed risks for the financial markets and that in 
normal circumstances discount rate action would not be taken 
so soon after a Treasury refunding. Despite the risks in-
volved in a general increase in domestic interest rates, they 
felt that they were outweighed by international considerations, 
particularly against the background of rapid growth in the 
monetary and credit aggregates in recent months. 
Reference was made, in this connection, to the following 
Paragraph in a story appearing in today's issue of the New York Times: 
Bankers who are close to official thinking at the 
central bank said yesterday that among the actions 
the Government might take in the monetary turmoil 
(following withdrawal of the Bundesbank from foreign 
exchange operations) would be an increase in the 
Federal Reserve's official lending rate, the so-
called discount rate, which is now 4-3/4 per cent. 
Many analysts in the financial community, however, 
continue to be skeptical that such an action is 
likely. 

5/7/71 
-3-
Mr. Molony was requested to check the origin of the Times 
story with the New York Reserve Bank and report the results of his 
inquiry to the Board. 
(Note: A memorandum from Mr. Molony, dated 
May 10, prepared in response to this request, has been placed in the 
Board's files. It indicated, in essence, that the story apparently 
reflected discussion of a hypothetical nature with certain reporters 
following the Reserve Bank's regular Thursday press conference.) 
There was no disposition among the Board members present to 
approve the proposed rate. One procedure considered was to lay the 
Proposal on the table (with advice to the New York Bank by telephone) 
and to take it up again next week following the Federal Open Market 
Committee meeting on Tuesday, with the expectation that the rate 
Increase would then be rejected unless in the meantime the New York 
directors had withdrawn the proposal, which appeared unlikely, or unless 
there had conceivably been interim developments of such a nature as 
to suggest that a discount rate increase merited favorable consideration. 
However, the situation was complicated by the Times article, which it 
was felt might attract undue attention both domestically and abroad, 
Particularly in Basle, where Governor Daane and Senior Vice President 
Coombs of the New York Bank were attending the monthly meeting of the 
Bank for International Settlements. 

1121 
5/7/71 
-6-
In these circumstances, Mr. Holland was asked to present 
several questions to President Hayes by telephone. When Mr. Holland 
returned to the room, he summarized Mr. Hayes' responses to the 
questions as follows: The directors recognized that the rate increase 
might have significant consequences in domestic financial markets. 
However, they expected a strongly favorable foreign exchange market 
reaction; one key reason for the proposed action had been the thought 
that it would strengthen confidence in the dollar on the part of the 
private European financial community. 'Another reason for the proposed 
action was the anticipated impact on thinking at official levels 
overseas, particularly against the background of the current debate in 
Germany on whether to go to a floating rate, revalue the mark, or 
hold firm. This would be an action that, besides having a symbolic 
effect, would tend to narrow interest rate differentials between the 
United States and European countries. The vote had been unanimous on 
the part of the six New York directors who attended yesterday's meeting, 
and a seventh director had made known his support by phone. 
President 
Hayes was hopeful of approval before the weekend; if not, then after 
the weekend. As to the story in the Times, Mr. Hayes had no personal 
knowledge of the circumstances involved but assumed that some general 
question about the discount rate had come up at the regular press 
briefing yesterday afternoon. 

• 
1122 
5/7/71 
-6-
After further discussion of procedural alternatives, the 
rate action taken by the New York directors was disapproved by unani-
mous vote, with the understanding that the New York Bank would be so 
advised by telegram today and that a letter outlining the considerations 
involved in the Board's decision would be sent later. 
(Note: A copy 
of the letter sent on May 13 is attached as Item No. 3.) 
Chairman Burns indicated that he would call Governor Daane, 
suggest that he and Mr. Coombs refrain, if possible, from being drawn 
into any discussion of the discount rate, but propose that if necessary 
they respond to questions in terms that no action to increase the 
discount rate had been taken and no proposed change was under immediate 
Gi; OS 
vi.i ii' 1 '} '. ' : U. , l.UCl 
• 4 ! C 
. 
consideration. Chairman Burns also indicated that he felt obliged to 
inform the Secretary of the Treasury, with whom he was having lunch 
today, of the status of the matter. 
Other discount rates. The Board then approved unanimously action 
taken yesterday by the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Cleveland, 
Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas establishing 
without change the rates on discounts and advances in their existing 
schedules, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent 
to the respective Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
5/7/71 
May 7, 1971 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office Building 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. 
Rommel: 
I am writing in response to your request of 
May 6 for the Board's views and recommendations on 
enrolled bill, H. R. 4246, to extend certain laws relating 
to the payment of interest on time and savings deposits and 
economic stabilization, and for other purposes. 
The Board recommends Presidential approval 
of the bill. 
i i 
Sincerely yours 
Arthur F. Burns 

1124 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
• F T H E 
5/7/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
i ^ 
I Ul 
v"> 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 7, 1971 
Mr. Martin M. Bergin, Secretary 
•Retirement Plan for Employees 
of the Federal Reserve System 
33 Liberty Street 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Bergin: 
In continuation of the practice of maintaining the retire-
ment benefits of the Board Plan comparable to those of the U.S. Civil 
Service Retirement System, the annuities of Board Plan retirees and 
survivor-annuitants which commenced on or before June 1, 1971, should 
be increased by 4.5 per cent, effective that date. There is enclosed 
a copy of Civil Service bulletin No. 831-35 announcing this latest 
increase in the annuities of its retirees and survivor-annuitants. 
To the extent possible, the Board of Governors desires that 
the cost of applying this increase to the annuities of its retirees 
and survivor-annuitants on the rolls as of June 1, 1971, be funded 
through the use of available reserves in the accounts of the 
Retirement Plan, as determined in conjunction with the February 28, 
1971, actuarial valuation. 
Very truly yours 
/ 
I 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosure 

4-'. 
V. k 
1125 
BDARD • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
5/7/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 13, 1971 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 10045 
Dear President Hayes: 
The purpose of this letter is to outline the 
considerations that were involved in the Board's decision on 
May 7 to disapprove the action taken on May 6 by the directors 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York who proposed an in-
crease in the discount rate from 4-3/4 to 5-1/4 per cent. 
In reaching its decision, which was by unanimous vote 
of the four members present, the Board reviewed with particular 
care the conflicting considerations that were assessed by your 
directors and summarized in your Bank's wire to the Board on 
May 6. 
In arriving at its different judgment about the desir-
ability of a discount rate increase at this time, the Board 
felt that, while there were arguments that could be made in 
favor of this action on international grounds, it seemed very 
doubtful--in view of the extensive intelligence at its disposal--
whether such action would have any significant effect on 
European currency decisions. The Board also saw possible 
disadvantages from the interpretations, both internationally 
and domestically, that could be placed on precipitate action 
under these circumstances. On domestic grounds the Board was 
persuaded that the sensitive state of U.S. debt markets argued 
strongly against the increase. It was also noted that such an 
action could prove damaging to general confidence at a time 
when the economic recovery is still fragile and that any sharp 
further increase in interest rates might have severely adverse 
effects on flows of funds to key sectors of the economy. 

Mr. Alfred Hayes 
-2-
May I say that the Board, while reaching a judgment 
different from that of your directors on this complex issue , 
appreciates having had the benefit of their views and wishes 
to thank them for the sincere expression of their considered 
judgment in fulfilling their statutory responsibility. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary 
