Minutes for August 3, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
7-i 
UjJ-. 

3101 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, August 3, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 1/ 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Craig, Kulig, and Noble of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Burton, Guth, Lyon, Maguire, McClintock, 
and Rumbarger and Miss Greene of the Division 
of Examinations 
Application of Merrill Trust Company (Item No. 1). Unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to The Merrill Trust Company, Bangor, 
Maine, approving the establishment of branches in Brewer and Orono and 
commenting on the bank's capital position. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller 
of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

31 o2 
8/3/67 
-2-
merger of First National Bank and Trust Company of Elizabethtown, 
Elizabethtown, Pennsylvania, into The Harrisburg National Bank and 
Trust Company, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is a small amount of competition existing between 
First National Bank and Trust Company of Elizabethtown and 
the Harrisburg National Bank and Trust Company; the overall 
effect of the proposed merger on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The First National Bank of 
Miami, Miami, Florida, into New National Bank of Miami was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion stated 
that the proposed merger, in itself, would have no effect on competi-
tion. (Note: The merger would be a technical step incident to the 
currently proposed formation of a bank holding company to be known as 
Southeastern Bancorporation, Inc.) 
Open Market Committee policy record. There had been distributed 
a memorandum from Mr. Holland dated August 2, 1967, submitting a draft 
of entry for the record of policy actions of the Federal Open Market 
Committee covering the meeting held on June 20, 1967, as revised to 
take account of comments received following distribution of the prelim-
inary draft. The entry was submitted for approval by the Board for 
inclusion in the Board's Annual Report for 1967. If approved, the entry 
would then be distributed to the members of the Open Market Committee 

*! 1 Pi 
o LUiS 
8/3/67 
-3-
and other Reserve Bank Presidents, primarily for information but with 
an indication of the date by which any further comments should be sub-
mitted. Under the procedure agreed upon in June, the entry would be 
released to the press about September 18, after final review by the 
Board, and published in the September Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
During discussion Mr. Holland explained the reasons for changes 
reflected in the revised draft. He also discussed a possible further 
change, but after consideration it was agreed that the wording of the 
revised draft was satisfactory. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the entry for the June 20 
meeting for inclusion in the Board's Annual Report, with the understand-
ing that it was contemplated the entry would be released to the press 
at the approximate time indicated in September. 
Reduction of capital by State member bank (Item No. 2). There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated August 1, 1967, from the Legal 
Division relating to a question raised by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco with respect to a proposal by Farmers & Merchants Bank of 
Long Beach, Long Beach, California, (a State member bank), involving the 
acquisition by that bank and immediate retirement of 4,600 shares of its 
outstanding capital stock. The Reserve Bank had inquired whether con-
summation of the proposal would be barred by section 5201 of the Revised 
Statutes, which prohibits the purchase by a national bank of shares of 
its own capital stock. 
(Section 5201 is made applicable to State member 
banks by the sixth paragraph of section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act.) 

3104 
8/3/67 
-4-
The memorandum summarized the proposal and discussed in detail 
the question involved in the Reserve Bank's inquiry. Attached to the 
memorandum was a draft of letter to the Reserve Bank that would reflect 
the conclusion of the Legal Division that the provisions of section 5201 
do not apply to acquisition by a bank of outstanding shares of its cap-
ital stock for the purpose of immediate retirement. 
Unanimous approval was given to the letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 2, 
with the understanding that the substance of the letter would be sent to 
all Federal Reserve Banks for their information. 
Application of Society Corporation. A memorandum from the Divi-
sion of Examinations dated July 28, 1967, and other pertinent papers had 
been distributed in connection with an application by Society Corpora-
tion, Cleveland, Ohio, to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Springfield Bank, Springfield, Ohio. The Division's rec-
ommendation was favorable, as were those of the Banking Markets Section 
and the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. 
Following comments by Mr. Lyon summarizing the case, discussion 
centered on the proposed method of financing the acquisition, namely, 
by means of a bank loan. Upon inquiry, the staff mentioned other some-
what similar cases in the past. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the application, with the 
understanding that an order and statement reflecting this decision would 
be drafted for the Board's consideration. 

3105 
8/3/67 
-5-
Application of First Holding Company. A memorandum from the 
Division of Examinations dated July 28, 1967, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application by First 
Holding Company, Inc., Waukesha, Wisconsin, to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of First National Bank of Waukesha, Waukesha, Wisconsin, and The 
First National Bank in Wauwatosa, Wauwatosa, Wisconsin. The Division 
recommended approval, as did the Banking Markets Section and the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Following comments by Mr. Lyon in supplementation of the material 
that had been distributed, Governor Robertson asked whether the Banking 
Markets Section felt that the affiliation with the proposed holding com-
pany would add to the competitive ability of First National Bank in 
Wauwatosa. 
» 
Mr. Smith said the Section concluded that the affiliation would 
provide the bank some additional expertise and the benefit of direct 
participation with the larger Waukesha bank in servicing the business 
of customers of intermediate size. He pointed out that subsidiary banks 
of two large holding companies were now operating in the area and that 
the ability of the Wauwatosa bank to meet such competition might be 
improved. While the bank had correspondent relationships, the holding 
company affiliation presumably should provide more direct support. 

8106 
8/3/67 
-6-
Governor Mitchell noted that the establishment of the holding 
company should enable the Waukesha bank to make more efficient use of 
its computer. He also pointed out that there would be only one inde-
pendent bank left in the Waukesha area, namely, the Waukesha State Bank. 
He did not see that grounds existed for disapproval of the holding com-
pany application. However, he was inclined to believe that at some 
point the independent Waukesha State Bank would find it necessary to 
enter into some kind of affiliation. 
Governor Maisel said he understood the foregoing comment to 
mean that Governor Mitchell considered it better to have First National 
Bank of Waukesha form a holding company of its own than to have it taken 
over by one of the existing large holding companies. 
Governor Mitchell replied that the bank was an old, well-
established institution and that he felt the competitive situation in 
the area would be better if the bank formed its own holding company than 
if it were acquired by one of the large Milwaukee-based holding companies. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the application, with the 
understanding that an order and statement reflecting this decision would 
be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Application of Hawkeye Bancorporation. Hawkeye Bancorporation, 
Red Oak, Iowa, had applied for prior approval to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of 51 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Houghton State Bank, Red Oak, Iowa. (Applicant already owned 

3107 
8/3/67 
-7-
97.4 per cent of the shares of Lyon County State Bank, Rock Rapids, 
Iowa.) The Division of Examinations originally recommended that the 
application be denied, primarily because of the management policies 
and practices of Mr. Paul D. Dunlap, chief executive and control-owner 
of Houghton State Bank and the key figure in the proposed holding com-
pany. However, on the basis of information subsequently developed 
through examination, the Division recommended that the application be 
approved, although it suggested advising the applicant that the Board 
had noted that $400,000 would be added to Houghton State Bank's capital 
structure through sale of common stock by January 1, 1968. The Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago continued to recommend denial, while the Iowa 
Department of Banking reaffirmed its original favorable recommendation. 
At its meeting on June 16, 1967, the Board accepted the staff 
recommendation that it would not seem necessary, in the circumstances 
as they had developed, to hold an oral presentation on the holding com-
pany application. However, during the discussion at that meeting 
Governor Maisel called attention to a letter dated April 19, 1967, in 
which the Iowa State Banking Superintendent commented to the effect 
that State law did not restrain extensions of credit by banks in the 
proposed holding company system to certain corporations in which Mr. 
Dunlap had an interest. This raised the question of the relevance of 
the provisions of section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act, which had now 
been made applicable to nonmember insured banks. Accordingly, it was 

3108 
8/3/67 
-8-
agreed at the June 16 meeting that further consideration of the appli-
cation would await review by the staff of Governor Maisel's question. 
At today's meeting Mr. O'Connell reviewed in detail the avail-
able information on the pertinent corporate and personal interrelation-
ships, along with the relevant statutory provisions and their interpre-
tation by the Board in the past. It was his conclusion, for reasons 
which he stated, that the information at hand did not establish the 
existence of "affiliate" relationships within the meaning of section 23A 
and that extensions of credit by the subsidiary banks in the proposed 
holding company system to companies in which Mr. Dunlap was interested 
therefore would not be inhibited by the provisions of section 23A. 
Following a discussion based on Mr. O'Connell's analysis, gen-
eral acceptance of his conclusions was indicated. 
Consideration was then given to the application of Hawkeye 
Bancorporation on its merits, and Governor Mitchell stated that he 
would approve the application. While the case was not entirely open 
and shut, Mr. Dunlap was in actuality operating the two proposed sub-
sidiary banks, and he (Governor Mitchell) considered it preferable in 
the circumstances that they be operated as units of a holding company 
system within the definition of the Bank Holding Company Act. Since 
the Division of Examinations now recommended approval, he would go 
along with that recommendation. 

8109 
8/3/67 
-9-
Governor Maisel stated that he also would approve the applica-
tion. However, he observed that the application raised again the whole 
question of definition of control of banks, a matter now being studied 
by a System task group under his supervision. There were indications, 
he noted, that the present definitions were not particularly useful, 
and the question whether additional legislation should be sought would 
continue under study. 
Governors Sherrill and Robertson indicated that they would 
approve the application, the latter stating that he took this position 
with some misgivings. 
Accordingly, the application was approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that an order and statement reflecting this decision would 
be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Scope of audit function (Items 3 and 4). There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated August 2, 1967, from the Division of Exami-
nations outlining a proposal of the Division to encourage a more active 
role for the Conference of General Auditors of the Reserve Banks in 
stimulating a re-examination of the scope of the audit function in 
light of automation and other innovations in accounting and operating 
procedures at the Reserve Banks. As one means of working in that direc-
tion, it was recommended that there be more frequent and more systematic 
communication among the General Auditors. Specifically, it was sug-
gested that meetings of the Conference of General Auditors be scheduled 

alio 
8/3/67 
-10-
annually instead of biennially and that a meeting of the General Audi-
tors in conjunction with the October meeting of NABAC, The Association 
for Bank Audit, Control and Operation, would provide an opportunity to 
explore some of the matters discussed in the distributed memorandum, 
among them the possibility of greater participation and cooperation of 
the audit function with the operating side of the Reserve Banks in 
developing programs and systems. 
The Division recommended that the Board inform the Standing Com-
mittee of the Conference of General Auditors that it would be prepared 
to call a meeting of the Conference annually, if circumstances warranted, 
and that it endorsed the proposed Auditors' meeting in October. Attached 
to the memorandum was a draft of letter to the Chairman of the Confer-
ence of General Auditors as well as a proposed letter to the Chairman 
of the Conference of Chairmen. Authority was also requested for Messrs. 
Solomon, Smith, Walcutt, and Schaeffer of the Division of Examinations 
to attend the NABAC meeting in Seattle, Washington. 
Following discussion, there was agreement with Governor 
Mitchell's suggestion that the substance of what the Division was pro-
posing be brought to the attention of the Reserve Bank Presidents in 
order to obtain their views. It was understood, however, that arrange-
ments would proceed for the holding of a meeting of the General Auditors 
at the time of the NABAC convention this fall, and attendance of the 
designated members of the Division of Examinations at the NABAC meeting 

311.1 
8/3/67 
-11-
was authorized. Attached as Items 3 and 4 are copies of letters sent 
to the Chairman of the Conference of Presidents and to the Chairman of 
the Conference of Chairmen. 
Testimony by Mr. Campbell. In connection with the suit brought 
by the Department of Justice to prevent the merger of Provident National 
Bank arid Central-Penn National Bank, both of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
the Board in June declined to grant the request of counsel for the 
defendant banks for access to various papers in the files of the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of Philadelphia regarding the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger. However, the Board granted the request 
of counsel to take the deposition of Vice President Campbell or another 
of the Bank's officers (Mr. Campbell then being ill), with the under-
standing that the authorization did not contemplate that the defendant 
banks would have access to, or be given information from, any memoranda, 
reports, or other documents to which counsel's access had been denied. 
As it developed, the deposition was not taken. However, Mr. 
O'Connell reported at this meeting that plans were going forward for 
Vice President Campbell to appear as a witness in U.S. District Court 
on Tuesday, August 8. At Mr. O'Connell's insistence, a subpoena was 
being issued for Mr. Campbell's appearance. It was understood Mr. 
Campbell would testify to the effect that, in his judgment as an expert, 
adverse competitive effects would not result from the proposed merger. 
(In its competitive factor report to the Comptroller of the Currency 

8/3/67 
-12-
the Board had stated that the "overall effect of the proposed merger 
on competition would be significantly adverse.") 
Mr. O'Connell stated that in the absence of General Counsel 
Vergari, who was on vacation, the Philadelphia Reserve Bank had asked 
that he (Mr. O'Connell) appear in court with Mr. Campbell on Tuesday 
for the purpose of protecting against disclosure of unpublished infor-
mation if that question should arise during Mr. Campbell's testimony. 
Mr. O'Connell understood from counsel for the defendant banks that no 
attempt would be made to get into the trial record the Reserve Bank's 
memorandum to the Board on the competitive aspects of the proposed 
merger. 
(In that memorandum the view had been expressed that the 
"result of the merger would be an increase in competition rather than 
a reduction in it.") 
There followed a discussion during which members of the Board 
called attention to the peculiarity of the circumstances here involved, 
with an employee of the Federal Reserve System testifying, presumably 
in the role of an independent expert, in favor of a position with which 
the Board was on record as disagreeing. 
In response to an inquiry by Governor Mitchell, Mr. O'Connell 
agreed that the situation was, if not unprecedented, at least unusual. 
He added that Mr. Campbell would, of course, have to respond to a sub-
poena, which was why he (Mr. O'Connell) had insisted that a subpoena be 
issued. 

311.3 
8/3/67 
-13-
Governor Maisel inquired whether Mr. Campbell was not in fact 
being subpoenaed not as an independent expert but because he had been 
in a position to have access to examination reports and other materials 
in his capacity as officer in charge of examinations at the Philadelphia 
Reserve Bank. Mr. O'Connell replied that he believed the questions put 
to Mr. Campbell would be premised on evidence that had been placed on 
record in the trial and that Mr. Campbell would be asked for his judg-
ment based on such evidence. 
Governor Robertson noted that in effect the decision had been 
made earlier by the Board when it did not attempt to preclude the giving 
of a deposition. Governor Mitchell agreed but indicated that he was 
nevertheless rather concerned about the situation as it had developed. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that Mr. O'Connell should be autho-
rized to appear at the trial for the purpose Mr. O'Connell had mentioned 
he suggested that Mr. O'Connell endeavor to make sure that it was clear 
that Mr. Campbell was not testifying on behalf of the Reserve Bank or on 
behalf of the Board. Mr. O'Connell said he had been informed by counsel 
for the defendant banks that the latter would specify that Mr. Campbell 
was not appearing in such a capacity. Mr. O'Connell added that if the 
questioning should cut across information from the files of the Board 
or the Reserve Bank he would interpose objection. He added that the 
directors of the Philadelphia Reserve Bank were in favor of Mr. Campbell 
appearing and expressing his judgment as an expert. 

8 1 1 4 
8/3/67 
-14-
At the conclusion of the discussion, Mr. O'Connell's appearance 
in court in the capacity that he had mentioned was authorized. 
Governor Maisel then withdrew from the meeting to keep an out-
of-town appointment. Either at this point or earlier, several members 
of the staff concerned with the presentation of one or more of the 
foregoing topics also withdrew. 
Detection of counterfeit currency. Mr. Farrell referred to a 
letter that the Secretary of the Treasury had addressed to Chairman 
Martin under date of July 20, 1967, regarding the progress of joint 
efforts on the part of Treasury and Federal Reserve representatives to 
develop techniques that might assist the Federal Reserve System in auto 
mating the handling of currency, and particularly to assure that any 
change in present procedures would continue to have the potential for 
detecting counterfeits. The Secretary stated that he had approved a 
recommendation to explore further the potential of a proposal submitted 
by the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company and that the Bureau 
of Engraving and Printing, in collaboration with the Secret Service, 
intended to manufacture a batch of currency for experimental purposes 
utilizing certain materials developed by that company. The Secretary 
expressed his understanding that the Federal Reserve would develop 
specifications regarding the types and number of pieces of equipment 
that might be needed to handle currency and to detect counterfeits if 
the ingredients being developed by Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing 
Company were utilized. 

3 1 . 1 5 
8/3/67 
-15-
In a letter dated August 2, Chairman Martin assured the Secre-
tary that Federal Reserve representatives would continue to render all 
possible assistance in the project. 
Mr. Farrell stated that another meeting was to be held at the 
Treasury in the near future at which there would be discussion of equip-
ment being developed by Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company for 
automated currency handling if the materials prepared by that company 
for addition to the currency were used. This raised the question what 
position should be taken by System representatives in light of the fact 
that a proprietary situation could develop, with Minnesota Mining and 
Manufacturing Company the only supplier of the machinery that would be 
used in currency handling. One possibility might be to insist that the 
company franchise the production of component parts of the machinery. 
On the other hand, the use of "hybrid" machinery could give rise to 
operating problems. 
After some discussion of the problem outlined by Mr. Farrell, 
during which it was brought out that the Federal Reserve would probably 
be the sole market for the currency-handling equipment, certain sugges-
tions were made as to possible procedures that might be followed in a 
situation of that kind. Governor Robertson then commented that a deci-
sion on what position System representatives should take at the forth-
coming meeting at the Treasury could hardly be made today, particularly 
with only three members of the Board present. He suggested that 

3116 
8/3/67 
-16-
Mr. Farrell explore the matter further with Governor Sherrill and that 
the subject then be presented to the Board at an appropriate time for 
further consideration. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, Molony, 
and Hackley then withdrew and Mr. Koch, Deputy Director of the Division 
of Research and Statistics, entered. 
Tax message (Item No. 5). It was understood that the President 
would send to the Congress later today a message on the state of the 
budget and the economy in which he would recommend a tax program that 
would include temporary surcharges on corporate and personal income 
taxes along with certain other measures. It was also understood that 
after the message had been released Chairman Martin proposed to issue 
a statement endorsing the need for tax action and indicating that this 
view was shared by the entire Board. 
It was agreed that the issuance of the proposed statement by 
the Chairman would be appropriate, assuming the President's message was 
released in time that the Chairman's statement could be issued before 
he had left the country on an impending trip. If it could not, consid-
eration might be given to issuing a Board statement. 
Secretary's Note: The President's message 
to the Congress was released around the 
middle of the day. A copy of the state-
ment then issued by Chairman Martin is 
attached as Item No. 5. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

31.17 
8/3/67 
-17-
Secretary's Notes: The requirements contem-
plated by the Board's action on July 20, 1967, 
in approving the issuance of a preliminary per-
mit to Crocker-Citizens International Bank, New 
York, New York, having been completed, a letter 
was sent today to that corporation transmitting 
a final permit to commence business. 
On August 2 and August 3, 1967, respectively, 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf of the 
Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Data Processing dated July 31, 
1967, recommending that a new position of chart machine operator be 
established in that Division. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics recom-
mending the appointment of Leldon R. Blackmon as Librarian in that 
Division, with basic annual salary at the rate of $8,740, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
(In the event Mr. Blackmon had not 
completed all requirements for his M.A. degree, it was understood 
that the entrance salary would be $8,155, with an increase to $8,740 
upon completion of all M.A. degree requirements.) 
On August 2 and August 3, 1967, respectively, 
actions were taken on behalf of the Board under 
delegated authority as indicated by the follow-
ing letters, copies of which are attached under 
the item numbers indicated: 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion regarding the application of The State Bank 
of Milan, Milan, Indiana, for continuation of 
deposit insurance after withdrawal from member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
approving the appointment of Roberto F. Gonzalez, 
Bartolo Lopez, and Kenneth H. Lynch as assistant 
examiners. 
Item No. 
6 
7 

3 1 . 1 8 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
8/3/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 3, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Merrill Trust Company, 
Bangor, Maine. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The Merrill Trust 
Company, Bangor, Maine, of branches (1) on State Street 
near its intersection with Wilson Street, Brewer, Maine, 
and (2) in the vicinity of the intersection of Stillwater 
Avenue and Interstate Route 95, Orono, Maine, provided 
the branches are established within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The Board notes your bank's capital position is 
less than satisfactory and urges that careful considera-
tion be given to all means to strengthen the bank s 
capital structure. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3 i 1 9 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
8/3/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R I l E a P D N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 3, 1967 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
This is in reply to your letter of July 20, 1967, relating 
to a plan of Farmers & Merchants Bank of Long Beach, California, 
that involves, among other steps, the acquisition by that bank 
(in exchange for assets valued at $690,000) of 4,600 shares of its 
outstanding capital stock and immediate retirement of said shares. 
Specifically, you inquire whether consummation of the proposal is 
barred by section 5201 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 83), 
which prohibits the "purchase" by a national bank of shares of its 
own capital stock. Section 5201 is made applicable to member 
State banks by the sixth paragraph of section 9 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 324). 
In the opinion of the Board of Governors, the provisions 
of section 5201 do not apply to acquisition by a bank of out-
standing shares of its capital stock for the purpose of immediate 
retirement. Such acquisition and retirement constitute a reduction 
of capital stock, and the National Bank Act (R.S. 5143; 12 U.S.C. 59) 
and the Federal Reserve Act (the eleventh paragraph of section 9; 
12 U.S.C. 329) permit reduction of the capital stock of national 
banks and member State banks, respectively, with supervisory approval. 
In other words, section 5201 does not apply to a bank's acquisition 
of shares of its own stock as one step in the reduction of capital; 
this type of transaction is governed, instead, by the provisions of 
Federal banking law cited in the preceding sentence. The purpose 
of section 5201 is to prevent an unauthorized reduction of a bank's 
capital cushion, and that danger is not present when a bank's 
capital is to be reduced with the approval of the appropriate 
Federal supervisory authority. 

Mr. Irwin L. Jennings 
-2-
3 1 2 0 
is satisfied 
t h e F e d e r a l R e s e r v e B a n k ° f S a n Francisco 
from ^
t 
f 
propriety of the plan of the member bank 
ness toethP 
' k 1 " ^ °f.S°Und b a n k i n g ' C 3 p i t a l a d ^ c y , and fair-
ness to the member bank's stockholders, the Reserve Bank is 
ReffflrrN 
n r S U a n t t 0 S e c t i 0 n 265-2Cf)(4) of the Board's Rules 
Regarding Delegation of Authority, to permit the member bank to 
reduce its capital stock in accordance with said plan. 
in mnrp h J ^ i ^ " l i q U e S t*° n S o l v e d in your inquiry is discussed 
m o r e deta]-l m the enclosed memorandum dated August 1, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary, 
Enclosure 

*T i <>\ 
t. M ^ • 
BOARD CDF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
8/3/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D N I B I 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 11, 1967 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, 
Chairman of the Conference of 
the Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks, 
San Francisco, California. 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
With the broad objective of further improving 
the audit function in the individual Federal Reserve Banks, 
the Board's Division of Examinations has proposed a more 
active role for the Conference of General Auditors. The 
proposal,which is outlined in the enclosed memorandum, is 
believed to be desirable. However, it could have some 
effect upon relationships between the auditing and operating 
functions in the Reserve Banks; and, accordingly, the Board 
would appreciate it if you would present the proposal to 
the Conference of Presidents and advise the Board as to 
whether the Presidents would expect it to create any prob-
lems with respect to such operating functions. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary 
Enclosure. 

; M 
o o 
Proposed More Active Role For 
Conference of General Auditors 
With the broad objective of further improving the audit function in 
the individual Federal Reserve Banks, the Division of Examinations of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has proposed a more active 
role for the Conference of General Auditors. This is not to suggest that any 
of the Banks is not now receiving effective audit coverage, but rather to 
stimulate further re-examination of auditing methods in the light of automation 
and other i n n o v a t i o n s in accounting and operating procedures in the Banks. 
Among more specific measures contemplated in the proposal are: 
1. More frequent and more systematic communication 
among the General Auditors. 
(This would be accomplished by more frequent 
meetings of the group, and by fostering use 
of the Standing Committee as a clearing 
house for receiving and resolving routine 
questions on auditing matters. Such a pro-
gram would make available to all the General 
Auditors the views of their colleagues on 
matters of interest in all the Banks and 
hopefully influence greater uniformity in 
audit recommendations.) 
2. Greater participation and cooperation of the 
audit function with the operating side in the 
Banks in the developing and perfecting of pro-
grams and systems. 
(Auditors have tended to avoid becoming in-
volved in the development of new systems 
and procedures for fear of compromising 
their right to criticize weaknesses in 
control that might later appear. This is a 
posture more difficult to sustain in the 
present business environment which tends to 
the view that all parts of an organization 
should work to the greatest advantage of the 
whole; where computer processing is involved 
it may be an intolerably costly course to 
permit an operating program to be written 
without taking into account the auditor's 
evaluation of the controls to be provided.) 
3. Initiation of studies by the Standing Committee that 
would be of assistance to each of the General Auditors. 
Examaples would be: 
a. Modifications of auditing procedures that might 
result from new operating programs (such as "book 
entry" procedures); 

a t 2 r i 
- 
2 
-
b. Determination of audit verifications to which 
use of statistical sampling might be adapted; 
c. Audit uses of computers. 
Development of guidelines regarding scope and procedures 
to be employed in audits of major Reserve Bank operations 
(i.e. Cash, Safekeeping of Securities, Government Bond 
operations, Check Collections). 

3124 
BDARD • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
8/3/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 10, 1967. 
Mr. Edwin Hyde, Chairman, 
Conference of Chairmen 
of the Federal Reserve Banks, 
c/o Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Hyde: 
You are probably aware that the General Auditors of the 
respective Reserve Banks customarily attend the national convention 
of NABAC, The Association for Bank Audit, Control and Operation 
each year, and on these occasions in the past have held brief 
informal meetings among themselves. The Board understands the 
group is planning to formalize their meeting under such circumstances 
this Fall with an agenda prepared in advance, with the thought of 
possibly realizing more constructive benefit from this opportunity. 
The Board's Division of Examinations will cooperate with the Standing 
Committee of General Auditors in preparation of the agenda and 
will be represented at the meeting. 
A copy of this letter is being forwarded to the Chairman 
at each of the Reserve Banks so that the respective Boards of 
Directors, and the Audit Review Committees in particular, may be 
informed of these developments. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 
8/3/67 
For immediate release. 
August 3, 1967. 
William McChesney Martin, Jr., Chairman of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, issued this 
statement today following the release of President Johnson's 
message to Congress: 
"Nobody likes higher taxes but I am firmly 
convinced, as I said in Toledo in June, that we 
'tiw . 'C 
Ws' '' 
t.. 
• * 
4 
w « > i ; i' 2 
must have adequate, effective--and above all--
Ui-.ta^ 
Sy^i 
prompt tax action that will reduce the Govern-
or- (iidv^ic^l author icy, 
DU^eUvr or. ;.hw "OivUio. 
ment's prospective budget deficit to more manage-
,J*",v*'i 
w ~ 
— ^ .v* 
IT};-,;-? 
.t'.lu,'- ^ili'skj yr 
able proportions and at the same time reduce 
• •' • 
"-iVil Ut. . 
.O- VJUlv . •,•:.•>.. i..£ 
pressures on financial markets. The entire Board 
the 
»:<;».• J. Ke., / 
,,£ .,: . 
shares this view." 

8 1 2 R 
BDARD OF G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
8/3/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 2, 1967 
The Honorable K. A. Randall, Chairman, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 
20429 
Dear Mr. Randall: • 
Reference is made to your letter of July 24, 1967, 
concerning the application of The State Bank of Milan, Milan, 
Indiana, for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal 
from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Director of the Division 
of Examinations states, on behalf of the Board of Governors, that 
there have been no corrective programs urged upon the bank, or 
agreed to by it, which have not been fully consummated, and there 
are no programs that the Director would advise be incorporated as 
conditions of admitting the bank to membership in the Corporation 
as a nonmember of the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

/fMWM&i'. 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYBTEM 
Item No. 7 
8/3/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A O O H E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 3, 1967 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of July 31, 1967, the Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the appointments of Roberto F. Gonzalez, Bartolo Lopez, 
and Kenneth H. Lynch as assistant examiners for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York. 
Please advise the effective dates of the appointments. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
