Minutes for 
May 23, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
b
e maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your init ials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
f^L 

1841 
•VI T 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, May 23, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Gramley, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Dahl and Egertson, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Examinations 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Doyle, Noble, Porter, and Via of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. King and Wiles of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Goodfellow, Lyon, Poundstone, and 
Sanford of the Division of Examinations 
U. 
•y: 
' -J 

18 
5/23/68 
-2-
Ratification of actions. Actions taken by the available 
members of the Board at the meeting held on Tuesday, May 21, 1968, 
as recorded in the minutes of that meeting, were ratified by 
unanimous vote. 
Foreign investment (Item No. 1). The Board approved unani-
mously a letter to Manufacturers-Detroit International Corporation, 
Detroit, Michigan, granting consent to purchase shares of Deltec 
Panamerica S.A., Nassau, Bahamas. A copy of the letter is attached 
a
s Item No. 1. 
Joint ventures (Item No. 2). On March 14, 1968, the Board 
announced that before approving a proposed international joint ven-
ture it would consider the possible competitive effects thereof on 
U
'
S
- domestic and foreign commerce and consult with the Department 
o f
 Justice regarding any antitrust issues. In a memorandum dated 
^•ay 8, 1968, the Division of Examinations recommended approval of 
fc
he application of Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, 
New York, New York, for permission to acquire up to 50 per cent of 
t h
e stock of The National City Bank Limited, Dublin, Ireland, a 
w
h°lly-owned subsidiary of the Bank of Ireland. There had also been 
distributed a memorandum dated May 17 in which the Legal Division 
r e
commended that, in accordance with the Board's March 14 statement, 
th 
e
 application be referred to the Department of Justice for comment. 
T
he memorandum brought out that the Bank of Ireland Group controlled 

5/23/68 
-3-
over 40 per cent of Irish commercial banking business. Excerpts from 
a
 letter from the applicant were quoted in support of the view that a 
question was raised whether by pooling their international activities 
m Ireland, Chase Manhattan and the Bank of Ireland might eliminate 
competition between them in financing Irish-American trade to such an 
extent as might be considered objectionable by the Department of Jus-
tice. Attached was a draft letter to the Department. 
After comments by the staff of the Legal Division, Mr. Dahl 
expressed concern about the lack of guidelines to determine when it 
would or would not be appropriate to consult the Department of Justice. 
He had been unable to develop any clear answers as to what criteria 
w
ould indicate a need for such consultation, and he was not sure why 
t h
e present case had been singled out. The absence of guidelines not 
0 n
l y caused difficulties to the Board's staff, but also left appli-
cants in the dark regarding when competitive and antitrust issues 
Would be raised and what standards would be applied. For these rea-
S O n s
> he believed that there was a need to spell out more fully the 
Board's policy in this area, to establish criteria by which applica-
tions could be judged, and, contingent upon determination of those 
questions, to inform the public more precisely what issues were likely 
0
 be raised and what circumstances would prompt sending an applica-
tion to the Department of Justice for comment. 
Governor Maisel remarked that it appeared what was needed was 
better understanding of the competitive problems involved. Such an 

3844 
5/23/68 
-4-
understanding presumably could be developed when the Board had avail-
able the general study of U.S. foreign banking operations on which the 
staff had been working for some time. However, it seemed to him a 
fairly simple proposition that when one of three or four American banks 
financing trade in a foreign area, such as Chase Manhattan, combined 
with a foreign bank conducting the same kind of business, there were 
competitive issues present. 
Governor Brimmer recalled having taken the position when the 
March 14 statement was discussed that the Board need not be concerned 
with competitive implications of a venture in which one American bank 
Participated with one or more foreign institutions; the issue should 
be restricted to those cases in which one or more American institutions 
Proposed to join in a venture abroad. He believed the concern should 
be addressed to the impact on competition in this country and the 
financing of U.S. foreign trade. He thought it would be a mistake for 
the Board to try to make judgments about foreign institutions and the 
e
xtent to which they were competitive or noncompetitive. Accordingly, 
he would not request comments by the Department of Justice on the 
Chase Manhattan proposal. If the information now available was suffi-
cient to enable the Board to make a decision, he would act on the 
a
PpHcation. Moreover, he believed that the Board's image was suffer-
n
8 because of the time taken to dispose of applications. Referral of 
Mi 
e
 present case to the Department of Justice would require another 

1845 
5/23/68 
-5-
thirty days or more of deliberation there, and then additional time 
would be needed for the Board to reach a decision. 
Governor Sherrill commented that he did not see how the Board 
could determine criteria for its own purposes without knowing what 
criteria would be used by the Department of Justice. He would like 
to learn what its criteria were. Then, if the Board thought the 
Department's criteria were incorrect, they should be debated. 
Governor Brimmer said he thought the Board had a better appre-
ciation of the issues and more ability to analyze the structure of 
competition abroad than the Department. The Board therefore should be 
the major source of criteria. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the criteria be developed 
Jointly. He again expressed the view that the Board's policy state-
ment should apply to a proposal in which a single U.S. bank would 
operate in association with one or more foreign institutions. 
Governor Robertson said that in his opinion guidelines should 
he established as a basis for making decisions, and he did not believe 
that task could be accomplished without consulting the chief legal 
department of the Government. He urged that the request to the Depart-
ment regarding the Chase Manhattan case be sent by hand, with a request 
expeditious treatment, and that interagency staff meetings be set 
up. 
After further discussion, there was agreement with Governor 
Robertson's suggested procedure, Governor Brimmer dissenting. A 

1846 
5/23/68 
-6-
copy of the letter handed to the Department of Justice pursuant to 
this action is attached as Item No. 2. 
Messrs. Sammons, Dahl, Porter, Goodfellow, and Poundstone 
then withdrew from the meeting. 
Branch application of Coast Bank (Item No. 3). There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated May 21, 1968, from the Division of 
Examinations regarding the application of Coast Bank, Long Beach, 
California, to establish a branch in Newport Beach. 
While the application was first filed with the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco in February 1968, it had been filed with the 
State Banking Department in December 1964 and approved by the State 
Superintendent of Banks in April 1965. The Superintendent's approval 
had been extended from time to time. Quarters for the proposed branch 
w
ere to be leased in a new building expected to be completed in 
J u
n e 1968. 
In March 1968 the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco rec-
ommended denial of the application on the basis of the most recent 
federal Reserve and State examinations of the member bank. Some 
improvement had since been effected in the bank's condition. However, 
Vice President Jennings of the Reserve Bank had indicated in a recent 
telephone discussion that, while he did not feel strongly that the 
a
PPlication should be denied, he did feel that further improvement in 
t
he bank's general condition should be accomplished before permitting 
further expansion. 

5/23/68 
-7-
The Division of Examinations considered the application 
borderline. Its original inclination had been toward denial, and 
until the State Banking Department approved a six-month extension in 
May 1968, all indications were that it too was inclined to deny the 
a
Pplication, in effect, by not granting further extensions. The bank 
had been in the problem class since 1965, and preliminary review of 
the 1968 examination indicated that it would remain in that category. 
s
ince there was apparently no strong public need for the branch, the 
Division recommended denial. However, it was suggested that the bank 
he given an opportunity to withdraw the application. 
Governor Maisel inquired whether it might be feasible to defer 
a
ction for another six months rather than deny the application or sug-
gest that it be withdrawn. 
The staff indicated that delay did not appear to be a feasible 
a
lternative; various commitments with respect to the proposed banking 
garters had to be honored promptly if the branch was to be estab-
lished. Moreover, additional information had been obtained informally 
yesterday indicating that the bank was experiencing renewed difficul-
ties.-
After further discussion, there was unanimous agreement with 
suggestion by Governor Robertson that the member bank be advised 
through the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco that the Board would 
x
Pect to deny the application unless the bank preferred to withdraw it 

1848 
5/23/68 
-8-
Secretary's Note: 
It was later ascertained 
that, in order to obtain release from com-
mitments with respect to banking quarters 
for the proposed branch, the bank preferred 
to have its application denied. 
Accordingly, 
a letter was sent to the bank in the form 
attached as Item No. 3. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller 
°f the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Bank of the Southwest, Midland, Texas, into The Midland 
I 
National Bank, also of Midland, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion stated that consummation 
°f the proposed merger would eliminate existing and potential competi-
f 
tion, and that the overall competitive effect of the proposal would 
H 
be adverse. 
Supplementary report on competitive factors (Item No. 4). On 
March 15, 1968, the Board transmitted to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation a report concluding that the proposed consolidation of 
• 
The Dime Savings Bank of Norwich, Norwich, Connecticut, with The 
Chelsea Savings Bank, Norwich, "would eliminate a significant amount 
existing and potential competition and further increase the concen-
• K-/ • 
t r
ation of IPC time and savings deposits and mortgages in the New 
Ln , 
n d O T l
-Groton-Norwich Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area. Overall, 
t
he competitive effect of the proposed consolidation would be substan-
tially adverse." 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated May 21, 1968, 
f r °m the Division of Examinations stating that the Federal Deposit 
k: 

184,9 
5/23/68 
-9-
Xnsurance Corporation had transmitted to the Board a supplemental 
memorandum submitted by the applicant banks with the request that it 
f 
be considered part of the original application. The Division, as well 
I 
as the Legal Division and the Banking Markets Section, had reviewed the 
supplemental memorandum and concluded that it contained no information 
warranting a change in the report transmitted in March. A draft of 
letter that would express that view to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation was attached. 
v 
After discussion, the letter was approved unanimously; a copy 
is attached as Item No. 4. 
Messrs. King and Wiles then withdrew from the meeting. 
Application of First Virginia Bankshares (Items 5 and 6). 
There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's action on May 7, 1968, approving the application of First 
Virginia 
Bankshares Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, to acquire 51 per 
C e
n t or more of the voting shares of Monticello National Bank, Char-
lottesville, Virginia. 
t 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
°f the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are attached 
a s
 Items 5 and 6. 
Policy record entries. With a memorandum dated May 17, 1968, 
from Mr. Broida there were submitted drafts of policy record entries 
covering the meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee held on 

1850 
5/23/68 
-10-
March 5 and March 14, 1968. The draft entries took account of comments 
received from Committee members and staff following distribution of 
preliminary drafts. The entries were now presented for approval by 
the Board. 
After discussion, the entries were approved unanimously. It 
was understood that they would be distributed to the Reserve Bank 
Presidents, primarily for information but with an indication of the 
date by which any further comments should be received. It was contem-
plated that the March 5 entry would be released to the press about 
J
une 3 and the March 14 entry about June 12, 1968. 
Reorder of film (Item No. 7). In a memorandum dated May 22, 
1968, Mr. Morgan indicated that requests for use of the Board's 1967 
color film, "Monetary Policy and Economic Activity: A Postwar Review," 
were heavier than could be filled from the existing stock of 15 prints. 
He suggested that a telegram be sent to the Federal Reserve Banks to 
a s
certain whether they would like to purchase additional prints, the 
orders to be combined to obtain a quantity rate of $205 a copy. 
Mr. Morgan's suggestion was approved unanimously; a copy of 
the telegram sent to the Federal Reserve Banks pursuant to this action 
i s
 attached as Item No. 7. 
Messrs. Broida and Morgan then withdrew from the meeting. 
Application of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company. Governor 
Robertson noted that the Board had pending an application by Wachovia 

5/23/68 
-11-
Bank and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, to merge The 
State Bank, Laurinburg, North Carolina. Since Wachovia reportedly 
was preparing to convert to a national charter, it might be appropri-
ate for the Board to refrain from acting upon the application. 
Governor Maisel said he would not favor such a procedure. It 
seemed to him that the Board should exercise its supervisory responsi-
bilities as long as an institution remained a State member bank. In 
response to his inquiry, the staff indicated that the analysis of the 
application had been completed and was ready for submission to the 
Board. There ensued comments regarding legal aspects of the situation 
and on the procedures followed by the Board in the past in somewhat 
similar situations. 
Governor Brimmer brought out that the application had been in 
Process for several months. Such a delay should have been unnecessary 
he thought, because the Board had already given considerable attention 
to the banking structure of North Carolina. Moreover, he did not 
think 
the Board should sidestep its responsibilities as long as 
Wachovia remained a State member bank. 
He would deal with the appli-
c a
t i o n without reference to the expectation of a change in status. 
Governor Sherrill suggested that Wachovia be given an oppor-
tunity to withdraw the application if it wished. If it did not, the 
Board could proceed to consider the application. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
inquiry would be made to determine whether Wachovia would like to have 

1852 
5/23/68 
-12-
the Board act upon its application and that, if the bank wanted the 
Board to take action, the application would be considered as soon as 
possible. 
Secretary's Note: 
In response to the 
inquiry, Wachovia requested that the 
Board proceed with consideration of 
the application. 
Mes 
srs. Brill, O'Connell, Egertson, Noble, Via, Lyon, and 
Sanford then withdrew from the meeting. 
Export-Import Bank notes. There had been distributed three 
memoranda dated May 10, 1968, from Messrs. Hackley, Hexter, and Doyle, 
respectively, regarding the status of an issue of promissory notes 
that the Export-Import Bank was currently seeking to sell through a 
syndicate of commercial paper dealers. Counsel for the Bank had 
requested that the Board declare these notes to be eligible for pur-
chase by Federal Reserve Banks under section 14(b) of the Federal 
Reserve Act and as security for advances to member banks under the 
eighth paragraph of section 13. 
Under the Board's outstanding interpretations, issued in 1960 
and 1962, although obligations of this type might be purchased by 
Reserve Banks under section 14 of the Federal Reserve Act, they were 
not eligible as collateral for advances to member banks under the 
1
 >. * i • , . 
* • 
• * 
' • . .; 
eighth 
paragraph of section 13. The Board's position was based on 
the view that the "notes, drafts, bills of exchange, or bankers' accep-
tances" eligible as collateral for such advances did not include obli-
gations in the nature of investment securities (such as the Eximbank 

1853 
5/23/68 
-13-
notes here involved) even though such securities might be denominated 
"notes." As a matter of policy, the Board had since concluded that 
all obligations eligible for Reserve Bank purchase should be eligible 
also as collateral for Reserve Bank advances, and it had so recom-
mended to Congress. The question, however, was the proper interpre-
tation of the existing statutes. 
Mr. Hexter's memorandum brought out that study of the question 
had uncovered a problem with respect to the Export-Import Bank's guar-
anteed participation certificates. In 1966 the Board had held that 
the certificates were eligible as collateral for advances by Reserve 
Banks. At that time the certificates were not transferable; the holder 
could only sell them back to Eximbank. Since they lacked transferabil-
ity, they were not in the nature of securities. Subsequently, however, 
Eximbank made the certificates freely transferable. Although the 
character of the obligations was thus significantly changed, for Fed-
eral Reserve purposes, the change did not come to the attention of the 
B
°ard, and the Reserve Banks had continued to regard the certificates 
as eligible collateral for advances. For present purposes there was 
n
o substantial distinction between Eximbank notes and the Bank's 
guaranteed participation certificates. Accordingly, it seemed appro-
priate for the Board to hold that the certificates, like the notes, 
W e
r e not eligible as collateral for advances by Reserve Banks, unless 
the Board believed that this change in the status of the certificates 

1854 
5/23/68 
-14-
would produce such hardship or market disturbance as to justify a 
decision not to revise its ruling. 
With respect to the primary question presented, namely, that 
relating to the Eximbank notes, Messrs. Hackley and Hexter concluded, 
for reasons set forth in their respective memoranda, that the better 
interpretation of the law was that obligations of the security type 
(other than those specifically designated by Congress) are not eligible 
a
s collateral for Reserve Bank advances. Mr. Doyle, however, advanced 
in his memorandum arguments in support of the view that the Board would 
now be justified in confining to long-term "securities" the principle 
°f ineligibility earlier relied upon and concluding that "notes" of 
relatively short maturities, such as the Eximbank notes here in ques-
tion, would not be covered by the term "securities" as contemplated by 
Previous rulings and would therefore be eligible for purchase under 
section 14(b) and as collateral for advances under the eighth para-
graph of section 13. This position would avoid any apparent conflict 
w
ith the Board's 1966 ruling with respect to the basically similar 
Eximbank participation certificates. 
After comments by Mr. Hexter, Mr. Hackley remarked that he 
w
°uld like to reach the conclusion that the Eximbank notes were eligi-
ble as collateral, on the ground that if they were of sufficient qual-
ity to be eligible for purchase there was no reason why they should not 
^e eligible also as collateral for advances. However, after a careful 

1855 
5/23/68 
-15-
review, he had been constrained to conclude that under present law and 
in the light of its legislative history they were not eligible. 
Mr. Holland then commented on policy considerations, particu-
larly with reference to the Eximbank participation certificates. They 
had gone to the market initially after some uncertainty, and their mar-
ketability had been found to be only mediocre. Although he believed the 
attribute of eligibility was regarded by the market as only of marginal 
value, it was his impression that Eximbank might place some importance 
°n that attribute, and it was possible that removal of eligibility 
m
ight have an adverse effect. 
Mr. Doyle then expressed the view that, in view of the differ-
ences of position regarding legal considerations, the policy aspects 
Perhaps should be regarded as overriding. Even though the Board had 
requested legislation that would obviate the problem, it seemed to him 
necessary to provide an interpretation when requested. Staff members 
°f Eximbank had requested that, if the Board's staff was going to 
r e
commend an unfavorable conclusion, they be given advance notice so 
that they might talk with their underwriters and make any adjustments 
thought advisable. However, it had been considered preferable to bring 
fc
he matter to the Board without indicating to Eximbank what course would 
ke recommended by the Legal Division. He noted also that inquiries had 
been received regarding the eligibility of guaranteed participation cer-
tificates issued by the Federal National Mortgage Association. 

18 
5/23/68 
-16-
Governor Maisel agreed that, since there were disparate views 
on the legal aspects of the matter, the policy considerations should 
govern. His own view was that the Eximbank obligations should be 
ruled eligible as collateral; the absence of eligibility might be a 
serious obstacle to marketing the participation certificates. 
Governor Brimmer observed that according to the information 
that had been furnished, Eximbank must be well into the marketing 
schedule for its note offering. Along with the question that had been 
raised about the eligibility of Eximbank's participation certificates, 
there were apparently implicit questions about other outstanding 
issues, some of which the market believed were eligible. He inquired 
whether the buyers of the Eximbank notes had assumed that they were 
eligible as collateral. 
Mr. Holland expressed the view that the market probably had 
been assuming that the notes would be eligible, but Governor Robertson 
said he would think it was understood that the Board had asked for 
legislation that would in effect confer eligibility. 
Governor Brimmer stated that if the market was assuming that 
the situation would be at least as favorable in the long run, and cer-
tainly not less favorable, a ruling by the Board that the notes were 
not eligible might cut the ground from under the issue and aggravate 
Present strains in the market. He recommended that the Board ask 
Eximbank not to press for a ruling at the present time; silence until 

1857 
5/23/68 
-17-
the marketing of the issue had been completed would not do any great 
damage. 
Governor Robertson said it also was his recommendation that 
the Board not take a position at present, but instead press for legis-
lation. 
There ensued a discussion of procedural alternatives during 
which Governor Robertson observed that the Board would not want to do 
anything that would injure the chances of obtaining legislation. 
Governor Maisel observed that the legislation requested was a good deal 
broader than the present question, and Governor Sherrill agreed that a 
favorable ruling on the present question, while covering one of the 
m
ajor categories, would not obviate the need for legislation. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the inquirers be told that the 
Board was not prepared to issue a ruling at present and reminded that 
the Board had asked for legislation. Given the strong opinions 
e
xpressed by Messrs. Hackley and Hexter, he was not prepared to adopt 
the position Mr. Doyle advocated as a legal matter. If the question 
were strictly a legal one, he would have to join Messrs. Hackley and 
dexter, but he thought there was a policy issue. 
After further discussion it was agreed that the Export-Import 
Bank would be informed by telephone that the Board would reserve a 
decision pending enactment of S. 3133, one part of which would make 
a
H Federal agency obligations eligible as collateral for advances by 
Federal Reserve Banks. 

5/23/68 
-18-
Secretary's Note: In a letter of 
December 12, 1967, the Secretary of 
the Treasury had requested a ruling 
by the Board to the effect that the 
guaranteed participation certificates 
of the Federal National Mortgage Asso-
ciation were eligible as collateral 
for advances by Federal Reserve Banks. 
In light of the Board's discussion to-
day, the Secretary was informed by 
letter dated May 28, 1968, that the 
Board was postponing a determination 
of that question at the present time, 
in view of the pendency of the legis-
lation it had proposed. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: With the approval 
of the available members of the Board 
(Governors Robertson, Maisel, and 
Sherrill), a letter was sent to the 
Bureau of the Budget on May 22, 1968, 
in response to the Bureau's request 
for the Board's views on enrolled bill 
H.R. 15364, to provide for increased 
participation by the United States in 
the Inter-American Development Bank. 
A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 8. 
Pursuant to the requirement of sec-
tion 10 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
the Board's Annual Report for 19 67 
was transmitted to the Speaker of the 
House of Representatives on May 22, 
1968. A copy of the report was also 
transmitted to the President of the 
Senate for the information of the 
Senate. 
On May 22, 1968, Governor Robertson 
approved on behalf of the Board the 
appointment of Charlen Kristen Anderson 
as Programmer (Trainee) in the Division 
of Data Processing, with basic annual 

1859 
-19-
salary at the rate of $5,565, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty, as rec-
ommended in a memorandum from that Divi-
sion. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Director of the Division of Examinations 
dated May 22, 1968, recommending the establishment of a typist-
file clerk position in the Securities Credit Regulation Unit of 
the Task Force-Special Regulations. 
Permission t-n engage in outside activities 
Mack R. Rowe, Chief, Economic Graphics Section, Division of Data 
l 9 6 8
6 S S i n 8 , 
t C > t e a c h 
3 c l a s s 
a t 
t h e
 University of Tennessee on July 3, 
James Edward Gladden, Messenger, Division of Administrative Ser-
V l c e s
» to work as a mail clerk for a local bank on a part-time basis. 
5/23/68 
• 
On May 22 and 23, 1968, actions were 
taken on behalf of the Board under 
delegated authority as indicated by 
the following letters, copies of 
which are attached under the respec-
tive item numbers indicated: 
a ^ 2 2 , 1968 
^ L ^ h e Acting
 n i
'
r
ector of the Division of Examinations 
Item No 
fetter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
9 
^Pproving the appointment of Willard A. Bogart, 
S. Crane, and James E. Denson as examiners. 
Federal Rpgerve Bank of New York 
N e w
t e r 
t 0 C h e m i c a l 
B a n k 
N e w 
Y o r k
 Trust Company, 
of 
u
r k
'
 N e W 
Y o r k
> approving the establishment 
a
 branch at 3169 Bainbridge Avenue, Bronx. 
JJG 11 
New y°
 t 0 M a n u f a c t u r e r s
 Hanover Trust Company, 
of p °
rk
>
 N e w 
Y o r k
> approving the establishment 
a
 branch at 2081 Broadway. 
10 
11 

I860 
5/23/68 
-20-
Qn May 23T 1968 
ly the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
I t e m 
N o 
Letter to The Home Trust and Savings Bank, 
12 
°sage, Iowa, approving an investment in bank 
premises. 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
Letter to The Gwinn State Savings Bank, 
13 
Gwinn, Michigan, waiving the requirement 
o f
 six months' notice of withdrawal from 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
i^Lthe Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
14 
California, granting an extension of time within 
w
hich to establish a branch in Chula Vista. 

J.SG1 
BOARD OF GOVERN • RS 
Item NO. 1 
. ^ O V G O ^ . 
O F T H E 
5 / 2 3 / 6 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
' * 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 23, 1968. 
Manufacturers-Detroit International Corporat 
151 West Fort Street, 
Detroit, Michigan. 48226 
ion 
Gentl emen: 
As requested in your letter of April 19, 1968, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold 
common shares of Deltec Panamerica S.A., Nassau, Bahamas, at a cost 
o f
 approximately $250,000, provided such shares are acquired within 
0 n e
 year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's approval is granted on the understanding that 
eltec's activities in the United States through Frederick H. Hatch & 
c
o., Inc. ("Hatch"), will be essentially limited to (1) the private 
Placement of foreign debt obligations or participations therein, rep-
resenting the investments or extensions of credit of Deltec or its 
subsidiaries, (2) the execution of orders to buy and sell securities 
J-n the United States for the account and risk of customers abroad, 
V-
3
) the placing of orders to buy and sell securities abroad for the 
account and risk of United States customers, (4)trading for Hatch's 
°wn investment account in domestic or foreign securities, and (5) other 
activities which would be permissible if Deltec and its subsidiaries 
Were organized as one corporation under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
eserve Act. This approval is subject to the conditions that Deltec, 
hr
°ugh Hatch or otherwise, shall not take any action that would con-
s t
itute being engaged in the business of underwriting or dealing in 
securities in the United States and that your Corporation will make 
f
v
ailable to the Board such information about the activities of Deltec 
n
 the United States and elsewhere as the Board may from time to time 
Squire. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
h e
 investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
e
stablished under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
rporation and that due consideration is being given to the priori-
e s contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1862 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 2 
• F THE 
5/23/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 24, 1968 
Mr. Donald F. Turner, 
Assistant Attorney General, 
Antitrust Division, 
Department of Justice, 
Washington, D. C . 20530 
D e
ar Mr. Turner: 
In accordance with its statement of policy announced on 
^arch 14, 1968 (copy enclosed), the Board of Governors would appreci-
ate having the benefit of your views regarding an application by 
nase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, a so-called Edge Act 
subsidiary of The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), to 
acquire fifty per cent of an Irish banking subsidiary of the Bank 
Ireland. 
Copies of the letter of application and supporting docu-
ments are enclosed for your consideration. 
The Board would appreciate receiving as soon as possible 
°
u
r views as to whether Chase Manhattan's proposal raises significant 
issues under the antitrust laws. The Board's staff will be glad to 
scuss the matter with representatives of your Division. 
lue 
^ines 
In this connection, the Board has instructed its staff to 
quest the assistance of your Division in formulating general guide-
nes to assist the Board in deciding which particular types of joint 
ernational ventures should in the future be referred to your 
U e
Partment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
E
ncl 0 sure 

1863 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
5/23/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 4, 1968 
Board-of Directors, 
Coast Bank, 
Long Beach, California. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
denied the application of Coast Bank, Long Beach, California, for 
Permission to establish a branch in the vicinity of the intersection 
of Pacific Coast Highway and Newport Boulevard, Newport Beach, 
California. 
In acting upon the application the Board has considered, 
among other factors, the financial condition of the Coast Bank and 
the general character of its management. The most recent examina-
tions of the Bank by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco have 
reflected a relatively heavy volume of criticized loans and a need 
to strengthen loan and collection policies. Both of these factors, 
of course, are considered in the Board's appraisal of the Coast 
Bank's management. Accordingly, the Board has concluded that it 
would not be justified in approving the above-mentioned branch appli-
cation until such time as the management of the Bank has been 
strengthened, there has been achieved substantial improvement in 
the Bank's asset condition and continued improvement in its capital 
Position. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

V. 
,4v 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
1861 
Item No. 4 
5/23/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 23, 1968. 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of May 7, 1968, 
transmitting copies of a supplemental memorandum regarding 
the proposed consolidation of The Chelsea Savings Bank, 
Norwich, Connecticut, and The Dime Savings Bank, Norwich, 
Connecticut. The supplemental memorandum has been reviewed, 
and it is concluded that it contains no information which 
would alter the Board's competitive factor report on the 
proposed consolidation, which was forwarded to your offices 
on March 15, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

186f 
Item No. 5 
5/23/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST VIRGINIA BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
Arlington, Virginia, 
for approval of acquisition of 51 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Monticello National Bank, Charlottes-
ville, Virginia. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Virginia Bankshares Corpor-
ation, Arlington, Virginia, a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 51 per cent or more of 
the voting shares of Monticello National Bank, Charlottesville, Virginia, 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
viev;s and recoirmendation* 
The Comptroller recommended approval of the 
application. 

-2-
1866 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on January 19, 1958 (33 Federal Register 719), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forv;arded to the United States Department of Justice for its consider-
ation. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D # C., this 23rd day of May, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors* 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Mitchell. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. ICenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1867 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
5/23/68* ^ 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY FIRST VIRGINIA BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA, FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION 
OF VOTING SHARES OF MONTICELLO NATIONAL BANK, 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA 
STATEMENT 
First Virginia Bankshares Corporation, Arlington, Virginia 
( Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
Acquisition of 51 per cent or more of the voting shares of Monticello 
National Bank, Charlottesville, Virginia. Applicant presently controls 
14 k 
1/ 
H
 banks which hold total deposits of $334 million. 
Bank has total 
d e
Posits of $3 million. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As re-
tired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his vieus 
a t l d r e c
ommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended that the 
a
PPlication be approved. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
tv» 
the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
m
°nopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
^ ^ a n k i n g data are as of June 30, 1967, unless otherwise noted. 

1868 
-2-
to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed 
ac
quisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
0 r
 which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
t h
e Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
ition are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
e f
fect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
immunity to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 
int 
0
 consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
c
°nvenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
iking organizations in Virginia, including 5 bank holding companies, 
°
nt
rol about 64 per cent of the total deposits held by all commercial 
bafjj. . 
in the State. Applicant, the fifth largest banking organization 
the third largest bank holding company in the State, controls 6.1 per 
cent -p 
o t
 such deposits. Applicant's proposed acquisition of Bank, which 
hoids h 
°ut .05 per cent of total deposits in the State, would have no 
t 8 n i f i c a n t
 effect on State-wide concentration. 
Bank's only office is located in Albermarle County, just out-
side t h 
n e
 city limits of Charlottesville and about four miles north of 
Charlottesville business district. The relevant market area for 
U a
ting the competitive effects of the proposed acquisition is the 
City o f Charlottesville and an area within a radius of about five miles 

1869 
-2-
the City. In addition to Bank's office, this area includes 16 offices 
3 other banks ranging in total deposit size from $22 million to 
$551 million, and with area deposits of $20 million to $70 million. 
Bank holds 1.8 per cent of the total area deposits held by the four 
banks. 
Applicant's closest subsidiary to Bank is The Staunton 
Industrial Bank ($5.9 million deposits), located 30 miles west of 
Charlottesville on the opposite side of the Blue Ridge Mountains. 
That bank reportedly derives no business from Bank's market area, 
atl
d no other subsidiary of Applicant is believed to compete with Bank. 
In view of the distance between Bank and Applicant's present 
s
ubsidiaries, the number of banking offices which lie between Bank and 
e a
ch of the subsidiaries, and the natural trade barrier which separates 
bank's market area from that of Applicant's closest subsidiary bank, 
fc
here does not appear to exist any meaningful competition between Bank 
n „ j 
any 0 f Applicant's present subsidiaries. Coupled with the fact that 
n
°ne of Applicant's subsidiaries is located in an area from which it can 
*
e
2ally branch into Charlottesville or Albemarle County, the aforementioned 
f a c
tors serve also to limit the likelihood that potential competition would 
e
 aff G c t e cj ^ consummation of the proposed transaction. The most likely 
0l
^Petitive effect foreseen from consummation of this proposal is the 
5 a e r
2ence of a more meaningful and more competitive alternative source 
hanking services in the Charlottesville area - a result that should 
n
Gthen, rather than injure, competition. 

1870 
-2-
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of Applicant's proposal would not result in a mono-
Poly, 
nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt 
to monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area. It does 
n
°t appear that consummation would substantially lessen competition, 
tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of the 
country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
•^e financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is reason-
a b l
y satisfactory, and the prospects of each appear favorable. Applicant's 
"management is regarded as experienced and competent, as is that of its 
subsidiary banks. 
While Bank's general financial condition is considered to be 
S a
tisfactory, its growth record from the date of its opening in 1964 re-
jects that it has not kept pace with the other Charlottesville area banks, 
deposit growth has been at less than half the rate projected in 
charter application, and time funds represent an unusually large 
p e r
centa g e of its total deposits (74 per cent). It has been troubled 
*th management problems since its opening, having had four presidents 
a
 three years. Its current president has held the position since July 
1967 
> and has no prior banking experience. According to Applicant, he 
e s
ires to be relieved of his responsibilities as soon as a competent 
r PFY 1 acement can be found. Bank's prospects, which would appear only fair 
Vit-u 
l Q
ut assistance of the type which affiliation with Applicant could afford, 
should K 
oe considerably improved by consummation of Applicant's proposal. 

1871 
-2-
T 
'
 1S
* f " 
The foregoing considerations uiider this factor support approval 
°f the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Consummation 
• 
°f the proposed transaction uould have no effect on customers of Applicant's 
Present subsidiaries. Nor does it appear that any major banking service 
r e
quired within Bank's market area is not provided by the three larger 
b a
n k s which operate offices in the area. However, Applicant has indicated 
i t s
 intention to undertake measures which would make Bank a more conven-
i n 
*• 
at alternative source for a complete line of banking services. Among 
th 
e s e m e a
sures are consideration of proposals for additional branch 
o f
fices, the establishment of customer-oriented banking hours, the devel-
°Pment of an indirect consumer lending program and improvement of Bank's 
d l 
r e
ct lending procedures, and the offering of trust services through 
cooperative programs with Applicant's other subsidiaries. 
Considerations under this factor lend additional weight toward 
a
PProval of the application. 
Summary and Conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant facts 
Stained i n the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
ction 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the application 
8
 °uld be approved. 
"
a y
 23, 
W 6 0 . 

T E L E G R A M 
I / S / S ' 
. 
-YJU 
. 
LEASED WIRE SERVICE 
D / Z J / D O 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
^nmms 
• 
„ 
,<sTV- 
y, • 1 
\\ 
May 23, 1968 
i 'V.iV. 
To Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks 
Several Reserve Banks have inquired about purchasing additional 
Prints of Board's film entitled "Monetary Policy and Economic 
• A $ 
; 
• 
Activity" for use in their Districts. Please advise by wire if 
you wish to purchase one or more additional prints. Cost is 
$205 per print for delivery within one month. Board will place 
orders and bill Banks accordingly. 
fear civ* v; • . r. i. :. , 
• ^ 
• 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Holland 

Item No. 8 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
5/23/68 
0 F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
C. 
2 D S 5 I 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
May 22, 1968 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request of May 21, 1968, 
for the views of the Board of Governors with respect to enrolled 
bill H.R. 15364, "To provide for increased participation by the 
United States in the Inter-American Development Bank, and for 
other purposes," which would authorize the United States Governor 
of the Bank to vote for an increase of $1,000,000,000 in the 
Bank's authorized callable capital stock and to agree on behalf 
of the United States to subscribe to its proportionate share 
thereof and would authorize the appropriation of $411,760,000 
for payment of such subscription. 
The Board has no objection to Presidential approval 
of this bill 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

>\ ••» 
' v. 
1874 
BOARD D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
5/23/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
May 22, 1968 
f • 
"•^VFV 
• 
^ui 
' 
" 
* 
Mr. A. B. Merritt, First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Merritt: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of May 17, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointments of Willard A 
Bogart, Ronald S. Crane, and James E. Denson, at present 
assistant examiners, as examiners for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco, effective July 1, 1968. 
\l\
 v 
Y 
If 
M • 
>vC.s 
f' ' : • -
I ^ni I t'v 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
•f 
, 
• 
-

K|40A. 
2-4/67 
ssMfeit® 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF N E W YORK 
• 
- 
• 
. . . .. 
•• •'-: •• 
' 
Item No. 1 1 8 7 5 
5/23/68 
NEW YORK. NEW YORK 10045 
MAV 2 3 1968 
John B . Mencke 
•ice President 
j ^ ^ s t Company 
J ^ i n o street 
York, Hew York 10015 
Mr, Menckej * 
"" 
wo refer to your bank'c application dated April 22, 19^3, 
^J
u
*«ting permission to establish a branch office at 31^9 Baln-
f ^ S O Avenue, Bronx, Hew York. After reviewing the application 
IT 
light of the factors enumerated in Section 265.2(f)(1) of 
I** Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority issued by the Board 
r
 6J>vornoro of the Federal Reserve Systeja, wo have coneluded that 
y application should bo approved* Accordingly, on behalf of 
Board of Governors, the Federal Reserve Bank of Uev York, act-
! under delegated authority,•approves the establishment by your 
jfc of a branch office at the above-mentioned location, provided 
/la established within oao year of the date of this letter. 
4a 
Wo shall appreciate your advising U3 when the branch 
actually established and opened for business, giving the 
k^ective date qf opening, the noso, if any, by which it will be 
lum\lt
 a n 4 t h 0
 official postal address, including the sip coio 
Ollfo 
Kindly acknowledge recoipt by signing and returning the 
U ^ o a e d copy of this letter to Mr. Ben atackhouoe, Manager, Bank 
^inationo Department. 
• n i l • 
. 4- 
•: • 
. 
: U
-"'v't •
 :
 
• 
Sincerely yours, 
Thomas M» Eii^len, Jr. 
Vice President 

k, 
n
. 
'©7 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
5/23/68* 
U 
NEW YORK. NEW YORK 10045 
1876 
Majr 2 3 , 1 9 6 6 
A . H o m i o l l 
P r c i i d u t 
330 
C o a p m n y 
*** ArtitttO 
f
* York-
I t v Y o r k 
10022 
Itaaalli 
; rr 
'r.Ht-. 
•';, < 
[ • • % l B .
W
! . ! ! f *
r
.
t e
 I
0 u r
 
• n U u t t n 
dated A p r i l 2 5 , 1 9 6 8 . 
o f f l o . a t 2 0 8 1 B ^ a l v a ^ , 
• I » M . ! . :
9
' I " !
 
T
8
n
4
 " » • * ) » n o r t h w a a t c o r n e r o f B r o a d w a y 
- 
. 
' 
I W I U W I W A , c m or Rev York. 
Aft A 
> « H 
* 
» * l « « e t l o n o f A u t h o r i t y 
• • . I i i S ! . * ! ! ! ?
 
0
w
,
r
?
4
M 
o f
 
n . u r r . S y . t e a , w e 
y o u r a p p l l . a t l o n a h o u l d h a a p p r o w a d . 
A c c o r d -
o n h»h.l* 
I, 
m 
a p p r o v e d . 
ACCOri 
d a l a g a t a d a u t h o r l t y , a p p r o r a a tha 
? » » • « " « o f f l e a a t t h a a h o r e - n e n t l o n e d 
l a t t a r . 
e a t e b l l a h o d w i t h i n a l x a o n t h a o f tha d a t e 
o i L S ? ? i i - !
,
!
r
!
e l a t
* r
r
 
a d T l
"
l n
« 
b r a n c h la 
w
d
 
' « b u a l n o o a , « l r l n « tha o f f e c t l r o 
»°lal p o s t a l a d d r e a a , Including t h e alp c o d e n u a b e r . 
b y signing a n d returning t h e 
Sineoroly jrour®. 
Thoama If, Tinl«n, Jr. 
Proaidont 

i m iftl : Y ':•• !. 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
ITEM NO 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
5 / 2 3 / 6 8 
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60W0 
(312) HA 7-2320 
May 23, 1968 
Albert L. Morse 
**aeutire Vice President 
*** BOOM Trust and Saving* Bank 
°®*ge, Iowa 601^1 
Mr. Morse: 
On behalf of and under authority delegated by 
Board of Oovernore of the Federal Reserve Systen, 
^ a bank hereby gives approval pursuant to the provisions 
J* Section 2Uk of the Federal Reserve Act to The Hone 
Truat and Savings Bank, Osage, lows, to invest $229,9^5 
i n
 remodeling and enlarging the presiiees of the bank. The 
approval is granted in response to the request contained 
your letter dated )tay 2, 196b, and ia baaed on information 
contained in that letter and related correspondence. 
' i 
Tery truly yours, 
/ 
/ uk'Uv., /(T&V 
Leland Boas 
•ice President 
i^tAt 
/ 
c o
 • Board of Oovernore * 
Ok 
l-0, ' "! • 1: • • , 
• lone State Dept. 
...... 
- Examiner's file 
SA Vft d 28 
H fE 
o 
C O P Y 

FEDERAL RESERVE 
BANK OF MINNEAPOLIS 
ITEM NO 
MINNEAPOLIS, 
MINNESOTA 
55440 
5/23/68 
A R E A C O D E 
612 
333-03A1 
May 23, 1968 
J°ard of Directors 
The Gwinn State Savings Bank 
*
n n
> Michigan 
49841 
G e
ntlemen: 
President Knudsen's May 21, 1968 letter, together with the 
a c c
°mpanying resolution, signifying your intention to withdraw from 
^
e
mbership in the Federal Reserve System and requesting waiver of the 
months
 1
 notice of such withdrawal, has been received. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
V v.
01
^*"^' 
bank waives the requirement of six months' notice of 
^thdrawal. 
Under the provisions of Section 208.10 (c) of the Board's 
^gulation H, your bank may accomplish termination of its membership 
to
 
t
*
m e
 within eight months from the date that notice of intention 
Withdraw from membership was given. 
When arrangements have been completed for continuation of 
dec°
S
^
t
 insurance by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the 
s
ion is reached on the date you wish to terminate membership, 
st
 
W r i t e 
u s
 
that date and enclose: (1) your Federal Reserve Bank 
sh'
 
C e r t
i f i c a t e for cancellation, and (2) your certificate of member-
p 
Upon surrender of your Federal Reserve stock, you .will receive 
°t for that stock plus accrued dividends to date. 
Please also provide us with instructions for transferring 
a S g 
"
e r
e the proceeds from your Federal Reserve Bank stock and other 
6 t s
 °f your bank held here. 
Very truly yours, 
X
A
/ 
L. G. Gable 
Vice President 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OP S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N F H A N O I S O O . C A L I F O R N I A 
9 4 1 8 0 
Item No. 14 
5/23/68 
Mmy 23, 1968 
Mr. H. V. Grice, 
Executive Vice President, 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
k>s Angeles, California 90054. 
Dear Mr. Crice: 
On behalf of the Board^rf Governor^ of the 
federal Reserve System, acting<under delegated authority, 
this Bank has approved an extension to December 12, 1968, 
the time within which United CeliforjHfa Bank may 
establish a branch^fftce^n the vU^rflty of the inter-
section of Fifth/iWenue and\H Stree^, Chula Vista, San 
® U g o County, California. 
This Extension is granted in connection with 
quest contained in your/letter dated May 21, 1968, 
Very truly yours, 
Ysigned) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
