FR 609 
(Rev. 5-67) 
Minutes for June 1, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

2176 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, June 1, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Shuter, Attorney, Legal Division 
Application of Greenfield State Bank (Item No. 1). Unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpo-
ration regarding the application of Greenfield State Bank, Bakersfield, 
California, for continuation of deposit insurance after withdrawal from 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Constitutional rights bill (Item No. 2). Pursuant to action on 
February 15, 1967, the Board responded by letter dated February 17 to a 
request by Chairman Ervin of the Subcommittee on Constitutional Rights 
of the Senate Committee on the Judiciary for comments on S. 3779, a bill 
to protect the constitutional rights of privacy of Federal employees. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated May 29, 1967, from 

^ i . 4 4 
6/1/67 
-2-
the Legal Division and the Division of Personnel Administration regard-
ing a request by the Subcommittee that the Board's report be brought up 
to date in light of a revised bill designated as S. 1035. 
The memorandum described the principal changes reflected in 
S. 1035 and noted in particular three sections that had not been changed 
sufficiently to meet objections the Board had expressed because they 
would appear to prevent the continuance of certain reports presently 
required from Board employees. The staff recommended that the Board 
restate its desire to continue requiring all employees to report, and 
obtain approval of, outside business and teaching activities, and request 
any amendment of the bill that might be necessary to that end. It was 
also recommended that the Board renew its objections to the provisions of 
the bill that would prevent its obtaining statements of employment and 
financial interests from high-level supervisory personnel and consultants, 
and reports of indebtedness from bank examination staff members. 
The Division of Personnel Administration recommended that the 
Board oppose certain features of a new section of the bill establishing 
a Board of Employee Rights that would have authority over internal per-
sonnel operations of the agencies, including possible suspension of key 
personnel. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter reflecting the 
staff recommendations. 
After introductory comments by Mr. Shuter, Governor Maisel asked 
if it might not be appropriate to include among the comments on the 

6/1/67 
-3-
proposed establishment of a Board of Employee Rights a suggestion that 
procedures similar to those provided for the handling of complaints 
under existing fair employment legislation be specified. 
After some discussion of this point, it was understood that the 
staff would review the pertinent portion of the draft letter to deter-
mine whether such an approach would be practicable. 
Mr. Cardon observed that the passages in the letter relating to 
reports of outside business and teaching activities seemed to say both 
that the present version of the bill was satisfactory and that an amend-
ment might be needed. He asked how much doubt there appeared to be that 
the reports could continue to be required. 
Mr. Hackley replied that whereas the earlier bill apparently 
would have required discontinuance of such reports, the present bill 
would permit reports of employee activities that were related to the 
performance of official duties. This might permit the Board to continue 
the present requirement, since the purpose of the reports was to deter-
mine whether particular outside business and teaching activities would 
be appropriate and consistent with the employee's official task, includ-
ing whether they would affect his physical capacity to perform official 
duties. However, certain activities might be construed as unrelated to 
the employee's official duties. The draft letter therefore sought to 
verify that the requirement for the reports would be permitted. If not, 
it would request an amendment that would permit them to be required. 

2.179 
6/1/67 
-4-
In further discussion there was agreement upon certain editorial 
changes suggested by Governors Robertson and Mitchell, one of which was 
to delete a reiteration of the statement in the Board's February 17 
letter that the Board was not actively supporting the proposed legisla-
tion. The deletion was made on the theory that here the Board was deal-
ing only with the sufficiency, for its purposes, of amendments to the 
original bill. 
Unanimous approval then was given to a letter in a form that 
would reflect the discussion at this meeting. Attached as Item No. 2 
is a copy of the letter subsequently sent to Chairman Ervin. 
Participation by banks in sale of lottery tickets (Item No. 3). 
There had been distributed a draft of reply to a request by Chairman 
Patman of the House Committee on Banking and Currency for an expression 
of the Board's views on H.R. 9892, a bill that would forbid all insured 
banks, all bank holding companies, and other designated classes of organi-
zations and individuals to "conduct, manage, operate, administer, or . . . 
aid, assist, or cooperate in the conduct, management, operation, or admin-
istration of any gambling activity." 
Chairman Patman had indicated in 
a statement that one of the principal purposes of the bill was to pro-
hibit insured banks from selling participations (tickets) in lotteries 
to be conducted by the State of New York. 
It had been understood earlier (as Governor Robertson reported 
at the meeting on May 29) that Board testimony on the bill would be 

2180 
6/1/67 
-5-
required. However, it developed that a report by letter would be 
sufficient. 
Among other things, the draft letter expressed the view that 
the matter was one related to charter powers, over which the Board had 
no authority; that preventive action by the Board would be legally pos-
sible only if circumstances of a particular situation caused a bank's 
activity related to a gambling operation to constitute an unsafe or 
unsound practice or otherwise violate Federal law administered by the 
Board; that the decision of the Congress whether or not to use Federal 
authority to override State laws, such as those in New York and New 
Hampshire, permitting bank participation in administering lotteries or 
sweepstakes must rest on broad social and political grounds; and that, 
if the Committee decided to report the bill favorably, guidance would 
be needed regarding various questions relating to bank deposit and lend-
ing functions. 
Governor Maisel suggested expansion of the portion of the draft 
letter regarding questions of coverage of the proposed legislation. He 
noted that in a number of States various programs were financed through 
revenues from pari-mutuel wagering. Thus, questions might arise whether 
banks could handle race track accounts, or those of a State or county 
fair that was largely supported by its racing features. There followed 
a discussion of types of State programs that might be affected by the 
terms of the bill. There was agreement that this aspect of the matter 

2:181. 
6/1/67 
-6-
should be given somewhat greater attention in the letter, without at 
this stage of the legislative process going into detail regarding pos-
sible problems. 
After further discussion during which there was agreement upon 
other suggestions that were principally editorial in nature, the letter 
was approved unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 3. 
It was also agreed that a copy of the letter to Chairman Patman 
would be sent to Congressman John M. Murphy of New York as a response 
to letters he had recently addressed to members of the Board regarding 
the sale of lottery tickets in New York. 
Revenue bond underwriting. 
It had been announced recently that 
the Department of Justice had decided not to appeal the decision of the 
U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia in the case of Baker, 
Watts & Co. v. Saxon that in effect ruled against Comptroller of the 
Currency Saxon's view that section 5136 of the Revised Statutes does 
not prohibit national banks from underwriting or dealing in certain 
types of revenue bonds. The announcement was followed by newspaper 
articles commenting upon the decision by the Department, at least one 
of which alleged that the Federal Reserve had been influential. 
Mr. Fauver reported that a member of the press had requested a 
copy of the Board's letter of January 26, 1967, responding to certain 
questions regarding which the Department of Justice had requested the 
Board's views to aid it in the process of determining whether to appeal 

2182 
6/1/67 
-7-
the District Court's decision. 
It was evident that the party who made 
the request knew that the letter existed, and it was Mr. Fauver's opin-
ion that release of the letter might be helpful in putting the record 
straight. 
If the Board was disposed to authorize compliance with the 
request, he recommended that the concurrence of the Department of Jus-
tice be obtained. 
Mr. Hexter agreed that the attitude of the Department was an 
important consideration. Two principal issues had entered into the 
case--the merits of the Comptroller's position regarding revenue bond 
underwriting and the "standing to sue" of the investment bankers who 
found themselves disadvantaged by that position. The latter question 
was of importance to the Department. The general rule had been that if 
a law was passed for the benefit of a particular sociological or eco-
nomic class, only members of that group who found themselves disadvan-
taged by an administering agency's interpretation had standing to sue. 
Thus, the implications of a possible loss of the revenue bond case on 
appeal were of concern to the Justice Department from that standpoint. 
In further discussion it was noted that the January 26 letter 
had indicated that the Board was "without knowledge of the implications 
of the 'standing-to-sue1 question and, therefore, expresses no opinion 
as to whether an appeal with respect to that aspect of the District 
Court's decision is appropriate." 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that the 
question would be taken up with the Department of Justice and, if the 

2188 
6/1/67 
-8-
Department was agreeable, a copy of the Board's letter would be made 
available to the party who had requested it. 
Secretary's Note: 
It having been 
ascertained that the Department had 
no objection, the Board's letter was 
subsequently made available. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Robert C. Bradshaw as Economist, Division of International Finance, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $11,111, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Change in title 
Daniel T. Garges, title changed from Computer Systems Specialist 
to Information Systems Analyst, Division of Data Processing, with no 
change in basic annual salary at the rate of $13,769, effective May 23, 
1967. 

tSllfc 
(,»*',V::: •• -i-' V w ' 
mm 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No, 
6/1/67 
ADDWESD OFFICIAL CURHESPl 
TO THE BtJARD 
June 1, 1967 
The Honorable K. A. Randall, Chairman, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 
20429 
Dear Mr. Randall: 
Reference is made to your letter of May 23, 1967, con-
cerning the application of Greenfield State Bank, Bakersfield, 
California, for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal 
from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
There have been no corrective programs urged upon the 
bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been fully consummated, 
and there are no programs that the Board would advise be incor-
porated as conditions of admitting the bank to membership in the 
Corporation as a nonmember of the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
v it 
' 
"J ;» a '-J ," 

B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 2 
6/1/67 
O F F I C E 
O F 
T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
June 2, 1967 
The Honorable Sam J. Ervin, Jr., Chairman, 
Subcommittee on Constitutional Rights, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your letter of March 16, 1967, 
requesting a supplemental report on S. 1035, a bill to protect the 
Constitutional rights of Federal employees. 
The Board's original 
report on this measure (S. 3779 of the 89th Congress) was included 
in its letter of February 17, 1967. 
As stated in that report, most of the practices that would 
be prohibited by this bill are of. a kind that are not followed by 
the Board. 
However, S. 3779 appeared to affect three procedures, 
which the Board follows as a means of assuring high standards of 
conduct on the part of its employees. 
One of these, a report and request for approval of outside 
business and teaching activities required of all employees, appears 
to be no longer prohibited under section 1(d) of the revised bill, 
S. 1035, which permits requests for reports of activities that are 
related to the performance of the employee's official duties. 
The 
Board requires this report to ascertain whether outside business or 
teaching activities are appropriate and consistent with official tasks 
or would affect the employee's physical capacity to perform his official 
duties. 
However, if S. 1035 would prohibit the use of this report the 
Board would renew its objection and request the bill be amended to 
permit continued use of this report, which the Board considers a 
valuable aid in assuring high standards of conduct. 
Also, the "Confidential Statement of Employment and Financial 
Interests" required of the Board's highest-level supervisory personnel 
and consultants would still be strictly limited under S. 1035 and 

2186 
The Honorable Sain J. Ervin, Jr. 
-2-
reports of indebtedness incurred by members of the Board's staff who 
examine the Federal Reserve Banks or work on bank examinations matters 
would still be forbidden by the bill. As stated in its original 
report, in the Board's judgment these procedures operaLe to assure 
the highest standards of conduct by employees in responsible and 
sensitive positions, without causing any undue invasion of privacy. 
The employees subject to these requirements (a small percentage of 
the Board's staff) appreciate their purposes and there has never 
been any employee objection. Accordingly, the.Board, again, urges 
that the bill be amended in a manner that would permit continuation 
of the procedures for filing "Confidential Statements of Employment 
and Financial Interests" and reports of indebtedness by examination 
personnel. 
A new provision of S. 1035 would provide for the establishment 
of an administrative Board of Employee Rights that would have powers to 
take disciplinary action against government employees after such board 
determined the employee had violated the provisions of the bill. The 
Board considers that the addition of an administrative board to deter-
mine if violations have occurred would expedite complaints that might 
arise under the bill, but objects to the authority of such a board to 
take disciplinary action against an employee that would interfere with 
with an agency's internal personnel control. This is particularly 
true with respect to the authority the bill confers on such board to 
suspend employees who may, at that time, be indispensable to a parti-
cular agency operation. 
The Board, therefore, recommends that the bill be amended 
to provide for an administrative board with fact-finding powers to 
determine if violations have occurred and authority to file a report 
and recommendation for disciplinary action with the employing agency. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

218 
y^P'^M-iv'' 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 3 
• oV < V •: '•>% \ 
OF THE 
r /-i jr -7 
g(f: 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5 Y S T E M 
0 / 1 / & / 
i
i
: 
*• f^Ai Rf.^;. • 
WASHINGTON, •. C. 205iSI 
OFFICE OF THE VICE CHAIRMAN 
June 1, 1967 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your request for the views of the 
Board on 11.R. 9892, a bill "To prohibit certain financial institutions 
from participating in gambling activities." 
The bill would forbid 
all insured banks, all bank holding companies, and other designated 
classes of organizations and individuals, to "conduct, manage,' 
operate, administer, or . . . aid, assist, or cooperate in the 
conduct, management, operation, or administration of any gambling 
activity." 
Your remarks on introducing the bill indicate that one 
of its principal purposes is to prohibit insured banks from selling 
participations (tickets) in lotteries to be conducted by the State 
of New York. 
Whether the sale of lottery tickets is within the scope 
of a bank's corporate powers is a question that must be decided for 
national banks by the Comptroller of the Currency and for State 
banks by the State bank supervisors. 
The Board has no authority 
under present law to prohibit any bank from making such sales, 
under ordinary circumstances. 
A legal basis for preventive action 
by the Board would arise only where special circumstances exist 
under which the sale would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice 
or otherwise violate Federal law administered by the Board. 
Under 
the methods proposed in the State of New York, the sale of lottery 
tickets by a bank is not, in our judgment, an unsafe or unsound 
practice and it would have no impact that we can see one way or 
the other on how banks carry out any activity as to which the 
Board has supervisory responsibilities. 
As we. understand the situation, the people of New York 
have decided by referendum that they will obtain a portion of the 
revenues needed for school aid through a lottery rather than through 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
taxation, . The New York legislature has authorized sale of lottery 
tickets by banks as well as other establishments. 
The New Hampshire 
legislature also acted this year to authorize sale of sweepstake 
tickets by banks and we understand that eight national banks and 
eight State nonmetnber banks have agreed to act a,-: sales agents in 
that State. The Congress of the United States may, of course, take 
a different view of the desirability of lotteries or sweepstakes as 
a social matter, and may wish to consider the use of Federal 
authority to override State lavs that permit such activity by banks. 
But the Board believes that such a decision must rest on broad 
social and political grounds rather than on banking considerations. 
In supervising State member banks, the Federal Reserve 
System's objective is to foster the maintenance of each bank in 
sound and solvent condition and under good management, in order to 
protect depositors and to assure uninterrupted provision of essential 
banking services. We believe that this objective can be achieved 
equally well with or without enactment of H.R. 9392. 
The bill covers much more than the sale of lottery tickets, 
of course. We are not certain whether it would prohibit a bank from 
making a loan to a place of entertainment where people gamble wi th 
the blessing of the State, or from receiving deposits from any such 
establishment. We assume that it would not prohibit a bank from 
accepting deposits from the State of New York or from a school 
agency that benefits from the Kcw York lottery although it might 
prevent acceptance of deposits to be credited to a special account 
established in connection with the lottery. Questions may also 
arise as to whether access to banking facilities is to be limited 
or denied for the many activities of State and local, governments 
that are financed in whole or in part with revenues derived from 
parimutuels or other forms of betting. 
If your Committee decides 
to report this bill favorably to the House, we hope, that thsy will 
provide some guidance to assist the administering agencies in 
determining such questions of coverage. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
