Minutes for February 26, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 
Amendment to Supplement to Regulation Q, 
Payment of Interest on Deposits. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below to indicate approval of the 
minutes. 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

m 
696 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, February 26, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherri11 
1° 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator and 
Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. 01Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Fisher, Senior Economist, Division of 
Research and Statistics 

2 
2/26/70 
-9-
Testimony of Governor Maisel. A draft had been distributed 
of a statement to be given by Governor Maisel before the Subcommittee 
on Housing and Urban Affairs of the Senate Committee on Banking and 
Currency on March 2, 1970, relative to three pending bills, as follows: 
S. 2958, which would permit the Federal National Mortgage Association 
to buy, sell, and hold conventional residential mortgages; S. 3503, 
which would authorize advances by the Federal Home Loan Banks to 
lenders who would use the proceeds to make mortgage loans for families 
with incomes of $10,000 or less; and S. 3442, which would implement 
certain recommendations of the Commission on Mortgage Interest Rates. 
General agreement with the basic approach of the draft testi-
mony was expressed. However, several suggestions were made for 
clarification of certain points and for amplification of others. It 
W as understood that the statement would be edited in light of the 
Su8gestions made and that it would be presented in a final form satis-
factory to Governor Maisel. 
(Note: A copy of the statement, as 
Presented, has been placed in the Board's files.) 
Multiple maturity time deposits. On the basis of recent discus-
sions by the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation, as summarized in 
a memorandum dated February 25, 1970, Governor Robertson recommended that 
Regulation Q, Payment of Interest on Deposits, be amended, retroactive to 
January 21, 1970, to authorize the same interest rate ceilings on one and 
two-year "consumer type" time certificates, with provision for automatic 

2/26/70 
-3-
renewal, as those now prescribed for single-maturity certificates, i.e. 
5-1/2 per cent and 5-3/4 per cent, respectively. The Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation was proposing to amend its pertinent regulation 
in similar fashion. The proposed rates, it was noted, would still be 
1/4 per cent below those permitted to be paid by savings and loan asso-
ciations on comparable instruments. 
Governor Robertson proposed that no changes be made at this 
time in the regulatory provisions regarding penalties for payment 
before maturity. It was contemplated that the matter would be consid-
ered further by the Coordinating Committee on the basis of a survey to 
be undertaken by the bank supervisory agencies for the purpose of 
determining the extent, if any, to which the new ceilings accelerated 
premature withdrawals. 
Attached to the memorandum was a proposed amendment to the 
Supplement to Regulation Q in form for publication in the Federal 
Agister. 
After discussion centering on the likely effect of the proposed 
rate changes on savings flows, the amendment was approved unanimously, 
Wlth the understanding that the timing of its announcement would be 
coordinated with the FDIC. 
Copies of the press release and amendment, as issued, are 
attached under Item No. 1. 

609 
2/26/70 
-9-
Subordinated notes. The concern of the Federal Home Loan Bank 
Board and the Comptroller of the Currency over the continued and expand-
ing practice of banks in issuing subordinated notes was also commented 
upon by Governor Robertson in his memorandum of February 25, 1970. As 
an outgrowth of discussions of the Coordinating Committee and recent 
Board deliberations, Governor Robertson now recommended the publication 
for comment of proposed amendments to Regulations D, Reserves of Member 
Banks, and Q, Payment of Interest on Deposits, in a form that would 
bring within the coverage of those regulations all subordinated notes 
issued by member banks, with certain exceptions. The proposed amendment 
would also exclude from the purview of the regulations subordinated 
notes issued under emergency situations with the specific approval of 
the appropriate supervisory authority. 
(The Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation reportedly had no problem in this area but would not be 
opposed to a move on the part of the Board along the lines suggested.) 
Some Board members continued to believe that no regulatory 
action was necessary, on the grounds that statutory and market restric-
tions would limit the practice sufficiently. Other members indicated 
that they would be willing to publish the proposal principally as a 
gesture toward interagency cooperation. Another view was that the 
Proposal was justified in any event. 
Concern was voiced by one member over the growing disparity 
between the regulations of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 

610 
2/26/70 
-9-
and those of the Board with regard to payment of interest on deposits, 
and there was some discussion of the applicable statutes. Mention was 
made of the possibility that steps might be taken to close this gap 
after the new Chairman of the Corporation had assumed his duties. 
It was then suggested that the minimum denomination restric-
tion (of $20,000) adopted by the New York State Superintendent of Banks 
might be a preferable approach to controlling the issuance of subordi-
nated notes, and comments favoring this alternative were made by some 
Board members. 
Question was raised whether an escape clause relating to emer-
gency situations was necessary, and Governor Robertson stated that the 
other supervisory agencies believed some loophole should be provided. 
However, he saw no objection to limiting the escape clause so that it 
would not apply to notes or debentures issued to the general public. 
Addit ional comments indicated that there was a desire for fur-
ther negotiation with the members of the Coordinating Committee along 
the lines discussed at today's meeting, particularly with reference to 
4.L 
# 
n e minimum denomination approach, and it was understood that Governor 
R°bertson would present the alternative. 
At this point several members of the Legal, Research, and Super-
Vision and Regulation Divisions having an interest in the remaining 
xtems on the agenda entered the room. 

2/26/70 
-7-
Applications of Bank of New Jersey. Drafts of an order and 
statement had been distributed reflecting the Board's approval on 
January 30, 1970, of the application of The Bank of New Jersey, Camden, 
New Jersey, to merge with Garden State Bank, Ginnaminson, New Jersey. 
A dissenting statement by Governors Robertson and Brimmer also had been 
distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 2, along with 
the dissenting statement. 
Drafts of an order and statement also had been distributed 
reflecting the Board's approval on January 30, 1970, of the application 
of The Bank of New Jersey to merge with The Tradesmens Bank and Trust 
Company of Vine land, Vine land, New Jersey. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 3. 
Application of Denver U.S. Bancorporation. Drafts of an order 
and statement had been distributed reflecting the Board's approval on 
February 17, 1970, of the application of Denver U.S. Bancorporation, 
Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of Villa National Bank, 
Lakewood, Colorado. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 4. 

2/26/70 
-8-
Applicat ions of Charter Bankshares. 
Pursuant to the understand-
ing at the meeting on January 7, 1970, an oral presentation had been 
held on February 17, 1970, in connection with the applications of Charter 
Bankshares Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of The 
First National Bank in St. Petersburg, The Harbor City National Bank of 
Eau Gallie, and First National Beach Bank, Jacksonville Beach, particu-
larly for the purpose of determining whether legal or effective working 
control of Charter Bankshares resided in The Charter Company, a Florida 
corporation. 
On the basis of the entire record before the Board, including 
the oral presentation, the Legal and Supervision and Regulation Divi-
sons concluded that such control did not exist. In a memorandum dated 
February 25, 1970, they reaffirmed their recommendations for approval 
°f the applications. Also, in a letter dated February 20, 1970, the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta rescinded its earlier recommendation 
f°r denial. 
After a summary by Mr. O'Connell, Chairman Burns invited cora-
cnts by the three membe rs of the Board who had attended the hearing 
(Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Sherrill), and they presented reasons 
W hy they had now concluded that it would be appropriate to approve the 
aPPlications. 
Governors Daane and Brimmer also indicated that they would 
aPprove the applications, but Governor Brimmer added that he would like 

t i i a 
2/26/70 
_8-
to issue a concurring statement that would point up inadequacies of the 
law in dealing with a situation of this kind. 
Governor Robertson stated that he would deny the applications. 
The intent of the statute was to separate the control of banking and 
nonbanking businesses, and it appeared clear to him that such a combi-
nation existed here to the extent that approval of the applications 
would be inappropriate. 
The applications were then approved, Chairman Burns abstaining 
and Governor Robertson dissenting. It was understood that an order and 
statement, along with a concurring statement by Governor Brimmer and a 
dissenting statement by Governor Robertson, would be drafted for the 
Board's consideration. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed purchase of assets and assumption of 
... 
liabilities of The Peoples State Bank, Granville, Ohio, by The Park 
National Bank of Newark, Newark, Ohio, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read 
as follows: 
There is competition existing between The Park National 
Bank of Newark and The Peoples State Bank, Granville. Consum-
mation of the proposed transaction would significantly increase 
the size of the largest bank in Licking County. The overall 
competitive effect of the proposal would be substantially 
adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
c°nsolidation of The Pacific National Bank of Seattle, Seattle, Washington, 
ar*d National Bank of Washington, Tacoma, Washington, Tacoma, Washington, 

614 
2/26/70 
-9-
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is some competition existing between The Pacific 
National Bank of Seattle and National Bank of Washington, 
Tacoma, Washington, a subsidiary of Western Bancorporation, 
Los Angeles, California, a registered bank holding company. 
Consummation of the proposed consolidation would increase 
the already high level of banking concentration in the 
State of Washington, and the overall effect of the proposal 
on competition would be adverse. 
Some members of the Board indicated that they would have been 
willing to support a "substantially adverse" finding. They took issue 
with the reasoning of the Banking Markets Section, as expressed in its 
memorandum, that the competitive effects of the proposed transaction 
would be only "slightly adverse." On the other hand, a view was 
- 
• i 
expressed that the pro-competitive effect of bringing into being an 
J - • 5 f" - t 4 
lnstitution that could compare more effectively with the two dominant 
banks in the State should not be overlooked. 
t-h'i 
Selective credit controls. With a memorandum dated February 24, 
J , ,! 1 
^970, Governor Maisel presented a draft statement on selective credit 
controls prepared for presentation by a member of the Board's staff at 
a meeting of the Retail Advisory Committee of the Office of Emergency 
Preparedness on March 4, 1970. 
The statement outlined the Board's 
Previous experience in administering selective credit controls, de-
Scribed arguments for and against supplementing general monetary 
' a £ £\: i • 
controls with selective controls in certain circumstances, and summa-
ri7„j 
certain comments by Chairman Burns during recent testimony before 
committees of the Congress. 

C > i 5 
2/26/70 
-10-
. •) / 
j X 
Governor Daane questioned whether the evaluation of the previous 
experience with selective credit controls, as well as their general 
effectiveness, should be as favorable as indicated in the proposed state-
ment, and Governor Robertson added that no position should be taken 
o: 
that might later prove embarrassing to the Board. Other suggestions 
were principally of an editorial nature. 
It was understood that the statement would be reviewed by Governors 
j 
Daane and Maisel in light of the former's comments and, after such review, 
would be presented by Mr. Grimwood. (Note: A copy of the statement, as 
Presented, has been placed in the Board's files.) 
Credit cards. Governor Brimmer reported that an oral request 
*' 
> ' t 
• 
had been received for reactions to a proposed bill to restrict the unsolic-
ited mailings of credit cards and to limit the liability of cardholders 
for unauthorized use of their cards. The Administration was considering 
the submission of such a bill as a substitute for the Proxmire bill, 
S. 721. 
At Governor Brimmer's request, Mr. Shay summarized the principal 
Provisions of the draft bill. A number of these provisions were similar 
to those contained in proposed legislation previously endorsed by the 
Board. However, there were three provisions, which he described, that 
4' - t•tC•1 ; 
might be subject to question. Mr. Shay indicated that he had called 
attention to the possible questions raised by these provisions and to the 
fcl 
c t that they were somewhat at variance with earlier Board recommendations. 

GiG 
2/26/70 
-11-
Real estate transactions by New York Reserve Bank. In a 
memorandum dated February 11, 1970, the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations referred to an apparent misunderstanding on the part 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York concerning the extent to which 
it was authorized to proceed, without prior Board approval, in arrang-
ing for the termination of leases in property to be used for an annex 
building. Attached to the memorandum was a proposed letter to President 
Hayes that would spell out the issues involved, clarify the Board's 
Position, and suggest closer coordination. 
At today's meeting it was suggested that a principal objective 
should be to assure appropriate clearance through the Board's Committee 
Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans to forestall costly 
expenditures on building plans prior to Board approval, and that 
Governor Mitchell follow up on this point with President Hayes. If that 
W e r e done, a brief letter clarifying the Board's position on the need 
f o r aPProval of expenditures in excess of $100,000 in connection with 
leasehold terminations would appear to suffice. 
With that understanding, unanimous approval was given to the 
Sending of a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in the form 
attached as Item No. 5. 
Conference of examiners. Unanimous approval was given to a 
etter to the Federal Reserve Banks calling a conference of represen-
ves of Bank Examination Departments in conjunction with the annual 

rtFjs 
••fsytp^v 
2/26/70 
617 
- 1 2 -
convention of the National Association of Supervisors of State Banks 
to be held in Boston in May 1970. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 6. 
Attendance by Mr. Solomon and two other members of theDivi-
sion of Supervision and Regulation and payment of their registration 
fee (presumably $40, as in the past) for attendance at the Associa-
xi 
tion's convention was also approved. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
ttv, 
feat a - v 
Secretary 

I
B
l
i
i
i
M 
® 
I
i
l
l
l 
m
i
l 
g- r 
^ ^ ^ g ^ ^ i s p ^ g g g i ^ 
For immediate releas< 
Item No. 1 
2/26/70 
March 3, 1970. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
enounced today an increase in the maximum interest rates member banks 
ffiay Pay on multiple-maturity time deposits of one year or more, bring-
i n g t H e m i n l i n e w i t h n e w maximum rates on single-maturity deposits of 
less than $100,000. 
The new maximum rates are 5-1/2 per cent on multiple-maturity 
t l n* dep o s i t s payable at intervals of one year to two years, and 
5-3/A 
Per cent on such deposits payable at intervals of two years or 
mote 
rh 
G P r e v i o ^ maximum rate was 5 per cent on both types of instru-
dents 
P 
• *or multiple-maturity time deposits maturing in 90 days to one 
year 
maximum rate remains at 5 per cent. 
A multiple-maturity time deposit means any time deposit that 
Payable at the depositor's option on more than one date, for example, 
automatic renewal at maturity if the depositor does not withdraw his 
fuQds at- 
. . 
at that time. 
On January 20, the Board announced an increase in the maximum 
rates b 
anks may pay on single-maturity time deposits of one year or more 
V e on January 21. The action announced today--effective retro-
*<*lvelv 
y co January 21--was taken in view of the convenience to bank 
CUstomers of m, 
or the automatic renewal feature and the practice followed by 

619 
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board in permitting renewal of similar 
deposits in savings and loan institutions. 
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is issuing similar 
regulations covering insured State nonmember commercial and mutual 
savings banks and savings banks in Massachusetts not insured by the 
FDIC. 
A copy of the Board's amendment to its rules governing the 
Payment of interest on deposits (Regulation Q) is attached. 
(&:> I 

620 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
V i a . . . . 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
M'luo?^ 
PART 217--INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
o.r:01 
[Reg. Q] 
i.r/()„ 
Maximum Rates on Certain Multiple Maturity Time Deposits 
;} iVU 
\ 
• V ' 
1. Effective January 21, 1970, subparagraph (b) of 5 217.7 
(Supplement to Regulation Q) is amended to read as follows: 
® 21.7.7 tlaximum rates of interest payable by member banks on time 
and savings deposits. 
•k 
ic 
ie 
-k i< 
(b) Multiple maturity time deposits. No member bank shall 
(v • 
interest on a multiple maturity time deposit at a rate in excess 
the applicable rate under the following schedule: 
f ^ 
»v s ' , , . 
a 
Maturity intervals 
Maximum per cent 
30 days or more but 
less than 90 days 
4-1/2 
90 days or more but 
than 1 year 
less 
5 
1 year or more but 
than 2 years 
less 
5-1/2 
2 years or more 
5-3/4 
-
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
2a. This amendment is designed to permit member banks to 
a y > effective January 21, 1970, (1) 5-1/2 per cent on multiple 
®atur ^ fr 
r i t y time deposits payable only one year or more after the date 

of deposit, or one year or more after the last preceding date on 
which it might have been paid, and (2) 5-3/4 per cent on such deposits 
Payable only two years or more after the date of deposit, or two years 
more after the last preceding date on which it might have been paid. 
Board previously authorized member banks to pay, effective January 21, 
1970, such rates on single maturity time deposits in amounts less than 
$100,000 and with like maturities (35 F.R. 1156). 
b. The amendment was adopted in view of the convenience to 
kank customers of automatic renewal and the practice followed by the Federal 
Nome Loan Bank Board in permitting automatic renewal of similar deposits 
savings and loan institutions. 
c. The requirements of section 553(b) of Title 5, United 
States Code, with respect to notice, public participation, and deferred 
ef£ective date were not followed in connection with this amendment. 
e Board found that, in the circumstances, the public interest com-
piled it to take action at the earliest practicable time and to make 
tlle a c tion retroactive to the date of its action raising the maximum 
tates payable on single maturity time deposits. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 26, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
[SEAL] 
Deputy Secretary. 

G2? 
Item No, 2 
2/26/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON,. D.C.. 
• dv? - -• 
I n the Matter of the Application of 
T H E BANK OF NEW JERSEY 
approval of merger with 
Garden State Bank 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1028(c)), an application by The Bank of New 
> 
r s ey, Camden, New Jersey, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve 
^stem, for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank and 
arden State Bank, Cinnaminson, New Jersey, under the charter and name 
Q £ 
f M 
G Bank of New Jersey. As an incident to the merger, the four 
^ices of Garden State Bank would become branches of the resulting 
Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, 
b e e n published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the farf. 
c<-cors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Ptroller 0f the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
t-h 
e Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
Plr°P°sed merger, 

623 
| 
r 2* 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
^tended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C;, this 26th day of February 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors Daane, 
Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
and Brimmer. 
Chairman Burns uas not a member of the Board at the time of 
its action on this application. 
/signed/ Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

(I'M 
BOARD OF GOVERNOR 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY THE BANK OF NEW JERSEY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
GARDEN STATE BANK 
STATEMENT 
The Bank of Neu Jersey, Camden, New Jersey ("Camden Bank"), 
V;ith total deposits of $254 million, has applied, pursuant to the Bank 
Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval of the 
me*ger of that bank with Garden State Bank, Cinnaminson, New Jersey 
("Cinnaminson Bank"), which has total deposits of $32 million.-^ The 
kQnks would merge under the charter and name of Camden Bank, which is 
member of the Federal Reserve System. As an incident to the merger, 
four offices of Cinnaminson Bank would become branches of Camden 
Banlc> increasing the number of its offices to 25.-^ 
Competition. - Camden Bank, one of the two largest banks in 
New Jersey's Third Banking District, operates its head office and 20 
bf 
anches in Camden County; the bank has received approval to establij 
f 
u r additional branches, two in Camden County and two in Gloucester 
c°unt 
Bank 
U U n tV, which is south of, and contiguous to, Camden County. Cinnaminson 
operates its head office and one branch in Cinnaminson (population 
5,00°), and one branch each in Riverton and Palmyra. All offices of 
Camdc 
naminson Bank are in Burlington County, which lies just north of 
e n County. 
" ^ ^ ^ a r e as of June 30, 1969. 
Authorized but unopened offices are not included. 

Cinnaminson Bank's in-town branch is about six miles 
northwest of Camden Bank's Cherry Hill branch, and they are the 
nearest offices of the two banks. There are 11 offices of five other 
banks in the intervening area. Neither Camden Bank nor Cinnaminson 
Bank obtains as much as one per cent of its deposits from the area 
served by the other, Cinnaminson Bank derives about four per cent of 
its loans from the area served by Camden Bank, The percentages of 
Camden Bank's loans that originate in the area served by Cinnaminson 
Bank range from less than one per cent in the case of instalment loans 
seven per cent in the case of real estate mortgage loans, 
Camden Trust derives the preponderance of its business from 
an area comprising the northern half of Camden County, and adjoining 
Portions of Gloucester and Burlington Counties, Camden Bank, with 
about 26 per cent of the deposits in the area, ranks first in this 
Aspect among the 22 banks that operate offices in the area, 
Cinnaminson Bank holds less than three per cent of area deposits. 
Both Camden Bank and Cinnaminson Bank are precluded by the 
h°me-office-protection provision of New Jersey law from establishing 
a do novo branch in the community in which the other is headquartered. 
St-
t e law also provides branch-office-protection for municipalities 
populations under 7,500, In the area served by Cinnaminson Bank, 
Palmyra (population 7,700), which is served by a branch of 
C i 
naminson Bank, is open to de novo branching. There are several 
0nununities in the area served by Camden Bank that are open to de novo 

6?,G 
-3-
ktanching, but Cinnaminson Bank, largely because of its size, does not 
appear to be a likely entrant. The merger would open the Cinnaminson 
community to cte novo branching by other Third District banks. First 
National Bank of Riverside (deposits $10 million) and South Jersey 
National Bank (deposits $264 million) have each filed an application 
to establish a cte novo branch in Cinnaminson, contingent on approval of 
the application in this case. 
The proposed transaction would have a slightly adverse effect 
°n competition. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors with respect to each of the banks proposing to merge 
are reasonably satisfactory, as they would be with respect to the 
r e s u l t i n g bank. 
Convenience and needs of the community. - The principal effect 
the merger on banking convenience and needs would be in the area 
Presently served by Cinnaminson Bank. 
The present population (354,000) of Burlington County 
Represents an increase of 58 per cent since 1960; the population of 
Cinnaminson increased by 86 per cent during the same period. 
Both farming and industrial activities are important economic 
Pursuits in Burlington County. Cinnaminson, Riverton and Palmyra, known 
locally as the "Tri-Boros", are primarily residential in character; 
many residents commute to work in Camden and Philadelphia. 

-4-
The replacement of Ginnaminson Bank by offices of Camden Bank 
Would provide a convenient alternative source of full banking services 
for the Tri-Boros communities and would remove home-office-protection 
in the case of Cinnaminson, so that other banks could establish de novo 
branches there. As was indicated earlier, two banks have already filed 
applications 
to establish de novo branches in Cinnaminson, 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
slightly adverse effect of the proposed merger on competition would be 
outweighed by the benefits for the banking convenience and needs of the 
Cinnaminson, Riverton and Palmyra communities. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
approved. 
February 26, 1970. 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
As we understand the reasoning of the majority, a crucial 
consideration weighing in favor of approval of the merger of Camden 
Bank and Cinnaminson Bank is the benefit expected to result from the 
fact that the transaction will remove home-office-protection from 
Cinnaminson and open the community to de novo branching by other banks 
in New Jersey's Third Banking District; supposedly, other banks will 
enter the community, which will enhance competition and result in 
better banking services, 
A net benefit for the public might indeed flow from the 
merger of Cinnaminson Bank with one of the many other banks in the 
Third 
Banking District that is not now operating in the greater Camden 
area, and that is not one of the largest banks in the District. How-
ler, the merger of Cinnaminson Bank into Camden Bank will enhance the 
already dominant position of the latter in the greater Camden market, 
a s well as eliminate existing and potential competition between the two 
institutions, 
In our judgment, the removal of home-office-protection through 
me*ger must be viewed generally as conferring, at best, a somewhat 
illusory benefit, since home-office-protection is nothing but a legis-
latively contrived impediment to competition. Where, as here, the 

merger is betueen two banks in the same market and the market is highly 
concentrated and dominated by the acquiring bank, the removal of home-
office-protection is, in our view, essentially meaningless. 
Ue would deny the application. 
February 26, 1970. 

Item No. 3 
2/26/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D0C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
THE BANK OF NEW JERSEY 
1 
for approval of merger with 
1 
The Tradesmens Bank and Trust Company 1 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by The Bank of New 
Jersey, Camden, New Jersey, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve 
System, for the Board!s prior approval of the merger of that bank and 
^he Tradesmens Bank and Trust Company of Vineland, Vineland, New Jersey, 
under the charter and name of The Bank of New Jersey, As an incident to 
fche merger, the six offices of The Tradesmens Bank and Trust Company 
would become branches of the resulting bank. Notice of the proposed 
merger, in form approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to 
said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
^ e factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
a n d the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
Proposed merger, 

631 
- 2 -
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
•Philadelphia pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 26th day of February 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Chairman Burns was not a member of the Board at the time 
of its action on this application. 
/'signed/ Kenneth A. Kenvon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

6 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY THE BANK OF NEW JERSEY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
THE TRADESMENS BANK AND TRUST COMPANY OF VINELAND 
STATEMENT 
The Bank of New Jersey, Camden, New Jersey ("Camden Bank"), 
with total deposits of $254 million, has applied, pursuant to the Bank 
Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval of the 
merger of that bank with The Tradesmens Bank and Trust Company of 
Vineland, Vineland, New Jersey ("Vineland Bank"), which has total de-
Posits of $32 million.-^ The banks would merge under the charter and 
name of Camden Bank, which is a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
As an incident to the merger, the four offices of Vineland Bank would 
become branches of Camden Bank, increasing the number of its offices 
to 25 y 
Competition. - Camden Bank, one of the two largest banks in 
New Jersey's Third Banking District, operates its head office and 20 
branches in Camden County; the bank has received approval to establish 
four additional branches, two in Camden County and two in Gloucester 
County, which is south of, and contiguous to, Camden County. Vineland 
Bank operates its head office and two branches in Vineland (population 
47,000), xv/hich is in Cumberland County, about 30 miles south of Camden. 
1/ Figures are as of June 30, 1969. 
V Authorized but unopened offices are not included. 

G 
; I 
Vineland Bank has received approval to establish two additional branches, 
one in Vineland and one in Hammonton (Atlantic County), about 15 miles 
northeast of Vineland. The nearest offices of Camden Bank and Vineland 
Bank are 25 miles apart. The site of Vineland Bank's proposed branch 
in Hammonton is 13 miles southeast of Camden Bank's Pine Hall branch. 
There are many offices of other banks in the area separating the offices 
of Camden Bank and Vineland Bank. There is virtually no competition 
between the two banks. 
Under New Jersey law, banks may establish de novo branches 
within the banking district in which they are headquartered, subject, 
however, to a home-office-protection feature for all municipalities and 
to a branch-office-protection feature for municipalities with populations 
under 7,500. Thus, both Camden Bank and Vineland Bank are precluded by 
State law from establishing a de novo branch in the headquarters com-
munity of the other; further, Vineland Bank's size, and the banking 
structure in the area presently served by Camden Bank, make Vineland 
Bauk an unlikely entrant there. 
The large communities in Cumberland County, in addition to 
Vineland, l.e., Millville and Bridgeton, are closed to de novo entry by 
Camden Bank because of home-office-protection. There are no other 
communities in the county with populations of 7,500 or more, and there 
9 r e 0 n l y three communities with populations under 7,500 that have no 
banking office. Thus, the opportunities for Camden Trust to enter 
Cumberland County by de novo branching are limited. 

-3-
610 
Vineland Bank is the second largest of the eight banks that 
operate in Cumberland County. The largest bank operating in the county 
is South Jersey National Bank, Camden (total deposits $264 million), 
which recently acquired The Millville National Bank (deposits $37 million). 
Of the remaining banks, three have deposits in excess of $24 million, 
and deposits at the other three range from $6 million to $9 million. 
The effect of the proposed merger on competition would not be 
adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
principal effect of the merger on banking convenience and needs would 
be in the area presently served by Vineland Bank. 
The population of Cumberland County increased from 107,000 to 
about 128,000, or by approximately 20 per cent, between 1960 and 1968; 
during the same period the population of Vineland, x^hich is the county's 
largest municipality, increased by about 26 per cent. The county's 
commercial and industrial activity is centered in Vineland, Bridgeton 
and Millville. 
Camden Bank would offer a much greater variety of banking 
services than Vineland Bank provides, and the lending limit now pre-
vailing at the offices of Vineland Bank would be increased by about 
sevenfold, While the services that Camden Bank would offer are, or will 
be, available from the recently established Cumberland County offices of 
South Jersey National Bank, the addition of a convenient alternative 
source of full banking services would benefit the banking convenience 
and needs of the residents of the area now served by Vineland Bank. 

63: 
±4-
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
effect of the merger on competition would not be adverse, and the 
transaction would result in benefits for the banking convenience and 
needs of the Vineland community and environs. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
he approved. 
February 26, 1970. 

6 3 6 
Item No. 4 
2/26/70 
UNITED SPATES OF AilERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
i 
In the Matter of the Application of 
DENVER U. S. BANCORPORATION, INC., 
Denver, Colorado, 
approval of acquisition of 30 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Villa National Bank, Lakev/ood, Colorado. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
V.S.C. 1042(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regu-
lation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Denver U. S. Bancorporation, 
*nc., Denver, Colorado, a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the 
v°ting shares of Villa National Bank, Lakewood, Colorado. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the 
e Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of the 
aPPlication. 

610 
-3-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 27, 1969 (34 Federal Register 13995), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the application so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 26th day of February 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Maisel, 
Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson 
and Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

G38 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
DENVER U. S, BANCORPORATION, INC., DENVER, COLORADO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
VILLA NATIONAL BANK, LAKEUOOD, COLORADO 
STATEMENT 
Denver U. S. Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1042(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 30 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Villa National Bank, Lakewood, 
Colorado ("Villa National" or "Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller of the 
Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views and recom-
mendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition 
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 

-2-
639 
to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in 
any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds 
that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the trans-
action in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
In each case, the Board is required to take into consideration the finan-
cial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding 
company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant is the 
second largest banking organization and bank holding company in the City 
and the County of Denver (coterminous areas), and in the relevant market 
area - the Denver SMSA. Applicant controls seven subsidiary banks, all 
°f which are located in Colorado. Its largest subsidiary bank, Denver 
United States National Bank, Denver, Colorado, has deposits of $431 million; 
deposits of the six other subsidiaries aggregate $117 million." Acqui-
sition of Villa National, with total deposits of $6 million, would increase 
Applicant's share of total commercial bank deposits in the State (presently 
per cent) by .1 per cent, and of such deposits in the Denver SMSA 
(Presently 19.2 per cent) by .2 per cent. 
y All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, unless otherwise noted. 
if Applicant also has an application pending before the Board for approval 
the acquisition of Colorado Springs National Bank, Colorado Springs. 

610 
-3-
Villa National is located in Lakewood, southwest of Denver, 
in a large shopping center that contains nearly 100 business outlets 
employing 1,700 people. Villa National's service area contains about 
44,000 people; the City of Lakewood is estimated to have a population 
of 90,000. Bank is the third smallest of eight banks that are located 
within five miles of Bank and compete with it. The Board has found, 
contrary to Applicant's position, that Bank's service area lies wholly 
within that of Denver U. S. National Bank, Applicant's lead bank, 
located about five miles east and two miles north in downtown Denver. 
None of Applicant's Denver area subsidiaries are located in 
Villa National's service area; however, Denver U. S. National Bank, its 
proximity to Bank earlier noted, does derive deposits and loans amount-
ing to less than 2 per cent of its totals of each from Villa National's 
service area. A large portion of the deposits and loans thus derived, 
however, are those of customers whose size and related requirements are 
beyond Bank's service potential. The record reflects, further, that an 
insignificant portion of Villa National's business is derived from the 
Denver area, and substantial portions of its deposits and loans are 
derived from areas outside its service area and the Denver SMSA. No 
competition is found to exist between Villa National and Applicant's other 
three Denver area banks, and the potential for such is not reasonably 
foreseen. Nor, in view of the nature, size, and derivation of accounts 
from Villa National's area held by Denver U. S. National Bank, does it 
appear to the Board that significant competition between the two banks 
would develop in the foreseeable future. 

641 
xtyd 
I 
' i 
' 
• > ' 
Regarding tnd likely effect of the proposed acquisition on 
the seven banks earlier noted as competing with Villa National, as noted, 
only two of these banks are smaller than Villa National, and it is the 
second most geographically removed from Bank of the seven competitors. 
Two of the competing banks are subsidiaries of registered bank holding 
companies. Two of the banks are nearly twice Bank's size, one is slightly 
more than twice its size, and a third, located two miles from Bank, is 
over seven times its size. It does not appear that any increase in the 
competitive ability of Villa National as a result of its ownership by 
Applicant would affect in any undue manner the competitive effectiveness 
of these banks. In all respects considered, particularly Bank's present 
lack of competitive force in its market area, the Board views as a 
desirable consequence the likelihood that Bank will> through its owner-
ship by Applicant, offer more responsive and meaningful competition. 
Consummation of the proposal would not result in a monopoly 
be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monop-
°lize, nor would it substantially lesson competition, tend to create a 
Monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
applicant's financial condition is regarded as reasonably satisfactory, 
although a pre-existing and continuing need for increased capital in 
Certain of its subsidiary banks places a financial burden on Applicant 
n o t wholly favorable to approval action on a proposed additional bank 
Requisition that would further increase Applicant's debt position. The 

6-12 
-5-
I 
record does reflect Applicant's recent efforts with respect to debt 
retirement and capital augmentation of the banks mentioned. Assurances 
currently given in connection with the Villa National proposal regarding 
amelioration of the debt and capital problems are, in relation to the 
circumstances attending this proposal, sufficiently satisfactory as 
not to offer an impediment to approval. Villa National is confronted 
with sufficiently severe problems with respect to financial and mana-
gerial resources as to make its future prospects only fair absent the 
stability, guidance, and potential for public confidence offered by an 
organization such as Applicant. 
Villa National was originally chartered in April 1963 under 
a different name and location. In January 1966, Bank moved to its 
present location under the Villa National name. Bank's operation under 
present ownership, while benefiting from additional capital funds 
provided in 1967 and by substantial deposits maintained by its con-
trolling ownership, offers only fair operational prospects for the 
future. The present controlling owners of Bank have made known their 
intent to sell that interest. In May and July 1969, respectively, Bank's 
President and Vice President resigned. The positions remained vacant 
until filled in August and September, respectively, by two loan officers 
drawn from Applicant's lead bank. These officers are regarded as highly 
competent, experienced bank officers, particularly in the fields of 
corcmercial and instalment loans. Should this application be denied, 
Applicant's officers will be withdrawn and a search for executive officers 

613 
- o 
again begun. The latter occurrence, combined with tlhb announced intention 
of Bank's present owners to sell controlling interestj does* not constitute 
favorable future prospects for Bank. Considering, howeVer, the satis-
factory nature of management found in Applicant and its subsidiary banks, 
Villa National's prospects appear far more favorable if its operations 
continue under the management now being provided by Applicant, and under 
Applicant's ownership and control. In general, considerations relating 
to the factors of financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
weigh substantially in favor of approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - The 
community whose convenience and needs would be directly affected by 
Applicant's proposal is that comprising the regional shopping center 
in which Villa Bank is located and the residential area surrounding that 
center. As earlier noted, the shopping center has approximately 100 busi-
nesses which generated some $35 million in business in 1968, a volume 
projected to be exceeded in 1969. While the major banking requirements 
of the commercial establishments in the center and the near 44,000 
residential population in the area are served by the eight banks operating 
in Villa National's service area, and to a certain extent by other of 
the banks in Metropolitan Denver, Villa National's operation under 
Applicant's control will afford a highly convenient and desirable banking 
outlet offering expanded retail credit services, including credit card 
facilities. Equally important, in the Board's judgment, to the convenience 
and expanded service factors mentioned is the potential afforded by this 

644 
proposal for a stability in Bank's operation that Will in turn engender 
a confidence in the Bank on the part of its commercial and residential 
customers. Identification with Applicant's banking system will provide 
a local ownership identification and service reputation that should 
enhance Villa National's operating prospects and competitive force. 
This prospect, together with those aforementioned, provide support to 
approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
February 26, 1970. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
or T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
64E 
Item No. 5 
2/26/70 
February 26, 1970. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
This refers to an exchange of correspondence between ^ 
Vice President Braun of your Bank and Mr. Mcintosh of the Board s 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations concerning your acqui-
sition of real estate at 24—26 Maiden Lane. 
In light of the apparent misunderstanding reflected by 
this correspondence, this is to clarify that the Board's intent 
in requiring prior approval of real estate purchases and leasehold 
terminations is that all acquisitions shall be brought to its atten-
tion if the amount involved in any individual case is in excess o:f 
$100 000. Thus, the outstanding limitation of approximately $100,00U 
per lease termination referred to in Mr. Sherman's letter of August 12, 
1966 
to Mr. Bilby was not superseded by the Board s letter ot 
January 10, 1968. The latter simply authorized your Bank to move 
ahead with the planning for your building program and 
in the absence 
of any specific reference to the lease termination problem, it was 
intended that the program move ahead in accordance with outstanding 
regulations and instructions. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

G46 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
E 5 Y 5 T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
2/26/70 
A D D R E U S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 4, 1970. 
Dear Sir: 
As you know, it is customary to hold a conference 
of Reserve Rank representatives of bank examination depart-
ments in conjunction with the Annual Convention of the 
National Association of Supervisors of State Banks. The 19 70 
Convention is scheduled to be held in Boston, Massachusetts, 
from May 4 through May 6, 19 70. Meetings of bank examination 
personnel are being scheduled for the afternoons of May 4 and 
5, and also on May 6, if it appears necessary in order to 
complete consideration of agenda items. These meetings will 
be held at the Sheraton Boston Hotel. 
The officers in charge of examinations are being 
requested to submit topics to be included on the agenda for 
the meeting.. When this agenda has been completed a copy, 
together with a list of those attending the convention, will 
be forwarded to you. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
