MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 5, 19 72 

1433 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, June 5, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairmanl/ 
Mr, Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Kichline, Chief, Capital Markets Section, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Stock market developments. 
In a memorandum dated June 2, 1972, 
SuPPlemented by comments at today's meeting, the Division of Research and 
Stat is t-i 
presented a review of recent stock market developments. 
Stock 
PX* i pQq 
I 
s m c e early May had risen on a broad front and were now around the 
recent highs prevailing in mid-April. Although the usual indicators 
of g 
Peculative activity had not generally exhibited excessive speculative 
- / 
Withdrew and reentered at points indicated in minutes. 

3 
6/5/72 
_2-
behavior in the market, margin debt at brokers and dealers in April 
continued to expand at a very rapid pace. Margin debt had increased 
bill 
ion--about 43 per cent--since the end of November, just prior 
to the reduction in initial margin requirements to 55 per cent. 
Governor Daane inquired what would be the effect on stock 
market credit if the Board raised margin requirements, and whether such 
a m°ve would be viewed simply as evidence of the Board's concern or as 
additional evidence that the Board was snugging up credit conditions 
somewhat. He was also interested in what the effect might be on the 
bond and money markets. 
Mr. Partee expressed the view that an increase in margin 
requirements might tend to slow the rise in stock market credit. A 
rational person would probably think that the Board was addressing a 
structural problem and attempting to blunt the rise in stock prices. 
0 n the other hand, the press was always looking for events to report 
a n d might suggest that such a move, although not in the field of primary 
monetary policy, was an indication of the Board's thinking. There might 
be some reaction in the bond and money markets. 
Chairman Burns referred to the staff's comment that the recent 
r i s e in stock market credit was of unprecedented magnitude, and he 
inquired whether credit in general had not risen very sharply in the 
l a s t several years. After the staff had assented that there had been a 

1435 
6/5/72 
-3-
generalized increase in credit, with mortgage credit in particular going 
up very rapidly, Chairman Burns expressed the view that the dollar total 
of the stock market credit increase, when viewed in the light of the 
over-all size of the economy and the growth of other types of credit, 
did not seem so alarming as when seen by itself. He was concerned, 
however, by the behavior and mood of the market. 
In response to his 
inquiries, the staff indicated that although the number of new issues 
had risen, it was not out of line historically. 
The press had focused 
on new issues that had had substantial run-ups in price, but there had 
not been an unusual number of those in relation to the market as a whole. 
There ensued a discussion of technical problems inherent in data relating 
t o activity in new issues. 
Governor Mitchell observed that the increase in stock market 
credit alone would seem to justify an increase in margin requirements. 
I n response to his inquiry about the status of securities industry 
Problems, the staff indicated that no major brokerage firms were in 
difficulty; the back-office problem did not seem to be mounting, and 
there had been some improvements in procedures in large brokerage houses; 
and there had not been a frantic stock market, with a great deal of 
over-the-counter trading recently. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the best course would 
b e to make a small increase in margin requirements, if that could be 
done without significant reverberations, citing the rise in stock market 

6/5/72 
_4-
debt as the justification. He thought a small increase would not 
interfere unduly with markets generally, and it might serve as a mild 
reminder of the Board's watchfulness. 
Governor Daane said that in his view the present would be the 
proper time to increase margin requirements rather than sometime later 
when there might be a boiling market. However, he thought that before 
a n y action was taken, the Manager of the System Open Market Account 
should be asked how vulnerable the bond and money markets were. If the 
Manager gave some assurance that those markets would not be disrupted, 
Governor Daane was inclined to take margin requirements action promptly. 
Chairman Burns suggested that if the Board acted to increase 
m a rgin requirements, it might at the same time adopt the pending proposal 
t o restrict the one-day substitution privilege under Regulations G, T, 
and u, relating to credit for securities transactions. The ensuing 
discussion included references to technical problems in the securities 
industry, and it was suggested that to accommodate those problems the 
effective date of the restriction of the one-day substitution rule might 
b e delayed until 90 days after the announcement. 
Governor Sheehan said he was somewhat shocked by the large 
increase in stock market credit and would vigorously support an increase 
l n margin requirements,. He also advocated that one-day substitutions be 
allowed only for accounts with an equity status of 50 per cent or more, 
rather than 40 per cent or more as contemplated by the pending proposal. 

1437 
6/5/72 
-5-
He inquired what Governor Mitchell had had in mind in suggesting a 
small" increase in margin requirements. 
In the discussion that followed, Governors Mitchell and Daane 
spoke in favor of an increase in margin requirements to 65 per cent, 
whereas Governors Robertson and Sheehan preferred 70 per cent. The 
Predominant view was in favor of combining such an action with restriction 
°f the one-day substitution rule, although Governor Daane preferred that 
the latter action be taken separately. Mr. Partee suggested that whatever 
m o v e was made, it should be of such magnitude that further rises in prices 
o f stocks would not be likely to generate such an amount of purchasing 
Power that margin accounts over-all would be put back in a few months to 
the same technical position they now occupied. He believed that a 
10-point increase should be sufficient; the behavior of the market was 
n°t such as to justify a substantial change. 
Chairman Burns observed that a combination of a 10-point increase 
"Ln margin requirements with restriction of the one-day substitution 
Privilege would be a stronger move than the margin requirements action 
alone. However, before any action was taken, he thought it necessary to 
ascertain informally from other agencies, such as the Securities and 
Exchange Commission and the Price Commission, whether any developments 
were pending in their areas of responsibility that might be out of harmony 
with the actions the Board was considering. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
matter would be considered further within the near future. 

6/5/72 
_4-
The following then entered the room: 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Althausen, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
o f United Tennessee Bancshares Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee, to 
acquire shares of First Trust and Savings Bank, Paris, Tennessee, and 
£H£horized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy of 
t h e order is attached as Item No. 1. 
(Note: The remaining subjects on the consent calendar 
W e r e discussed as part of the agenda proper.) 
Morgan Guaranty International. The Board unanimously approved 
t h e application of Morgan Guaranty International Finance Corporation, 
New York, New York, for permission to purchase shares of J. P. Morgan 
Overseas Capital Corporation, and to continue to hold those shares after 
t h e latter corporation issues and has outstanding certain obligations. 
A copy 0f t h e i e t t e r s e n t t o Morgan Guaranty International Finance 
Corporation is attached as Item No. 2. 

It 13 
6/5/72 
-11-
Investment adviser-management consultant activities. Effective 
l n J u n e 1971 the Board amended Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, to 
designate a number of activities as permissible for bank holding companies. 
One such activity, specified in section 225.4(a)(5), was "acting as 
investment or financial adviser, including (i) serving as the advisory 
c°mpany for a mortgage or a real estate investment trust and (ii) 
furnishing economic or financial information." The Board indicated 
that acting as investment or financial adviser did not include acting as 
a management consultant, but that the Board was considering whether or 
n o t t o propose that the latter be added to the list of permissible 
activities. 
The language of section 225.4(a)(5) was found to be ambiguous 
a n d °Pen to a variety of interpretations. Governor Robertson proposed 
a n amendment that would limit the scope of the activity to specific 
types of services enumerated in the regulation. The Legal Division 
Proposed as an alternative a clarifying interpretation. 
Discussion at 
^ e meeting on May 18, 1972, failed to resolve the question, and it was 
understood that Governor Robertson would work with the staff with respect 
t o t h e Points at issue. 
With a memorandum of June 1, 1972, the Legal Division submitted, 
a n d recommended adoption of, a proposed amendment to the regulation 
resulting from discussions with Governor Robertson. There were no 
Substantive differences between the draft amendment and the interpretation 

1410 
6/5/72 
-8-
earlier proposed, except for the additional specification that acting 
as investment or financial adviser extended to providing financial 
advice to State and local governments, such as with respect to the 
issuance of their securities. 
Applications had been filed that required a decision by the 
Board with respect to the question whether acting as a management 
consultant should be permissible for bank holding companies. 
The Board 
denied two such applications at the meeting on May 18, namely, the 
application of First Commerce Corporation, New Orleans, Louisiana, to 
acquire W. R. Smolkin & Associates, Inc., also of New Orleans, and the 
application of Marine Midland Banks, Inc., Buffalo, New York, to acquire 
Carter H. Golembe Associates, Inc., Washington, D. C. Denial of the 
aPPlications involved ruling that the activities of the proposed 
subsidiaries did not fall within the scope of section 225.4(a)(5) of 
Regulation Y; making a positive finding that their activities constituted 
management consulting; and determining that management consulting 
activities are not so closely related to banking or managing or controlling 
banks as to be a proper incident thereto. 
Orders reflecting those decisions 
h a d now been drafted. 
The draft order with respect to the First Commerce 
Corporation application contained the rationale for the negative deter-
mination with respect to management consulting activities. That rationale 
W a s incorporated by reference in the order relating to the Marine Midland 
aPPlicatio n. 

It 13 
6/5/72 
-11-
Discussion at today's meeting indicated a view, especially on 
part of Governors Mitchell and Daane, that the argument of possible 
conflicts of interest should be given greater prominence in the explanation 
the Board's determinat 
ion that serving as management consultant is not 
a Permissible activity. However, they took exception to the language in 
that explanation that would cite, as one aspect of management consultant 
services that might present opportunities for conflicts of interest, the 
furnishing of information or advice on an individual client basis that 
W a s of unique use or relevance to the operations of that client. Their 
objection extended also to the provision in the proposed amendment to 
Regulation Y that would specifically exclude such individual-client 
advice from the categories of services permitted in acting as investment 
o r financial adviser. Governors Mitchell and Daane expressed the view 
that banks frequently gave individual customers advice that was of unique 
U S e , and there was no reason to preclude bank holding company subsidiaries 
f r° m doing the same thing. The ensuing discussion included the observation 
at while it was recognized that banks gave financial advice to individ-
clients, they usually did not charge for that service as did management 
consultants. 
Another example cited was trust companies, which typically gave 
sPeciali2ed advice to individual clients. 
Inclusion of the provision in 
Question would appear to preclude, for trust companies that were holding 
company subsidiaries, one of their primary functions. However, the staff 

It 13 
6/5/72 
-11-
pointed out that substantially all of a trust company's services in that 
respect were allowed under the specific permissibility of portfolio 
investment advice. 
Further discussion developed agreement upon language changes to 
accommodate the points raised, including deletion of the prohibition of 
giving financial advice of unique use to individual clients. 
As thus revised, the amendment to Regulation Y was approved 
unanimously, effective June 6, 1972. 
Issuance of the orders relating 
t o the applications of First Commerce Corporation and Marine Midland 
Banks w a s authorized. Governor Sheehan abstaining. Attached under 
are copies of the press release announcing these actions, 
the two orders, and the amendment to Regulation Y. 
Affiliated Bankshares of Colorado. 
In a memorandum of May 26, 
1 9 7 2, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
°f the application of Affiliated Bankshares of Colorado, Inc., Boulder, 
Colorado, to acquire shares of University National Bank of Fort Collins, 
F o rt Collins, Colorado. The Banking Markets Section also recommended 
aPProval. 
The application was approved, Governor Mitchell dissenting on 
the ground of the competitive effects of the proposal, and issuance of 
3 n order reflecting this decision was authorized. A copy of the order 
I s attached as Item No. 4. 

It 13 
6/5/72 
-11-
Richmond building project. 
In a memorandum of May 26, 1972, 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended approval 
a revised program for space requirements for the new building for 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond and authorization to the Bank to 
Proceed with the schematic design phase of the project. A draft 
telegram was attached. The Committee on Organization, Compensation, 
and Building Plans concurred in the Division's recommendation in a 
memorandum of June 2. 
After affirmative response was made to an inquiry by Governor 
Mitchell whether the plans for the project met the criteria suggested 
by the Board's architectural consultant, the telegram was approved 
Unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
Chairman Burns then withdrew from the meeting. 
United National Corporation. At the meeting on May 9, 1972, 
t h e Board discussed the application of United National Corporation, 
Vermillion, South Dakota, to acquire Rushmore State Insurance Agency, 
H i H City, South Dakota. Action was deferred pending conference by 
the staff with the holding company looking toward improvement of the 
latter's debt to equity ratio. In a memorandum of May 31, Mr. Leavitt 
reported that the holding company intended to offer a capital issue 
within a few months. However, the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
questioned the ability of the company to market the issue and recommended 
aPProval of the application only after the sale had been successfully 
c°mpleted. 
In Mr. Leavitt's view, denial of the application might hinder 

It 13 
6/5/72 
-11-
the sale effort, and any action the Board might take that could improve 
Prospects of the proposed sale would be desirable. Therefore, in spite 
°f the extremely high level of debt, he recommended that the Board approve 
the proposed acquisition. 
Discussion indicated a general view that whether or not the 
equity issue was successful, the Board continued to have reservations 
regarding the management of the holding company and was not ready at 
this point to risk giving the appearance of endorsing the management by 
approving the application. A view was expressed that insufficient reasons 
were presented to justify overruling the Reserve Bank. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that the staff 
would inform the holding company that the Board was not willing to act 
uPon the application until the degree of success of the equity issue 
W a s known, with an opportunity being given for withdrawal of the application. 
Hy-Vee Food Stores. 
In a memorandum of June 1, 1972, the Division 
0 f Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of the application of 
%-Vee Food Stores, Inc., and Hy-Vee Employees Trust, Chariton, Iowa, 
both one-bank holding companies with respect to National Bank and Trust 
c°mpany of Chariton, for an exemption from the Bank Holding Company Act's 
restrictions on nonbanking activities. All other recommendations were 
a l so adverse. The staff was unanimously of the opinion that none of the 
criteria set forth in section 4(d) of the Act was reasonably met, and that 
therefore the applicants did not qualify for exemption. 

It 13 
6/5/72 
-11-
The application was denied by unanimous vote. 
It was understood 
an order reflecting this decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration. 
Intangibles taxation of banks. With a memorandum dated June 1, 
1972, 
partee submitted a proposed report to the Congress to carry 
o ut the directive in Public Law 92-213 that the Board conduct a study of 
tangibles taxation of banks. 
Transmittal of the report to the Senate Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs was approved unanimously. A copy of the 
letter sent to the Committee is attached as Item No. 6. A copy of the 
rePort has been placed in the Board's files. 
Chairman Burns returned to the meeting at this point. 
Independent Bankers Association. The Independent Bankers Associ-
g t - • 
n of America had requested that a formal hearing be held with respect 
the Board's pending proposals relating to reserve requirements and 
clearance. The staff had informed the Association that formal 
arings were not appropriate procedure with respect to regulatory proposals 
of this t-cyPe» and had offered to arrange instead an informal hearing before 
Vailable members of the Board and key staff. After discussion at the 
meetino 
a5 on June 2, the Board deferred the question whether to decline the 
req yg <? t- -c 
tor a formal hearing until the Association's response to the 
o f f G r 
f 
OI: an informal hearing was known. 
In a memorandum of June 2, Mr. 
^nicoff stated that the Association had reiterated its request for a 
rtnal hearing. Attached was a draft of telegram that would deny that 
request. 

It 13 
6/5/72 
-11-
Discussion at today's meeting centered on the likelihood that if 
the Board refused to grant a formal hearing, the Association would seek 
a court injunction against implementation of the proposed regulatory 
provisions. A general view was expressed that the Board was on good 
ground with respect to the merits of its proposals. Moreover, a formal 
hearing was not required, and the request for one had been received 
substantially after the deadline that had been set for public comments 
°n the proposals. To hold a formal hearing under these circumstances 
would furnish a precedent that would make it difficult to refuse other 
such requests. 
Some sentiment was expressed that, since the Board felt that 
its position was sound, it should refuse to hold a formal hearing and 
let the Association take the question to court if it wished. 
However, 
the problem in that course was the delay involved, and the implementation 
of the regulatory proposals was needed, especially in relation to the 
Program for establishing regional check processing centers. 
Governor 
Robertson advocated that the Board carefully assess the relative risk 
°f delay involved in possible court action and in holding a formal hearing. 
The time-consuming steps required for the latter were described. Other 
comments dealt with the possibility that the Association would make 
representations to Congressional leaders that the Board had refused a 
hearing, with a resultant request from a committee that the Board defer 
implementation of the regulatory changes until the committee could hold 
its own hearings. 

144? 
6/5/72 
-15-
Mr. O'Connell inquired whether the Board thought it worth while 
to have one more effort made by asking counsel for the Association to 
specify what procedures, short of a formal hearing, would satisfy the 
Association's purposes. 
In the course of such a conference it might be 
Pointed out that the staff had recommended modifications that should 
obviate a good part of the adverse effects banks would have experienced 
under the original proposals. 
After further discussion during which various alternative courses 
were suggested, it was agreed to follow Mr. O'Connell's suggestion. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
6/5/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
UNITED TENNESSEE BANCSHARES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Tennessee Bancshares Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t> has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of First Trust and Savings Bank, Paris, Tennessee ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
1 nf-
erested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
acc°rdance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
V i G W s h a s expired, and none have been timely received. The Board has 
c°nsidered the application in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
0 f ^ e Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls four banks with aggregate deposits of 
million, representing 4.98 per cent of the total commercial bank 
dePosits in the State, and is the sixth largest banking organization 
bank holding company in Tennessee, 
(All banking data are as of 
J U n e 3o> 1971, and reflect bank holding company formations and 
accluia it ions approved by the Board through May 31, 1972.) Upon ac-
q u l siti o n of Bank ($14.2 million in deposits) Applicant's share of 
eP°sits in the State would increase by .2 percentage points, and its 
P^^Spnf 
u c ranking would remain unchanged. Bank, the second largest of 
° U r banks serving the Henry County banking market, controls approxi-
35.1 per cent of commercial bank deposits in that market. 

-2-
1449 
Applicant's acquisition of Bank would constitute its initial 
entry into the area. Applicant's closest subsidiary banking office to 
Bank is located in Nashville, approximately 100 miles east of Bank, 
competition exists between Bank and this office or any of Applicant's 
other subsidiary banks, nor does it appear likely that such competition 
W l U develop in the future in light of the distances separating Bank 
from Applicant's subsidiaries, the presence of numerous intervening 
banks, and the State's restrictive branching law. Consummation of this 
Proposal would not eliminate any meaningful existing competition nor 
c 
reclose significant potential competition. 
Affiliation with Applicant x^ould increase the lending capa-
b * i 
U i t y of Bank through loan participation arrangements with Applicant's 
Present subsidiary banks. Moreover, Bank would be able to expand the 
Services it now offers to the community to include trust services, 
Qg f. _ 
u a processing, and long-term mortgage financing. 
Considerations 
relating to the convenience and needs of the community to be served 
*end some weight for approval. 
Considerations relating to financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiary banks, 
ancJ Bank are regarded as consistent with approval, in view of Applicant's 
commitment 
to raise $5 million in additional capital. 
It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed 
C(luisition would be in the public interest and that the application 
Sh°nld be approved. 

-2-
1450 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
t h e r e a s°ns summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
J.L . 
s Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority, 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective jUne 5, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
v°ting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
c h e U , Daane, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 

b o a r d 
o f 
g o v e r n o r s 
D F T H E 
• 
6/1/72° 
! § & • 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . _20551 
j l i W I / f : 
" 
aodrebs o f f i c i a l correspcnc 
RES*V 
TO THE DC1ARD 
June 5, 1972 
Morgan Guaranty International 
finance Corporation 
23 Wall Street 
Ne-w York, New York 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of Hay 18, 1972 
the Board 
o f Governors grants consent for your Corporation ( hGI.FG ; to pur-
chase and hold all of the shares of J. P. Morgan Overseas Capital 
Corporation ("Capital Corporation"), a company to be organized 
m 
Delaware, in exchange for $1 million and all of the shares ot 
Australian United Corporation Ltd., Banca Morgan Vonwiller S.p.A., 
& Hope Gioep N.V. , and Morgan Grenfell Holdings Ltd. tiiat are 
currently owned by MGIFC, provided the shares are 
W f 
Year from the date of this letter. 
The continued h o l d i n g by 
^Pital Corporation of shares of the latter companies is granted 
subjec.t to the same conditions set forth in the Board s consents 
aphorizing the holding of those shares by MGIFC. Approval is 
a l s o granted for the purchase and holding of shares of Capital 
Corporation by your Corporation in excess of the applicable limi-
tations set forth in the provisions of Section 25(a) 112 U S C 
6X5(c)] of the Federal Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regu-
lation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
o f shares of Capital Corporation by MGIFC is granted subject to the 
Allowing conditions: 
(1) That MGIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in Capital Corporation (i) ii 
Capital Corporation at any time fails to ^strict 
its activities to those permissible to a corporation 
in which a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act could, with the consent of 
the Board of Governors, purchase and hold stock 
U 
if Capital Corporation establishes any branch or agency 

14^2 
To'- 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation 
-2-
or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in the United States or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to 
MGIFC, or (iii) if Capital Corporation receives 
any deposits in the United States; 
(2) 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
MGIFC (a) will cause Capital Corporation to per-
mit examiners appointed by the Board of Governors 
to examine Capital Corporation,"and (b) will fur-
nish the Board with such reports regarding .the 
activities of Capital Corporation as it may re-
quire from time to time; and 
(3) 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
Capital Corporation be reported under Sec-
tion 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the same manner 
as if Capital Corporation were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Re-
serve Act; and 
(4) 
That MGIFC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of Capital Corporation at a net amount in excess 
of its proportionate share of the book capital 
accounts of Capital Corporation, after giving effect 
to the elimination of all known losses0 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
th*t the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of Capital Corporation. 
The Board also grants consent for MGIFC to hold the shares of 
CaPital Corporation after Capital Corporation issues notes and debentures 
sale only outside the United States in an amount not to exceed 
$100 million, the proceeds of which will be used exclusively in the 
f o r eign business of Capital Corporation, with particular emphasis on 
^quity investments. 
It is understood that these borrowings will occur 
I n one or more of the following ways: 
(1) 
Public issuance of notes and debentures having a 
maturity of 7-20 years; 

1453 
To: 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation 
-3-
(2) 
Private placements with foreign institutional in-
vestors of notes or debentures having a maturity 
of 7-20 years; or 
(3) 
Issuance to foreign banks (including foreign 
offices of affiliates of Capital Corporation) of 
notes or debentures having a maturity of 3-5 years. 
It is also understood that J. P. Morgan & Co. Inc., the 
Parent bank holding company of MGIFC's parent bank, may guarantee 
repayment of any notes or debentures that are issued under the 
first and second alternatives listed above. 
In the Board's opinion, the notes and debentures issued 
under the foregoing circumstances would be exempt from ordinary re-
serve requirements and interest rate ceilings imposed under Regula-
tions D and Q 0 
The notes or debentures issued under the third 
alternative to foreign branches of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company or 
to foreign banks would be exempt from the graduated reserve require-
mGnts imposed by Section 213.7 of Regulation M or Section 204.5(c) of 
Regulation D if the proceeds are. used in a manner that is consistent 
w i t h Board Interpretations «f 5630 (1971 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1001; 
1 2 C.F.R. 213.103). Exemption from Regulations D and Q is conditioned 
uP°n the limitation that the notes or debentures may not be called or 
Prepaid, in whole or in part, prior to"the minimum maturities stated 
in the alternatives above without the prior approval of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
Capital Corporation will be governed by the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guide].ines as they apply to Morgan Guaranty Trust Company and its 
affiliates, in particular by those provisions which call for the 
foreign assets of Capital Corporation minus outstanding amounts of 
foreign borrowings by Capital Corporation of an original maturity of 
three years or more to be consolidated with the foreign assets of 
your Corporation for the purposes of the Guidelines. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
F°r immediate release 
Item No. 3 
6/5/72 
June 6, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today its denial of applications from two bank holding companies to 
acquire firms that engage in management consulting activities. At the 
same time, the Board said it has decided not to include management con-
biting on its list of activities in which bank holding companies may 
engage. 
The applications are from First Commerce Corporation, New Orleans, 
Louisiana. to acquire W.R. Smolkin & Associates, Inc., New Orleans, and 
from Marine Midland Banks, Inc., Buffalo, New York, to acquire Carter H. 
G°lembe Associates, Inc., Washington, D.C. 
The Board had previously indicated that acting as a management 
COr>sultant was not within the scope of the activities authorized to be 
c°nducted by bank holding companies under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank 
hiding Company Act and that it was then considering whether to expand 
its i 
list of activities to include management consulting. 
A copy of the Board's Orders relating to its action on the two 
aPplications is attached. 
In a related action, the Board adopted a clarifying amendment 
to the 
to 
Provision of Regulation Y which authorizes bank holding companies 
a c t "as investment or financial adviser". A copy of the amendment 
i s a l so attached. 
Attachments 
-0-

1455 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST COMMERCE CORPORATION 
Order Denying Acquisition of 
W. R. Smolkin & Associates, Inc« 
First Commerce Corporation, New Orleans, Louisiana, a bank 
h°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
tills 
s applied for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the 
A 0 t a n d § 225,4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of 
t h e Voting shares of W. R. Smolkin & Associates, Inc., New Orleans, 
1<0ulsiana ("Smolkin"), a company that performs site location studies, 
feasibility analyses, marketing and land use advice, and other real 
estate 
e connected services for home and apartment builders, land 
developerS, and financial institutions.-^ 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
^tested persons to submit comments and views has been duly published 
(36 Pederal Register 24095). The time for filing comments and views 
hag 
expired, and none have been received. 
Smolkin offers its services principally to home and apart-
n t builders, land developers, and financial institutions, providing 
advi 
C e to its customers on an individual client basis. The advice 
reiat e s to specific real estate development projects of each customer 
and ia 
Provided on a continuing basis as each project develops from 
t a w land 
to finished product, Smolkin holds planning conferences with 
U Q apartment developers; determines a timetable for the work to 
d o nej evaluates the sites for special marketing or development 
®ubsid°lkin a l s o e n8 a8 e S i n these activities through its wholly-owned 
t a ry, Smolkin-Siege 1 Corporation. 

25 
-2-
c°nsiderations and general suitability; surveys designs, pricing, and 
financing of competing developments; makes sales projections; recom-
mends price ranges, house types, square footages, and basic and 
discretionary features; provides projected income and cash flow 
tatements; suggests merchandising themes and advertising programs; 
Provides itemized budgets and concept sketches illustrating floor 
Plans anJ 
ana site plans; and furnishes sketches of logotypes, signs, 
ewsPaper ads, brochures, and sales displays and material for adver-
t ig ^ ^ 
8* Smolkin provides similar services to financial institutions 
for tho selection and development of branch locations. 
Applicant contends that Smolkin's activities constitute the 
°vision of investment and financial advice and "furnishing economic 
or f -t Uncial information", as authorized by the Board in section 
225 
•4(a)(5) of Regulation Y. However, a footnote to that Regulation 
Pressly indicates that acting as a "management consultant" was not 
Warded by the Board as within the scope of that activity and that 
^estion as to whether to propose expanding section 225.4(a)(5) 
delude management consulting was under consideration by the Board. 
The 
u«s therefore presented by the instant application are (1) whether 
s activities, on the one hand, are within the scope of 
Section 29c 4(a)(5) or, on the other hand, constitute management con-
Sulti 5, and, if the latter, (2) whether management consulting should 
b e deter-mined by the Board to be "so closely related to banking or 
^agint* 
8 or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto". 

1457 
-2-
After a review of Smolkin's activities, the Board has 
c°ncluded that those activities are beyond the scope of section 
225 A 
•(a)(5) a nd # i n f a ct, constitute management consulting. 
Management consulting, in the view of the Board, includes 
t i s n o t limited to, the provision of analysis or advice as to 
s (i) purchasing operations, such as inventory control, 
sources of supply, and cost minimization subject to constraints; 
(ii) Production operations, such as quality control, uork measurement, 
P r ° d U C t m e thods, scheduling shifts, time and motion studies, and 
e t y s t a n dards; (iii) marketing operations, such as market testing, 
advertic * 
8 programs, market development, packaging, and brand 
^evelonm 
pment; (iv) planning operations, such as demand and cost 
Project! 
0 n s> Plant location, program planning, corporate acquisitions 
mergers, and determination of long-term and short-term goals; 
(v) p e r 
rsonnel operations, such as recruitment, training, incentive 
Prooram 
> employee compensation, and management-personnel relations; 
internal operations, such as taxes, corporate organization, 
kudgeti ng systems, budget control, data processing systems evaluation, 
efriciency evaluation; or (vii) research operations, such as pro-
d U c t devel 
^ 
lopment, basic research, and product design and innovation. 
escribed above, Smollcin engages in the provision of a wide range 
of inf 
ormation or advice to home and apartment builders, land 
l°PGrs, and financial institutions on an individual client basis. 
fhe 
°rmation is tailored to the particular needs of those clients. 

1458 
-2-
Although the Board recognizes that Smolkin does not furnish all of 
the services normally furnished by large nationwide general manage-
merit 
consultants, Smolkin1s services are of the type that are 
stomarily furnished by management consulting firms. Accordingly, 
G f° r e t h e B°ard may approve the application it must first determine 
that "m 
management consulting'" meets the "closely related" test set 
f o r t h in section 4(c)(0) of the Act. 
Banks, in providing correspondent services, may engage in 
certain management consulting activities. However, in determining 
^hether an activity to be performed by a nonbanking affiliate is so 
closelv related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be 
proI>er incident thereto, the Board has been directed by Congress 
in Se_. . 
4(c)(8) of the Act to consider whether performance of 
k 
activity "by an affiliate of a holding company can reasonably 
*Pected to produce benefits to the public, such as greater 
c°nveni0 
nce, increased competition, or gains in efficiency, that 
possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration 
of r e s o 
urces, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, 
Unsound banking practices." 
There appear to be no significant public benefits realizable 
a n affiii a t i o n of a management consultant with a bank holding 
competition in the management consulting industry would 
n 0 t 
nr 
m o t e d in that the industry is already highly competitive 
th j^Q 
significant entry barriers. Further, any increase in con-
ce 
t, 
, 
anlc customers or gains in efficiency would appear to 

1459 
-2-
ke achievable only through a potential loss of independence and 
°bjectivity on the part of the consulting affiliate. 
According weight to all the public benefits which may be 
expected to be produced by the affiliation of a management consulting 
firm with a bank holding company, the Board concludes that those 
benefits do not outweigh the potential adverse effects that may 
derive from such an affiliation. The most obvious and serious of these 
Possible adverse effects are the conflicts of interests in which 
anlc holding 
company subsidiaries and their management consulting 
affiliate could become involved. Firms often utilize the services 
f a management consultant to secure expert objective advice which, 
f° r 0tlG reason or another, is not readily available within the firm's 
anagement. Frequently, however, firms, even though already in 
P°ssession of necessary expertise, turn to a management consultant 
f° r the objective, independent point of view which the consultant 
pUrPorts to offer. The possibility exists that the objectivity, 
its clients expect from a management consultant, would become 
°l°red by the fact that it is associated with potential suppliers 
other services to those clients. If a client were to borrow 
° m a bank affiliated with a management consultant, and subsequently 
itic 
urred financial difficulty, the management consultant's advice 
could "ecome influenced more by its desire to ensure repayment of 
the in 
an to its affiliate, than by any objective evaluation of the 
o t interests of the client. Further, where the loan was sought 
p a r t of a financing plan designed by the management consultant, 

- 6 -
the affiliated bank, in order to protect the reputation of its 
consultant, might refrain from taking action to obtain repayment 
i a circumstances where it ordinarily would do so. In addition, an 
affiliated management consultant might be motivated to tailor its 
"marketing advice to a client in such a manner as to protect its own 
affiliates from competition from the client. Generally, ethical 
considerations should protect against the possible conflict of 
interest situations noted above. Nevertheless, in determining 
Aether to permit an activity under section 4(c)(8) the Board is 
required to consider possibilities, not probabilities. The Board 
0 e s> however, wish to note that the foregoing description of 
Possible adverse effects that might derive from the affiliation 
f a management consultant with a bank holding company is intended 
describe factors which the Board has considered in determining 
the 
Permissibility of the management consulting activity and should 
not bp 
construed as an expression of doubt in the integrity of any 
° f the parties to this application. 
Finally, the Board is bound to consider another Congressional 
rpose evidenced by the enactment of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
that iq 
u 
AS> the policy of maintaining the separation between banking 
commerce in order to, among other things, prevent the undue 
ncentration of economic resources. To permit bank holding com-
panies t 
C o engage in the business of advising commercial enterprises 
> in the Board's judgment, represent an extension of banking 
Uence into the realms of commerce in contravention of Congressional 
PurPose, 

1461 
- 2 -
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
i n ttle record, the Board has determined that the performance of 
"Management consulting activities is not so closely related to bantc-
or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident 
hereto. As indicated above, Smolkin is, in the Board's judgment, 
enSaged i n management consulting. Accordingly, the application is 
h®reby denied. 
By order of the Board of G o v e r n o r s e f f e c t i v e June 5, 1972.1' 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
17 
®itcl0t*nS f° r ttlis a c t i o n : Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Sheeh 
Daane, and Brimmer. Present and abstaining: Governor 
3/ Bo
lan* Absent and not voting: Governor I-Ialse 14 
°ard action v/as taken while Governor Maisel was a Board Member, 

144? 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MARINE MIDLAND BANKS, INC. 
Order Denying Acquisition of 
Carter H. Golembe Associates, Inc. 
Marine Midland Banks, Inc., Buffalo, New York, a bank holding 
°°ttpany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
.c 
0 r the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
5 
4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting 
shares of Carter H. Golembe Associates, Inc. ("Golembe"), Washington, D. C., 
a company that engages in the activities of (1) economic research, 
acting as a management consultant to banks, bank-related companies, 
an<J the banking industry, and (3) providing informational services on 
leSislative, regulatory, and related matters. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Pers°ns to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
b e e n d u l y published (37 Federal Register 3009). The time for filing 
0nunents a n d views has expired, and none have been received. 
Applicant contends that Golembe's activities constitute the 
Pr°vision of investment and financial advice and "furnishing economic 
financial information", as authorized by the Board in section 
^•4 (a)(5) 
of Regulation Y. However, a footnote to that Regulation 
*Pressly indicates that acting as a "management consultant" was not 
e2arded by the Board as within the scope of that activity and that 
question as to whether to propose expanding section 225.4(a)(5) 
include management consulting was under consideration by the Board. 

-2-
1463 
Although some of Golembe's activities are presently permissible 
f o r 
o r bank holding companies, such as providing economic statistical fore-
casting services and publishing economic newsletters, Golembe also 
P r ° V i d e s consulting services on a confidential basis to banks, bank 
holcJin companies and bankers' associations. 
It makes bank feasibility 
t U d i e s a n d renders advice with respect to geographic expansion, product 
^tension, mergers and acquisitions and applications to State and 
-deral regulatory agencies. A portion of Golembe's consulting services 
S° r e l ate to internal bank operations, such as marketing, trust and 
a nk credit card operations and loan or interest rate policies. Other 
studipq and analyses are performed upon request of individual banks. 
Gnl 
® also provides advice with respect to the organization and 
pGration of State bankers' associations and serves as a consultant to 
VfluJ 
° u s banking groups with respect to legislative and regulatory matters 
af fp 
c i n8 the banking industry. The foregoing consulting services 
nished by Golembe are considered by the Board to be but a specialized 
f°tm of m 
management consulting. 
For the reasons stated in the Order of this date denying the 
cation of First Commerce Corporation to acquire W, R. Smolkin & 
^s80ciat-
s> Inc., the Board has determined that management consulting 
is not 
S o closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks 

1464 
-2-
a s to be a proper incident thereto. Accordingly, since Carter H. Golembe 
Associates, inc. is engaged in management consulting activities to a 
significant extent, the application is hereby denied. 
1/ 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective June 5, 1972.-
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Vot*-n6 for this action; Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
sheeh' a n d B r i m r a e r* 
Present and abstaining; Governors Mitchell and 
2/ e
R
a n * 
Absent and not voting: Governor Maisel 
^ 
°ard action was taken while Governor Maisel was a Board Member. 

1465 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Y] 
PART 225--BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Nonbanking Activities of Bank Holding Companies 
§ 225.4 NONBANKING ACTIVITIES 
In order to indicate in more precise terms its intent in 
Permitting bank holding companies to act "as investment or financial 
adviser", the Board of Governors amends § 225.4(a)(5) of Regulation Y. 
A s an incident to this amendment, footnote 1 in § 225.4(b)(1) and 
f°otnote 2 in § 225.4(d) are redesignated footnotes 3 and 4, respec-
tively, and the footnote denoted by two asterisks (**) is hereby 
deleted. Further, the footnote denoted by three asterisks (***) is 
hereby deleted in view of the Board's interpretation (§ 225.127) to 
be Published in the Federal Register the week of June 5, 1972. 
The text of the amendment to § 225.4(a)(5) reads as follows: 
(a) Activit ies closely related to banking or managing or 
banks. * * * 
The following activities have been determined 
by thp T5 
Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or con-
r°Uing banks as to be a proper incident thereto: 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(5) acting as investment or financial adviser to the extent 
Of (M 
) serving as the advisory company for a mortgage or a real estate 
inves t-
tment trust; (ii) serving as investment adviser, as defined in 

1468 
-2-
Section 2(a)(20) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, to an invest-
m e n t c°ropany registered under that Act; (iii) providing portfolio 
investment advice^ to any other person; (iv) furnishing general 
economic information and advice, general economic statistical fore-
s t i n g services and industry studies;^ and (v) providing financial 
dvice to State and local governments, such as with respect to the 
lssuance of their securities; 
•jV 
-k 
-k 
-k 
ref 
t6rtn "P°rtfolio investment" as used herein is intended to 
fit^H generally to the investment of funds in a "security" as de-
0 r ®d i n section 2(1) of the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. § 77a) 
be-^ r e a l Property interests, except where the real property is to 
fu
 
i n the trade or business of the person being advised. In 
thei
 shing portfolio investment advice, bank holding companies and 
anm* S u b s i d i aries shall observe the standards of care and conduct 
^Ucable to fiduciaries. 
BoarJhiS i S t o b e contrasted with "management consulting" which the 
a n a l
 
views as including, but not limited to, the provision of 
as ^ y S i S o r a d v i c e as to a firm's (i) purchasing operations, such 
to c
n v e n tory control, sources of supply, and cost minimization subject 
work 0 n 8 t r a i n t S' 
production operations, such as quality control, 
3t u d i
m e a S U r e m e n t> Product methods, scheduling shifts, time and motion 
m a r k
 
a n d safety standards; (iii) marketing operations, such as 
ati<j ^ testing, advertising programs, market development, packaging, 
c 0 s t
 r a n d development; (iv) planning operations, such as demand and 
siti Pr°^ections, plant location, program planning, corporate acqui-
go a l^ S a n d mergers, and determination of long-term and short-tern 
inc 
* ( v) personnel operations, such as recruitment, training, 
teiat. 
e Programs, employee compensation, and management-personnel 
otgan.°ns> ( v i ) internal operations, such as taxes, corporate 
s y s t e m 1 0 1 1 ' bud8eting systems, budget control, data processing 
oper 
evaluation, and efficiency evaluation; or (vii) research 
desjL 
ns> such as product development, basic research, and product 
consult,and
H
innovation. The Board has determined that "management 
m 
n g M i s n o t a n activity that is so closely related to banking 
naging or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. 

1468 
Item No. 4 
6/5/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
AFFILIATED BANKSHARES OF COLORADO, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Affiliated Bankshares of Colorado, Inc., Boulder, 
Colorado, a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank 
folding Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval under 
§ 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent 
°r more of the voting shares of University National Bank of Fort 
Collins, Fort Collins, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
a n d all comments received in light of the factors set forth in 
5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 13 banks with deposits of about $333 
m l l H o n , representing approximately 6.6 per cent of total deposits 
o f commercial banks in Colorado, and is the fourth largest banking 
1/ 
°r8anization in the State. 
Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $7 
n) would increase Applicant's share of deposits in the State 
about one-tenth of 1 percentage point and would not alter its 
ranking. Consummation of the transaction would not significantly 
increase concentration of banking resources in Colorado. 
y 
Banking data are as of December 31, 1971, and reflect holding company 
N a t i o n s and acquisitions approved by the Board through April 30, 1972. 

-2-
1469 
None of Applicant's present subsidiary banks compete with 
Bank to any significant extent. Two of these subsidiary banks are, 
however, located in Loveland 12 miles south of Fort Collins, both of 
which towns are in Larimer County. The Loveland and Fort Collins 
areas are becoming economically integrated and, thus, there would 
n°rmally be some potential for competition to develop between the 
institutions, This possibility is, however, minimized by the 
present condition of Bank and the likelihood that absent this or 
a similar proposal it would fail to develop into a significant com-
petitor in Larimer County. Acquisition of Bank would add only 3.7 
percentage points to Applicant's control of deposits in Larimer 
County and would leave it as the third largest banking organization 
j 
n the area. Consummation of the proposal would not have a signifi-
Cautly adverse effect on present or potential competition in Larimer County. 
Considerations relating to the financial condition, mana-
^erial resources, and prospects of Applicant and its subsidiary 
banks are satisfactory. Bank, on the Other hand, has shown a poor 
°Perating record and a history of frequent management turnover, 
filiation with Applicant will alleviate these problems and would 
to a greatly strengthened institution. Applicant has already 
pr°vided two officers and three directors to Bank who have helped 
turning Bank into a more viable institution. 
Considerations 
r°iating to these factors lend strong weight for approval of this 
^Plication. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 

1470 
-3-
o f the community to be served lend weight toward approval of the 
acquisition since Applicant will be able to assist Bank in meeting the 
increased demand for real estate loans through Applicant's subsidiary, 
Piedmont Mortgage and Investment Company. Applicant will also provide 
data processing services and increased agricultural loan expertise to 
Bank, it is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest and the application should 
b e approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
tGasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
b y the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
3/' 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective June 6, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
V Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
aane, anci sheehan. Voting against this action: Governor Mitchell. 
sent and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 
3 / 
Board action x^as taken before Governor Bucher was a Board Member. 

1471 
Item No. 5 
T E L E G R A M 
0 , 5 , 1 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S OF T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
June 5, 19/2 
Keflin _ Richmond 
This is in response to the request in your letter of February 2, 
1972, and other supporting material submitted by the Bank, for 
approval of the space program and target budget for the proposed 
new Richmond Bank building. 
The Board has no objection to the revised space program 
dated April 18, 1972, based on the usable space requirement of 
596,435 square feet, or a gross building area of 1,150,000 square 
feet, inclusive of garage; and the revised target budget cost of 
$48.6 million (based on fourth quarter 1971 prices) as presented 
in the Bank's letter of May 12, 1972. The Board is aware that no 
allowance has been made for abnormal foundation or other structural 
conditions which are unknown at this stage of the project. 
The Board has no objection to the Bank's proceeding with the 
schematic design phase of the project; however, every effort should 
b e made to maintain the building efficiency at 68 to 70 per cent, 
delusive of the garage. 
(Signed) 
Greenspan 

Item No. 6 
5/6/72 
C H A I R M A N Oh" T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
June 12, 1972 
The. Honorable John Sparkman 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking, 
Housing and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
As required by section 4(b) of Public Law 92-213, 
I am enclosing a report on "the probable impact on the revenues 
of State, and local government of the extension . . . of the 
termination date of interim provisions regarding intangible 
personal property taxes of State and local governments on 
national banks." 
Sincerely yours 
(signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 
