FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
May 13 1 Q?n 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
; j< I > , • -v. . i . i 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

1504 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, May 13, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane \J 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other staff members of the following divisions 
also attended portions of the meeting: 
Legal, 
Research and Statistics, Supervision and Regulation. 
!_/ Entered at point indicated in minutes. 

15«5 
5/13/70 
-2-
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Exchange State Bank of 
Kansas City, Kansas, Kansas City, Kansas, into The Commercial National 
Bank of Kansas City was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Commercial 
National Bank of Kansas City, Kansas, and Exchange State 
Bank of Kansas City, Kansas, would eliminate a meaningful 
amount of competition between the two banks. The overall 
effect on competition would be adverse. 
Commerce Bancshares. Drafts of an order and statement reflect-
ing the Board's approval on April 17, 1970, of the application of Com-
merce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of 
Mexico Savings Bank, Mexico, Missouri, had been distributed. A concur-
ring statement by Governor Brimmer had also been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 1, along with 
the concurring statement. 
Brenton Banks. A memorandum from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation dated April 28, 1970, and other pertinent papers had been 
distributed in connection with an application of Brenton Banks, Inc., 
Des Moines, Iowa, to acquire shares of The Fidelity Savings Bank, Marshall-
town, Iowa. The staff recommendations were favorable. 
Included in the 
distributed material was a proposed order that could be used if the 
application were approved. 

150G 
5/13/70 
-3-
The application was approved unanimously, and the issuance of 
the order was authorized. A copy of the document, as issued, is attached 
as Item No. 2. 
Other actions. The following letters were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective item numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Crocker-Citizens National Bank, 
3 
San Francisco, California, (1) granting 
permission to organize a corporation under 
section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
to be known as Crocker International Develop-
ment Corporation, San Francisco, California, 
and transmitting a preliminary permit; and 
(2) indicating an intention to grant consent, 
upon issuance of the final permit, to an 
investment in Australian International Finance 
Corporation, Melbourne, Australia. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
4 
authorizing an increase from $40,000 to $100,000 
in the maximum amount of educational loans to 
employees outstanding at any one time. 
Delegation of authority. 
In a memorandum dated May 11, 1970, 
Governor Sherrill recommended that the delegation, effective February 19, 
1970, to the Director of the Division of Supervision and Regulation of 
authority to furnish to the other bank regulatory agencies competitive 
factor reports in certain merger cases be expanded to include those cases 
in which the staffs of the Reserve Bank and the Board were in agreement 

iS07 
5/13/70 
-4-
that the competitive effects of the merger would be no more than slightly 
adverse. Attached to the memorandum was a proposed amendment to the 
Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority. 
Unanimous approval was given to the expanded delegation of 
authority, effective May 14, 1970. A copy of the amendment is attached 
as Item No. 5. 
Chairman Burns and Governor Daane entered the meeting at this 
point. 
Appointment as honorary consul. 
In a letter dated May 5, 1970, 
the Department of State inquired whether the Board would object to the 
acceptance by a director of the Los Angeles Branch of appointment as 
Honorary Consul of Liberia. Mr. Hackley, in a memorandum dated May 11, 
pointed out that there was no provision of law that would preclude 
acceptance of such an appointment by a director. The question was 
therefore a matter of policy. 
It was the consensus that no objection should be raised, subject 
to the understanding that in discharging his duties as honorary consul 
the director would not make use of confidential information obtained by 
him by virtue of his position as a Reserve Bank branch director. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to the Department 
of State in the form attached as Item No. 6. 
Central Banking System. Consideration continued at today's 
meeting of the application of Central Banking System, Inc., Oakland, 
California, to acquire shares of Bank of Fairfield, Fairfield, California, 

1508 
5/13/70 
-5-
a proposed new bank. 
In a memorandum dated April 23, 1970, the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation had discussed the issues involved, which 
related principally to the financial condition and managerial resources 
of the holding company's lead bank, Central Valley National Bank, Oak-
land. The Division noted that there had been an indication of some 
improvement in the capital level of the lead bank and expressed the view 
that approval of the pending application, which involved a proposed new 
bank, was warranted, although the financial condition and management of 
Central Valley National Bank should be the subject of continuing review 
in connection with additional applications that might come before the 
Board, as stated in the Board's letter of December 23, 1969, to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
There was some discussion, in response to questions from members 
of the Board, regarding the factors contributing to the improved capital 
position of the lead bank, the bank's policy with respect to the payment 
of dividends, and the quality of management. 
Members of the Board, other than Governor Brimmer, then expressed 
willingness to approve the acquisition of the proposed Fairfield bank, 
particularly in view of the recent trend toward improvement of the capital 
position of Central Valley National Bank. However, Governor Robertson 
stated that he would base his approval on an understanding that the let-
ter to the applicant would restate in strong terms the position taken by 
the Board last December. 

1503 
5/13/70 
-6-
Other members of the Board were receptive to this proposal, 
and Governor Brimmer then indicated that if the letter was couched 
in sufficiently strong terms he would be willing to support the major-
ity view. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the application of Central 
Banking System to acquire shares of Bank of Fairfield, with the under-
standing that an order would be drafted for the Board's consideration, 
along with a letter to applicant. 
Commerce Bancshares. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated May 7, 1970, and other pertinent papers had 
been distributed in connection with an application of Commerce Bancshares, 
Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of Mechanics Bank and 
Trust Company, Moberly, Missouri. 
The recommendations were favorable. 
Governor Brimmer reiterated his view that holding company expan-
sion in Missouri, including expansion by applicant, should be viewed 
with caution lest a substantial change in the banking structure occur 
within a relatively short period of time. Although he would approve the 
present application, he believed it was important to focus on the basic 
trend and he would present a concurring statement. Governor Robertson 
stated that he shared Governor Brimmer's concern. 
Governor Mitchell said he was of the view that the approach to 
expansion followed by Commerce Bancshares should be encouraged. 
Through 
well-dispersed acquisitions it was picking up weaker banks and building 
a stronger banking system in Missouri. 
Governor Daane concurred. 

1503 
5/13/70 
-6-
The application was then approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order would be drafted for the Board's consideration 
and that Governor Brimmer would issue a concurring statement. 
Marine Corporation. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated May 8, 1970, and other pertinent papers 
had been distributed in connection with an application of The Marine 
Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of Bank of Kewaskum, 
Kewaskum, Wisconsin. The staff and Reserve Bank recommended denial. 
The application was denied by unanimous vote, with the under-
standing that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration. 
Amendments to foreign credit restraint guidelines. 
In a memo-
randum dated May 8, 1970, Governor Brimmer recommended that the foreign 
credit restraint guidelines be amended so as to clarify and generalize 
certain principles developed previously in specific cases. 
Among the amendments was one providing that a domestically-
chartered subsidiary of an Edge corporation or of an Agreement corpora-
tion could count the outstanding amount of its borrowings from foreigners 
as offsets to its claims on foreigners and to its other foreign assets 
that would be subject to guideline restraint, provided those borrowings 
were of an original maturity of three years or more. Such borrowings 
would include debentures, promissory notes, or other debt obligations 
of the domestic subsidiary to a foreigner. The amount of the offset at 

1503 
5/13/70 
-6-
any time would be equal to the amount of the outstandings after deduct-
ing any repayments of principal and, in the case of convertible debt 
issues, any conversions. 
Attached to the memorandum were the draft amendments as well as an 
explanatory statement for publication in the Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
Following explanatory comments by Governor Brimmer, Governor 
Maisel observed that the aforementioned provision of the proposed amend-
ments would tend to penalize convertible debentures, which as a matter 
of policy would be contrary to the interest of the Board in improving 
bank capital. The issue here involved was a fairly minor one, and he 
would prefer not to make the point the subject of an amendment to the 
guidelines. 
Governor Mitchell agreed. Questions of bookkeeping compli-
cations also were mentioned. 
Question then was raised by Chairman Burns whether technical 
amendments of the type contemplated should be released on a piecemeal 
basis or assembled for periodic release. However, Governor Brimmer 
stressed the importance of keeping banks informed on a current basis 
of positions having general applicability. He also noted that no press 
release would be contemplated if the proposed amendments were adopted. 
Several Board members indicated that they would defer to Governor Brimmer's 
judgment in a matter of this kind, in view of his administrative responsi-
bility for the Foreign Credit Restraint Program. 

1503 
5/13/70 
-6-
The amendments to the guidelines recommended by Governor Brimmer 
were then approved, Governors Mitchell and Maisel dissenting. A copy 
of the amendments is attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board concurred in Governor Brimmer's recommendation that 
Marine Midland International Corporation, New York, New York, be informed 
that the Board's letter of February 17, 1970, relating to the acquisi-
tion of stock by Marine Midland Overseas Corporation, New York, New York, 
in Banque de Salonique, S.A., Istanbul, Turkey, should be construed in 
accordance with the principle set forth in the new amendments. 
Bankers International Corporation. Unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to Bankers International Corporation, New York, New 
York, granting permission to the acquisition, either directly or through 
its wholly-owned Delaware subsidiary, of all of the stock of Bankers 
Trust A.G., to be established in Zurich, Switzerland. A copy of the 
letter, as modified to take account of the amendments to the foreign 
credit restraint guidelines, is attached as Item No. 8. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

1513 
Item No. 1 
5/13/70 
UNITED B^ATIES OF AMERICA 
i 
; i 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC., 
' 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of more 
1 
than 80 per cent of the voting shares 
1 
°f Mexico Savings Bank, Mexico, 
1 
Missouri. 
1 
- - 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
ijj 
.. I— 
• 
irl
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
fco section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Commerce Bancshares, 
Itlc-> Kansas City, Missouri, a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of mere than 80 per cent of 
the voting shares of Mexico Savings Bank, Mexico, Missouri. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
n°tice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Finance of 
t h e State of Missouri, and requested his views and recommendation. The 
0Tnmissioner interposed no objection to approval of the application. 

.2- 
1 5 1 4 
Notice of tfeddipt d£ tH& application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 27, 1969 (34 Federal Register 18995), 
providing an opportunity for interested psersons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
vas forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such time be 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 13, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1515 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
< 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC*, KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
MEXICO SAVINGS BANK, MEXICO, MISSOURI 
STATEMENT 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc.; Kansas City, Missouri ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of more 
than 80 per cent of the voting shares of Mexico Savings Bank, Mexico, 
. Missouri ("Mexico Bank"). 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
Was given to the Commissioner of Finance of the State of Missouri, and 
his views and recommendations were requested. The Commissioner interposed 
a° objection to approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
fchat the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
Monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Pa*t of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

1516 
acquisition the effect of which, in ahy section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner Would be in restraint 6f tradei unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
e£fect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. In each case the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transactions, - Applicant 
is the largest bank holding company and the third largest banking 
organization in the State of Missouri, ranking behind two independent 
banks located in downtown St. Louis. The 12 subsidiary banks of 
Applicant hold aggregate deposits of $711 million,!/ Gr 6.9 per cent 
°f the deposits held by all commercial banks in the State. Of this 
amount, about $493 million is accounted for by Applicant's largest 
subsidiary, Commerce Trust Company, Kansas City. Acquisition of Mexico 
Bank ($16.1 million deposits), would increase the deposits under 
applicant's control by only .19 per cent of the State total. The 
10 largest banking organizations, three are holding companies, presently 
c°ntrol 39.3 per cent of Missouri's deposits. 
y All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, adjusted to reflect holding 
company applications approved by the Board to date. 

11517 
-3-
Mexico is & email town of &b6iit 13,000 located 110 miles from 
St. Louis in the northeast quadrant of the State. The dominant industry 
is the production of fire brick. Mexico Bank is the larger of two 
banks domiciled in Mexico, and the largest of five banks located in 
Audrain County. However, total deposits of the five banks combined 
are only $42 million. The area has experienced slow growth from 1950 
fco present; and the economic prospects of the area are, at best, only 
stable. 
Consummation of Applicant's proposal would have no direct 
affect on competition, as Applicant's subsidiaries do not presently 
compete with Mexico Bank. Applicant's closest present or proposed 
affiliate to Mexico Bank is Columbia National Bank, located some 
3 8 miles to the southwest. Neither it nor any other of Applicant's 
subsidiaries derive an appreciable amount of business from the area 
served by Mexico, and Mexico Bank does not compete in any area served 
by Applicant's subsidiaries. 
It does not appear that any significant future competition 
x*ould be eliminated by the acquisition. Missouri law prohibits branch 
banking. Therefore, Applicant may enter Mexico only by acquiring or 
establishing a bank there. It appears that the smaller of the two 
Mexico banks is not available for acquisition, and, in view of the 
Resent population and limited growth prospects of the town, it does 
n°t appear that chartering authorities would be likely to authorize 
establishment of a new bank in the area in the foreseeable future. 

1518 
I 
; 
' 
' 
It is noted, that the Department of Justice advised the Board 
that in its judgment the acquisition would have an Adverse effect ori 
competition as it "would eliminate potential competition of Bancshares, 
the most likely source of competition in Audrain County, and would 
further entrench Mexico Savings Bank's dominant market position and 
raise barriers to entry," Under the particular circumstances of this 
case, however, the Board finds that the evidence does not support a 
conclusion that Applicant would be likely to enter into competition 
in 
Audrain County if it were foreclosed from doing so through the present 
Proposal. For the foregoing reasons, the Board concludes that consummation 
of 
the proposal will not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of 
any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize, and will not 
substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain 
trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant's financial condition, management, and prospects are regarded 
a s satisfactory, as is the case with its present subsidiaries. 
Mexico Bank is in good financial condition and its prospects 
are favorable. However, although present management is regarded as 
Satisfactory, the bank has a definite need for management succession which 
Applicant proposes to assist it in meeting . 
These considerations are consistent with, and provide some 
Veight in favor of, approval of the application. 

- 3 -
11517 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of communities served by Applicant's present subsidiaries 
would not be affected by consummation of the present proposals. 
Applicant proposes to improve the services in the area served 
by Mexico Bank by increasing the lending capabilities and liberalizing the 
loan policies of the bank, and by providing specialized advice and 
facilities to meet the area's needs. Mexico Bank, and indirectly the 
communities which it serves, would benefit from the efficiencies of a 
centralized accounting and auditing system and coordinated staff training. 
Trust services, presently unavailable in Mexico, will be initiated by 
Mexico Bank. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
communities involved support approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that 
the application should be approved. 
13, 1970. 

1520 
Concurring St^tferhekt of (jovernor Brimmer 
i j 
• v •• : 
Although I join in approving the present application, I believe 
it is necessary to focus more sharply on the basic trends in the banking 
Structure in Missouri. 
Missouri is a State with a limited number of large banking 
institutions. 
Based on the example of other States having that 
characteristic - notably Colorado, Virginia, and Wisconsin - we know that 
substantial changes in banking structure throughout such a State can 
be brought about in a relatively short period through holding company 
formations and expansion. There now appears to be a surge of holding 
company activity in Missouri, with Applicant a principal participant 
in that activity. Thus, each application must be reviewed carefully - not 
only with a view to its effects on competition among banks directly involved, 
b u t also with due consideration to its effect on the banking structure. 
Having given such consideration to the present proposal, I 
Join in the Board's conclusion that its consummation would be in the 
Public interest, based on the facts of this particular case. 
In doing so, 
however, I wish to record my feeling that holding company expansion in 
Missouri must be viewed with caution. 
In particular, the present proposal 
contemplates Applicant's acquisition of a bank which is the largest in the 
ar^a which it serves. Consequently, it seems necessary to warn against any 
Possible interpretation of the Board's approval action as implying general 
aPproval of that course of expansion by the State's largest banking 
organizations. 
M*y 13, 1970. 

1521 
Item No. 2 
5/13/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
1 
BRENTON BANKS, INC., 
• 
Moines, Iowa, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per cent 
' 
°r more of the voting shares of The Fidelity ' 
Savings Bank, Marshalltown, Iowa. 
' 
» 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
( l 2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), 
the application of Brenton Banks, Inc., Des Moines, 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Fidelity Savings Bank, Marshalltown, Iowa ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
n°tice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent of the Department 
Banking for the State of Iowa and requested his views and recommendation. 
Th 
e Deputy Superintendent replied, and recommended approval of the application. 

-2-
1522 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 9, 1970 (35 Federal Register 5841), which 
provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
The time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources of the Applicant and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such consideration, 
the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the second largest bank holding company and the 
third largest banking organization in Iowa, has 15 subsidiary banks 
with $156 million in deposits, which represent 2.7 per cent of the total 
deposits for the State. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, 
adjusted to reflect bank holding company formations and acquisitions 
approved by the Board to date.) Upon acquisition of Bank ($24 million 
deposits), Applicant's share of State deposits would increase to 3.1 
Per cent. Applicant has no subsidiary bank in Marshall County, in which Bank 
is located. Its closest subsidiary is located about 30 miles southeast in 
joining Poweshiek County, and neither it nor any other of Applicant's 
Present subsidiaries compete to any meaningful extent with Bank. Bank ifl 

1 5 ^ 3 
-3-
the second largest of nine banks in the area which it serves (Marshall 
County and a small part of Tama County, adjoining to the east). The largest 
and third largest banks in the area (deposits $30 million and $15 million, 
respectively) are also headquartered in Marshall town, and provide aggressive 
competition. Consummation of the proposed acquisition would not eliminate 
existing competition or foreclose significant potential competition, and 
would not have undue adverse effects on the viability or competitive 
effectiveness of any competing bank. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect on competition 
In any relevant area. The banking factors, as applied to the facts of 
record, are consistent with approval of the application, and considerations 
relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
lend some weight in support of approval, It is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that the 
application should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth above, that 
SQid application be and hereby is approved, provided that the action so 
approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day 
following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
fche date of this Order, unless such time be extended for good cause by 

15^1 
-4-
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 13, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor 
Daane. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

15;>5 
• • A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
item No. 3 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
2C551 
5/13/70 
A D D R f . G S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C U R R C S r D N O C N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A H D 
May 13, 1970 
Crocker-Citizens National Bank, 
1 Sansome Street, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association dated March 6, 1970, and Organization Certificate 
dated March 16, 1970, of Crocker International Development Corpor-
ation, San Francisco, California, and there is enclosed a Preliminary 
Permit authorizing that Corporation to exercise such of the powers 
conferred by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act as are inci-
dental and preliminary to its organization. 
Article FOURTH of the Organization Certificate and Article 
SEVENTH of the Articles of Association provide that the authorized 
capital stock of the Corporation shall consist of 50,000 shares of 
$100.00 par value stock, of which, prior to the commencement of bus-
iness all shall be subscribed and not less than $2,000,000 of the 
$5,000,000 authorized shall be issued and fully paid in. However, 
it is understood that it is the intention to pay in $3,000,000 upon 
receipt of the preliminary permit. The Board of Governors hereby 
consents that the remainder of the capital stock of the Corporation, 
may be paid in upon call from the Board of Directors of the Corpor-
al- inr»> provided that the Board of Governors shall have approved 
each such increase in paid-in capital not more than ninety days 
prior to the date on which the increase is paid in. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board 
will issue its final permit to commence business, the President, 
Treasurer, or Secretary, together with at least three of the diiectors, 
ML 
' 

I S j j G 
Crocker-Citizens National Bank 
-2-
must certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
(2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
by citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
under the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States, 
or by firms or companies the controlling interest In which is owned 
by citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital 
stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent 
has been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individually 
paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. 
There-
after, the Treasurer or Secretary shall certify to the payment of the 
remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with 
law. 
In accordance with the request in a letter of March 16, 
1970, signed by the organizers on behalf of the proposed Crocker 
International Development Corporation, the Board is disposed, when 
that Corporation's final permit is issued, to grant consent for it 
to acquire stock in Australian International Finance Corporation, 
Melbourne, Australia. 
Your attention is called to the fact that Crocker Inter-
national Development Corporation will have no separate base under 
the foreign credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or invest-
ments will need to be made under the ceiling of Crocker-Citizens 
National Bank. Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with 
the understanding that any foreign loans and investments of the 
Corporation will be made within the guidelines established under 
the foreign lending and investment activities of your bank and that, 
due consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 
v 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C . 
P D 5 5 I 
May 13, 1970 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association dated March 6, 1970, and 
Organization Certificate dated March 16, 1970, of CROCKER INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION duly filed with said Board of Governors, and 
that CROCKER INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION is authorized to 
exercise such of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) 
as are incidental and preliminary to its organization pending the 
issuance by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of 
a final permit generally to commence business in accordance with the 
provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant 
thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
(SEAL) 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
gy 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
1528 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 4 
5/13/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C f A L 
U D H R E n P O N D E N C E 
T U 
T H E 
G U A R D 
May 14, 1970 
Mr. Peter Fousek, 
Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of: New York, 
New York, New York. 
100451 
Dear Mr. Fousek: 
Reference is made to your letter of April 16, 
1.970, advising that the Directors of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York have authorized an increase in the 
amount of educational loans which can be outstanding at 
any one time from $40,000 to $100,000. 
The Board of Governors 'concurs in the action 
taken by your Directors. 
Very truly your 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C0 Holland 
Secretary. 

1529 
Item No. 
2 
5/13/70 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265—RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
n X . 
• 
• 
' • ~.!; • ' . , . 
. • 
Competitive Factor Reports 
1, Effective May 14„ 1970, § 265.2(c) is amended by 
changing subparagraph (17) to read as follows: 
§ 265.2 Sj^ific functions delegated to Board employees and Federal 
Reserve Banks. 
if 
* 
ic 
* 
-,v 
v> • * 
(c) The Director of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
(or, in his absence, the Acting Director) is authorized: 
vV 
* 
ic 
ic 
ic 
(17) Under section 18(c)(4) of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Act (3.2. U.S.C. 1040(c)(4)), to furnish to the Comptroller of the 
Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation reports on 
competitive factors involved in a bank merger required to be approved 
hy one of those agencies if each of the appropriate departments or 
divisions of the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank and the Board of 
Governors is of the view that the proposed merger either would have 
adverse competitive effects or would have only slightly adverse 
competitive effects, and if no member of the Board has indicated an 
objection prior to the forwarding of the report: to the appropriate 
Agency. 

11517 
- 3 -
2a» This amendment is designed to expedite processing of 
the competitive factor report required by the so-called "Bank Merger 
Act of 1.9GQ"v;here Federal Reserve staff views a proposed bank merger 
either as having no adverse competitive effects or as having only 
slightly adverse competitive effects. 
b. The provisions of section 553 of title 5, United 
States Code, relating to notice and public participation and to 
deferred effective dates, were not followed in connection with the 
adoption of this amendment, because the rules contained therein are 
Procedural in nature and accordingly do not: constitute substantive 
subject to the requirements of such section. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 13, 1970. 
(Signed) Normand Bernard 
Normand Bernard, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1531 
..'^ofco^-.. 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N • R B 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 6 
5/13/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E 3 P • H D E N C C 
TD t h e : 
B D A P D 
May 14, 1970 
Mr. Hampton Davis, 
Acting Assistant Chief of Protocol, 
Department of State, 
Washington, D. C. 
20520 
Dear Mr. Davis: 
In reply to your letter of May 5, 1970, please be 
advised that there is no provision of pertinent rules and regu-
lations that would preclude acceptance by Mr. Norman Benjamin 
Houston, a director of the Los Angeles Branch ci the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, of appointment as Honorary Consul 
of Liberia an Los Angeles, California. The Board would not ob-
ject to acceptance of such appointment if approved by the 
Department of State, with the understanding, of course, that 
Mr. Houston, in the discharge of his consular responsibilities, 
would not make use of or disclose confidential information 
obtained by him by virtue of his position as a Reserve Bank 
branch director. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

1532 
Item No. 2 
5/13/70 
Amendments to VFCR Guidelines 
New Sub-Section II-A-7 
7. Foreign Borrowings. 
In principle,, the restraints 
under these guidelines are imposed on gross foreign assets, 
including gross claims on foreigners. 
However, certain 
liabilities to foreigners may be counted as offsets to 
foreign assets only where the liabilities arise from borrowings 
abroad that substitute for direct investment capital outflow 
from the United States and are not likely to substitute for 
foreign deposits, or for short-term foreign investments, in 
the United St ates. 
Such offsetting may be done in the manner 
described below. 
a. 
Banks and Edge Act and Agreement 
Corporntions. 
A bank, an "Edge Act" Corporation, or an "Agreement" Corporation 
may not count its borrowings from, or its other liabilities to, 
foreigners as offsets to its claims on foreigners and other 
foreign assets.. 
b. Domestic subsidiaries. 
A domestically-chartered 
subsidiary (for example, a so-called Delaware subsidiary) of an 
kdge Act Corporation or of an Agreement Corporation may count 
the outstanding amount of its borrowings from foreigners as offsets 
to its claims on foreigners and to its other foreign assets, 
Provided those borrowings are of an original maturity of three 
Years or more. 
Such borrowings would include debentures, promissory 
notes, or other debt obligations of the domestic subsidiary to a 
foreigner. The amount of the offset at any time would be equal 

-2-
1533 
to the amount of the outstandings after deducting (i) any 
repayments of principal and (ii) in the case of convertible 
debt issues, any conversions. 
This offsetting principle may 
be used to reduce the value of foreign assets of the subsidiary 
in computing the value of assets to be consolidated for reporting 
purposes with those of the parent institution; any excess of 
outstanding borrowings of the subsidiary over foreign assets 
of the subsidiary may not be used to reduce the reportable 
value of foreign assets of the parent institution. 

11517 
-3-
Substitute Section II-D-4 
*4. 
Foreign Branches and Foreign Subsidiaries of U.S. 
Banks and Banking Institutions 
a. 
The guidelines are not designed to restrict the 
extension of foreign credit by foreign branches of U.S. banks 
or by foreign subsidiaries of U.S. banks, Edge Act Corporations, 
or Agreement Corporations, except as the result of the restraints 
on banks (including Edge and Agreement Corporations) with respect to 
* 
foreign credit to, or foreign investment in, such branches or subsidiairies, 
b. 
Total claims of a bank's domestic offices on its 
foreign branches and foreign subsidiaries (including permanent 
capital invested in, as well as balances due from, such foreign 
branches and foreign subsidiaries) represent bank credit to for-
eigners for purposes of the guidelines. 
*The corresponding provision that would be superseded reads as 
follows: 
4. 
Foreign Branches of U.S. Banks 
a. 
The guidelines are not designed to restrict the 
extension of foreign credits by foreign branches of U.S. banks if 
the funds utilized are derived from foreign sources and do not 
add to the outflow of capital from the United States. 
b. 
Total claims of a bank's domestic offices on its 
foreign branches (including permanent capital invested in, as well 
as balances due from, such branches) represent bank credit to 
foreigners for the purposes of the program. 

1535 
-4-
New Sub-Section II-D-5 
5. Domestic Subsidiaries of Edge Act and Agreement 
Corporations 
The foreign assets of domestically-chartered subsidiaries 
of Edge Act Corporations and of Agreement Corporations (net of 
foreign borrowings offset under II-A-7-b, above) should be 
consolidated with-the foreign assets of the parent for purposes 
of the guidelines. 
Note: For full text of guidelines, see Federal Reserve Bulletin 
of January 1970 (pages 11 ff), and Bulletin of March 1970 (page 311). 

1 5 3 6 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
r.rn 
• 
F 
T H E 
Item No. 8 
5/13/70 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R N E S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B ID A F1 D 
May 13, 1970 
Bankers International Corporation, 
16 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of: October 31, 1969, the Board of Governors grants consent for 
your Corporation ("BIC") to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly 
through your wholly-owned Delaware subsidiary ("DS") authorized in 
the Board's letter of March 10, 1969, all of the shares of Bankers 
Trust A.G. ("BTAG"), to be established in Zurich, Switzerland, at 
a cost of approximately $4,650,000, provided the shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
In this connection, 
approval is also granted for the purchase and holding of shares of 
BTAG by BIC or DS in excess of the applicable limitations set forth 
in the provisions of Section 25(a) [12 U.S.C. 615(c)] of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of BTAG by BIC or DS is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That BIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in BTAG if BTAG at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if BTAG establishes any branch or 
agcncy or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Switzerland or elsewhere, in any manner, which at 
the time would not be permissible to BIC; 

1537 
Bankers International Corporation 
-2-
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BIG 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of BTAG as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions, for its 
own account other than as underwriter or dealer, by 
BTAG be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regula-
tion K in the same manner as if BTAG were a corpora-
tion organized under Section 2 5(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), 
and (c) of Regulation IC. 
The Board has considered your request regarding BTAG's 
activities as a broker, dealer, and underwriter of securities. 
That consideration included the fact that BIC is riot engaged in 
banking; and especially the relationship between the possible ac-
quisitions of certain stocks as a result of such activities and 
the statutory prohibition on the purchase and "holding of stock of 
a corporation "engaged in the general business of buying or selling 
goods, wares, merchandise or commodities in the United States," or 
"transacting any business in the United States except such as in 
the judgment of the Board. . .may be incidental to its international 
or foreign business. . .." It was the judgment of the Board that 
in a foreign country where such transactions are usual in connection 
with the business of banking or other financial operations, and 
provided such stocks were acquired for underwriting or dealing but 
not as investment, and were not held for an unreasonable time, such 
acquisitions would not be inconsistent with the quoted statutory 
prohibition. 
Accordingly, the Board concluded that it would be per-
missible for BTAG under the aforementioned condition to act as 
dealer and underwriter of stocks (including rights to acquire 
stocks), including shares of issuers engaged in the types of busi-
ness cited in the preceding paragraph, so long as stocks so acquired 
were disposed of within a reasonable length of time and provided 
that the specific consent of the Board be obtained for any acquisi-
tions of stock of individual issuers, not covered in the case of 
underwriting operations by firm commitments from subunderwriters 
or other purchasers, in excess of $500,000 or 25 per cent of the 
voting shares of any company. 

1538 
Bankers International Corporation -2-
As indicated in condition (3) in the second paragraph of 
this letter, stocks acquired in connection with underwriting and 
dealing in securities need not be reported in accordance with 
Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they are to be reported 
as a separate class (together with date of acquisition) in any Call 
Report of Condition or in any other information requested regarding 
BTAG in accordance with condition (2) above. Also, full information 
on BTAG's activities as a broker, dealer, or underwriter of securi-
ties is to be made available on request during any examination of 
BIC. 
The foregoing applies only to acquisitions of stocks as 
a result of underwriting operations or in connection with maintaining 
a dealer's inventory. All other acquisitions of stock by BTAG, for 
portfolio investment purposes or otherwise, are subjcct to the pro-
visions of Section 211.8 of Regulation K under the condition (1) 
herein applied. 
In this connection, the Board considered your request 
for the suspension of condition (1) so far as it relates to the 
limitation of stock acquisitions under the General Consent to 
25 per ccnt of the voting shares of any corporation when the stock 
acquired by BTAG was in relation to an attempt to develop such 
corporation to the point of a public share offering, provided, how-
ever, that the per cent, of shares acquired would not exceed 50 per 
cent nor the cost over $500,000, and that the stock would be disposed 
°f within five years. 
The Board has concluded that this request should not be 
granted. 
However, there is nothing to prevent BTAG from acquiring 
up to 2.5 per cent of a local corporation's stock, at a cost of 
$500,000 or 
less, in the situations you outlined and also making 
a qualified commitment to acquire subsequently an additional amount 
°f stock. Where an acquisition is of the type you specify in your 
letter, the Board believes it would be appropriate for BIC to file 
a preliminary or tentative application (even though an acquisition 
is not yet assured). Applications for acquisitions of this type can 
and will be handled in a very expeditious manner, assuming that ad-
equate information is furnished. 
In your application it was also requested that BTAG be 
Permitted, as is customary among banks in Switzerland, to form and 
hold the stock of holding companies whose main purpose and activity 

1539 
Bankers International Corporation -2-
will be to act as independent legal and fiscal entities to hold 
and administer securities' holdings of individual wealthy investors. 
You state that BTAG will, in these cases, be acting in a capacity 
similar to that of a trustee, with the investors acting the part 
of the beneficiaries, and that BTAG1s holding of stock in such 
individual companies will be in the capacity of a nominee. 
The Board has concluded that acquisitions of stocks coming 
within the understandings in the immediately preceding paragraph 
are essentially fiduciary in character, arid would be permissible 
for BTAG without regard to the limitations and requirements set 
forth in Section 211.8(a) and (b) of Regulation K. However, in 
view of the special character of such holdings, the Board will 
expect full details about them in any reports called for under con-
dition (3) in the Board's letters of consent. 
In regard to your inquiry regarding the possible require-
ment that BIC or BTAG divulge information in contravention of Swiss 
law, your attention is called to the following statement in the 
Board's press release of March 15, 1967, relating to the amendment 
of Regulation M arid certain conforming amendments of Regulation K: 
"The Board expects that the foreign branches and affiliates 
of every member bank will conduct their affairs in accord-
ance with the laws of the countries in which they carry on 
their activities. 
The Board further expects that member 
banks (and their foreign branches and affiliates) will con-
duct their activities, in the United States and abroad, on 
the basis of high standards of banking and financial pru-
dence. Member banks are expected to make sufficient informa-
tion available to the Board as will enable the Board to 
satisfy itself that those standards are being met." 
Accordingly, the Board expects that BIC will maintain at 
J-ts head office all such information as is necessary for the proper 
administration of its subsidiaries, and as will enable the Board 
properly to carry out its supervisory responsibilities. All records 
of BIC, including information on. BIC's subsidiaries, must be made 
available to the Board's examiners on request. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of BTAG. 

1540 
Bankers International Corporation 
-2-
Should BIC acquire the stock of BTAG under the foregoing 
consent, the Board also approves the subsequent sale of such stock 
to DS. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment by BIC now being approved will be made within 
the guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation, Bankers Trust Company, and Bankers 
Company of New York, and that due consideration is being given to 
the priorities contained therein. Furthermore, it is understood 
that any investment by DS under the foregoing consent will be 
governed by the foreign credit restraint guidelines, as amended 
May 13, 1970 (copy of the latest amendments enclosed). 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
