Minutes for 
February 21, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include, a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the. minutes, If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Sh.epardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

Minutes of a meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System on Tuesday, February 21, 1967. The meeting was held 
t 
in the Conference Room adjoining the Board Room at 2:30 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of 
Administrative Services 
Messrs. Larson and Ward of Harbeson Hough 
Livingston & Larson 
Annex building. As a basis for the discussion today there had 
been distributed to the Board members copies of a document prepared by 
Harbeson Hough Livingston & Larson under date of November 18, 1966, 
(revised February 21, 1967), entitled "General Description and 
Specifications—Federal Reserve Board Building Addition." 
The document contained sections on the program, the site, the 
building, general construction, plumbing and drainage, mechanical work, 
electrical work, and elevators, escalators, and conveyors. 
Attention was directed to an indication in the document that 
the working floors of the annex building would be covered (except for 
certain private offices) with vinyl tile. Question was raised about 
the use of carpeting as an alternative, and it was stated that the 

661 
2/21/67 
-2-
current trend in new commercial buildings and Federal Reserve Bank 
buildings was toward carpeting. Mr. Ward replied to questions about 
relative cost, both in terms of original outlay and maintenance, 
summarizing his comments by saying that economy would derive principally 
from the use of either carpeting or vinyl tile rather than both. 
There was general agreement that a choice should be made be-
tween the two approaches. Question was raised whether the use of 
carpeting would diminish the flexibility factor, and Governor Maisel 
referred to a school project with which he was familiar in which rela-
tively small modular pieces of carpeting were fitted together. The 
discussion concluded with a request that the architects develop for 
the Board's consideration a carpeting approach that would preserve as 
much of the element of flexibility as possible. 
Discussion then turned to the arrangements for the reception 
area on the top (setback) floor of the building, and Messrs. Larson and 
Ward responded to a number of questions relating to the capacity of the 
area and its adaptability for various requirements. One suggestion 
made by members of the Board was that particular attention be given to 
the quality of the folding chairs that would be used. It appeared to 
be the consensus, following consideration of plans for this area, that 
the proposed layout would be generally satisfactory in light of the 
purposes for which it was contemplated that the area would be used. 
Governor Shepardson then suggested that the Board members go 
through the distributed document section by section and raise any 

661 
2/21/67 
-3-
questions. On the matter of the site, he referred to a conference he 
had had with the Secretary of the Interior, pursuant to the understand-
ing at the Board meeting on January 30, at which he advised the Secre-
tary of the Board's conclusion that it could not justifiably go ahead 
with the so-called north garage project under which the Federal Reserve 
would provide underground parking facilities for the Interior Department. 
He had found the Secretary appreciative of the Board's reasons. However, 
the Secretary was concerned because he had regarded the proposal as an 
excellent plan to help resolve the Department's parking requirements, 
and he had asked Governor Shepardson about the Board's likely reaction 
if the Department could find some way of carrying its proportionate 
share of the cost of such a project. Governor Shepardson said he had 
replied that he thought the Board would be receptive. The Secretary 
then instructed his staff to determine what could be done to obtain 
clearance for the Department's participation in the project. Subse-
quently he sent to Governor Shepardson a copy of a letter he had 
addressed to the General Services Administrator in which he stressed 
the need for more underground parking space and fewer surface parking 
lots and suggested that the staffs of the two organizations determine 
whether arrangements could be worked out whereby the Interior Department 
could participate in the north garage project. Governor Shepardson 
anticipated that something further would be heard from the Interior 
Department on this matter in due course. 

661 
2/21/67 
-4-
In response to a question about the adequacy of access to and 
from the parking facilities under the annex building, Mr. Larson said 
his firm had discussed the problem with its garage consultant, who felt 
that one exit would be adequate. However, there was still some hope 
that the appropriate authorities would be willing to give consideration 
to an exit leading onto 21st Street. 
With regard to the general design of the annex building, which 
the Board had previously approved on the basis of sketches showing a 
structure having three principal working floors plus a fourth (setback) 
floor, Governor Robertson said he would much prefer that the building 
be one story higher and of lesser length (to provide an equivalent 
amount of interior space). 
Governor Shepardson replied that the addition of one story would 
not permit a view from the top floor of the annex across the Federal 
Reserve Building to the territory on the south side of Constitution 
Avenue. It would require three additional floors to accomplish that 
purpose. 
Governor Daane inquired whether the views of the National 
Capital Planning Commission were known, and Mr. Larson said that in an 
earlier discussion the Commission did not favor the erection of so 
high a building. It had questioned the appropriateness of a building 
of four floors plus the setback floor. 
As to general construction it was noted that the specifications 
called for placing the Board's computer facilities in the annex building. 

CJ56 
2/21/67 
-5-
Governor Shepardson pointed out that the most recent decision of the 
Board had been in terms that a major part of the computer operations 
would be conducted in the facility being constructed for the joint 
use of the Board and the Richmond Reserve Bank at Culpeper, Virginia. 
A further study was currently in process. In any event, however, there 
would have to be at least a satellite installation here at the Board's 
offices in Washington. 
Governor Mitchell stated that within about a month it was hoped 
to come to the Board with a suggested plan as to the division of 
computer facilities between Washington and Culpeper. 
This led to discussion of the fact that according to the 
specifications the floor structure in certain parts of the annex build-
ing would be of special design to carry heavy loads of equipment. 
Question was raised whether it would not be desirable to provide the 
stronger structure for the whole floor of the annex building in which 
the computer facilities would be housed, and Mr. Larson made certain 
rough estimates of the additional cost that would appear to be involved. 
Members of the Board pointed out that it would be advantageous from the 
standpoint of flexibility if the entire floor was so constructed, and 
Mr. Larson remarked that any remodeling at a later date would be diffi-
cult. He did not think the expenditure involved in providing the 
special structural design for a whole floor, as opposed to half a floor, 
would be too great. 

661 
2/21/67 
-6-
The discussion concluded with a consensus that it would be 
desirable to provide the floor structure designed to carry heavy loads 
of equipment not only on the top floor (where the library and meeting 
room areas would be located) but also on the full first working floor, 
where the data processing facilities would be located. 
The next question raised had to do with specifications for 
windows on the office floors of the annex, and Messrs. Larson and Ward 
indicated that they would propose to obtain guarantees from suppliers 
that the glass would be of such characteristics as to permit maintain-
ing the inside temperature within a relatively narrow prescribed range. 
It was noted that the present specifications called for sliding 
windows to facilitate window washing, although certain small windows 
would have to be hinged. 
Governor Mitchell then initiated a series of questions about 
the maintenance problem involved in the use of bronze as compared with 
other materials that might be of comparable attractiveness. 
Mr. Larson mentioned other materials that might be considered 
but expressed the opinion that the entrance to the building, at least, 
should be done in bronze. 
Governor Mitchell indicated that, aside from the cost of main-
tenance, it was his opinion that the annex building should not be as 
ornate in appearance as the Federal Reserve Building. Mr. Larson 
replied that the architects contemplated a restrained treatment. Areas 

661 
2/21/67 
-7-
such as the entrance would be relatively simple in design, but top-
quality materials would be used. He would have in mind something of a 
restrained character but in harmony with the main building in a contem-
porary way. Governor Mitchell stated that that was in line with his 
own thinking. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the design of the building not 
be too austere and noted that he personally favored the use of bronze 
to a reasonable extent, while Governor Maisel suggested that the archi-
tects bear in mind the maintenance factor. 
It was noted that the specifications called for the walls on 
the working floors to be covered with vinyl cloth, and Mr. Larson 
described the characteristics of the material that the architects had 
in mind. He stated that samples would be made available for inspection. 
He then asked whether the Board would favor some dressing up of the 
core areas on the working floors, perhaps through the use of marble 
facing. Members of the Board indicated that they would be favorably 
inclined toward such an approach, not only from the standpoint of 
appearance but because of the marble's damage-resisting qualities. It 
was understood that sketches for those areas would be submitted by the 
architects when they presented detailed plans for the interior of the 
structure. 
Consideration also was given to the plans for decoration of 
the top floor of the building. There was general agreement that 

661 
2/21/67 
-8-
appearance would be of more significance in that area and maintenance 
costs less of a factor. 
Governor Mitchell raised the question whether the locating of 
the reception area on the east end of the top floor of the annex build-
ing was preferable to a location on the west end, and Governor Brimmer 
indicated that he saw no reason to change the present plan. Mr. Larson 
said that his firm would furnish some diagrams for the Board's perusal. 
The discussion then reverted to the question of the height of 
the building, and Governor Shepardson, with the aid of drawings prepared 
by the architects, explained why the addition of another floor to the 
annex building would not be sufficient to permit a view from the top 
floor across the Federal Reserve Building to the south. 
Governor Daane indicated that he was not completely satisfied. 
He remarked that three members of the Board (Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, and Daane) had expressed themselves as favoring a higher 
annex building. Governor Mitchell observed that that question, if 
pursued, would require further negotiation with the National Capital 
Planning Commission. 
Governor Shepardson recalled that the Board had recently dis-
cussed the advisability of making arrangements for independent architec-
tural review of the building plans and also for the retention at an 
appropriate date of a clerk of the works or construction superintendent. 
He said he had discussed the matter with Messrs. Larson and Ward and 

661 
2/21/67 
-9-
told them that Mr. Witherell served as Consulting Architect to the 
Board. Mr. Witherell would be back from a trip early in March, and 
the thought was to have him review the preliminary plans for any sug-
gestions he might have. When more detailed plans were completed, they 
would also be subject to his review for the purpose of making his advice 
available to the Board. 
On the matter of the construction superintendent, or whatever 
the title might be, Governor Shepardson said he had told the architects 
that the Board would appreciate any suggestions they might have as to 
persons who would be competent. The thought was to locate a person who 
would be acceptable both to the architects and to the Board on grounds 
of professional competence. 
Governor Shepardson also said that after reviewing further the 
procedures that had been followed in connection with the construction 
of the present Federal Reserve Building, he had concluded that it would 
be desirable to contemplate having the construction superintendent on 
the job some time prior to the date that a construction contract was 
entered into, so that he could go over the specifications and be pre-
pared to function, with such additional staff as might be determined 
to be needed. 
Mr. Larson indicated that the documents to be used as a basis 
for obtaining bids should be ready by around the end of this year and 
that it might be well to let the construction superintendent have two 

661 
2/21/67 
-10-
or three months on the job before the time construction actually-
started . Also, the architects would be going through periodic reviews 
with the Board at about that time. He thought it would be desirable 
if the architects could begin to talk to persons who might be considered 
for the position of construction superintendent so that the position 
might be filled within a matter of nine months or so. 
Governor Mitchell agreed that the construction superintendent 
should have a period of time to study the architects' plans and 
specifications, not with a view to appraising them from an architectural 
standpoint but to become sufficiently familiar with the specifications 
to know how they should be interpreted and enforced when construction 
got under way. 
Governor Shepardson observed that Mr. Witherell would review 
the general plans, and Governor Maisel said that Mr. Witherell's duties 
should include working with the Board's staff in considering alterna-
tives so as to help the Board in making appropriate decisions. 
