V 5-67) 
Minutes for 
October 18, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minuti 
Chairman Martin 
\ 
Governor Robertson 
x . 
IT J 
Governor 
• . * 
Mitchell 
f k i 
Governor Daane 
ICM 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
/h ifa 
Governor Sherrill 
Uf. 

3980 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, October 18, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
The Board discussed several matters relating generally to man-
agement succession at Federal Reserve Banks, and agreement was reached 
on certain steps that would be taken in line with views expressed during 
the discussion. 
Governor Daane then withdrew from the meeting to keep an appoint 
went outside the building and the following members of the staff entered 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
\J 
Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

3981 
10/18/67 
-2-
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Sanders and Shuter, and Miss Hart of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Keir, Lawrence, and Shull of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ring of the Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Maguire of the Division of Examinations 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given to 
the transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency of a report on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Brookline Savings 
& Trust Company, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, into Western Pennsylvania 
National Bank, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The conclusion read as fol-
lows : 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Western Penn-
sylvania National Bank, Pittsburgh, and Brookline Savings 
6c Trust Company, Pittsburgh, would eliminate existing and 
potential competition. There is now a heavy concentration 
of banking resources in the Pittsburgh area in a few large 
banks. Consummation of this transaction would eliminate 
the sixth largest bank headquartered in Allegheny County 
and the five counties contiguous to it, furthering the 
trend in the Pittsburgh area toward elimination of locally 
headquartered banks through merger or similar transaction. 
Western Pennsylvania National Bank has been active in this 
latter field. It appears the overall effect of the trans-
action would be substantially adverse. 
Request for permission to maintain reduced reserves (Item No. 1). 
There had been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Bank Opera-
tions dated October 13, 1967, relating to a request by Drovers National 
Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, for permission to maintain the 
reserves against deposits required of banks located outside reserve 
cit ies. A similar request from the same bank had been denied by the 

3 9 8 2 
10/18/67 
-3-
Board in 1961. However, the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago recom-
mended that the current request be granted, and after analysis of the 
factors weighing for and against approval the Division concurred in 
the recommendation. 
The recommendation was accepted, and unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to Drovers National Bank reflecting the decision. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
Credit card service operations (Item No. 2). There had been 
distributed a memorandum from the Legal Division dated September 8, 
1967, submitting a draft of letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco in which the position was taken that the credit card plan 
operated by several banks through the California Bankcard Association 
involved certain "bank services," thus requiring the furnishing of 
assurances with respect to supervision and examination in accordance 
with section 5 of the Bank Service Corporation Act and Regulation S, 
Bank Service Arrangements. 
Governor Brimmer had requested that consideration of the item 
be deferred in order to permit the System task force on bank credit 
cards to ascertain whether other bank credit card organizations were 
engaged in operations that would make them subject to Regulation S. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum from Governor Brimmer dated 
October 16, 1967, to which was attached a memorandum from Mr. Smith of 
October 11 advising that no other bank credit card service organizations 

3983 
10/18/67 
-4-
were presently engaged in activities that would make them subject to 
Regulation S. However, there was a possibility that in the near future 
the service activities of some of those organizations might be extended 
into areas that would require assurances regarding supervision and exam-
ination. Therefore, if the Board agreed that certain of the activities 
of the California Bankcard Association made it subject to Regulation S, 
that finding should be made generally applicable to other bank credit 
card organizations that engaged in similar activities. It was also sug-
gested that the Board's position be discussed with the Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion in order to encourage a uniform approach. 
Governor Brimmer commented on the matter and stated that he 
agreed with Mr. Smith's recommendation. Mr. Shay suggested that the 
substance of the letter to the San Francisco Reserve Bank be published 
in the Federal Register and the Federal Reserve Bulletin as an inter-
pretation of section 5 of the Bank Service Corporation Act, and Governor 
Brimmer agreed. 
Accordingly, after certain minor changes in the proposed letter 
had been agreed upon, unanimous approval was given to a letter to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
with the understanding that an interpretation based thereon would be 
Published. (Note: Subsequent to the meeting staff members of the other 
Federal banking agencies were advised of the Board's position and ex-
Pressed agreement with it.) 

3984 
10/18/67 
-5-
"Golden Passbook" accounts (Item No. 3). In a letter dated 
October 12, 1967, Chairman Patman of the House Banking and Currency 
Committee criticized the use by member banks of "Golden Passbook" and 
similar time deposit, open accounts on which interest was paid at a 
rate in excess of the 4 per cent permitted to be paid on savings depos-
its. He stated that the letter was written at the request of the Bank-
ing and Currency Committee and that the Committee desired a thorough 
study of the matter from the standpoint of the use of such accounts as 
a device to renew excessive interest rate competition for consumer 
savings. 
Chairman Patman had previously written a somewhat similar let-
ter, and in a reply dated January 17, 1967, the Board expressed the 
view that the use of the "Golden Passbook" accounts appeared to be 
legally permissible under Regulation Q, Payment of Interest on Deposits. 
There had been distributed a memorandum from the Legal Division 
dated October 17 discussing the current inquiry and submitting a draft 
°f reply to Mr. Patman's letter. The view would be reiterated that 
"Golden Passbook" accounts did not violate or circumvent Regulation Q, 
and the position would be taken that they did not constitute a device 
to renew excessive interest rate competition for consumer savings. 
In discussion, Governor Robertson suggested that the reply to 
Chairman Patman not go into the question of competition between banks 
and savings and loan associations, and that instead it be confined to 

3985 
10/18/67 
-6-
analyzing the requirements of Regulation Q and stating whether it 
appeared that the "Golden Passbook" accounts complied with the regula-
tion. In his view, the question of interest rate competition was one 
that should more appropriately be considered within the framework of 
the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 
Governor Maisel agreed with the foregoing view, but went on to 
say that he did not believe the proposed letter was responsive to the 
basic question raised by Chairman Patman. He felt that the reply 
should contain some statement on whether the requirements of Regula-
tion Q were actually being followed in practice by banks using the 
"Golden Passbook" accounts. 
Governor Brimmer concurred and suggested that information along 
the lines mentioned by Governor Maisel might be obtained through the 
bank examination function. 
Mr. Cardon related his understanding that Chairman Patman's 
letter dealt with a matter that was of concern not only to Mr. Patman 
but to other members of the Banking and Currency Committee as well. 
They had been receiving protests from savings and loan associations 
that the "Golden Passbook" and similar accounts, whether or not in 
violation of existing statutes or regulations, were going to draw money 
away from the associations because the latter could not meet the com-
petition. There was also available to them, for example, a recent 
sPeech by an officer of a large New York City bank stating that the 

10/18/67 
-7-
"Golderi Passbook" account had been developed as a competitive device 
specifically to draw funds from the thrift institutions, and that the 
device was proving successful. Thus, the concern of the Committee 
members centered not on the legal point but on whether the "Golden 
Passbook" account was an instrument that would attract a significant 
amount of funds away from the thrift institutions. If so, they wondered 
why the law that had been passed to stop commercial banks from exerting 
undue competitive pressure was not effective in dealing with the situa-
tion. 
Governor Maisel commented that this came back to the point 
Governor Robertson had raised about the role of the Coordinating Com-
mittee. He added that in his opinion the Home Loan Bank Board was not 
taking a positive view of the competitive picture. Some States, they 
said, had laws that made it difficult for State-chartered institutions 
to compete, and they did not want to penalize those institutions vis-a-
vis the Federally-chartered associations. An answer to the competitive 
problem apparently would have to be worked out through the Coordinating 
Committee. 
In response to a question by Governor Robertson, Mr. Partee 
reviewed recent savings statistics and interpreted from them the extent 
to which the use of the "Golden Passbook" accounts may have been suc-
cessful in attracting funds. He noted, among other things, that the 
attraction of such accounts appeared to have been most pronounced in 

3SH 7 
10/18/67 
-8-
the New York City area. He added, however, that on competitive grounds 
it did not seem to him unreasonable for commercial banks to be permitted 
to offer the "Golden Passbook" accounts. Nor did he consider the rates 
offered to be unreasonable. 
Governor Brimmer said he shared that view. However, Chairman 
Patman's letter had been phrased in terms of a request for a study. He 
added that there was a recent article in the Federal Reserve Bulletin 
dealing with changes in time and savings deposits, with some reference 
to the growth of time deposits, open account. That kind of material, 
he thought, would improve the responsiveness of the answer to Chairman 
Patman. 
Chairman Martin then suggested that the staff attempt a revised 
draft of the proposed letter in light of today's discussion, and it was 
Agreed that that should be done. Governor Maisel repeated his sugges-
tion that a check be made to ascertain whether banks offering the 
"Golden Passbook" accounts appeared to be conforming to the statute 
and regulation, and Governor Robertson suggested that the staff try to 
develop what effect that the offering of "Golden Passbook" accounts 
had been having in terms of attracting savings funds. 
A copy of a letter sent to the Reserve Banks to obtain addi-
tional information is attached as Item No. 3. 
Advertising practices (Item No. 4). On September 6, 1967, the 
Board considered a letter that had been received from a depositor 

3988 
10/18/67 
-9-
complaining about certain practices followed by a State member bank in 
Detroit, Michigan. The Chicago Reserve Bank, which was requested to 
look into the matter, subsequently reported that the Michigan State 
authorities had already investigated the complaint and action had been 
taken by the bank to comply with a requirement of State law that a 
bank's regulations governing savings deposits "shall be printed and 
conspicuously exposed in some place in the business office of said bank 
accessible and visible to all." 
At the September 6 meeting the Board also expressed interest 
in a possible expansion of the statement issued simultaneously by the 
Federal banking agencies and the Home Loan Bank Board in December 1966 
°n the subject of advertising practices used by institutions to attract 
funds. The subject was discussed at the meeting of the Coordinating 
Committee on Bank Regulation on September 7, and representatives of the 
°ther agencies appeared reluctant to expand the statement, although it 
was agreed that the possibility would be discussed further. In the 
Meantime the Reserve Banks were asked for their views. Their responses 
indicated that they believed State member banks were complying with 
tlle principles embodied in the 1966 statement. However, most of the 
Reserve Banks felt that the statement might appropriately be expanded 
in some respects. 
Analysis of the replies from the Reserve Banks was contained 
i n a memorandum from the Legal Division dated October 9, 1967. The 

10/18/67 
-10-
following principle was recommended for consideration if the Board 
concluded that expansion of the 1966 statement was desirable: "Every 
advertisement for funds should state the method the bank will use in 
computing and paying interest thereon. A change in such method should 
be reflected in a similar advertisement, which should be supplemental 
to notice of such change by mail to each depositor's last known address. 
It was suggested that the Board send letters to the other supervisory 
agencies inviting them to join in expanding the 1966 statement accord-
ingly. 
Governor Maisel proposed that the suggested new principle be 
amended to indicate that a change in the method used by a bank in com-
puting and paying interest need be stated in advertisements and notices 
to depositors only if the change was to a method less favorable to the 
depositors. He also raised the question whether it would be feasible 
for banks to explain, in advertisements, changes in the method of 
computing interest or whether in some instances the explanation might 
not have to be quite complicated. If there was some general standard 
that could be assumed, he added, notifications perhaps could be re-
stricted to deviations from the standard that were less favorable to 
depositors. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that banks would have no 
great problem in making clear their method of computing and paying 
interest. He doubted whether there was any standard of general appli-
cability throughout the country. 

3990 
10/18/67 
-11-
Governor Maisel then commented that he had no strong feeling 
the matter. He was not sure, however, that it would be desirable 
to make the terms of the statement on advertising practices too 
specific. 
Governor Sherrill commented that at the time the level of 
deposit insurance coverage was increased, consideration was given to 
J 
requiring that a notice be sent to all depositors. Bankers voiced 
strong objections on the ground that notices sent to depositors could 
be disturbing if they were not entirely understandable. The bankers 
were agreeable to posting notices in banking offices or to including 
Information in general advertising, but they were hesitant about send-
ing 
direct notification to depositors. 
Governor Robertson then suggested that letters be sent to the 
°ther supervisory agencies in the light of the comments made at today's 
Meeting for the purpose of obtaining their views, and there was agree-
SJent with that suggestion. 
•J • 
Attached as Item No. 4 is a copy of the letter subsequently 
Setlt to the Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
e 
Similar letters were sent to the Comptroller of the Currency and the 
^airman of the Home Loan Bank Board. 
Open Market Committee schedule. At its meeting on September 21 
l967, the Board expressed general agreement with a tentative schedule 
o f meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee during 1968, and the 

3991 
10/18/67 
-12-
proposed schedule was then considered at the Committee meeting on 
October 3. In the discussion at that time, certain questions were 
referred to the staff for further consideration, including the possi-
bility of holding at least the majority of the meetings shortly after 
the middle of each month and the possibility of minimizing the number 
°f meetings held during periods of major Treasury financings. Question 
also was raised regarding whether compelling reasons existed for sched-
uling the Committee's annual organization meeting on the first Tuesday 
in March. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum from Mr. Holland 
dated October 17, 1967, to which was attached a draft of memorandum 
from the Committee's Secretariat to the Open Market Committee describ-
ing the various considerations that had been taken into account in 
reviewing alternative meeting schedules for 1968 and expressing the 
view that the schedule originally proposed to the Committee still 
aPpeared to be the preferable alternative, primarily because of the 
disadvantages associated with a shift from three- or four-week inter-
Vals to four- or five-week intervals. Mr. Holland's memorandum stated 
fchat a paper from the Committee's General Counsel, Mr. Hackley, dis-
u s i n g legal considerations relating to the date of the organization 
meeting was in preparation. 
After comments by Mr. Broida on the factors that had been taken 
i n t 0 account by the staff in studying the matter, Governor Maisel asked 

10/18/67 
-13-
Mr. Brill for his assessment of the purported advantages in scheduling 
meetings shortly after the middle of each month. 
Mr. Brill replied that he had never been too impressed by the 
arguments cited in favor of such a schedule, which appeared to be based 
on the idea that the bulk of the economic data for the preceding month 
would be available and that the Committee would have a similar body of 
data before it at each meeting. He pointed out that some time was 
required to analyze data received and put it in form for use by the 
Committee. Further, pertinent data became available at various dates 
during the month, and the statistics received later sometimes were 
Particularly useful. From the standpoint of availability of data, he 
Was not sure that any particular time of the month was necessarily 
Preferable to another. 
In reply to a further question by Governor Maisel, Mr. Broida 
said it was not entirely clear why President Hayes had suggested that 
it would be helpful to minimize the number of meetings scheduled in 
Periods of major Treasury financings. One interpretation might be 
that it was desirable to avoid meetings during such periods because 
the market could anticipate that even-keel considerations would pre-
dominate. Mr. Holland added that if a meeting were scheduled close 
to the payment date for a Treasury financing, that presumably might 
have some advantage because the Committee could consider what policy 
Would be appropriate after the payment date had passed. 

10/18/67 
-14-
Governor Maisel then said it appeared to him that the critical 
question was how often the Committee should meet, with other questions 
of less import. 
Chairman Martin concurred. He then inquired whether the mem-
bers of the Board continued of the view, expressed previously, that 
the 1968 schedule originally submitted for consideration by the Open 
Market Committee was satisfactory. 
The other Board members expressed agreement, and it was under-
stood that the question of the schedule would be brought up again at 
the Open Market Committee meeting on Tuesday, October 24. 
Margin regulations. Pursuant to the understanding at the meet-
ing on October 10, 1967, there had been distributed drafts of proposed 
amendments to the margin regulations (Regulations T and U) that would 
implement proposals set forth in a memorandum from the Division of 
Research and Statistics dated September 19, 1967, for closing loopholes 
in the regulations. 
(A draft of proposed regulation to cover credit 
extended by presently unregulated lenders had previously been made 
available to the Board.) 
Miss Hart commented that the staff was still working on minor 
technical problems in connection with the proposed amendments. However, 
it had been thought that the Board would like to see the drafts at this 
time since it was contemplated that a press release would be issued 
after the close of the market this Friday afternoon. In addition, the 

3994 
10/18/67 
-15-
staff would like to make certain that the retroactive aspects carried 
out what the Board had in mind. She then commented more fully on that 
problem against the background of the draft material that had been dis-
tributed. She also noted that it was contemplated that the proposed 
regulation having to do with presently unregulated lenders would be 
known as Regulation G. 
Miss Hart went on to say that the staff had refrained from 
taking this opportunity to propose amendments to the margin regulations 
to close loopholes other than those recently considered by the Board. 
In any event there had not been sufficient time to prepare such amend-
ments adequately. However, there were two amendments, one principally 
a matter of form and the other more significant, that the staff would 
recommend including in the draft amendments that would be published in 
the Federal Register. She then described the nature of those proposals 
After discussion, the members of the Board authorized the publi 
cation of the proposed amendments to Regulations T and U in the form 
^escribed by Miss Hart, along with the proposed new Regulation G. 
There followed some discussion of the timing that would be most 
suitable for issuance of the press release, and it was agreed, for rea-
sons that were cited, that issuance after the close of the market on 
Friday, October 20, would be appropriate, it being understood that in 
the event of unforeseen market or other developments in the interim 
the Board would reconsider the matter. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

10/18/67 
-16-
Secretary's Notes: On October 17, 1967, a 
letter was sent to The First National Bank 
of Boston, Boston, Massachusetts, acknowl-
edging receipt of notice of its intent to 
establish an additional branch in Buenos 
Aires, Argentina, to be known as the Palermo 
Branch. 
Acting in the absence of Governor Robertson, 
Governor Sherrill approved on behalf of the 
Board on October 17, 1967, an increase from 
$30 per day to $32 per day in the salary rate 
for substitute nurses, effective immediately, 
as recommended in a memorandum from the Divi-
sion of Personnel Administration of October 9, 
1967. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Divisions of Research and Statistics and Data 
Processing dated October 17, 1967, recommending that the Board authorize 
payment of an additional amount of $7,900 to The Risk Evaluation Corpo-
ration as compensation for costs incurred, in excess of the contract 
price, for computer programs for analysis of data being collected in the 
consumer credit quality project. 
(It was noted that payment of $15,000 
had previously been made under the contract entered into with the Corpo-
ration on January 24, 1966, and that the supplemental payment now autho-
rized would reimburse the contractor for unanticipated costs.) 
Memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administration dated 
October 16, 1967, recommending the nomination of Henry F. Lee, Economist 
in the Division of International Finance, to attend the Seventh SEANZA 
Central Banking Course to be held in Ceylon from July 3 to September 14, 
1968. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Appointment 
Michael E. Costley as Cafeteria Laborer, Division of Administrative 
Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 

10/18/67 
-17-
Appointments 
George E. Jacobs as Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
JoAnne Davis as Programmer, Division of Data Processing, with basic 
annual salary at the rate of $8,479, effective the date of entrance upon 
duty. 
Transfer 
Eugene Revells, Jr., Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
to a messenger position in the Board Members' area, with an increase in 
basic annual salary from $3,609 to $3,925, effective October 22, 1967. 
On October 17 and 18, 1967, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated author-
ity as indicated by the following letters, 
copies of which are attached under the respec-
tive item numbers indicated: 
On October 17, 1967 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
5 
approving the appointment of Kevin J. McDermott 
and Walter Voight as assistant examiners. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
6 
Pennsylvania, approving the establishment 
of a branch in Wayne, Delaware County, and 
an investment in bank premises incident 
thereto. 
Let ter to The First Pennsylvania Banking and 
7 
Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
approving the establishment of a branch in 
Cheltenham Township, Montgomery County. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to Chesterton State Bank, Chesterton, 
8 
Indiana, interposing no objection to an addi-
tional investment in bank premises. 

399? 
10/18/67 
-18-
_On October 18, 1967 
By the Director of the Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Item No, 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
approving the appointment of John L. Cebuly as 
Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agent. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter to Union Trust Company of Maryland, 
Baltimore, Maryland, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch on Guilford Avenue. 
Letter to Kanawha Banking and Trust Company, 
Charleston, West Virginia, granting an exten-
sion of time within which to establish an 
in-town branch. 
10 
11 

3998 
B D A R D 
O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 20551 
Item No. 1 
10/18/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
October 18, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Drovers National Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, the Board of Governors, 
acting under the provisions of Section 19 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, grants permission to the Drovers National 
Bank of Chicago to maintain the same reserves against 
deposits as are required to be maintained by member banks 
not in reserve cities, effective with the first biweekly 
reserve computation period beginning after the date of this 
letter. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such 
permission is subject to revocation by the Board of 
Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

3999 
B C A R D 
O F G D V E R N D R 5 
item No. 2 
• F THE 
10/18/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
October 18, 1967. 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, Presicent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
This refers to the Board?; letter of October 27, 1966, 
relating to the establishment and operation of a common bank credit 
card plan by Bank of California, N.A., Crocker-Citizens National 
Bank, United California Bank, and Wells Fargo Bank. On the basis 
of the information available at that time, the Board concluded 
that action by it was not required as a condition to establishment 
and operation of the plan - through a non-profit no-stock corporation 
known as the California Bankcard Association - and that participation 
by a member State bank in the plan was not restricted by the provisions 
of the Federal banking* statutes applicable to such banks. 
The Board understands that the plan became operative in 
July 1967, and that the currently effective rights and obligations 
of California Bankcard Association are as set forth in a document 
entitled "Operating Rules and Regulations of California Bankcard 
Association", revised June 28, 1967, a copy of which has been furnished 
to the Board by your Bank. 
Review of this document and other related current materials 
indicates that, while (for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
October 27, 1966 letter) the Association is not a "bank service cor-
poration" as defined in the Bank Service Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 
1861), it does perform among other things, the following duties: 
(1) performs cardholder accounting for participating banks; (2) develops 
information concerning each credit card and holder, including such 
holder's current balance owing to the card issuing bank and the amount 
of such balance that is delinquent; (3) assists in procedures relating 
to the presentation and settlement of drafts and credit memoranda; 
(4) develops procedures relating to credit card security control; 
(5) upon telephonic request, advises merchants and participating 
banks respecting credit authorizations above certain specified limits; 
and (6) compiles lists of participating merchants. The Board has con-
cluded that an organization performing those functions performs "bank 
services" as defined in section 1(b) of the Bank Service Corporation 
Act. 

4 0 0 O 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan 
-2-
Section 5 of the Bank Service Corporation Act requires 
both every insured bank having "bank services" performed for it by 
another party and such party to furnish assurances to the appropriate 
Federal bank supervisory agency that the performance thereof will be 
subject to regulation and examination by such agency to the same 
extent as if they were performed by the bank itself. The purpose of 
this section is, of course, simply to make certain that the appropriate 
Federal banking agency will be able effectively to exercise its 
responsibilities relating to a bank subject principally to its super-
vision, irrespective of who in fact performs its "bank services". As 
you know, the Board's Regulation S (12 CFR 219) implements the pro-
visions of section 5 of the Act in the application thereof to the 
performance of "bank services" for member State banks. 
The Board would appreciate your conveying the contents of 
this letter, which modifies the Boardfs letter of October 27, 1966, 
to California Bankcard Association and all participating member State 
banks with a request that they furnish the required assurances in 
accordance with the provisions of the Board's Regulation S. 
Very truly yours, 
Merritt She 
Secretary. 

4001 
B O A R D 
• F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 20551 
Item No. 3 
10/18/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
October 20, 1967. 
°ear Sir: 
There is enclosed a copy of an October 12, 1967 letter to 
Chairman Martin from Chairman Patman of the Committee on Banking and 
Currency of the House of Representatives. The letter refers to "Golden 
Passbook'1 savings accounts, which Mr. Patman suggests are being used 
by banks in evasion of the provisions of Regulation Q and to circumvent 
the intent of Congress as set forth in Public Law 89-597. (A "Golden 
Passbook" account may be defined as one that is the same as a regular 
savings" deposit, except that it includes a provision under which 90 
days notice is required before any withdrawal may be made.) 
As the last paragraph of Mr. Patman's letter indicates, the 
Banking and Currency Committee is concerned with more than the mere 
legality of the "Golden Passbook" account. Before responding to the 
inquiry, the Board would appreciate receiving your views regarding 
such accounts. It would be interested in knowing whether examiners 
°f your Bank have determined that violations of Regulation Q exist in 
connection with their use. Specifically, do they know that banks in 
fact require 90-days notice before paying such accounts? Do depositors 
understand the restrictions that apply to accounts of this type as 
compared with "savings" deposits? In your opinion have "Golden Pass-
°ok" accounts been sufficiently attractive to cause savers to transfer 
funds to them from other financial institutions? Might they be so in 
the future? 
Any other comments that might be of assistance in preparing 
j* response to Chairman Patman's inquiry will be appreciated. It would 
e helpful if your views could be sent to reach the Board by November 6, 
1967. 
Very truly yours, 
Secretary. 
Er*closure 
T ° THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

4002 
ifi^R 
B O A R D 
O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
R 
OR THE 
1 0 / 1 8 / 6 7 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON 
O r F I C E 
o r T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
October 19, 1967 
The Honorable Kenneth A. Randall, 
Chairman, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
550 - 17th Street, N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 
20429 
Dear Kay: 
Following the discussion at the September 7, 1967, meeting 
of the interagency Coordinating Committee on the possible expansion 
of the interagency statement on advertising practices of financial 
institutions, the Board asked the Federal Reserve Banks for their views 
on the matter. 
In the light of the comments received and the Board's 
belief that the statement might be appropriately expanded, the Board 
would like to propose adding to the December 1966 joint statement a 
principle along the following lines: 
"Every advertisement for funds should state the method 
that will be used in computing and paying interest thereon. 
A change in such method that will be less favorable to a 
depositor than the previous method should be reflected in a 
similar advertisement, and notice of such change should be 
mailed to each depositor at his last known address." 
Under principle (1) of the 1966 statement, an advertisement 
by a financial institution for funds on which interest will be compounded 
should state whether such earnings are compounded and, if so, the basis 
of compounding." The Board believes that, particularly with respect 
to savings accounts, the method of computing the balance upon which 
interest is paid (e.g., whether on actual balance from date of deposit 
to date of withdrawal, on average quarterly balance, or on the low 
balance during the quarter) may In some instances be more important 
than the method of compounding. Accordingly, the proposed requirement 
that every advertisement for funds state the method that will be used 
in computing and paying interest thereon is designed simply to assure 
that an investor has available all of the essential information necessary 
to ascertain the advantages of depositing funds in one institution as 
compared with another. 

4003 
The Honorable Kenneth A. Randall 
-2-
Customarily, a financial institution makes every effort to 
inform investors of changes in its method of computing and paying 
interest on deposits when such changes are favorable to the interests 
of investors. It seems only equitable to require adequate notice of 
changes that are detrimental to such interests. The infrequency of 
the latter type of changes leads the Board to believe that it would 
not be an unreasonable burden on financial institutions to require them 
to give notice of any such change by mail to each depositor at his last 
known address and by an advertisement of the type usually used by the 
institution as a means to attract funds. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson. 

4004 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 5 
10/18/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 18, 1967 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of October 13, 1967, the Acting Director of 
the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointments of Kevin J. McDermott and Walter Voigt as 
assistant examiners for the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York. Please advise the effective dates of the 
appointments. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL 
RESERVE 
BANK 
O F PHILADELPHIA 
I T E M NO 
6 
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA 1 0 1 0 1 
10/18/67 
October IT, 19^7 
acting under dXleg&Jred a 
Riila^ei^hia approves Xh 
tk,y*hiladMphia, Benn^l 
;/Corn^FV)f l^incasteXand 
•wnsiup, D^laVHre Countv, 
L i\ establ^she\within\5 
Dear Sirs: 
On behalf of the 
Reserve System, acting under 
Reserve Bank of 
The Fidelity Bank, 
on the northwest 
Wayne, Radnor 
vided the bra 
of this letter. 
ern^rs of the Federal 
.hority, the Federal 
,e establishment by 
;lvania, of a branch 
Banbury Avenues, 
nnsylvania, pro-
lie year from the date 
viev of the following opinions 
your bank presently is regarded as 
nt of your bank is regarded as adequate. 
is believed the convenience and needs of the 
community will be better served if the pro-
posed branch is established. 
Board of Directors 
The Fidelity Bank 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19109 
U. It is believed the establishment of the pro-
posed branch will not tend to create an un-
desirable competitive situation (either actual 
or potential).. 
5. It is believed there are good prospects for 
profitable operations of the proposed branch 
within a reasonable time and the bank's earn-
ings are adequate to sustain the operational 
losses of the proposed branch until it becomes 
profitable. 

RAL R E S E R V E 
B A N K O F 
P H I L A D E L P H I A 
No. 
4006 
T O 
Board of Directors 
10/17/67 
6. Your bank's investment in bank premises after 
the expenditure for the proposed branch vlll 
be reasonable. 
7. Counsel for this Reserve Bank consid 
establishment of the branch would be 
formity with the provisions of sectio 
of Regulation H and section 51 
vised Statute!. 
8. Establishment of the branch was approve} 
the Pennsylvania Department^of Banking ur 
date of October 13, 1< 
In connection with .the Jkbje< 
bank contemplates an expendixure\pf 
provements. Since your bank/*Isn 
ceeds the amount of your bank's^capiti 
sary to obtain appro vej^-fpr this dipenc 
Under thj 
Reserve Act (12 
delphia, on be 
serve System and 
Board, approves a n ^ 
Philadelphia Pennsy. 
the establishment of tfi 
granted ijrxiey of the fd 
proposed branch your 
>0,p00 on leasehold im-
in bank premises ex-
stock it will be neces' 
ture. 
of sectionA of the Federal 
e Federal Reserve Bank of Ihila-
Tkrvernors of the Federal Re-
ted authority from said 
0,000 by The Fidelity Bank, 
premises in connection with 
branch. This approval la 
ng factors: 
The 
itemization of The Fidelity Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, at present is 
^considered /adequate in relation to the 
character/and condition of its assets and to 
.ts dep£*sit liabilities and other corporate 
rfeapcuisibilities, including the volume of its 
risk assets and of its marginal and inferior 
quality assets, all considered in relation to 
the strength of the bank's management. 
2. Upon completion of the proposed investment, 
the bank's aggregate investment (direct and 
indirect) in bank premises plus the indebtedness 
of any wholly-owned bank premises subsidiary 
will not exceed 1+0 per cent of the bank's total 
capital funds (including capital notes and deben-
tures) plus valuation reserves. 
Very truly yours, 
f • 1. 
Joseph R»i Campbell 
Vice President 

FEDERAL RESERVE 
BANK 
OF PHILADELPHIA 
I T E M NO-
PHILADELPHIA. PENNSYLVANIA 1 9 1 0 1 
10/18/67 
October IT, 19&7 
Board of Directors 
The First Pennsylvania Banking 
and Trust Company 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101 
Dear Sirs: 
On behalf of the flbard^pf Goy^rnArs of the Federal 
Reserve System, acting under aeleg^l^a au*ftiority, the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Rillaftelphla approves trfe establishment by 
The First Pennflylvaj*{a&toking artd Tr^st Company, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, of 
the narth&ast corner of Cheltenham 
Avenue and Oak/£ane/Roaay OT^ltenham\To\mphip, Montgomery County, 
Pennsylvania, I bro-fided the^bretach is ^^fcublished within one year 
from the date 
is ac£\on\s tak6n 
view of the following opinions 
b. 
al of yfrctf bank presently is regarded as 
nt of your bank is regarded as adequate 
is believed the convenience and needs of the 
"community will be better served if the pro-
posed branch is established. 
It is believed the establishment of the pro-
posed branch will not tend to create an un-
desirable competitive situation (either actual 
or potential). 
5. It is believed there are good prospects for 
profitable operations of the proposed branch 
within a reasonable time and the bank's earn-
ings are adequate to sustain the operational 
losses of the proposed branch until it becomes 
profitable. 

FEDERAL R E S E R V E 
B A N K O F F H I L A D E L P H I A 
.-J O N ^ J 
NO. 2 
To 
o f Directors 
1 0 / 1 7 / 6 7 
6. Tour bank's investment in bank premise^ after 
the expenditure for the proposed brandhWll 
be reasonable. 
7 . 
Counsel for this Reserve Bank c 
establishment of the branch 
formity with the provisions of s 
of Regulation H and section 5155 of the 
vised Statutes. 
8. Establishment of the 
the Pennsylvania 
date of October 1 
approved by 
nking under 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
I T E M 
N O > 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
10/18/67 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 
(312) HA 7-2320 
October 17, 
Mr. John C. Fleed, President 
Chesterton State Bank 
Chesterton, Indiana 46304 
Dear Nr. Readt 
Reference is made to your letter dated September 26, 
1967, vhereln you Indloate that remodeling contract and archi-
tectural feet aggregating $199,706 hare been incurred and 
contingent costs of $25,000 are possible in connection with 
improvements to the main office. Baaed on these figures, the 
total investment in promises upon completion of the project 
will be $375,000 or $85,000 nore than the outstanding capital 
stock of the bank. 
In vlev of the satisfactory condition and adequate 
capital position shovn by the latest report of examination at 
the bank, ve wish to advise that ve will interpose no obJeeUsm 
to the additional investment in premises as indicated above. 
Very truly yours, 
Jams R. ttorrisem 
Chief Xxaminer 
/ 
co • Board of Ooveraore / 
• txaainer s iiam 
C O P Y 

4010 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 20551 
Item No. 9 
10/18/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
October 18, 1967 
Mr. Joseph B. Hall, 
Federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Hall: 
Acting under delegated authority, the Director of the Division 
of Personnel Administration has approved the request contained in your 
letter of October 11, 1967, for the appointment of Mr. John L. Cebuly 
as Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agent. 
This approval is given with the understanding that Mr. Cebuly 
will be solely responsible to the Federal Reserve Agent and the Board 
of Governors for the proper performance of his duties, except that, 
during the absence or disability of the Federal Reserve Agent or a 
vacancy in that office, his responsibilities will be to the Assistant 
Federal Reserve Agent and the Board of Governors. 
When not engaged in the performance of his duties as Alternate 
Assistant Federal Reserve Agent, Mr. Cebuly may, with the approval of 
the Federal Reserve Agent and the President, perform such work for the 
Bank as will not be inconsistent with his duties as Alternate Assistant 
Federal Reserve Agent. 
It will be appreciated if Mr. Cebuly is fully informed of the 
importance of his responsibilities as a member of the staff of the 
Federal Reserve Agent and the need for maintenance of independence from 
the operations of the Bank in the discharge of these responsibilities. 
Please have Mr. Cebuly execute the usual Oath of Office which 
should be forwarded to the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F 
R I C H M O N D 
COPY 
RICHMOND, V I R G I N I A 
23213 
Item No. 10 
10/18/67 
fteteber II, 1M7. 
»oard of N m t i r i , 
Bite* Twit Coepsny of tterylaaA* 
leitl*ere, Haryland 2U0J. 
A t fidiral U n m Baak of Urh—nrt, cm behelf 
of eat tinder authority delegated by the loard of Oonraori 
of the VodersI lesrrve SyiUi, hes Approved ths application 
of Baton Trust Coa^at of Bsrylaad, laltls»rs, Maryland, to 
eatabUah a branch on Cfollferd Avenue between fir«tog« and 
lawlagtoe Streete, UUlaere, ttsvyiand* In reaching 
this deelolou, consideration has boon given to tha bank's 
ccpltellsetlen and nwmajjsMOut, tha coarreolencs and needs of 
tha eesiBmlty, tha coupstltlve situation la the araa and tha 
futura prospects of tha branch. 
tha data af thla latter, flaaaa «4flii ua vhen a dafUlta 
4ata for opening 
baaa dotemtnod and tha enact tltla 
tinder ihich tha branch will operate. 
fours very truly, 
/td^uJ JjjJ&b rt 
U v . A, Wayne, j 
President. 
Authority granted hereby expires ens year fros 

COPY 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND 
V/VAL A 
if' 
RICHMOND. V I R G I N I A 
2 3 2 1 3 
Item No. 11 
10/18/67 
Oetobar U , IM7. 
Mr. VliilanB. I h w n r , Jr., fruUiat, 
Kaoavha Banking *nd Truat Coapaay, 
Charlaaton, UMC flrglnla 13321. 
Dur Bill i 
!h« M i r i l l t i i m i n k of Hah—md, M bahalf of 
<n4 nadir authority d«l«|it«i by tha Board of Oovornora of tho 
M o r a l Uitrvt Ijntoi, haa ayymad your raquaft for on 
ax tana Ion of tha parled In whlek your branch «t feho aouthwaat 
cornor of Virginia Straat, laat, aai I M M T I Straat m a t bo 
•atab11ahod. Tha axtanaloo la for ta additional six nontha 
trm tho proaant aspiration data of Bwwfcar 11, 1967, or 
until Nay 11, IMS. 
X know tho da lays yon k m oneountorad ara exasperating 
and hopo tho aajor dIfflealtlaa ara bohlad you. Vlaaaa advlaa 
aa whan a daflnlta data far oponlng tho offlaa, *hich I hopo 
la aoon, haa boon dotoralnod. 
Boat rogarda, 
Slacaraly, 
John I. lotkor, 
Vlca Freaidant. 
CDPJr: Jmf 
c.c. Board of Covarnora 
Conmlealoner of Banking 
L e g a l 
D e p a r t m e n t 
