MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 9, 1970 

<••544 
Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Wednesday, September 9, 
1970. The meeting was held in the Board Room at 11:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Girard Trust Bank. On September 4, 1970, City Bank of Phila-
delphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a nonmember insured bank, had been 
closed by the Pennsylvania Department of Banking. According to a 
press account, the Secretary of Banking had stated that the action was 
taken "because of unsafe and unsound loan practices which resulted in 
impairment of deposits." The Secretary of Banking had informed the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation on September 9 that a plan had 
been worked out whereby Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, would assume 
part of the deposits of City Bank. In addition, Girard Trust would 
buy the bank building of City Bank for book value. In return, the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation would make a payment to Girard 
Trust Bank of approximately $8 million. The plan would result in the 
payment by Girard Trust of a premium of $400,000 to assume the deposits 
of City Bank, that figure representing the amount of deposits of City 
Bank that would not be covered by deposit insurance. 

* >rr t fcr 
9/9/70 
-2-
Girard Trust had requested the Board's approval of the proposed 
transaction involving assumption of the deposits of City Bank, although 
the application papers had not as yet actually been received. Girard 
Trust also requested permission to establish a branch at the location 
of City Bank's office, along with approval of an additional investment 
in bank premises of $250,000. 
In the view of the staff, as stated in a memorandum dated 
September 9, 1970, competitive factors were not an issue in the circum-
stances. Both the FDIC and the State were reportedly anxious to open 
the closed bank as an office of Girard Trust Bank tomorrow morning. 
Accordingly, the staff recommended that approval be granted on an 
emergency basis without requesting the usual reports on competitive 
factors. It was also recommended that the approval become effective 
immediately. 
Following comments on the matter by Mr. Solomon, there was 
discussion of provisions of the law pertinent to a situation of this 
kind. Attention then was directed to the lack of a quorum, and 
Mr. Solomon responded to questions by the Chairman on the consequences 
if the Board did not take action today. At the conclusion of this 
discussion, the Board members present indicated that they were willing 
to waive the technicalities associated with the lack of a quorum in 
the light of the circumstances involved, but it was agreed that the 

zsm 
9/9/70 
-3-
staff would endeavor to reach other members of the Board by telephone 
and obtain their concurrence in the proposed approval. It was under-
stood that the order to be issued would recite simply that it had been 
issued "by order of the Board of Governors." It was further under-
stood that the order would not be issued until after the application 
had actually been received and that if the application, when received, 
presented any questions of an unforeseen nature the matter would be 
considered further by the Board. 
Accordingly, subject to the foregoing understandings, the 
application of Girard Trust Bank was approved, along with the related 
applications concerning the establishment of a branch and an invest-
ment in bank premises. 
(Note: Copies of the order subsequently issued pursuant to 
this action and of the. letter sent to Girard Trust Bank are attached 
as Items 1 and 2, respectively.) 
It was suggested that consideration be given to the adoption 
of a rule delegating to available members of the Board authority to 
take action in a situation of this kind in the future, and the staff 
was requested to study that possibility. 
Corporate savings accounts. Governor Maisel requested that a 
legal memorandum be prepared for the Board's information on the subject 
of the eligibility of corporations to maintain savings accounts. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
/ J 
Secretary 

2547 
Item No. 1 
9/9/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
GIRARD TRUST BANK 
for approval of assumption of liabilities of 
Lity Bank of Philadelphia 
ORDER APPROVING ASSUMPTION OF BANK LIABILITIES 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1028(c)), an application by Girard 
Tit 
lust Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ("Girard Trust"), a member 
State bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior 
aPproval of that bank's acquisition of assets and assumption of 
i 
ePosit liabilities of City Bank of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania ("City Bank"), which is under the receivership of the 
S Q 
Qcretary of Banking of the State of Pennsylvania. As an incident to 
e transaction, the sole office of City Bank would become an office 
o f Girard Trust. 

21548 
- 2 -
Published notice of the proposed acquisition of assets 
and assumption of liabilities and requests for reports on the 
competitive factors involved therein have been dispensed with as 
authorized by the Bank Merger Act. 
Girard Trust ($1.7 billion deposits) and City Bank ($9.7 
l^Uion deposits) are both located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Clty Bank's only banking office was closed for insolvency by Pennsylvani 
°tate banking authorities and, as noted above, is under receivership 
o f the Secretary of Banking of the State of Pennsylvania. On the 
basis of information before it, including communications with the 
^ecretary of Banking and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
the 
i e Board finds that an emergency situation exists, which the present 
application is intended to remedy, in order to safeguard depositors 
° f city Bank. 
The Board has considered all relevant material contained 
in the record in the light of the factors set forth in the Act, and 
deludes that such anticompetitive effects as may be attributable 
0 consummation of the transaction would be clearly outweighed in the 
P U b U c interect by the considerations supporting and requiring the 
'^mentioned finding. Any disposition of the application other 
than j t-
G aPProval on a basis that x;ill not delay its consummation 
^ inconsistent with the best interests of depositors of 
City Bank. 

XT IS HEREBY ORDERED, on the basic of the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
and that the proposal shall be consummated immediately, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Re serve Bank of Philadelphia pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 11, 1970. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. ICenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

<£550 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 2 
9/9/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CO^KESPONOENCE 
TD THE BOARD 
September 11, 1970 
Board of Directors 
Girard Trust Bank 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
has approved the application, under the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 
1828 (c)), for the Board's prior consent to the acquisition of 
assets of City Bank of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
and assumption of its liabilities by Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania. As an incident to the transaction approved, the 
Board also approved the establishment of a branch by Girard Trust 
Bank, at the intersection of Nineteenth Street and Spring Garden 
Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, provided the branch is established 
within 30 days from the date of this letter. In connection with 
the establishment of this branch, the Board has approved, under the 
Provisions of section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act, an investment 
in bank premises by Girard Trust Bank of $250,000. 
Enclosed is a copy of the Board's Order and press release 
° n this action. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
^closures 
