FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
June 7, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 
i l 

1411 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, June 7, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
1/ 
Mr. Daane 
1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Br imme r 
Mr. Sherrill 
1J 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
2/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
2/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Economic review. 
Staff presented a review of domestic and 
international developments of the kind customarily given in preparation 
for meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee. 
Copies of the indi-
vidual papers presented have been placed in the Board's files. With 
respect to the international briefing, it was understood that the staff 
would respond to Board members' requests for certain additional analysis 
along lines indicated. 
1/ 
y 
Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1412 
6/7/71 
' 
-3-
Members of the staff who had been present for the purpose of the 
economic review then withdrew from the meeting. Messrs. O'Connell and 
Noble of the Legal Division and Messrs. Leavitt, Dahl, Egertson, and 
Smith of the Division of Supervision and Regulation entered the room, 
along with appropriate supporting staff, for consideration of the agenda 
items referred to hereinafter. 
Consent calendar. 
The Board approved unanimously an application 
by Security Financial Services, Inc., Sheboygan, Wisconsin, to acquire 
shares of Farmers-Merchants National Bank in Princeton, Princeton, Wis-
consin, and authorized issuance of an order in the form attached as 
Item No. I. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Missouri Banc-
shares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of Bank of Ferguson, 
Ferguson, Missouri, and authorized issuance of an order in the form 
attached as Item No. 2. 
Report on competitive factors. With Governors Mitchell and Daane 
dissenting, the Board approved for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency a report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Newport National Bank, Newport Beach, California, into Southern 
California First National Bank, San Diego, California, in which the 
conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Southern California 
First National Bank, San Diego, with Newport National Bank, Newport 
Beach, would eliminate existing as well as potential for greater 
competition between them. 
Overall, the effect of the proposal on 
competition would be adverse. 

1413 
6/7/71 
' 
-3-
Goverriors Mitchell and Daane felt that the competitive effect 
would be only slightly adverse. 
Foreign bank holding companies. 
There came before the Board 
for further consideration proposed regulations, to be published for 
comment, relating to nonbanking activities of foreign-based bank hold-
ing companies and foreign activities of domestic bank holding companies. 
Reference materials included memoranda from the Legal Division dated 
May 14 and June 3, 1971, the latter having been prepared in response to 
a question raised previously by Governor Brimmer relating to the draft 
regulations that would implement section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act,as amended. However, the discussion at today's meeting was 
restricted to the proposed regulations that would implement section 4(c)(9), 
relating to nonbanking interests of foreign bank holding companies. 
Governor Mitchell, who had not been present when the proposed 
regulations were discussed earlier, noted that in the case of U.S. banks 
wanting to do business abroad the Board had generally followed the theory 
that they should be permitted to conduct business in foreign countries 
according to the rules applicable to foreign banks with which they would 
compete. 
It seemed to him that the same principle should apply in reverse: 
foreign bank holding companies desiring to do business in the U.S. should 
abide generally by the rules applicable to domestic bank holding companies. 
The proposed regulations were constructed along more permissive lines. 
(On the other hand, he did not see justification for a provision contained 

1411 
6/7/71 
-4-
in the proposed regulations under which a foreign-based bank holding 
company would not be permitted to engage in direct activities of any 
kind in the same metropolitan area in the U.S. in which an affiliated 
bank was located.) 
Several other members of the Board expressed themselves as 
sympathetic to Governor Mitchell's basic line of reasoning. 
Possible 
modifications included a suggestion that existing situations be exempted 
under "grandfather" provisions. 
One Board member suggested, in addition, 
that new proposals might be considered by the Board on an ad hoc basis 
according to their individual merits, but others believed that some 
general guidelines should be provided in the Board's regulations. 
They 
noted that, for purposes of those regulations, staff had provided a 
standard geared to foreign bank holding companies more than 50 per cent 
of whose consolidated assets and revenues were located and derived out-
side the United States, and that such companies would, with certain 
exceptions, be permitted to acquire or retain ownership of any foreign-
based company more than 50 per cent of whose consolidated assets and 
revenues were located and derived outside the United States. 
Some adjust-
ment of the percentage level for regulatory purposes was suggested, such 
as raising the figure to 90 per cent. 
Chairman Burns indicated that, although he found himself attracted 
instinctively to the principle set forth by Governor Mitchell, which 
seemed to embody a logical rationale, he would want to study further the 

1415 
6/7/71 
' 
-3-
economic implications of following such an approach, particularly in 
terms of effect on the U.S. balance of payments. 
If such an analysis 
were available, he would like to assign appropriate weight to it in 
reviewing the regulatory problem. 
Accordingly, it was understood that the staff would provide 
such an analysis, along with material relating to certain other aspects 
of the staff proposals in response to questions raised by Board members. 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill withdrew from the meet-
ing at this point. 
Regulation T matter. 
In response to a question raised by Governor 
Robertson, staff had prepared a memorandum dated June 4, 1971, to supple-
ment its memorandum of May 20 regarding a request for an interpretation 
that the restrictions of Regulation T relating to arranging of credit by 
brokers and dealers would not apply to the sale of an investment contract 
in cattle where the entire credit is extended in connection with financing 
the purchase of cattle on an instalment basis. 
Staff reaffirmed its 
recommendation for a favorable interpretation after examination of a 
Supreme Court decision rendered in 1946 in a case brought by the Securities 
and Exchange Commission under the Securities Act of 1933. 
A majority of the Board agreed with the staff that a distinction 
could properly be made, within the narrow limits of the particular arrange-
ment that had been presented to the Board for consideration. 
Governor Robertson noted that he had not focused on the Supreme 
Court decision earlier when the Board issued an interpretation that the 

7 
6/7/71 
' 
-3-
provisions of Regulation T would not apply to the offering through 
broker/dealers of contracts for the sale of citrus groves on an instal-
ment plan. After studying the Court decision, he felt that its terms 
precluded the issuance of the requested Regulation T interpretation. 
Accordingly, with Governor Robertson dissenting, approval was 
given to a letter to the law firm of Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering in the 
form attached as Item No. 3. 
Proposed amendments to margin regulations. With further refer-
ince to proposed amendments to the Board's margin regulations, issued 
for comment April 16, 1971, that would restrict extensions of credit, 
exempt from margin requirements, to finance contributions of capital to 
broker/dealer firms, staff reported in a memorandum dated June 4, 1971, 
that progress had been made at meetings with staff of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange toward eliminating 
objections by the industry to the proposed amendments. 
Staff now recom-
mended, in the circumstances, that these discussions be continued, with 
a view to bringing revised amendments before the Board for consideration 
by early July, at which time staff would indicate whether it appeared 
that the contemplated effective date (July 16, 1971) should be changed. 
There was no ob jection to the procedure suggested by the staff. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

141? 
Item No. 1 
6/7/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D* C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
SECURITY FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC., 
1 
Sheboygan, Wisconsin, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 30 per cent 
1 
or more of the voting shares of Farmers- 
' 
Merchants National Bank in Princeton, 
' 
Princeton, Wisconsin. 
* 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
8ection 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(l o 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Security Financial Services, 
Inc-» Sheboygan, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
C e n t or more of the voting shares of Farmers-Merchants National Bank 
itl Princeton, Princeton, Wisconsin ("Bank"); 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 

1418 
-2— 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller 
offered no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 22, 1971 (36 Federal Register 7623), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
The time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such 
consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the thirteenth largest banking organization in 
Wisconsin, controls two banks with aggregate deposits of $73 million, 
^presenting 0.8 per cent of the State's total deposits. (All banking 
data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect bank holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through April 30, 1971.) 
UPon acquisition of Bank ($11 million in deposits), Applicant would 
^crease its share of State-wide deposits to 0.9 per cent and would be-
C° m e the eleventh largest banking organization in the State. 

1419 
-3-
Bank, the only bank located in Princeton (est. population 
1,500), serves the west-central part of Green Lake County. Applicant's 
two banking subsidiaries are approximately 80 miles east of Bank in 
Sheboygan. 
Bank is the largest of eight banks competing in the Princeton 
a*ea, holding 19.6 per cent of area deposits. The second and third 
largest banks in the area hold 17.6 per cent and 16.4 per cent of area 
deposits, respectively. All of the banks in the area primarily serve 
the towns in which they are located, and Bank is not regarded as domi-
nating the area. Based upon the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not eliminate 
significant existing or potential competition, nor would it have an 
adverse competitive effect on other area banks. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects, as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiaries, and 
Bank are regarded as consistent with approval of the application. Bank's 
affiliation with Applicant would make available trust, travel, and com-
puter services to Bank's customers for the first time and existing 
8e*vices would be improved and broadened. Affiliation would also give 
Bank the expertise and capability to service certain loan requests that it 
has avoided in the past because of a lack of experience in handling the 
larger commercial and agricultural borrowers in the area. Considerations 
relating 
to the convenience and needs of the communities served by bank 
lend some support for approval of the application. It is the Board's 
^udgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the 
Public interest, and that the application should be approved. 

1420 
-3-
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, pro-
vided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 
7, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell. Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1421 
Item No. 2 
6/7/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
MISSOURI BANCSHARES, INC., 
' 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 90.65 per 
' 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
1 
Bank of Ferguson, Ferguson, Missouri. 
' 
^ 
m mm 
m m> • 
a 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1242(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Missouri Bancshares, Inc., 
Kansas City, Missouri ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 90.65 
Per cent or more of the voting shares of Bank of Ferguson, Ferguson, 
Missouri ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
w*itten notice of receipt of the application to the Missouri 

1422 
-2-
Commissioner of Finance and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner indicated that he had no objection to approval of 
the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on April 17, 1971 (36 Federal Register 7328), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, the fifth largest registered bank holding company 
a n d banking organization in Missouri, has 7 subsidiary banks with 
$395 million in deposits, representing approximately 3,8 per cent 
°f the total commercial bank deposits in the State. (All banking 
data are as of June 30, 1970, and reflect holding company formations 
and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) Consummation 
o f the proposal herein would increase Applicant's share of total 

3-
1423 
deposits in the State to 4 per cent, and Applicant would become 
the State's fourth largest registered bank holding company and 
banking organization. 
Bank ($20.9 million deposits) the only bank in Ferguson, 
is the seventh largest of the 12 banks in its service area, which 
is approximated by the northeast portion of St. Louis County, and 
holds 6.7 per cent of that area's deposits. Bank faces strong 
competition from the other area banks, three of which are affiliated 
with St. Louis--based holding companies. Applicant has two 
subsidiaries located 18 and 30 miles from Bank, but the amount of 
competition between these subsidiaries and Bank appears to be 
minimal. None of Applicant's other subsidiary banks competes with 
Bank to any significant extent. Additionally, the development of 
such competition in the future is considered unlikely because of 
the distances separating Applicant's subsidiaries and Bank, the 
Presence of numerous banking alternatives, and Missouri's 
restrictive branching law. Consummation of the proposal may 
enhance competition by making Bank a more effective competitor in 
its service area. It does not appear that existing competition 
Would be eliminated, or significant potential competition foreclosed, 
by 
consummation of Applicants proposal, or that there would be 
undue adverse effects on any bank in the area involved. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board con-
cludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not 

-4- 
1 4 2 4 
adversely affect competition in any relevant area. Considerations 
relating to the financial and managerial resources as they relate 
to Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are regarded as consistent 
with approval of the application. Unlike the other area banks, 
Bank has been operated conservatively, and does not appear to have 
made a broad effort to meet the banking needs of area residents. 
Applicant proposes to change this conservative policy and to establish 
new services, including trust services, payroll accounting, and an 
expanding consumer loan program, which should enable Bank to better 
serve the expanding needs of the area. These considerations relating 
to convenience and needs lend weight in support of approval of the 
application. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
would be in the public interest, and that the application should be 
approved * 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth above, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 7, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Buroe and Governors 
Robertson* Mitchell, Daane, Ilaisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A• Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
142 
Item No. 3 
6/7/71 
C 
«J 
A D D R E S S OrriCIAL C O R R E S P C I N O C N C E 
TO T H E B O A R D 
June 8, 1971 
Manuel F. Cohen, Esq. , 
Wilrner, Cutler & Pickering, 
Farragut Building, 
900 17th Street, N. W. , 
Washington, D. C. 
20006 
Dear Mr. Cohen: 
In your letter of April 30, 1971, you ask for the concurrence 
of the Board of Governors in your opinion that sales by brokers and 
dealers of Aberdeen Angus breeding cattle on the financing plan 
developed by Diplomat Angus Farms (Company) does not violate Regulation 
T under the facts recited in your letter and summarized below. 
Sales of cattle herds to individual investors may be made 
by independent sales representatives who are members of the NASD and 
who, because the nature of the offering is an investment contract 
and hence a security, are subject to the Board's Regulation T, "Credit 
by Brokers and Dealers". 
Section 220.7(a) of the regulation provides 
In relevant portion, that 
( a ) Arranging for loans by others. - A creditor may arrange 
for the extension or maintenance of credit to or for any 
customer of such creditor by any person upon the same terms 
and conditions as those upon which the creditor, under the 
provisions of this part, may himself extend or maintain 
such credit to such customer, but only upon such terms and 
conditions, . . . 
Company is a New York corporation with principal offices in 
New York, New York. 
It buys, sells and manages breeding cattle in its 
own herds and in herds owned by others for whom it performs management 
services. 

Manuel F. Cohen, Esq. 
- 2 
-
1126 
Company plans to offer to public investors herds of cattle 
consisting of not less than five cows and one sixth interest in a bull. 
The minimum purchase price per herd is $20,000. 
The investor has the 
option to pay the full price in cash, or 10 per cent down and the 
balance in sixty monthly payments of varying amounts with the first 
monthly payment being due three months after purchase. 
After sale to the investor, his animals are marked to 
indicate ownership in him. With respect to the unpaid balance, the 
Company retains a security interest in the herd in the nature of a 
chattel mortgage. 
Upon sale of the herd, the Company also offers the investor 
an opportunity to enter into a Maintenance Agreement, under which the 
Company will provide management services for the care and maintenance 
of the herd. 
The annual maintenance fee is payable by the investor in 
advance, and the Company does not provide any financing in connection 
therewith. 
The investor also retains all incidents of ownership 
during the maintenance contract; he can cancel it at any time upon 
30 days notice, and he has an absolute right to sell all or part of 
his herd at any tame using the services of any livestock broker or 
sales manager of his own choice. 
In view of the foregoing facts which make it clear that 
credit is extended by the Company solely in connection with the sale 
of cattle, the Board concurs in your opinion that brokers and dealers 
would not be violating § 220.7(a) of Regulation T if they participated 
in arranging for such credit. 
It should be understood, however, that the Board's 
conclusion is limited to the specific facts presented in your letter 
and that any deviation from such facts may compel a different con-
clusion. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
