PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
July 9. 
1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Burns 
Robertson 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Maisel 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 
y 
/ » f 
1 / 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 
L 

1720 
Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Friday, July 9, 1971. 
The meeting was held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Ma isel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 1J 
Mrs. Hobbs and Miss Key of the Office of 
the Secretary 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Rippey reported on pertinent legislative matters presently 
being considered by the Congress, and also noted receipt of a letter 
from Congressman Patman requesting information relative to the Thrift 
Bla^.,, 
Staff members who had attended for the purpose of the weekly 
review withdrew at this point, and the following actions were taken 
subject to ratification at the next meeting at which a quorum was present: 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

±730 
7/9/71 
-2-
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, and 
Dallas on July 8, 1971, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter (copy attached as 
Item No. 1) to Peoples Trust of New Jersey, Hackensack, New Jersey, 
approving the issuance of capital notes. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter (copy attached as 
Item No. 2) to Manufacturers Hanover International Finance Corporation, 
New York, New York, concerning acquisition of shares of MHT Servicos e 
Administracao Ltda., Sao Paulo, Brazil. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff atten-
dance . 
It was reported that the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of St. Louis had voted yesterday to establish a discount rate of 5 per 
cent, subject to the approval of the Board of Governors, and that a 
letter of explanation would follow. Members of the Board agreed that 
it would be appropriate to consider the matter at the next meeting when 
a quorum was available. 
It was noted, also, that although the directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland had reestablished the existing rate, they 

1731 
'i* • i; 
( ;' 
'A* 
i i 
7/9/71 
-3-
had submitted certain comments. Those comments were read to the members 
of the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Deputy Secretary/ /An 
h 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
i
w Aw 
Item No. 1 
7/9/71 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i n i A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
July 9, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Peoples Trust of New Jersey 
Ilackensack, New Jersey 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
vQ£\$-!L2 mil lion. iin.:W^Qrd'ina.te<i. note's, by £eqples Trust of 
New Jersey, Hackensack, New Jersey, as proposed in 
President Jesser's letter of June 11, 1971, with enclosures 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

1733 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
H O A R D 
7/9/71 
July 12, 1971 
Manufacturers Hanover International 
Finance Corporation 
350 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of May 2.6, 1971, the Board 
r 
o 
/ l l M U T U P 1 ^ 
r-.1t 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("MHIFC") to pur-
chase and hold all of the shares of stock of MHT Servicos e 
Administracao Ltda. ("Limitada"), a limited liability company to 
be organized under the laws of the Federal Republic of Brazil, at 
a cost of approximately $100,000, provided the shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The BoardT s consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Limitada by MHIFC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That MHIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock of Limitada if Limitada at any times 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if Limitada establishes any branch 
or agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Brazil or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to MHIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, MHIFC 
will'furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of Limitada as it may require from time to 
time; and 

1734 
Manufacturers Hanover International 
Finance Corporation 
"2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Limitada 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if Limitada were a corporation organized 
under Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by Limitada in Brazil 
in the- currency of that country. 
The Board also grants consent for MHIFC to continue to 
hold the stock of Limitada after Limitada acquires (a) 2 5 percent 
of the stock of Banco de Investimentos Andrade Arnaud, S.A. ("Banco"), 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, at a cost of approximately $1,600,000, and 
(b) 25 per cent of the stock of Financiera Andrade Arnaud, S.A. 
("Financiera") , Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, at a cost of approximately 
$200,000, provided that the shares are acquired within two years 
from'the'date of this letter. In this connection, the purchase 
and holding of the shares of Banco in excess of 10 per cent of your 
Corporation's capital and surplus is also approved. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines now in effect as they apply to Manufacturers Hanover 
Trust Company and its subsidiaries, and that due consideration 
will be given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
