MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 18, 1972 

2880 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, October 18, 1972. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 1/ 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Slocum, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Pierce, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Vining, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mr. Hampton, Associate Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Mr. Watt, Assistant Director, Division of Data 
Processing 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
-i/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

10/18/72 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting approval, on September 14, 1972, of the application of 
First Alabama Bancshares, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire shares 
of Dothan Bank and Trust Company, Dothan, Alabama. A copy of the 
order is attached under Item No. 1, along with a copy of the dissenting 
statement by Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting denial, 
on September 26, 1972, of the applications of Valley Agency Company, 
Valley, Nebraska, to form a bank holding company through acquiring 
shares of Bank of Valley, and to continue to engage in insurance agency 
activities. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Fidelity 
American Bankshares, Inc., Lynchburg, Virginia, to acquire shares of 
(1) Citizens National Bank of Herndon, Herndon, Virginia; (2) Fairfield 
National Bank of Highland Springs, Highland Springs, Virginia; and (3) 
Peoples Corporation, Virginia Beach, Virginia, a one-bank holding 
company that owns shares of People's Bank of Virginia Beach. The 
Board also authorized issuance of orders reflecting these decisions. 
Copies of the orders are attached under Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Finan-
cial Corporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of Lake Region 
Bank of Commerce, Winter Haven, Florida, and authorized issuance of 

2882 
10/18/72 
-3-
an order reflecting this decision. A copy of the order is attached 
as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Ridge Bancor-
poration of Wisconsin, Greendale, Wisconsin, to become a bank holding 
company through acquiring shares of Northridge Bank, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, and Southridge Bank of Greendale, a proposed new bank. In 
related actions, the Board unanimously approved the applications of 
Southridge Bank (1) to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities 
of 
Southridge National Bank of Greendale, and (2) for membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. The issuance of orders reflecting approval 
of the bank holding company and merger transactions was authorized. 
Copies of the orders are attached as Items 5 and b. A letter was 
sent to Southridge Bank approving its membership application in the 
form attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First City 
Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of 
the successor by merger to First National Bank in Orange, Orange, Texas, 
and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy 
°f the order is attached as Item No. 8. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
United Virginia Bankshares. The Board unanimously approved 
the application of United Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Richmond, 
Virginia, to acquire certain of the assets and liabilities of Crompton-

2883 
10/18/72 
-4-
Richmond Co., Inc., Factors, New York, New York. After a discussion 
during which it was agreed to delete a paragraph from a draft that 
had been prepared, the Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
approval of the United Virginia Bankshares application in the form 
attached as Item No. 9. 
Industrial National Bank. The Board approved, Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer dissenting, the application of Industrial National 
Bank of Rhode Island, Providence, Rhode Island, to establish a "shell" 
branch in George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands. A copy of the 
letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 10. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Data processing operational review. Pursuant to the under-
standing reached at the meeting on August 8, 1972, five firms had been 
requested to submit proposals for an operational review of the Board's 
data processing functions. In a memorandum of October 10, 1972, 
Mr. Holland indicated that only two firms had responded, and he 
summarized the conclusions of a staff team set up to evaluate the propo-
sals. On balance, the staff team had felt that there was no great 
difference in merit between the proposals. However, for reasons 
bearing upon differences in emphasis, among other considerations, 
Mr. Holland recommended that the Board award the contract to McKinsey 
& Company, Inc., New York, New York. With certain modifications that 

ooo " 
<ccyti 4 
10/18/72 
-5-
he suggested be made in that company's proposal, the cost was expected 
to be in the vicinity of $90,000. 
After discussion the Board approved awarding the contract to 
McKinsey & Company. Governor Brimmer dissented because, for certain 
Public relations aspects, he thought it preferable to award the con-
tract to the other bidder (Touche Ross & Co.). Governor Sheehan 
abstained from the action. A copy of the letter sent to McKinsey & 
Company is attached as Item No. 11. 
Uses of data processing services. At the meeting on August 8, 
1972 . when the Board authorized the solicitation of bids for an 
operational review of its data processing functions, it also requested 
the staff to develop plans for a review of uses of those services. 
a memorandum of September 12, 1972, Mr. Pierce presented a brief 
analysis of the types of data processing used by the Division of 
Research and Statistics. Much of the work was unique to the Federal 
Reserve, and it was doubtful whether there were any outside experts 
who could make a meaningful contribution without a thorough, time-
c°nsuming indoctrination on the problems involved. The staff believed 
that that would be counter-productive. 
In a memorandum of September 25, 
Mr« Holland recommended that further efforts to develop a proposal for 
a uses review be dropped for the time being, with the possibility of 
^consideration later if the results of the operational review so 
Indicated. 

2885 
10/18/72 
-6-
After discussion it was understood that the question of a 
uses review would be deferred, with the expectation that it would 
be re-examined when the results of the operational review became 
available. 
Sharing of computer-related resources. In memoranda of 
September 11 and October 16, 1972, the Division of Data Processing 
Proposed a one-year experiment in data processing resource sharing 
between the Board and six Reserve Banks that had volunterred to parti-
cipate. The Board's portion of the cost was estimated at $114,000, 
°f which approximately $30,000 was requested for use in the fourth 
quarter of 1972. The principal objectives of the experiment were the 
following: (1) in the statistical data area the emphasis should be 
toward the development of specific procedures and systems that would 
Permit the Board to implement a System-wide network leading to more 
timely, accurate, and centralized data collection efforts; (2) in the 
data base area there should be efforts to minimize or eliminate dupli-
cation of these files as well as the considerable development work 
that goes into providing them; and (3) in the general economic research 
area efforts should be directed toward the accumulation and evaluation 
°f Reserve Bank research needs and plans in order to determine whether 
a centralized facility for this purpose is justified. 
Discussion included an inquiry whether sharing of computer 
resources might result in an improvement in the quality of research. 

2888 
10/18/72 
-7-
Responses indicated that a better product from the Reserve Banks 
wight result from access to more complex programming, more accurate 
data, and quicker processing. Comments on costs indicated that although 
elimination of duplication at the Reserve Banks would effect a saving, 
if System-wide computer resource sharing should eventually be adopted, 
it would be likely that the Board's data processing staff would have 
to be expanded. There was also a possibility that in the long run such 
a substantially greater burden would be placed on the Board's equipment 
that a larger installation would be necessary. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that before the experiment 
was approved a number of problems should be faced. One was the problem 
°f priorities. It was evident that the Reserve Banks were apprehensive 
°f losing priorities, yet it was also true that in most areas the Board 
had major responsibility and should have first call on its computer 
^sources. After citing several instances to illustrate his point, 
Governor Mitchell recommended that a study be made of the extent and 
Purposes of computer use at the Reserve Banks, and that further explo-
ration be directed toward a goal of having the statistical function 
and the data base function centralized and directed in the Board's 
facility. He would not address the problem of general economic 
research for the time being. He advocated that any experiment include 
of the Reserve Banks. 

2887 
10/18/72 
-8-
After further discussion there was agreement that the question 
of computer resource sharing would be studied further by a group of 
Board members and staff to be selected by the Executive Director. 
Mr. Burke, Director, Division of Personnel Administration, 
and Messrs. Kreimann, Deputy Director, and Anderson, Assistant Direc-
tor, Division of Administrative Services, then entered the room. 
Board building renovation plans. Pursuant to the Board's 
Su8gestions at the meeting on July 25, 1972, proposals had been 
solicited from a number of architectural firms for the planning and 
execution of extensive rehabilitation and interior remodeling of the 
Board's present building. In a memorandum of October 16, 1972, 
Governor Sheehan commented on the several firms and set forth the 
fees they had indicated for the various phases of the project. He 
^commended that the Board negotiate a contract with Saphier, Lerner, 
schindler, Environetics, New York, New York, substantially in the 
form attached to the memorandum, with the understanding that no work 
beyond Phase I would be undertaken without the further approval of the 
Board. The fee for Phase I was not to exceed $60,000. Governor Sheehan 
recommended also that a fee be negotiated with Saphier, Lerner, Schindler, 
n°t to exceed $25,000, to provide consulting services to the Board (not 
the architects) on the interior design of the Martin Building, in order 
t o achieve coordination and consistency between the Board building and 
tlle annex. 

2888 
10/18/72 
-9-
Governor Brimmer, before withdrawing from the meeting in order 
to keep an appointment, expressed a preference for awarding the contract 
to Loewy/Snaith, another of the bidders. Governors Mitchell and Daane 
indicated willingness to choose either Loewy/Snaith or Saphier, Lerner, 
Schindler. However, majority support developed for Governor Sheehan's 
recommendations. The Board therefore approved the sending of a letter 
to Saphier, Lerner, Schindler, Environetics in the form attached as 
Item No. 12. 
Staff members not associated with the following topic then 
Withdrew. 
Delegation and guidelines for officer salaries. In a memoran-
dum of October 17, 1972, the Committee on Organization, Compensation, 
a^d Building Plans requested approval of (1) delegation of authority 
to the Reserve Banks to set the salaries of officers below the level 
°f Senior Vice Presidents, excluding the General Auditor, within salary 
ranges approved by the Board, and (2) guidelines under which Reserve 
Bank officer salaries might be adjusted effective January 1, 1973. 
The delegation and proposed guidelines were set forth in a draft letter 
to Reserve Bank Chairmen and Presidents that was attached to the 
memorandum. 
Pursuant to action by the Committee, the proposed guidelines 
contemplated an 18 per cent increase in the minimums and maximums of 

2889 
10/18/72 
-10-
th e officer salary structure ranges applicable to all Reserve Banks 
except the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. For the latter Bank, 
a 5 per cent increase was contemplated in light of the fact that its 
officer salary structure had been adjusted by 13 per cent in January 
1971. The Presidents' Conference Committee on Management and Person-
nel had recommended an increase of 24 per cent for the System, based 
°n a study by S. Herbert Unterberger of adjustments in executive 
level compensation since 1969. However, the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans felt that an 18 per cent adjustment 
was adequate for the Reserve Banks' immediate salary administration 
needs. 
At today's meeting Governor Sheehan indicated that the proposal 
for delegation of authority was made in the expectation that within 
a year each Reserve Bank would have in place a system for officer 
Performance review. 
Governor Mitchell expressed reservations regarding the likeli-
hood that the Reserve Banks would in fact adopt effective management 
review programs. In his opinion, the delegation of authority should 
be withheld until the programs were a reality. 
Before withdrawing from the meeting, Governor Brimmer had 
indicated that he would go along with the delegation of authority if 
some machinery were set up to provide systematic surveillance. 

2890 
10/18/72 
-11-
Governor Sheehan expressed the view that any grant of autonomy 
should be accompanied by arrangements for keeping informed of the way 
it was being exercised. The programs being undertaken were expected 
to provide a means for rating every System officer; it was contemplated 
that each Reserve Bank would make such ratings annually. 
After further discussion during which there was agreement upon 
a change in the draft, the letter to the Chairmen and Presidents of 
11 Reserve Banks was approved unanimously in the form attached as 
Item No. 13. A letter was sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York in similar form except that a 5 per cent rather than 18 per cent 
increase was specified in the officer salary structure ranges. A copy 
°f the letter is attached as Item No. 14. Attached as Item No. 15 is 
a copy of the amendment to the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of 
Authority. 
Regulation J litigation. The Board authorized Mr. O'Connell 
to state that it had no objection to the filing of an amicus brief 
in the suit pending in the United States District Court for the District 
°f Columbia involving Regulation J, Collection of Checks and Other 
Items by Federal Reserve Banks. The brief was to be filed by a firm 
o f attorneys on behalf of certain banks and would take the position 
that implementation of the regulatory changes was necessary and in the 
national interest. 

2831 
10/18/72 
-12-
Vietnam assignment. The Board unanimously approved making 
available for a period of four to six months the services of Ronald 
Krause, an examiner on the staff of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago, to provide technical aid in bank supervision to the National 
Bank of Vietnam, as described in a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f Chicago, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 16. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
/ 
/ 
t1 e^/lfct* 
Secretary 

2892 
Item No. 1 
10/18/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST ALABAMA BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Alabama Bancshares, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, a bank 
Elding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(a)(3)) to acquire not less than 80 per cent of the voting shares 
0 f Dothan Bank and Trust Company, Dothan, Alabama ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
ested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
i t h § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
^Pired, and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
teceived in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c))# 
Applicant controls three banks with aggregate deposits of 
° u t $494 million, representing about 8.6 per cent of total commercial 
bank H 
"eposits in the State, and is the third largest banking organization 
n d bank holding company in Alabama. (All banking data are as of 
cember 31, 1971, and represent bank holding company formations and ac-
^isin 
Lions approved by the Board through .September 30, 1972.) Acquisition 
of « 
would increase Applicant's share of Statewide deposits by only 
0.7 
cent and Applicant would become the second largest banking organi-
n and bank holding company in Alabama. 
Bank ($38.3 million in deposits), the second largest bank in the 
^othan K 
banking market (approximated by the city of Dothan) controls 

2833 
-2-
per cent of market deposits. Due to Alabama's branching laws and the 
distance between Applicant's nearest subsidiary and Bank (over 100 miles), 
there is no substantial existing competition between Applicant and Bank. 
The Department of Justice filed comments with regard to the 
Subject application. 
In the Department's view, there are only a small 
Uumt>er of banking organizations in Alabama, including Applicant, that are 
signifiCant potential entrants into all the important markets in the State 
in 
L 
w"ich they are not now represented. The Department of Justice found 
tlle Dothan market to be highly concentrated and felt that approval of 
t h i s application, along with approval of an earlier application of The 
Alabama Financial Group, Inc., to acquire The First National Bank of 
D°than (1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 822) would "significantly lessen 
th 
G Possibility of de novo or foothold entry into Dothan and tend to 
F r e n c h the existing concentrated market structure." For these reasons, 
th 
G Department concluded that the acquisition of Bank would have a 
isuificantly adverse effect on competition. 
Applicant replied to the Department's comments by stating that 
th 
G Dothan market was not attractive for de novo entry from either an 
ec°nomic or regulatory standpoint (and seriously doubts the permissibility 
of 
J 
novo entry by an existing holding company pursuant to Alabama law). 
Urthermore, since the only possible "foothold" bank is already a member of 
9 °ne-bank holding company and is affiliated with several other Alabama 
through common stock ownership, there was no other means available for 
ApPUcant to enter this market. In Applicant's view, approval of this 

2894 
- 3 -
aPPHcation would have a procompetitive effect, enabling Bank to compete 
m° r e effectively with its much larger local competitor, The First National 
Bank of Dothan. 
The record indicates that the Dothan market is not attractive 
f°r 
novo entry. Population per banking office is considerably less 
than the State average, while deposits per banking office are also less 
than the State figure. Moreover, the Dothan market had only moderate popu-
^tion growth during the 1960's. The Board, therefore, concludes that 
^PPUcant is not a likely de novo entrant into this market. It further 
aPPears that there is no likelihood that Applicant could enter the city 
o f Dothan other than through the acquisition of Bank. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
applicant and its subsidiary banks are regarded as satisfactory. Appli-
C a nt has committed itself to inject into Bank an additional $750,000 in 
e<luity capital and will provide Bank needed management depth; accordingly, 
banking factors lend weight for approval. Applicant would assist Bank in 
accommodating larger credit requests, expanding its trust services and 
(iata Processing services. Considerations relating to the convenience and 
U e e d s of the communities are consistent with approval. It is the Board's 
^ud8ment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest and that 
th 
e aPplication should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
teasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 

2895 
-4-
0rder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
0 r d er, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
b y the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
i 
By order of the Board of Governors 
effective October 18, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
i^Voting for this action: Governors Daane, Sheehan and Bucher. Voting 
gainst this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governor Brimmer. 
e nt and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Mitchell. 

2838 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
We would deny the subject application. 
At present, there are only four existing Statewide bank 
hiding companies in Alabama, including Applicant. As the Department 
Justice suggested, these bank holding companies must be considered 
most likely to enter the Dothan market. Bank is the second largest 
^ank in the Dothan market, with over 32 per cent of market deposits. 
Moreover, the two largest organizations within the Dothan market have 
c*°se to 87 per cent of area deposits. Given this concentrated setting, 
ancl the fact that Applicant as the third largest banking organization in 
Alabama is one of the most likely potential entrants into the Dothan 
atea, we feel that the competitive considerations alone prohibit consum-
ption of the proposal. 
As we stated in our dissent to the acquisition of The First 
^ationai Bank of Dothan by The Alabama Financial Group, Inc. (1972 
^ J 
aetal Reserve Bulletin 823), "[Bank] will no longer be a likely member 
of a n additional Statewide holding company if this application is 
^Proved. There are presently only four Statewide holding companies in 
th 
e entire State of Alabama, We need to keep open avenues for the 
N a t i o n of additional bank holding companies in order to provide the 
g r ee of competition in the banking field that is compatible with the 
Pul)Uc interest. Approval of the acquisition of a bank the size of Dothan 
^nk~-the [eighteenth] largest [banking organization] in the State-- in-
tbits the formation of alternative holding companies. Unless we are 

c°ntent to let Alabama be divided among a handful of organizations— 
Perhaps no more than four—which we think would not be consonant with 
th 
e responsibilities imposed on the Board by the Bank Holding Company 
Act 
» we should be alert to deny applications for the acquisition of 
atlks of the size and importance of [Bank] in the absence of overriding 
Gtlefits to the public that offset the anticompetitive consequences 
t;i-sing from a proposal. In this case, we think there must be more 
°ncrete evidence of public benefits flowing from the proposed acquisi-
n before the anticompetitive consequences arising from approval of 
this 
acquisition could be considered to be outweighed." 
We find no public benefits which might outweigh the adverse 
0ttlPetitive effects present in this application. We believe that 
^quisition 
of Bank will tend to solidify an already high level of 
ncentration in the Dothan market. Therefore, we would deny this 
aPPU cation. 
° C t 0 b er 18, 1972. 

2833 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
10/18/72 
VALLEY AGENCY COMPANY 
Order Denying Formation of Bank Holding Company and 
Continuation of Insurance Agency Activities 
Valley Agency Company, Valley, Nebraska, has applied for 
^ e Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
acquisition of 79 per cent of the voting shares of Bank of Valley, 
M l e y , Nebraska ("Valley Bank"). 
At the same time, Applicant has applied for the Board's approval 
under § 4(c)(0) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and § 225.4(b)(2) of 
Board's Regulation Y to continue to engage in insurance agency 
activities in a community with a population of less than 5,000 persons. 
Notice of these applications was published in the Federal 
Agister on August 15, 1972 (37 Federal Register 16521) and the time for 
fUing comments and views has expired. The Board has considered the 
aPPlications and all comments received in light of the factors set forth 
l n § 3(c) of the Act, and the considerations specified in § 4(c)(8) of the 
Act. 
Valley Bank (deposits of $4.3 million as of December 31, 1971) 
is the only bank in Valley, a community of 1,600 persons located in 
east central Nebraska, 18 miles west of Omaha. Agency conducts a general 
durance business from the premises of Valley Bank. Approval of these 
pr°Posals, which essentially involve. 
reorganization of the principal 
beholder's ownership interest, would have no effect upon either existing 
Potential competition. Factors relating to the convenience and needs 

Z'633 
-2-
of the communities Involved are consistent with, but do not provide 
support for approval of the applications. 
As it has indicated on previous occasions, the Board believes 
^at a holding company should be a source of financial and managerial 
strength for the bank or banks in its system and, further, that every 
Proposed acquisition or formation should be closely examined to determine 
Whether it serves certain private interests to the undue disadvantage 
of the bank or its minority shareholders (Applications, of First Southwest 
incorporation, Inc., Waco, Texas, to acquire four banks, 1972 Federal 
*eserve Bulletin 3C1, application of Seilon, Inc., Toledo, Ohio, to acquire 
^ares of First Bancorporation, 1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 729, and 
aPplication of The Trust Company of New Jersey, Jersey City, New Jersey for 
me*ger with a nonoperating bank, 1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 717). 
*n this regard, the Board considers relevant the management policies 
of Valley Bank and of other banks controlled directly or indirectly by 
applicant' s principal shareholder. 
Applicant's principal shareholder acquired control of Valley Bank 
i n 1971 and although he is neither an officer or director of Valley 
B ^ k , he influences all major policies of Valley Bank. Valley Bank now 
h as outstanding a significant amount of loans to affiliates of its 
Principal shareholder and other banks controlled by Applicant's principal 
shareholder have made similar loans. Valley Bank has greatly expanded 
^ s out of territory loans by participating with and/or purchasing 
^standing loans from banks in which Applicant's principal shareholder and 

2300 
-3-
°ther business associates have an interest. In view of the obvious conflicts 
of interests presented, great care must be exercised in circumstances 
of this nature to avoid possible implications of s e l f .-serving transactions. 
Tl^e Board is unable to conclude that such care has been exercised by 
Management in all instances. 
Further, Applicant plans to charge Valley Bank a management fee of 
$12,000 per year. It is noted that Applicant has no separate staff to 
service Valley Bank and that the majority of services proposed to be 
rendered appear to be no different in type or amount than services that 
*ould generally be provided by a bank's officers and directors. A similar 
Pattern of charges can be observed in five other banks in which Applicant's 
Principal shareholder has an interest. In the Board's judgment, the 
^oposed management fee appears to be excessive in comparison to the services 
t 0 be rendered. To the extent that such fees are excessive, their imposition 
w°uld operate to the detriment of Valley Bank's minority shareholders and 
P°ssibly to the bank itself. 
On the basis of the record, the Board is unable to conclude that 
c°nsiderations relating to the management factor are consistent with 
aPProval of Applicant's § 3 application. While denial of the § 3 application 
*ay not immediately affect existing relationships, approval would make 
these relationships more permanent and would represent Board sanction 
of management practices that it finds inconsistent with the public interest. 

2901 
-4~ 
In the light of the above, it is the Board's judgment that 
aPproval of § 3 application would not be in the public interest and is 
W e b y denied." 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 18, 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
[Sg^j 
Secretary of the Board 
^ ^ e n i a l of Applicant's 3(a)(1) application makes moot Board action on 
Pendant 4(c)(8) proposal. 
^ 
Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher 
Sei*t and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson and Daane. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
10/18/72 
FIDELITY AMERICAN BANKSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Fidelity American Bankshares, Inc., Lynchburg, Virginia, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has separately applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of (1) Citizens National Bank of Kerndon, Herndon, Virginia ("Citizens 
BankM), and (2) Fairfield National Bank of Highland Springs, Highland 
V i n g s , Virginia ("Fairfield Bank"). 
Notice of the applications affording opportunity for interested 
Arsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
atlc* the Board has considered the applications and all comments received 
i n light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
I8«2(c)). 
Applicant, the eighth largest banking organization In Virginia, 
c°ntrols eight banks with aggregate deposits of $383.1 million, representing 
per cent of deposits of commercial banks in the State. (Banking data 
as of December 31, 1971, unless otherwise noted, and reflect holding 
c°mpany formations and acquisitions approved through August 31, 1972). 
^summation of the proposals herein would increase Applicant's share of 
dePosits by .2 percentage points and would not change its Statewide 
inking 
nor result in a significant increase in the concentration of 
inking resources in Virginia. 

29C3 
-2-
The service area of Citizens Bank is located in the western 
Part of Fairfax County which is a small segment of the Washington, D. C. 
taking market. Citizens Bank (deposits of $13.7 million) is the 
thi*tcenth largest of 21 banking organizations in the Virginia portion 
01 the banking market and the fifth largest of the 13 banks not affiliated 
With holding companies, three of which have opened since 1970, in the 
Vir8inia portion of the market. Applicant's closest banking subsidiary to the 
area served by Citizens Bank is approximately 50 miles southwest. 
It 
aPpears that no significant competition exists between Citizens 
Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiaries. Further, it appears 
likely that significant future competition betx^een Bank and Applicant s 
Resent subsidiaries would be eliminated by consummation of the 
pt0Posal in light of the distances separating Applicant's subsidiaries 
ailci Bank, and Virginia's restrictive branching law. While Applicant 
C°uld enter the market by the establishment of a de novo bank or 
ttle acquisition of a smaller bank, Citizens Bank's size, and the 
datively large number of remaining "foothold" entries as well 
t-k 
the large number of alternative sources of banking services 
it unlikely that the acquisition would have any significant 
^competitive effects. Moreover, affiliation with Applicant, 
its greater financial resources, may enhance Citizens Bank's 
a b iUty to be a full service competitor. 

2994 
-3-
Fairfield Bank (deposits of $7.0 million) is the twelfth 
*a*gest of thirteen banks operating in the Richmond banking market 
and had less than .5 per cent of market deposits as of June 30, 1970. 
applicant's subsidiary banking office located nearest to Fairfield Bank 
approximately 40 miles southeast of Fairfield Bank. It appears that 
n° Meaningful competition exists between Fairfield Bank and any of 
applicant's subsidiary banks. Further, it seems unlikely that 
c°nsummation of the proposed acquisition would foreclose any significant 
future competition between Fairfield Bank and Applicant's subsidiary 
kanks i n th e light of the facts presented, including the distances 
SeParating these banks, Virginia's restrictive branching law, and the 
telatively small size of Fairfield Bank. Moreover, because of 
applicant's greater resources, affiliation of Fairfield Bank with 
^Plicant may enhance Fairfield Bank's ability to compete with the 
tnUc^ larger banks in the market. Thus, competitive considerations 
aPpear to be consistent with approval of both applications. 
The capital positions of three of Applicant's banking 
Sub8idiaries are deemed to be somewhat low; however, Applicant has 
^ ^ a commitment to increase the equity capital of the subsidiaries 
efote or during 1973, and after the proposed increases, each of 
^e banks involved would appear to have an adequate capital base. 
Ac 
Cordingly, the financial and managerial resources of Applicant and 
i t s subsidiary banks are regarded as generally satisfactory. The 
f J 
Lancia1 and managerial resources of Citizens Bank are also regarded 
Benerally satisfactory. Applicant has indicated that it will provide 

2^05 
- 2 -
capital to Citizens Bank to increase the bank's lending 
lilnlt and to support anticipated growth. Affiliation with Applicant 
w°uld provide needed strength to Fairfield Bank's capital and 
^nagement. 
The banking factors strongly support approval of the 
accluisition of Fairfield Bank and lend some support to approval of the 
ac<mSition 
of Citizens Bank. 
Although neither of the proposed affiliations would introduce 
services into the relevant markets, affiliation with Applicant would 
better 
enable each bank to provide additional banking services to the 
immunities they serve. Applicant states its proposed affiliation would 
6nable Fairfield Bank to begin offering residential mortgage loans and 
Militate the offering of trust and investment advice as well as 
°ttler services not currently provided by Fairfield Bank. Applicant 
also states that its proposed affiliation would enable Citizens Bank 
offer trust services by drawing upon Applicant's expertise; 
Applicant would also assist Citizens Bank in such areas as system and 
^agement training. Accordingly, considerations related to the 
Convenience and needs of the communities to be served are consistent 
With and lend some support to approval of the applications. It is the 
°ard's judgment that the proposed transactions would be in the public 
Uterest and that the applications should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 

2306 
-5-
Of J er or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
Otd er» unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Eanlc of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,—^ effective October 18, 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
(jig^k 
Secretary of the Board 
Jj£ 
for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^tcheli Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucner. 

2907 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIDELITY AMERICAN BANKSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
n. ' 
Fidelity American Bankshares, Inc., Lynchburg, Virginia, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a a applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Pe°ples Corporation, Virginia Beach, Virginia, a one-bank holding 
conipany which owns 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
^uaUfying shares) of People's Bank of Virginia Beach, Virginia Beach, 
Vir§inia ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
S 3(b) 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
U8ht of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls ten banks with deposits of $403.8 million 
^Presenting approximately 4.4 per cent of total deposits of commercial 
banl<s in Virginia, and is the eighth largest banking organization in the 
o. 
1/ 
Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $19.2 millioiD would increase 
^Plicant' s 
share of deposits in the State by .2 percentage points and 
Voilld not alter its State ranking nor result in a significant increase 
l n the concentration of banking resources in Virginia. 
P r a n k i n g data are as of December 31, 1971, unless otherwise noted, and 
J~flect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
d
hr°ugh August 31, 1972. Data also reflect the Board's approval of this 
of Applicant's application to acquire Citizens Bank of Herndon, Herndon, 
v;r8inia and Fairfield National Bank of Highland Springs, Highland Springs, 
*8inia. 

2 ^ 0 8 
- 2 -
Cank operates its main office and four branch offices in the 
312 O 
square mile community of Virginia Beach. Bank is one of seven 
banking organizations serving Virginia Beach and as of June 30, 1970 
ranked as the tenth largest of II banking organizations in the Norfolk 
SlIS* (which approximates the relevant banking market with 1.4 per cent 
of 
commercial bank deposits in the market. Based on its ownership of a 
i n Portsmouth, Applicant held 5.6 per cent of market deposits as of 
Jurie 30, 1970, and ranked as sixth largest banking organization in the 
^ k e t . The cloests offices of Applicant's Portsmouth subsidiary and 
are 12 miles apart, and consummation of the proposal would not 
e^imiriate any significant existing competition between them since their 
tesPective service areas are separated by the city of Norfolk and parts of 
th 
e city of Chesapeake, There does not appear to be any significant 
^Petition between Bank and any of Applicant's banking subsidiaries. 
rther, it appears unlikely that significant future competition between 
and any of Applicant's subsidiaries would develop because of 
Sinia's restrictive banking laws and other facts of record. 
with Applicant may stimulate competition by making it easier 
£ 
Bank to expand the range of its services. Thus, competitive considerations 
aPPear to be consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its 
2/ 
Subsicliary banks and Bank are regarded as generally sataisfactory 
^though new services would not be introduced into the relevant areas, 
S i ] 
•icant's assistance to Bank in making available services the Bank does 
Sat- S e e order of this date approving applications to acquire Citizens 
Of *0nal Bank of Herndon, and Fairfield National'Bank 
»" • 
highland Springs, Highland Springs, both in Virginia. 

2^09 
-3-
not: presently offer, such as mortgage loans and trust services, would 
Provide an alternative source of such services to area residents. Accordingly, 
c°asiderations related to the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be 
served are consistent with and lend some support to approval of the 
aPPlication. It is the Board's judgement that the proposed transaction 
w°uld be in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
teasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
^6fore the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
°r<*er or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
°rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
bV the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
J J / 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 18, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
r 
Secretary of the Board 
fSEALj 
^ V o t i n g for this action; Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
itchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. 

2S10 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
10/18/72 
FIRST FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Financial Corporation, Tampa, Florida, a bank holding 
c°fcpany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has ap-
PUed for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(a)(3)) to acquire not less than 80 per cent of the voting shares 
of Lake Region Bank of Commerce, Winter Haven, Florida ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
r e d Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
Wi k u 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
*Pired, and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
teceived in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(l2 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls ten banks with aggregate deposits of about 
^555 million representing 3.4 per cent of the total commercial bank 
eP°8its in Florida, and is the sixth largest banking organization and 
holding company in the State. (All banking data are as of 
Cember 31, 1971, and reflect bank holding company formations and ac-
qUisiti0ns approved by the Board through September 30, 1972.) Acquisition 
Of g 
a n k ($15.3 million in deposits) would increase Applicant's share 
dePosits in the State by only 0.1 percentage point and would not 
its ranking. 
Bank is the 12th largest of 22 banks in the Polk County banking 
^tket and is the third largest of the eight banks operating in the city 

2911 
- 2 -
Winter Haven, This proposal represents Applicant's initial entry into 
the city of Winter Haven and, inasmuch as Applicant's subsidiary located 
closest to Bank is about 18 miles west, would not result in the elimina-
tion of any significant existing competition. Nor is it likely that 
G°osummation of the proposal would have any significant effects on 
Potential competition between Applicant's present subsidiaries and Bank 
due> among other factors of record, to the large number of banks in the 
area and the restrictive branching law of Florida. On the other hand, 
Bank's competitive position in relation to the larger banking organiza-
tions already represented in Winter Haven should be enhanced as six of 
tlle banks in Winter Haven control 80.5 per cent of area deposits and are 
metnbers of multibank holding companies. It does not appear, therefore, 
significant competition would be eliminated or significant 
P°tential competition foreclosed by consummation of Applicant's proposal, 
that there would be undue adverse effects on any bank in the area 
Evolved. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
applicant and its subsidiary banks are regarded as satisfactory and 
C°nsistent with approval. Applicant proposes to strengthen Bank's 
^agement and render it more aggressive in line with Bank's favorable 
^uture prospects. The banking needs of the area are being met; however, 
ApPUcant proposes that affiliation would enable Bank to become a full 
Setvice bank able to offer such additional services as larger credit 
Un es» trust services, and a full line of data processing services. 

2912 
- 3 -
^Urthermore, Applicant proposes to increase Bank's loan-to-deposit ratio 
which is the market's lowest. Considerations relating to the convenience 
3 K 
J 
needs of the communities to be served lend weight for approval. It 
the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the 
Public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
( a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
th-t 
ls Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,—^ effective October 18, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
-J Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
tchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 35 
10/18/72 
RIDGE BANC0RP0RATI0N OF WISCONSIN 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Ridge Bancorporation of Wisconsin, Greendale, Wisconsin 
^ applicant"), has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) 
0 f ^ e Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation 
of i 
a bank holding company through acquisition of 100 per cent of 
the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of Northridge 
Bank, Milwaukee, Wisconsin ("Northridge Bank"), and 100 per cent 
of th 
n e voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of 
So 
uthridge Bank of Greendale, Greendale, Wisconsin ("Southridge 
>> a proposed new bank organized solely for the purpose of 
firing the assets and assuming the liabilities of Southridge 
atl°nal Bank of Greendale, Greendale, Wisconsin ("Southridge 
Clonal"). 
The bank which will acquire the assets and assume the 
abUities of Southridge National has no significance except as 
m e a n s of acquiring the voting shares of Southridge National. 
the proposed acquisition of the successor organi-
*ation * 
treated as the proposed acquisition of the shares of 
°uthridge National. 
Notice of the subject application, affording opportunity 
'terested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 

2S14 
-2-
Qnd views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
0f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant is a newly organized corporation formed for the 
Purpose of becoming a bank holding company and it has no present 
Petations or subsidiaries. Upon approval of the transaction herein, 
PPlicant would control approximately .2 per cent of the total 
Co 
l/ 
^mercial bank deposits in the Milwaukee area."" 
Northridge Bank, a new bank, commenced business in May 1972 
n d is located approximately 12 miles northwest of downtown Milwaukee. 
0tthridge Bank projects that based upon the end of first year opera-
*"°nsj it will have $2,7 million in deposits or 14.6 per cent of the 
total 
commercial bank deposits in its immediate service area, defined 
a s that area within a 3.25 mile radius of Northridge Bank. It 
ltlPetes with two other banks, one which controls 72.9 per cent 
deP°sits, and the other which is affiliated with the largest bank-
ir*8 °rgani2ation in Wisconsin. 
Southridge National ($8.9 million in deposits) began 
0p e j, t i on in September 1970 and is located on the southwest corner 
of t, 
e city of Milwaukee. Southridge National ranks fifth among 
b 
anks in its immediate service area (three mile radius of 
So uthr-M 
liage National) and controls approximately .4 per cent of 
total commercial bank deposits in that area. It competes with 
T ^ j ^ 6 8 ^ otherwise indicated, all banking data are as of December 31, 

2915 
-3-
five other banks, two of which are branches of organizations which 
rank as the first and second largest banking organizations in 
Wisconsin, respectively, and two of which are banks with deposits 
over $20 million. 
The record indicates that Northridge Bank and Southridge 
National do not compete with each other. Southridge National is 
aPproximately 15 miles directly south of Northridge Bank, the 
intervening area being the city of Milwaukee. In light of this 
distance and the high degree of common ownership between Northridge 
Bank and Southridge National, there appears to be little prospect 
the development of such competition in the future. Further, 
appears that affiliation of the two banks with Applicant would 
n o t have any adverse effects on any other bank but rather should 
enable No f r i d g e Bank and Southridge National to compete more 
effectively with the larger banks in their respective areas. On 
tlle basis of the record before it, the Board concludes that 
c°r'3"'.nrnation of the proposal would not result in any significant 
lr,Cl[^se in concentration of banking resources in Wisconsin, nor 
have any adverse effect on competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of Applicant, which are largely dependent upon those 
its proposed subsidiary banks, appear generally satisfactory, 
appears, then, that Applicant would begin operations in generally 
is factory condition and with competent management. 

- 4 -
2316 
Upon consummation, the successor organization to Southridge 
National will have increased aggregate capital stock and surplus 
accounts and greater lending power. Considerations relative to the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served lend some weight 
toward approval. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed trans-
ition is in the public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
f°r the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
that date, and (c) Southridge Bank of Greendale, Greendale, 
Wisconsin, shall be opened for business not later than six months 
a f t G r the effective date of this Order. Each of the periods 
J 
Scribed in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by the 
B°ard, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to 
legated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— effective October 18, 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
V Voti ng for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
j^, 
j-v/i. u n a avuj.uui vjijcittniaii curns an 
tchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan,and Bucher. 

2917 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 6 
10/18/72 
SOUTHRIDGE BANK OF GREENDALE 
Ord er Approving Acquisition of Assets 
and Assumption of Liabilities under Bank Merger Act 
Southridge Bank of Greendale, Greendale, Wisconsin 
* APPlicant"), a proposed State member bank of the Federal 
eserve System, has applied pursuant to the Bank Merger Act 
(12 
U'S.C. 1828(c)) for the Board's prior approval to acquire 
assets and assume the liabilities of Southridge National 
ank of Greendale, Greendale, Wisconsin, under the name and 
barter of Applicant. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, 
in form approved by the Board, has been published and the Board 
tequested reports on competitive factors from the Attorney 
eral> the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit 
n3urance Corporation. The Board has considered all relevant 
a t eUal contained in the record in the light of the factors 
Set forth in the Act. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
r the reasons summarized in the Board's Order of this date 
ating to the application of Ridge Bancorporation of Wisconsin, 
°endale, Wisconsin, to become a bank holding company through 
^iaition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
irying shares) of Northridge Bank, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and 
Uthridge Bank of Greendale, Greendale, Wisconsin, a proposed 

2318 
- 2 -
n e w bank. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
^an three months after the date of this Order, and (c) Southridge 
Batik of Greendale, Greendale, Wisconsin, shall be opened for business 
n o t later than six months after the effective date of this Order. Each 
the periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause 
°y the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to 
legated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ effective October 18, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
^Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mltchell Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. 

•^UtSt-f.-' 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 7 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
10/18/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S H Orrir:IAL 
C O R R C S P O N O E N C E 
R A 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 18, 1972 
Organizing Committee 
Southridge Bank of Greendale 
Greendale, Wisconsin 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of the Southridge Bank of Greendale, 
Greendale, Wisconsin, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
(1) Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the safety 
of its depositors, and, except with the permission of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
such bank shall not cause or permit any change to be 
made in the general character of its business or in the 
scope of the corporate powers exercised by it at the 
time of admission to membership. 
(2) The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and 
condition of its assets and to its deposit liabilities 
and other corporate powers. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
that Southridge Bank of Greendale, Greendale, Wisconsin, will not 
conduct a banking business with the public until it has acquired 
Southridge National Bank of Greendale, Greendale, Wisconsin. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership. 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208,7 
thereof. A copy of regulation is enclosed. 

29 
Organizing Committee 
- 2 -
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the 
board of directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization 
to commence business. A certified copy of such resolution should be 
transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that: all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Beard will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael. A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

2321 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 8 
10/18/72 
FIRST CITY BANCORPORATION OF TEXAS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all the voting shares (except for 
directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to First 
National Bank in Orange, Orange, Texas ("Bank"), The bank into which 
Sank is to be merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate 
the acquisition of all the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the 
deposed acquisition is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of 
v°ting shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and the Board has considered the application and all 
c°niment9 received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 10 banks with total deposits of approximately 
billion, representing about 5.2 per cent of deposits of commercial 
L 
°anks in Texas and is the third largest banking organization in the State. 
i' A p p l i c a n t also has interests in 15 other Texas banks ranging from 
to 14.3 per cent of the voting shares of such bank. 

232 
- 2 -
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, and represent bank 
folding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
through September 15, 1972.) Acquisition of Bank (deposits of about 
$28 million) would increase Applicant's share of Statewide deposits by 
less than .1 of one percentage point and would not result in a signifi-
cant increase in the concentration of banking resources in Texas. 
Bank is the fifth largest bank in the Beaumont-Port Arthur-
Orange area with approximately 4.5 per cent of the total commercial bank 
deposits therein. There is no substantial existing competition between 
Applicant's banking subsidiaries and Bank due to the intervening dis-
tances (Applicant's closest banking subsidiary to Bank is some 95 miles 
from Orange). Moreover, there does not seem to be a reasonable proba-
bility of such competition developing in the future in view of Texas 
limiting branching and since the Beaumont-Port Arthur-Orange 
atea does not appear particularly attractive for de novo entry as 
^asured by the rate of population growth and the per capita bank deposits 
fact, Applicant's acquisition of Bank could promote competition in 
Beaumont-Port Arthur-Orange area by making Bank a more viable 
e°ttpetitor to the larger banking organizations located there. On the 
basis of the facts of record, the Board concludes that competitive 
c°nsiderations are consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
APPli< 
actory, particularly in view of the commitment of Applicant to provide 
^cant, its subsidiaries and Bank are regarded as generally satis-
f 

2323 
-3-
additional capital for its lead bank. Considerations relating to the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served lend some support 
to approval of the application since Applicant proposes to assist Bank 
in providing a broader range of lending services. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest and 
that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
° r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 18, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
2/ 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell. Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. 

2924 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 9 
10/18/72 
UNITED VIRGINIA BANKSHARES INCORPORATED 
aer Approving Acquisition of Crompton-Richmond Co., Inc., Factors 
United Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Richmond, Virginia, 
9 bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
applied for the Board's approval, under S 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
5 ^25.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire certain of the 
QSsets subject to certain of the liabilities of Crompton-Richmond Co., 
*nc'» Factors, New York, New York ("Company"), a company that engages 
the activities of full notification and nonnotification factoring of 
Ccounts receivable and in extending secured and unsecured commercial 
f i 
nancing without restriction as to the nature of security taken including, 
but n 
n°t limited to providing guarantees of letters of credit and issuing 
etters of guaranty of any kind. Applicant has also applied to engage 
^ ^ovo in commercial financing activities'in New York, New York. Such 
activities have been determined by the Board to be closely related to the 
busineSS of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
sons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
beet> duly published (37 Federal Register 16700). The time for filing 
0lT1nients and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in Virginia, controls 
banks with aggregate deposits of approximately $1.3 billion, representing 
1/ 
Per cent of the total deposits in commercial banks in Virginia. 
Banking data are as of December 31, 1971. 

2925 
- 2 -
Applicant's nonbanking subsidiaries include a service corporation, an 
insurance agency, a leasing company, and United Virginia Mortgage Corporation, 
Applicant proposes to acquire certain of the assets, subject to 
Certain of the liabilities, of Company and transfer the assets to a corpora-
to be formed. In addition, Applicant proposes to engage de novo in 
commercial financing activities. 
Company is engaged in both notification and nonnotification 
2/ 
commercial factoring, as well as commercial financing."" 
Company conducts 
business from its main office in New York, New York, and has service 
offices in Los Angeles, California, and Atlanta, Georgia. Company engages 
in uaticmwide commercial factoring and during 1970 had annual factored 
v°lume of $463 million, representing approximately 4 per cent of total 
commercial factored accounts outstanding. 
Neither Applicant nor any of its subsidiaries are presently engaged 
in factoring. Accordingly, no existing competition would be eliminated upon 
c°nsummation of the proposed transaction. Furthermore, because of the 
8pecialized skills required and the barriers to entry, it is unlikely that 
APPU( 
novo. Accordingly, no potential competition would be foreclosed upon 
-cant or any of its subsidiaries would engage in commercial factoring 
4e 
approval of this application. 
There is no evidence in the record to indicate that the proposed 
Mention would lead to an undue concentration of resources, conflicts of 
lriterests, or unsound banking practices. Applicant's acquisition of Company 
^ 
Company is in the process of terminating its commercial financing 
^stations and Applicant would not acquire any of Company's commercial 
n^ncing business. 

2S2& 
-3-
S h o u l d result in benefits to the public by providing another source of 
Storing services in Virginia, where Company does not presently have any 
founts. Applicant's de novo commercial financing operations will also 
Produce an alternative source of such services in its market areas. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public interest 
ct°rs the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is favorable. 
cordingly, the application is hereby approved. This determination is 
SubJect to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to 
Board's authority to require such modification or termination of the 
^ivities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board 
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of 
finds 
the A 
ftct and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to 
teVent evasion thereof. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 18, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
i T ^ v — 
oting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
ue> Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. 

2927 
• a^VJS5:;"?- •/ A"> . 
•-^-V-'frtri ' i'3 * 
.('-.; |l ! " 
r i 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• r THC 
D £ R A L R E 5 £ R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20B51 
Item No. 10 
10/18/72 
ADDRESS OTHSiAU r;o R n rrspc M DC N c 
TH THf 13 D Ari n 
industrial National Bank of Rhode Island 
H i Westminster Street 
vide nee , Rhode Island 02903 
October 18, 1972 
-at J. omen: 
Use Board of Governors of the Federal Reservo System grants 
1 
i -.T . • 
•>•> i -x. n 1 : „ T ~ "l i •>•>.. . -I 
its permission to Industrial National Bank of Rhode Island, Providence, 
ivhc.lf. Island, p-irsusal to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
-eservo Act, to establish a branch in George Town, Grand Cayman, 
Cayuan X:: 1 nnds, and to operate and maintain such branch subject t:c the 
K'avJsions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting, this per".)is8ion, it ia understood that the branch 
1.1 ho used for developing n«v>' International business and net as a 
[••tans of. shifting loans or deposits from offices in the united States, 
It io also understood that Otero is to be no contact with die local 
Public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping may. 
a1' least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of: the ypecial character of this operation, the fore-
SOing permit! sic a in granted subject to (1) a continuing review of thesi 
typ«s of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified 
(?) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against deposits i: 
tiiis branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the 
tffcduc.tacn provided in subparagraph (il) of Section 213,7(a) or the on-
c'huu.0p provided in proviso (1) of Section 2X3//(b) , and (3) the iurllr 
etna tj.cn that 
information covering toe branch's jperairons w 
lKi maintained a', your head office and will be available to the Board a 
J-ts accredited repreoenLat ives. The Board should be promptly informed 
toy modification in tin. branch's methods o.t operation, including cluing 
i.<U 
or 
il any contract under T-.'hic. 
ir vj.ee.-; are supplied to the branch, 
subject: to 
vonnAssioi to establish the proposed branch is also granted 
t I'IO c 
;ondi t.ion that Industrial national Ban! o:t j'.noe T.s'l and 
).ieuid ate i <.'.••> 
branch within £ ir mc.nths oi: the date or cpen~n 
sland3 branch 

2328 
^Hdustrrifil National Bank 
of Rhode Xaj.and 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before November 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
T) .. 
3 
reserve Bank of Boston, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
^bould also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch in George Town. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
0luy at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are. exempt from any limi-
ations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Alsot deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
eqnjrements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions is 
t° allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad with 
°"^eign barks. In these circumstances, it has long been and continues 
o be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits 
y United States residents at foreign branches of United States banks 
such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, necessary 
Nu-poro in connection with foreign or international transactions outside 
Lbe United. States, 
~ 
. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
ences, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
v?xth minimising the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
Payments, the above consent is given on the condition that in the conduct 
the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on resources 
°btainod ontside the United States. Accordingly, it is understood that 
_ar-y investment* required will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint
Adelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very tr uIy you r s, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B D A R D Of 
B D V E R N D R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 11 
10/18/72 
V/'ASH L NGTON, 
D. 
C. 
205H 
A'iDHiJbS OFFICIAL CDRRES"ONCJEUCE 
Ml THE BDAHO 
October 26, 1972 
McK.inoey & Company, Inc. 
'> Park Avenue 
Now York, New York 10017 
Attention: Mr. Harvey Golub 
Gent) emen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System hereby 
accepts your revised proposal dated September 28, 1972, entitled 
"Assessing Data Processing Activities" with the following modifications: 
1. Add to Task I, Step 4 the following: 
"Such interviews may include 
discussions of future requirements." 
?.. Delete Task IV "Compare FRB With 
Organization With Similar Functions." 
3. Delete Task V "Identify Likely Future 
Requirements." 
^rformance under this contract shall commence on October 31. 1972, 
av;d shall be on a. cost-reimbursement basis. The total contract price 
is not: to exceed $99,000. The specifications for this review shall be 
ift accordance with the provisions set forth in the Board's letter of 
August 17, 1972., and your revised proposal as modified above. 
No substitutions of personnel listed in Section 2 (Organization 
and Management of Evaluation) of your proposal shall be made without the 
prior written consent of. the Board. Of the total professional man-hours 
^ponded, ai least 20 percent (est. 280 man-hours), shall be contributed 
V Messrs1. Harvey Golub and Harvey M. Wagner. 

HcKinscy & Company, Inc. 
If this contract meets with your approval, please 
sloriify y o u r acceptance on the enclosed copy of this letter and 
return*it to the Board. 
Very truly yours, 
• _ 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosures 
i 
CC Mrs. Salley Sprick 
McKinsey & Company, Inc. 
1700 Pennsylvania Ave. N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 

•V'oO? Go-' *. 
i p 
i s : 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
U. 
C. 
20551 
E M 
2931 
Item No. 12 -
10/18/72* 
O F F I C I A L CDHHEEPONDEIICC 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 22, 1972 
^'Phi-.er. Lerner, Schindler, Environetics 
v!'-a KacJicon Avenue 
^-U-k, New York 10022 
P i e m e n : 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System hereby 
^°CePts your proposal of July 3, 1972, for services in connection with 
Xehalvt.'j itic; Lion of the Board *s building with the following 
icationo: 
(3) Page 4 
(a) Paragraph 7, Line 1 Delete "awarding" and sub-
stitute in lieu thereof "evaluation." Change 
second sentence to read "Bids will be solicited 
from firms selected by the Board." 
(b) Delete last sentence of paragraph entitled 
Electro/Mechanical, in its entirety. 
(?) Page 5 
(a) Add "The price for Phase I shall not exceed 
$60,000." 
(b) Delete entire paragraph entitled MARTIN BUILDING. 
(3) Pa&ejS 
(a) Delete entire paragraph entitled STANDARD FURNITURE, 
FURNISHINGS ANDCOLOR SELECTION. 
(b) Delete paragraph 2 in its entirety* 
(c) In paragraph 4 pertaining to out-of-pocket expenses 
delete the final portion of the sentence "authorized 
out-of-town travel,'' end. substitute in lieu thereof 
"cost of authorized transportation between New York 
and Washington, D. C." 

2332 
Saphier, Lerner, Schindler, Environetics 
-2-
(d) Delete, the last paragraph in its entirety. 
(4) Delete entire page 7 except for the signature. 
In addition, it is understood and agreed that the aggregate 
PS'ice to be paid for the services to be rendered under this contract 
iu -loi; to exceed $500,000 ($400,000 for design and administration fee 
ar>d $1.00,000 for Electro/Mechanical fee) plus reimbursable expenses, 
a<J defined on page 
paragraph 4 of your proposal and modified in 
3 (c) above. The $400,000 ceiling is based on an estimated area to 
renovated of 200,000 square feet at a rate not to exceed $2.00 per 
. ? 
square foot. 
Completion of all work under the various phases shall be 
accf*qplished in accordance with the following schedule: 
Phase Numbers 
Time 
I & II 
90 days 
III 
180 days 
IV 
270 days 
Completion times are to be computed in elapsed calendar days 
from the date of acceptance of this contract by the Contractor. 
Payments for the basic services will be made on a monthly basis 
UP to 90 percent of the estimated dollar 'limits stated below: 
Not to Exceed 
Task 
Total 
Phase I 
$ 60,000 
~ 
$ 60,000 
Phase II 
20,000 
80,000 
Phase III 
75,000 
155,000 
Phase IV 
(a) through contract award 
245,000 
400,000 
(b) contract administration 
100,000 
500,000 
The remaining 10 percent of the fee to be paid shall become 
Payable upon acceptance of the work thereunder for Phases I through 
Xj:'i and upon award of the construction contract(s) for Phase IV (a). 
The contract administration fee of Phase IV (b) shall be paid 
lVl proportion to completion of the construction. The final payment shall 
6 m d o after completion of the construction and upon receipt of the 
^na'l Certificate of Payment. 

2S33 
Japhier. Lerner, Schindler, Environetics 
-3-
Invoices submitted shall contain a detailed breakdown of costs 
hy labor category within each Phase. Costs for "additional work" and 
Out«of-t/ccv.et expenses shall be detailed separately and are payable in 
1 1 «• au accrued. 
This contract shall, be performed in accordance with the General 
C°ntract Provisions set forth in Attachment "A" and Articles 1 and 2. of 
Terras and Conditions of Agreement Between Owner and Architect contained 
'VTA Document £131, set forth as Attachment "B." For purposes of Attach-
Went "B," the term "Owner" is defined as the Board of Governors of the 
^-deral Reserve System and the term "Architect" is defined as the firm of 
SaPhler. Lerner, Schindler, Environetics. Any questions concerning the 
^Pacification as stated herein shall be brought to the attention of the 
jioard promptly. 
In addition, the provisions of the "Equal Opportunity Clause" as 
set forth in Attachment "C" are incorporated herein as part of this contract, 
' °°Py of the Notice referred to in Section 3 paragraph (1) of the "Equal 
jJPPorfcunxty Clause" is also enclosed. The Contractor shall insert the 
°regoing provision in all subcontracts hereunder, except subcontracts for 
"*"an''£ru commercial supplies or raw materia Is. 
X am enclosing two copies of a new contract incorporating the 
above changes. If this contract meets with your approval please sign and 
ret.urn one copy to the Board. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
^closures 
^ o s u r e s 

2934 
B O A R D D F 
o G V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20555 
^V 
AOOHEBS OrriCIAU HDRRESrONOENCe; 
'• U T I T ' 
T O 
T H E 
D O A R D 
November 22, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
(hereinafter referred to as the Board), and Saphier, Lerner, 
behindle.r, Environetics (hereinafter referred to as the Contractor) 
i 
n^rcby enter into this contract under the terms and conditions 
herein* f te,- des cribed. 
In order to assist the Board to determine the manner in 
Wiich the existing Federal Reserve Board of Governors Building 
c^uld be test utilized Saphier. Lerner, Schindler, Environetics 
sha'jJ. perform, the following services: 
B U I L T ) ^ 
fittSE l 
Meet with designated representatives of the Board for overall 
discussions concerning the operations and procedures of the 
organization, a survey of the work, traffic flow, systems and 
procedures within each component and a survey and inventory 
oi special space requirements such as public areas, file 
rooms, data processing areas, conference rooms, and such 
other special requirements as may be developed. 
Survey the inter-relationships of the various components, the 
vork and traffic flow between them, and determine the most 
desirable physical disposition of these components in order to 
arrive at the most efficient layout possible* 
Study and analyze the possible expansion, by department, that 
vili include an appraisal of any existing organizational fore-
casts and the Contractors' recommendations based upon past and 
present Board history, in order tc provide the Board with an 
analysis of future needs after completion of the Martin Building, 
in two five-year increments* 

4 
2 3 3 5 
„ 2 -
Stud}' arid analyze any existing reports concerning the needs 
for and desirability for public areas, employee facilities, 
eating, lounges, sick bay, etc., and make any additional 
studies that the Contractor then, with the Board, deem 
necessary, and make recommendations. 
J• Take a complete inventory of all existing Board furniture 
and equipment and add to it furniture and equipment required 
to take care of foreseeable expansion. Make recommendations 
for replacement furniture and equipment when such replacement 
can effect space savings. 
« 
Establish space standards. 
Prepare, based upon information gathered and compiled, and 
based upon Contractor suggested improvements in operations, 
a tabulation of footages required. 
c> 
1 
u* Based upon approval of tabulated footage, prepare, in block 
layout, the ideal disposition of departments showing their 
relationships to the Martin Building and any other special 
requirements. 
9 
Based upon approval of the above, prepare a detailed layout 
of all space approved for usage analyzing and validating the 
exact: amount of space required for all operations and showing 
the proposed location of departments. 
fivVSEjl 
After Board approval of the space study plans Contractor shall: 
Meet to discuss the Board's design thoughts in order to 
determine the character, quality and desired image that is 
to be created and, from this discussion, prepare a. detailed 
budget estimate of the costs involved in attaining these 
objectives. 
Upon Board approval of the budget estimate, the Contractor 
shall: 

-3-
Prepare a Design Presentation to include, if necessary: 
a. Colored renderings. 
b. Black and white renderings. 
c. Paste-up boards showing colors, photographs, models 
and/or samples of flooring, wall covering, furniture 
etc. 
d t A present budget (within the framework of the 
preliminary budget estimate) based upon the actual 
furnishings and selection of furniture. 
Upon Board approval of the Design Presentation the Contractor 
shall prepare complete working drawings consisting of: 
A complete furniture plan, validating the space studies 
and showing the disposition of all furniture and equipment 
throughout the Board's space. This plan would also show 
details and specifications for storage units, wall hung 
cabinets or any other stock items of equipment not 
previously selected, as well as any special equipment 
required to be fabricated. 
Reflected ceiling plan showing both standard ancl special 
lighting and shewing, by symbol and legend, the type and 
disposition of each. 
Partition plan showing, by symbol and legend, specifica-
tions for and disposition of all partitions and doors with 
a complete door and hardware schedule. This plan would 
include instructions for demolition and plans and specifi-
cations for reconstruction where necessary, and would also 
indicate Any special details for partitions, such as 
borrowed lights, pass-through windows, etc. 
Electrical and telephone plans showing, by symbol and 
legend, the specifications for and disposition of tele-
phone and electrical outlets, as well as any special 
conduiting work for telephone, electrical or electronic 
equipment. 
t; 
Complete details including those for cabinet work, 
covering a]1 of the elements of design that would be 
specially constructed. 

-3-
6• k paint and flooring plan arid iinish schedule, based upon 
the approval of the Contractor's design presentation, showing 
by symbol and legend, specifications for and disposition by 
all wall and floor finishes. 
ba. Prepare a work schedule and phasing plan for progressing the 
job, including plans for vacating affected areas, logistics 
for dislocated personnel and other factors, designed to 
minimize interference with the work of the Board. 
Undertake the solicitation and evaluation of bids and tho 
setting up of schedules for purchasing. Bids will be 
solicited from firms selected by the Board. Should the 
Contractor be required to handle any or all of the 
purchasing, contracts for furniture, furnishings and equip-
ment, will be let by the Contractor for the Board's 
account after written approval by the Board. Prices charged 
to the Board will reflect all trade discounts that accrue 
to the Contractor. 
Check construction progress to make certain that work is 
being performed in conformance with the Contractor's plans 
of the space and that ail design details are being properly 
submitted to the Board and, in addition, the Contractor shall 
participate to the extent necessary in the handling of the 
details of the actual move. 
RO/MECIiA^ I CAL 
During the budgetary phase prepare an analysis of the 
existing buildings electro/mechanical system and determine 
the feasibility of altering and adding to all systems. This 
analysis and implementation will be done by a consulting 
engineering firm. Contractor will coordinate preparation of 
electrical and mechanical engineering plans (including air 
conditioning plans) to be done by others responsible for the 
engineering of the air conditioning system. 
Fees to be paid to the Contractor for the above service shall 
be computed as follows: 
PHASE I - Thirty cents ($.30) per square foot of area studied. 
The price for Phase I shall not exceed Sixty-Thousand 
Dollars ($60,000.00). 
1M]AS.K jri; ~ Twenty-Thousand Dollars ($20,000,00), 

2338 
-j-
PHAS5 III « Seventy-Five Thousand Dollars ($75,000.00). 
PHASE TV - The time charges of our production personnel 
computed according to the currently prevailing 
hourly rate schedule (Attachment "D") to a 
maximum of Two Dollars ($2.00) per square foot 
of area renovated. 
CREDIT -
square foot repre-
iob and money paid 
The Two Dollars ($2.00) per 
sents a charge for the 
against Phase I, II, and/or III will be credited 
to tne Two Dollars ($2,00) charge. 
ELECTRO/ 
MECHANICAL 
Engineering fees will be billed at cost and are 
not part of the fee structure of Phases I, III, 
and IV» 
.INCENTIVE - Should the hourly rate charges being billed to 
the Board effect a savings of the upset price of 
Two Dollars ($2.00) per square foot, such savings 
shall be shared between the Board and the 
Contractor with 60% of the savings to the Board 
and the balance of 40% to the Contractor. 
TRAVEL 
- In addition, the Board shall reimburse the 
Contractor for our-of-pocket expenses: cost of 
reproduction of plans, specifications and other 
material, messenger service, filing fees, and 
cost of authorized transportation between 
New York and Washington, D. C. 
In additionj it is understood and agreed that the aggregate 
f^.ce t.o be paid for the services to be rendered under this contract 
ltJ r-ot to exceed $500,000.00 ($400,000.00 for design and administration 
and $100,000.00 for Electro/Mechanical fee) plus reimbursable 
GxPCnsest as defined above. The $400,000,00 ceiling is based on an 
Estimated area to be renovated of 2.00,000 square feet at a rate not 
t o exceed $2.00 per square foot. 
Completion of all work under the various phases shall be 
*Ccomplished in accordance with the following schedule: 
Phase Numbers 
I &"ll" 
III 
IV 
Time 
90 days 
180 days 
270 days 

-3-
Completion times are to be computed iri elapsed calendar 
days from the date of acceptance of this contract by the Contractor. 
Payments for the basic services will be made on a monthly 
basis up to 90% of the estimated dollar limits stated below: 
Phase I 
Phase II 
Phase III 
Phase IV 
Not to exceed 
Task 
$60,000.00 
20,000.00 
75,000.00 
Total 
$60,000.00 
80,000.00 
155,000.00 
(a) through contract award 
245,000.00 
(b) contract administration 
100,000.00 
400,000.00 
500j000.00 
The remaining 107o of the fee to be paid shall become payable 
uPon acceptance, of the work thereunder for Phases I through III and 
yPou award oi; the construction contract(s) fur Phase IV (a). 
The contract administration fee of Phase IV (b) shall be paid 
l u proportion to completion of the construction. The final payment 
'^a.ll ])e macie after completion of the construction and upon receipt of 
t^e. finai Certificate of Payment. 
Invoices submitted shall contain a detailed breakdown of 
r-or«ts by labor category within each Phase. Costs for "additional work" 
cut-of-pocket expenses shall be detailed separately and are payable 
lri full as accrued. 
t 
Time spent on any additional work caused by the Board's changes 
P.-ans after the Board lias approved them will be billed to the Board 
Wording to the currently prevailing hourly rate schedule of the 
tractor's production personnel. Such "additional work" must be 
utucri?jG,;i by the Board in writing. 
This contract shall be. performed in accordance with the General 
°htract Provisions set forth in Attachment "A" and Articles 1 and 2 of 
' 
Terms and Conditions of Agreement Between Owner and Architect 
c°tita-?.ned ir. ALA Document £131, cot forth in Attachment. "B." For purposes 
Of A 
• ftttactenant "B" the term "Owner" is defined as the Board of Governors 

2340 
- 7 -
the Federal Reserve System and the term "Architect" is defined as 
firm of Saphier, Lerner, Schindler, Environetics. Any questions 
concerning the specifications as stated herein shall be brought to 
fche attention of the Board promptly. 
In addition, the provisions of the "Equal Opportunity Clause" 
as set forth in Attachment "C" are incorporated herein as part of this 
contract. A copy of the Notice referred to in Section 3 paragraph (1) 
't' the. "Equal Opportunity Clause" is also enclosed. The Contractor 
insert the foregoing provision in all subcontracts hereunder, 
except subcontracts for standard commercial supplies or raw materials. 
This document and its Attachments constitute the entire 
tract between the Board and the Contractor and cannot be changed, 
^ived or discharged orally. 
'•"^FHIER, LERNER, SCHINDLER, 
^'irtOKETICS 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By; 
TXTLr.: 
(SIGNED) Michael A. Greenspan 
BY: 
TITLE: Assistant Secretary 

2341 
B O A R D 
• F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 13 
:• 
nr THE 
10/18/72 
k t M M y 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
H B W J ^ V M ? ' 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
m
m
^
: 
!
|
H
i
;
A
o
n
n
r
s
s 
orriniAL cnsRrRPONOENCE 
' " S & ' W S ^ & V 
T O 
T H E 
O O A M U 
'•^i.Ti.s^.-
October 19. 1972 
AN?; COttPIDSNTXAI, (FR) 
The. Board of Governors has, effective January 1, 1973, 
to each Federal Reserve BcnU the authority to set the 
Clarice of it»j officevs below the level of Senior Vice President, 
the General Auditor, within the officer salary ranges 
°Pptov<nl iu'.d guidelines f.ubsoqueutly issued by the Board. 
frfiragrapn (f; ox section 265.2 of the Board 3 Rules 
R,iSardiir> Delegation of Authority has been amended by (1) changing 
introductory language (underscored) and, (2) adding a new 
Dub?ara£rr:ph (25) as follows: 
(f) Koch Federal Reserve Bank is authorised, 
to iACiuber banks or other indicated organizations 
headquartered in its district, oiLunirtL^ubpjragtaph 
(?„r)|_o 
Mygrjgphy, a..*! t o 1 ^ 0 
* Vf 1< * -k 
(25) To set the calorics of its officers below the 
W e i oi* Senior Vice Presidents (Salary Group A), 
excludes the General Auditor, within salary ranges 
approved and f,uideUnes subsequently issued by the 
Board of Governorc. 
Sf£lcer Salary Sjn^cj^c. 
7hc following structure applicable to all federal Reserve 
except New York, is eficctive January 1, 1973: 

ry 
_ 
. — 
%otin 
Title 
Minimum 
Mnscinitq 
A 
Senior Vice Presidents 
$28,500 
$44,500 
B 
vice Presidents 
21,000 
32,000 
r' 
Assistant Vice Presidents 
16,500 
20,500 
» 
' 
Junior Officers 
14,000 
21,000 
This structure represents an increase of approximately 
t8 Per cent in the current minimums and maximums of the officer salary 
Unguis effective January 1, 1969. 
^tticor^finlHi-v Xncrrjsc^Gu^djeJJjies 
Contingent upon any subsequent directives issued by the Cost 
F Uvlng Council applicable to the administration of wage and salary 
^ertaa undo.- th* Economic Stabilization Program, the foil.cwmg guide-
are for the Banks' use in determining individual officer, other 
P r e s i d e And First Vice President, merit increases effective 
1 9 7 3 . 
1. Aggregate merit increases may not exceed 5.5 per cent 
of total officer salaries as of November 15, 19/2s 
excluding the President and First Vice President. 
2. S e r i e s of officers receiving promotional increases 
effective January 1, 1973, should bo excluded in the 
computation of the 5.5 per cent aggregate figure. 
Similarly, uromotional increases are not to be 
charged against the 5.5 per cent aggregate. A 
promotional lactate recognizes a concurrent change 
in the level of responsibilities arid, ordinarily, 
title D f th::. i nd i v idua i. 
3. Individual salary increases taay exceed 5.5 per cent. 
Salary increases should be based o.i an evaluation 
of the individual's performance. 
5 
There are no quantitative restrictions as to the 
number of officers who may be granted merit increases. 
6. Banks are requested to advise the Board's Committee 
on Organisation, Compensation and Building Plans by 
December 15, 1.972, cf nierit and promotional salary 

increases for officers below the level of Senior Vice 
President, excluding the General Auditor, For fclii.s 
purpose, a table with the following information wiLl 
be. sufficient.: 
(a) salary group, (b) nan*- cx officer 
uq it should appear on the PA-13, (c) title (present 
and proposed), (d) principal department(s) or function(s) 
supervised, (e) present salary, (!) amount c£ salary 
Increase, indicating merit (M) or promotional (F) and, 
(g) salary ss of January ), 1973. 
Saiary Ad justment_JProj^osaf^.or^Senj^^Vice 
and General Auditors 
Salaries proposed for Senior Vice Presidents and General 
^ U o r for the year beginning January I, 1973, should be submitted 
£o* approval to the Board of Governors no later than December 15. IV;2. 
U s letter of October 3, 1972, the Committee proposed preliminary 
^•acusfcions with the Presidents on a number of matters including officer 
Beginning this year, preliminary discussion of officer 
8a)-*riftfi inrLudiSg promotions or appointments contemplated during 
forchcoai.iv ycjur as a result of retirements,, aspectftd separations 
the rvatruecuffing of internal operations will be limited to Serial; 
Presidents avid General Auditors. It would be helpful it the 
0QT^c would submit to the Conuu.lttee their salary proposals for these 
off*eere at. least a week prior to the preliminary discussions. 
Salary adjustments for Presidents and First Vice Presidents 
^ U bu t h e subject of a subsequent letter addressed to the Chairmen 
C i tbe Reserve Banks. 
Very truly yours, 
/ r 
JZ. 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
COATK4EH AND PRESIDENTS OF ALL FFDERAL RESERVE BANKS, 
KXCKPT Nl'.W YORK. 

2344 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N • R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 14 
10/18/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O. 
C. 
20351 
Aooprss nrriciAL UORRI apoNocNcr. 
TO THE BOARD 
October 19, -1972 
AKD CONFIDENTIAL 
Alfred Hayes, President 
J^aerva Bank of New York 
c.ctitj j. v'J. Ji-.-uv ui. 
Hew Yorl 
10045 
^ri-lr, Hayes: 
Effective January 1, 1973, the Board of Governors has delegated 
each Federal Reserve Bank the authority to set the salaries of its 
°';ficers bolo- the level of Senior Vice President (Salary Group A), 
deluding the General Auditor, within the officer salary ranges approved « 
aad Sidelines cub sequent ly issued by the Board, 
n 
Paragraph (f) of: section 265.2 of the Board's Rules Regarding 
J: G 3^^Uon of Authority has been amended by (1) changing the intrcduc-
language (underscored) and, (2) adding a new subparagraph (25) as 
(25) To set the salaries of: its officers below the 
vol of Senior Vice Presidents (Salary Group A), 
excluding the General Auditor, within salary ranges 
approved*and guidelines subsequently issued by the 
Board of Governors. 
(f) Each Federal Reserve Bank is authorized, as to 
member banks or other indicated organizations head-
quartered in its district, or^naej^subj^ 
of J.hl^nj^ra^raph, as to its jp£gl£££S.i 
* * * * * 
Salary S t ru c. t tiro Ad .just men t 
1he following structure appJicao 
:Ks is effective January 1, 1973: 
»p] ic.nble to the Federal Reserve Bank 

2945 
Ml"- Alfred Hayes 
-2-
Range 
Salary 
SpecJ al 
group' 
Minium 
Haxlnujm 
M ^ i ^ i i 
A 
M O O 
$52 ,500 
$5 8,000 
B 
31j 500 
47,250 
C 
27,500 
42,000 
^ 
23,000 
37,000 
E 
19,5 00 
31,500 
This structure represents an increase of approximately 5 per 
in the current minimis and maximums of the officer salary ranges 
'efr active J an uary 
1971. 
ir Salary Increase Gu:tdejines 
Cnntingent upon any subsequent directives issued by the Cost 
o f living Council applicable to the administration of wage and salary 
?r°SvawB under the Economic Stabilization Program, the following guide-
are to be ir ed in determining individual officer, other than 
^ s i d e n t and First Vice President, merit increases effective January 1 
IS 7'3 
3 „ Aggregate merit increases may not: exceed 5.5 per cent 
of total officer salaries as of November 15, 19/2, 
excluding the President and First Vice President. 
2. Salaries of officers receiving promotional increases 
effective January 1, 1973, should be excluded in the 
computation of the 5.5 per cent aggregate figure. 
Similarly, promotional increases are not to be 
charged against the 5.5 per cent, aggregate. 
A pro-
motional increase recognizes a concurrent change .in 
the level of responsibilities and, ordinarily, title 
of the individual. 
Individual salary increases way exceed 3.5 per cent. 
4. Salary increases should be based on an evaulation of 
the individual's performance. 
5 
There are no Quantitative restrictions as to the 
number of officers who may be granted merit increases 
6. liLnks are requested to advise the Board's Committee 
on Organization, Compensation and Building Plans by 
December 3 5, 1972, of merit and prenotional salary 

'O 
lit* Alfred Hayes 
-3-
increases for officers below the level of Senior Vice 
President (Salary Group A), excluding the General 
Auditor. For this purpose, a table with the following 
information will be sufficient: 
(a) salary group, 
(b) name of of fixer as it should appear on th:; PA-13, 
(c) title (present and proposed), (d) principal depart-
ment (s) or function(s) supervised, (e) present salary, 
(f) amount of salary increase, indicating merit (M) or 
promotional (P) and, (g) salary as of January 1, 1973. 
of J a la ry Ad i u s tment Proposals for Senior Vic e Presidents 
A) and General Auditors 
Sub: 
/ n 
Aoa. 
.. , 
Salaries proposed for Senior Vice Presidents (Salary Group A) 
General Auditor for the year beginning January 1, 1973, should 
IV. submit tied to the Board of Governors for approval no later than 
ceiiiber 15, 1972. la its letter of October 3, 19 72, the Committee pro-
Preliminary discussions with the Presidents on a number of matters 
"eluding officer salaries. 
Beginning this year, preliminary discussions of officer 
including promotions or appointments contemplated during the 
thdoming year as a result of retirements, expected separations or 
^.structuring of internal operations will be limited to Senior Vice 
^sideuts (Salary Group A) and the General Auditor. It would be help-
if the Banks would submit to the Committee their salary proposals 
these officers at least a week prior to the preliminary discussions. 
ful 
foi 
v. 
Salary adjustments for Presidents and First Vice Presidents 
be the subject of a subsequent letter addressed to the Chairmen of 
HCbe IV.-* Wr.nlrC! 
Banks. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

294 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 15 
10/18/72 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
< 
SUBCHAPTER A —BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265--RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
Salaries 'of Federal Reserve Bank Officers 
In order to delegate to the Federal Reserve Banks authority 
t o G^fc salaries of certain Federal Reserve Bank officers, within 
C5fl-tain ranges and guidelines, the Board of Governors amends 
§ 265.2(f) of its Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority as follows: 
$ 265.2(f) Specific functions .delegated to Board employees and 
Fed era I Reserve Banks . 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(f) Each Federal Reserve Bank is authorized, as to member 
^ankfi or other indicated organizations headquartered in its district. 
0r under subparagraph (25) of this paragraph, as to its officers: 
"k 
vV 
'k 
"k 
-
(25) To set the salaries of its officers below the level — 
0j Senior. Vice Presidents (Salary Group A), excluding the General 
'A'udi.tor, within officer salary ranges approved and guidelines 
wUa^Ccuent.ly issued by the Board of Governors. 
The provisions of section 553 of title 5, United States 
relating to notice <md public participation, were not 
J°Howed in connection with the adoption of this amendment because 
rule? contained therein arc procedural in nature and accordingly 

2348 
not constitute substantive rules subject to the requirements 
Ruch section. 
Effective date: This amendment is effective January 1, 
1973. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 18, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michae1 A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

% } y r j [ 
Item No. 1 
n ! r i-i t 
RER_IENAt. R?esI•:RVE sYS*REM 
10/18/72 
WASHING"! ON, tJ. C. ?OStit 
v^.v- ." 
ornr.T: o ? THE VICE CHAIR MA 
October 10, 1972 
Robert P. Mayo, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Chicagoj Illinois 60690 
Dear Mr. Mayo; 
Governor Le Quang Uyen of the National Bank of Vietnam 
lias requested the System to provide technical aid in bank super-
v*-«ion to assist Inspector General Le. Ba Phuc for a period of 
fr-ur to six months. During my visit to Vietnam last year, I 
indicated to Governor Uyen that we would make every effort to 
Provide such technical assistance as he might require. 
The staff of the Board's Division of Supervision and 
^gUlntion has communicated with Senior Vice President Morrison 
ycur lank and we have- been in for nod that Examiner Ronald XL 
Wause is available foi ouch an assignment. Wn have, forwarded 
to Governor Uyor, a resume of Mr. Krause's experience and educa-
>>'renal background and he is acceptable to the National Bank. 
V;e would appreciate very much if your Bank could 
rciea«e Mr. K. reuse for this assignment. 
If you can make 
Krause available, we would also appreciate it if your Bank 
f:°'«ld arrange to send him to a short refresher course in French, 
Iiave discussed with Mr, Krausc his proficiency in French and 
^'plieve such a course would be of substantial benefit to him in 
1 
performance of his duties in Vietnam* 
Governoi: Uyen Las indicated orally that the National 
could be v.'illing to reimburse your Bank for the cost of; 
, room and board while Mr. Krause is on the assignment. 
voul d suggest that, you write to Governor Uyen directly to 
ti.io arrangement. His address is 17. Ben Chuong-Duong 
V!e appreciate very much your assistance in the matter. 
Sincerely, 
