FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
March 31. 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

1:0 <J 52 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, March 31, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shull, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Egertson, Lyon, and Schober, Assistant 
Directors, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Lynch, and Noble of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Ducy, Hanweck, and Lawrence, and Miss Berry 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Kline, Poundstone, and Weisel, 
and Miss Greene of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 

1033 
3/31/70 
-12-
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, 
Kansas City, and Dallas on March 26, 1970, of the rates on discounts 
and advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, 
with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those 
Banks. 
Trust Company of Georgia. A letter to Trust Company of Georgia, 
Atlanta, Georgia, approving the establishment of a branch in Nassau, 
Bahamas, was approved, Governor Robertson dissenting. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Reports on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to a report, for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of First National 
Bank of South Jersey, Egg Harbor Township, New Jersey, and The First 
National Bank of Williamstown, Williamstown, New Jersey. The conclu-
sion read as follows: 
A small amount of competition exists between First National 
Bank of South Jersey, Egg Harbor Township, and The First National 
Bank of Williamstown, and there is limited potential for increased 
competition between them. The overall effect of the proposed 
merger on competition would be slightly adverse. 
A draft of report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Bank of Sacra-
mento, Sacramento, California, into Security Pacific National Bank, 
Los Angeles, California, concluded that the effect on competition would 
be adverse. 

3/31/70 
-3-
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that it would be more 
accurate to classify the competitive effect as slightly adverse. 
Today's 
agenda also called for consideration of an application by Charter New 
York Corporation to acquire a bank in Ogdensburg, New York, and it seemed 
likely that the Board would act favorably. He believed the underlying 
situations were comparable, each involving an extension of market. 
Governor Daane also spoke in favor of a classification of slightly adverse 
Governor Maisel pointed out that the branch route, open to Security 
Pacific, was not available in the New York case. 
The report was then approved for transmittal to the Comptroller, 
Governors Mitchell and Daane dissenting, in a form in which the conclu-
sion read as follows: 
There is little, if any, competition existing between Bank 
of Sacramento and Security Pacific National Bank, Los Angeles; 
however, the latter institution has received permission to estab-
lish a branch in Sacramento and there is potential for a signifi-
cant increase in competition between proponents. California has 
a heavy concentration of banking resources in a small number of 
large banks and this transaction would increase slightly such 
concentration. 
Overall, the effect on competition would be adverse. 
Central Colorado Bancorp. The Board authorized the issuance 
of an order and statement reflecting approval on March 19, 1970, of 
the application of Central Colorado Bancorp, Inc., Colorado Springs, 
Colorado, to become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares 
of The Central Colorado Bank and The Academy Boulevard Bank, both in 
Colorado Springs, in addition to those of a bank in Rocky Ford already 
held. Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 2. 

f r \ 
I.UOiJ 
3/31/70 
-4-
Charter New York Corporation. After review of documentation 
that had been distributed, the Board unanimously approved an applica-
tion by Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire 
shares of Ogdensburg Trust Company, Ogdensburg, New York, and autho-
rized the issuance of an order and statement reflecting that decision. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 3. 
Charter Bankshares Corporation. A memorandum from the Divi-
sion of Supervision and Regulation dated March 19, 1970, and other 
pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with applications 
of Charter Bankshares Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire 
shares of The Commercial Bank of Gainesville, Gainesville, Florida; 
Citizens Bank of Lehigh Acres, Lehigh Acres, Florida; and The Exchange 
Bank of Palatka, Palatka, Florida. 
The applications were approved, Governor Robertson dissenting, 
and the issuance of orders and a statement was authorized. Copies of 
the orders, statement, and dissenting statement, as issued, are attached 
under Item No. 4. 
First Connecticut Bancorp. A memorandum dated March 25, 1970, 
from the Division of Supervision and Regulation had been distributed, 
along with other papers, including a State banking structure analysis 
by the Banking Markets Section, regarding the application of First 
Connecticut Bancorp, Inc., Hartford, Connecticut, to become a bank hold-
ing company through acquisition of shares of United Bank and Trust Company, 

103G 
3/31/70 
-5-
Hartford; The Simsbury Bank and Trust Company, Simsbury; and The New 
Britain National Bank, New Britain. Recommendations by the Board's 
staff were favorable. 
Governor "Maisel noted that Simsbury now qualified for home 
office protection under Connecticut law. 
If the Simsbury bank were 
merged, the area would be opened, whereas affiliation of the bank with 
a holding company system could keep the town permanently closed to 
branching by other banks. The staff had rested its favorable recommen-
dation in part on the fact that combination of the three relatively 
small banks would enable them to compete better with the two dominant 
Hartford banks, but a preferable alternative was available. The Board 
could approve the formation of a holding company by the other two pro-
ponent banks and indicate that it would have no objection to merger of 
the Simsbury bank into United Bank and Trust Company, thus releasing 
Simsbury from home office protection. 
Ensuing discussion dealt principally with the question whether 
Simsbury in fact constituted a separate market; although different 
approaches might be taken, the view of the Board's staff had been that 
the relevant market was comprised roughly of the City of Hartford and 
its surrounding area within fifteen miles, including the towns of New 
Britain and Simsbury. 
It was noted that there was some expectation 
that the home office protection rule would be removed by legislation in 
Connecticut; also that if the holding company application was approved, 

1037 
3/31/70 
-12-
the continued entitlement of home office protection in Simsbury might 
be challenged. 
Governor Daane commented that he found persuasive the argument 
that combination of the three relatively small banks to afford better 
competition to the two large banking organizations operating in the 
Hartford area would improve the structure of banking. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that the competitive factor 
was sufficiently adverse in this case as to preclude approval of the 
application unless offsetting benefits were found, and he did not be-
lieve they were present. 
No notable banking need was going unserved. 
The argument for combining smaller banks to provide better competition 
for large ones sometimes had force, but not where they competed with 
each other, as in this case, and were substantial, viable institutions. 
Governor Mitchell observed that although the issue of competi-
tion among the proponent banks had been cited in support of an adverse 
recommendation by two departments of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
the Board's Banking Markets Section believed that the elimination of 
competition was outweighed by the improvement in banking structure. He 
would approve on the basis of the banking structure argument and also 
because he did not agree with the definition of market area. 
In his 
view, two of the banks involved were essentially neighborhood banks 
and the third, United, did not serve the entire Hartford market. 
Governor Maisel stated that he would vote for disapproval because, 

1 x. 38 
3/31/70 
-7-
while the argument for creating a larger organization to compete with 
the two dominant banks ameliorated the adverse effect of eliminating 
competition among the smaller banks, that argument was not sufficient 
to offset the additional adverse factor of permitting an existing mono-
poly to be maintained in a given area (Simsbury). 
Governor Sherrill expressed himself in favor of the application 
because, while some local competition would be eliminated, he believed 
the offsetting benefits, Statewide and locally, were sufficient. 
Governor Robertson noted that the Bank Holding Company Act was 
not intended to promote situations in which all competitors were large 
institutions; it was based on the concept that small banks were also 
desirable and that there should be alternative banking sources. 
In the 
present case, two alternative sources would be eliminated, and he did 
not find any offsetting weight under the convenience and needs factor. 
The application was thereupon approved, Governors Robertson 
and Maisel dissenting. 
It was understood that an order and statement 
reflecting this decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration, 
and that dissenting statements also would be prepared. 
Interpretation of Regulation Z. Unanimous approval was given 
to an interpretation of Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, relating to the 
effect of reductions in the annual percentage rate. A copy of the inter-
pretation in the form in which it was sent to the Federal Register is 
attached under Item No. 5, together with a copy of the press release. 

1.039 
3/31/70 
-8-
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited attendance. 
Bank of the Commonwealth. 
On March 26, 1970, the Board con-
sidered a request by Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, that 
the Board withhold from the public record its reasons for denying the 
bank's applications to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to 
organize an Edge corporation. The Board concluded that it would not 
be appropriate to withhold the material in question. 
Governor Maisel then received a telephone call from an attorney 
for Bank of the Commonwealth expressing concern that press accounts based 
on the letter of denial would result in actual and potential damage to 
the bank. Representatives of the bank had scheduled a meeting with the 
Board's staff on Wednesday, April 1, regarding the general condition of 
the bank, and he wondered if anything could be done to withhold the 
letter until that time. Governor Maisel replied that the Board had con-
sidered the request carefully before reaching its decision. 
The attorney had called Governor Maisel again later, saying that 
Mr. Donald H. Parsons, Chairman of the Board of Bank of the Commonwealth, 
believed there was a major communications problem and wanted to know 
if it would be possible to meet with the Board. Governor Maisel replied 
that he had reservations whether a general discussion would be meaning-
ful. He believed that any meeting with Mr. Parsons should have a defi-
nite agenda. However, he would ask the Secretary of the Board to explore 
the question. 

1040 
3/31/70 
-12-
There was general agreement that the issues to be discussed at 
any meeting with Mr. Parsons should be defined at staff level in con-
ference with representatives of the bank, at which meeting an officer 
of the Chicago Reserve Bank also should be present. 
It might be advis-
able for members of the Board to meet with Mr. Parsons after the issues 
had been defined, but that could be decided later. 
In this connection, 
Bank of the Commonwealth representatives should be made clearly aware 
that the Board's concern was directed to the broader problem of manage-
ment practices followed generally by the bank rather than to the Nassau 
branch and Edge corporation applications specifically. 
Accordingly, it was agreed that the staff should proceed with 
the meeting scheduled for tomorrow, looking toward definition of issues, 
and that the Board would defer consideration of the request for a meet-
ing with Mr. Parsons. 
Reserve Bank salary policy. 
In a memorandum dated March 17, 
1970, the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans 
referred to the prospective Federal pay policy incorporated in the Presi-
dent's January 1970 Budget Message, under which the contemplated general 
increase in Federal employee salaries would be postponed from July 1970 
to January 1971. The Committee expressed the view that as long as such 
a Federal policy continued in effect, it would provide an appropriate 
guideline for Reserve Bank salary administration. 
The Reserve Banks 
should be informed as soon as possible because the surveys of community 

1041 
3/31/70 
-12-
salary levels on which requests for changes in Reserve Bank employee 
salary structures were based were conducted in most cases in the spring 
of the year. 
Governor Mitchell now stated that in view of the uncertainty 
concerning deferment of Federal employee salary increases in light of 
recent developments the Committee's present thinking was that the guide-
line in question should not be adopted with respect to the Reserve Banks 
until the situation became clearer. 
In any event, the Committee believed 
that an exception should be made for a proposed revision of the employee 
salary structure at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and its 
Helena Branch, which was based on a community survey conducted in late 
1969 and approval of which had been recommended in a memorandum dated 
March 25, 1970, from the Division of Personnel Administration. 
In response to a question, Governor Mitchell verified that the 
Committee felt that for the time being,at least, the Reserve Banks should 
be allowed to proceed with their usual community surveys. 
Chairman Burns expressed the view that the Federal Reserve Sys-
tem, including the Reserve Banks, should be guided by whatever policy 
stance the Federal Government adopted with respect to general pay increases 
at the present time; there should be no independent Federal Reserve policy. 
Mr. Johnson suggested that, if the Federal Government held firm 
and it was desired to apply a like policy within the Federal Reserve Sys-
tem, certain restrictions upon the Reserve Banks alternative to the course 

1 n / i # > 
JJo'i/w 
3/31/70 
-11-
proposed in the Committee memorandum might be more effective. 
At the conclusion of the discussion there was agreement that 
V * 
the question dealt with in the Committee memorandum would be held in 
abeyance. 
The revision of the employee salary structure at the Minnea-
polis Reserve Bank and its Helena Branch was approved unanimously. A 
copy of the letter informing the Reserve Bank is attached as Item No. 6. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Kenyon then 
withdrew. 
Reference was made to housing legislation pending before the 
Senate that included certain provisions, sponsored by Senator Proxmire, 
under which the Federal Reserve would be required to make available to 
the Federal Home Loan Bank System up to $3 billion a year at a low rate 
of interest. 
In reply to a question, Chairman Burns summarized conver-
sations he had had with members of the Congress and parties within the 
Administration looking toward the possibility of a compromise solution 
under which certain direct subsidies included in the bill would be in-
creased in return for elimination of the Proxmire provisions. While 
there was some sentiment within the Administration that this would not 
be necessary, Chairman Burns believed the possibility should be explored 
fully for use if circumstances required. To cover a point made to him 
by a member of the Senate, he had succeeded in having included in the 
President's recent letter to Senator Sparkman language indicating that 
if the compromise path were followed the Administration would recommend 
appropriations promptly. 

1043 
3/31/70 
-12-
In this general connection, question was raised whether consider-
ation should be given to reactivating before the Federal Open Market 
•s * 
Committee the matter of outright purchases of agency issues by the Open 
Market Account. 
Chairman Burns said that he had been reviewing the 
history of the matter, including the arguments that had been advanced 
pro and con. 
In his judgment, however, it would be inadvisable to ini-
tiate reconsideration of it at this particular time. 
Mr. Cardon had returned to the room and, in response to a ques-
tion, expressed the view that quite possibly the Senate Banking and 
Currency Committee would hold hearings on one-bank holding company legis-
lation beginning sometime in May. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that the Board might want to consider 
removing the ceiling rates on large-denomination CD's with maturities 
over six months, with an announcement that would include a statement to 
the effect that this would make it possible for banks to move on a larger 
scale in the mortgage field. After a brief discussion of this suggestion, 
it was stated that a staff memorandum dealing generally with ceiling rates 
was in process and should be available to the Board shortly. 
It was 
understood that the memorandum also would deal with the outstanding pro-
posals for regulation of bank-related commercial paper. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
1044 
Item No. 1 
3/31/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 31, 1970 
Trust Company of Georgia, 
Post Office Drawer 4418, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30302 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Trust Company of Georgia, Atlanta, 
Georgia, pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions 
of such Sections and of Regulation M. The foregoing permission is 
granted subject to any necessary approval of the Commissioner of 
Banking for the State of Georgia. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no con-
tact with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, 
staff, and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under 
contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of 
this operation, the foregoing permission is granted subject to 
continuing observation and review by the Board and after due 
notice may be withdrawn or modified. 
The foregoing permission 
is also granted on the condition that adequate information covering 
the branch's operations will be maintained at your head office and 
will be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the 
branch's methods of operation, including changes in any contract 
under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before April 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 

Trust Company of Georgia 
- 2 -
1045 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Re serve Bank of Atlanta, when the branch is opened for business 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Qc Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Section 
213„7 of Regulation M). The general purpose of these exemptions is 
to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States0 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign 
assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In 
view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
with the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United Statesc 
Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A„ Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1046 
Item No. 2 
3/31/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
x 
x 
WASHINGTON> D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CENTRAL COLORADO BANCORP, INC., 
Colorado Springs, Colorado, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 67 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Central Colorado Bank and 
The Academy Boulevard Bank, both in 
Colorado Springs, Colorado. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Central Colorado 
Bancorp, Inc., Colorado Springs, Colorado, for the Board's prior 
approval of action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of 67 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Central Colorado Bank and The Academy Boulevard Bank, 
both in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Applicant presently owns 71 per cent 
of the voting shares of The Rocky Ford National Bank, Rocky Ford, Colorado. 

1.047 
t.2-
• I . I 
I 
; 
: 
' ' 
1 As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave i 
written nokide oic receipt of the application to the Colorado State 
Bank Commissioner and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 23, 1969 (34 Federal Register 14710), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 31, 1970. 
Voting for this action: 
chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

hi 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
CENTRAL COLORADO BANCORP, INC.* COLORADO SPRINGS, COLORADO, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Central Colorado Bancorp, Inc., Colorado Springs, Colorado 
("Applicant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval 
of action to become a bank holding company. Applicant, which presently 
owns 71 per cent of the voting shares of The Rocky Ford National Bank, 
Rocky Ford, Colorado ("Rocky Ford Bank"), would become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of 67 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Central Colorado Bank ("Central Bank") and The Academy 
Boulevard Bank ("Academy Bank"), both in Colorado Springs, Colorado. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
receipt of the application to the Colorado State Bank Commissioner and 
requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner recommended 
approval of the application. 
Statutory consideration. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 

1049 
±2-
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 10 
largest banking organizations in Colorado, which include one out-of-state 
and all five of the State's registered bank holding companies, control 
62 per cent-^ of the total deposits held by all commercial banks 
in the State. The five largest, four of which are holding companies, 
control about 49 per cent of State deposits. Consummation of the proposal 
would create the State's smallest bank holding company, ranking twenty-first 
in size among the State's banking organizations, with .7 per cent of the 
State's total bank deposits. 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, and reflect all holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

1.050 
-3-
Central Bank ($19.6 million deposits) is the fourth largest 
and Academy Bank ($4.9 million deposits) is the twelfth largest of 
18 banks in El Paso County, the relevant market involved. The two 
banks are closely related through common ownership and control. In 1966, 
several shareholders of Central Bank organized Academy Bank as an 
affiliate to serve the banking needs of a new residential area known 
as Rustic Hills, located about three miles east of Central Bank. 
Shareholders owning 76 per cent of the shares of Academy Bank presently 
own 63 per cent of the shares of Central Bank. Together, the two banks 
control 9 per cent of county deposits. Although the areas served by 
the banks overlap, there is not, and never has been, meaningful 
competition between them because of the affiliation. Hence, consummation 
of the proposal would not eliminate any existing competition or reduce 
the number of meaningful banking alternatives. There is little 
likelihood of dissolution of the existing relationship in the foreseeable 
future, and it therefore does not appear that consummation of the proposal 
would foreclose significant potential competition. 
Rocky Ford Bank ($4.6 million deposits) is the larger of two 
banks in Rocky Ford, located about 100 miles southeast of Colorado 
Springs. 
si:: other banlx, one of which ic larger than Rocky Ford Ban!:, 
lare located 9 to IS miles from Rocky Ford, and compete to some e::tent 
in the area. Because of the distance involved and tha' fact that branching 
is prohibited under Colorado law, it does not appear that existing ' 
or potential competition between Rocky Ford Bank and either of the 

1.051 
other proposed subsidiaries vould be eliminated by Applicant's 
proposal. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly, 
nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States, 
and would not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend 
to create a monopoly in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and fnhire prospects. -
Applicant, organized in 1969, has only a short operating history. It 
projects that, in the event of approval of the application, it will issue 
additional stock to raise about $2 million in capital, which will be used 
to eliminate existing indebtedness and to augment the capital of the 
proposed subsidiaries. In view of these plans, its financial condition 
appears satisfactory, as does its recently strengthened management, and 
its prospects appear favorable. 
Central Bank's present financial condition is generally 
satisfactory, and would be improved by a planned increase of $200,000 
in its capital. Recent personnel changes have provided satisfactory 
management, and its prospects appear favorable. 
The financial condition of Academy Bank is fairly satisfactory, 
and the bank has taken steps to improve the quality of management. Its 
prospects are considered satisfactory. 

45-
•i • 
The financial condition, management, and prospects of RCcky 
Ford Bank are fair. The bank has some weaknesses, tracing to its 
operation under previous owners, which might be more easily corrected 
by consummation of Applicant's proposal. 
The banking factors as they relate to Applicant, its present 
subsidiary and proposed subsidiaries are consistent with approval of the 
application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
population of Colorado Springs has more than tripled during the last 
20 years. The economy of the region is dependent primarily on the 
military and on tourism, but manufacturing has been growing in importance 
Rocky Ford is located in one of the richest agricultural areas 
in the Arkansas Valley. There is a large demand for agricultural loans 
and for credit for emerging cattle feeder businesses. 
By drawing on the expertise of Central Bank in mortgage lending 
Academy Bank will be able to offer such services to its expanding area 
more conveniently than they can be provided by downtown banks. Central 
Bank is the only one of the proposed subsidiary banks which offers trust 
services, and it does so only on a very limited basis. The affiliation 
of the three banks would make more feasible the hiring of a full-time 
trust officer, and trust services might thereby be provided at all 
three subsidiaries. Improvements in capital proposed by Applicant would 
lead to increased lending limits of the banks, and their ability 

1(553 
to make larger loans would be increased by the greater facility which 
the affiliation would provide in arranging participations among them. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
areas lend some weight in favor of approval of Applicant's proposal. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
action would be in the public interest and that the application should 
be approved. 
March 31, 1970. 

1054 
Item No. 3 
3/31/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CHARTER NEW YORK CORPORATION, 
1 
New York, New York, 
for approval of acquisition of all 
of the voting shares of Ogdensburg 
Trust Company, Ogdensburg, New York. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF 
BANK STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Charter New York Corporation, New 
York, New York, a registered bank holding company, for the Board!s prior 
approval of the acquisition of all of the voting shares of Ogdensburg 
Trust Company, Ogdensburg, New York. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the New York Superintendent of Banks of receipt of the subject applica-
tion and requested his views and recommendation. The Superintendent 
indicated that he favored approval of the application. 

I 
j.055 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 27, 1970 (35 Federal Register 3846), which 
provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the United Stated Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Boards 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 31, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

J05G 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
CHARTER NEW YORK CORPORATION FOR APPROVAL OF 
THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
OGDENSBURG TRUST COMPANY, OGDENSBURG, NEW YORK 
STATEMENT 
Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 
for prior approval of the acquisition of all of the voting shares of 
Ogdensburg Trust Company, Ogdensburg, New York ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Superintendent 
of Banks for the State of New York of receipt of the application and re-
quested his views and recommendation thereon. In view of his coordinate 
responsibilities under New York law, the Superintendent did not comment 
directly to the Board. The New York State Banking Board, however, advised 
the Board of its action, consistent with a recommendation of the Super-
intendent (a copy of which was also provided to the Board), approving 
an application with respect to the same transaction pursuant to provisions 
of the New York Banking Law. 

1.057 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acqui-
sition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the transaction are 
clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the 
transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into considera-
tion the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the 
bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant 
controls $4.5 billion^ in deposits and is the eighth largest banking 
organization and the third largest bank holding company in the State of 
New York. Its eight subsidiary banks account for 5.6 per cent of the 
State's total deposits, and are located in the Second, Third, Fourth, 
Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, and Ninth Banking Districts of the State of 
New York. 
1/ Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of June 30, 1969, 
refer to insured commercial banks, and reflect holding company acqui-
sitions and mergers approved by supervisory authorities to date. 

1.0 
Applicant's largest subsidiary bank is Irving Trust Company, 
which has deposits of $4 billion and is the seventh largest bank in 
New York City. Its other present subsidiary banks are The Merchants 
National Bank and Trust Company, Syracuse ($186 million deposits); 
Endicott Trust Company, Endicott ($61 million deposits); Dutchess Bank 
and Trust Company, Poughkeepsie ($34 million deposits); Scarsdale 
National Bank, Scarsdale ($6G million deposits); Fulton County National 
Bank and Trust Company of Gloversville, Gloversville ($24 million 
deposits); and Citizens Central Bank, Arcade ($34 million deposits). 
It recently received Board approval to acquire shares of The Central 
Trust Company, Rochester, which will have about $158 million in deposits, 
after divesting deposits of $38 million to a new competing bank, as 
required under the Board's Order approving that proposal. 
Bank ($23 million deposits) is the only bank headquartered in 
Ogdensburg, New York. It is the second largest of 12 banks headquartered 
in St. Lawrence County and the fifth largest of the 25 commercial banks 
in the Fifth Banking District. The bank operates two offices, the main 
office in Ogdensburg and a branch in St. Regis Falls, Franklin County. 
None of Applicant's subsidiary banks is located in the Fifth 
Banking District, and no subsidiary of Applicant has an office located 
within 120 miles of any of Bank's offices. Deposit and loan overlap 
between Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries is minimal. Acquisition of 
Bank by Applicant, therefore, would not eliminate existing competition. 
Neither does it appear that significant potential competition would be 

foreclosed by the proposal, bearing in mind the size of the Bank and the 
fact that New York law prohibits any of Applicant's subsidiaries from 
establishing a branch within Bank's service area or elsewhere ih the 
Fifth Banking District. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. - The 
financial condition of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank is con-
sidered satisfactory. All have competent management, and their prospects 
appear favorable. 
These considerations are consistent with approval of the 
present application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Bank's 
service area is largely rural. The Fifth Banking District is a four-
county area adjacent to the Canadian border in upstate New York. It is 
the least populated area of the State, with only five cities with pop-
ulations exceeding 10,000. Although Ogdensburg (population 16,000) is 
the only U. S. seaport on the St. Lawrence River, it has derived little 
economic benefit from its location. Its principal industry is dairy 
farming. However, the City of Ogdensburg is presently designated for a 

large-scale urban renevzal project, as well as a deep water marine dock 
and terminal, and an improved highway system. These improvements, among 
others, should help attract new industry into the area. The rejuvenation 
of the area will necessitate an increase in banking resources and services, 
and Applicant's proposal should assist Bank in meeting these changing needs 
of the area. Among the services which Applicant proposes to institute or 
expand at Bank are municipal financing, personal and corporate trust 
services, complex credit arrangements, and consumer and floor-plan lending. 
Applicant would also assist Bank in improving internal operations, in 
recruiting and training executive management, and in expanding its geo-
graphical coverage. International operations, xjhich are virtually 
nonexistent in the area, would likewise become available, which will be 
necessary if Ogdensburg is to expand its seaport facility. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
area are consistent v/ith, and provide some support for, approval of the 
application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the application 
should be approved. 
March 31, 1970. 

1.0 CJ1 
Item No. 4 
3/31/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
x > 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CHARTER BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
of the voting shares of The Commercial Bank of 
Gainesville, Gainesville, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has cone before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regu-
lation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Charter Bankshares Corporation, 
Jacksonville, Florida, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Commercial Bank of Gainesville, Gainesville, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
Florida Commissioner of Banking of receipt of the application and requested 
his views and recommendation. The Commissioner recommended that the appli-
cation be approved. 

1.062 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 27, 1969 (34 Federal Register 13994), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition of approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board,or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 31, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1 u{>3 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CHARTER BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
1 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 52 per cent or more1 
of the voting shares of Citizens Bank of 
1 
Lehigh Acres, Lehigh Acres, Florida. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve! Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Charter Bankshares Corporation, 
Jacksonville, Florida, a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 52 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of Citizens Bank of Lehigh Acres, Lehigh Acres, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Florida Commissioner of Banking of receipt of the application and 
requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner recommended 
that the application be approved. 

1.064 
-2* 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 27, 1969 (34 Federal Register 18994), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 31, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kdnncth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1065 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
CHARTER BANICSHARES CORPORATION, 
1 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 52 per cent or more1 
of the voting shares of The Exchange Bank of 
' 
Palatka, Palatka, Florida, 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1342(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of the Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Charter Bankshares Corporation, 
Jacksonville, Florida, a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 52 per cent or more of 
the voting shares of The Exchange Bank of Palatka, Palatka, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Florida Commissioner of Banking of receipt of the application and 
requested his vieus and recommendation. The Commissioner recommended 
that the application be approved. 

1066 
-5-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 27, 1969 (34 Federal Register 18994), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Boardfs 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Beard of Governors, March 31> 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell,,Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer: 
(Signed) Kenneth.. A # Kenyon. 
Kenneth A. ICenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1067 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
x 
x 
APPLICATIONS BY 
CHARTER BANICSHARES CORPORATION, JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF THE 
COMMERCIAL BANK OF GAINESVILLE, GAINESVILLE; CITIZENS 
BANK OF LEHIGH ACRES, LEHIGH ACRES; AND 
THE EXCHANGE BANK OF PALATKA, PALATKA, 
ALL IN THE STATE OF FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Charter Bankshares Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to 
the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior 
approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Commercial Bank of Gainesville ("Commercial Bank"), and 
52 per cent or more of the voting shares of Citizens Bank of Lehigh Acres, 
Lehigh Acres ("Citizens Bank"), and The Exchange Bank of Palatka 
("Exchange Bank"), all in Florida. Each of the applications has 
been separately considered and ie the subject of a separate Board 
Order. However, since certain facts and circumstances are common 
to all three applications, this Statement contains the Board's 
findings and conclusions with respect to each of the applications. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Florida 

1068 
-5-
Commissioner of Banking of receipt of the applications and requested 
his views and recommendations thereon. The Commissioner recommended 
that all three applications be approved. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, 
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
to lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or which in any 
other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. In 
each case the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transactions. - Applicant 
has six subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits of $197 million, 
1.7 per cent of the State total.Acquisition of Commercial Bank 
($7.1 million deposits), Citizens Bank ($8.4 million deposits), and 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, adjusted to reflect bank 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

1069 
-4-
Exchange Bank ($5.5 million deposits) would increase the deposits under 
Applicant's control to 1.9 per cent of the State total. It would 
remain the eleventh largest banking organization in the State of 
Florida. 
Commercial Bank and Exchange Bank are located 46 miles apart; 
Citizens Bank is 260 miles from Commercial Bank and 269 miles from 
Exchange Bank. None of Applicant's six present subsidiaries is located 
within 70 miles of any of the proposed subsidiaries. Consummation of 
the acquisitions would not eliminate existing competition, and, in view 
of the distances involved and the prohibition of branching in Florida, 
it does not appear that potential competition would be foreclosed. 
Commercial Bank is the smallest of five banks in Gainesville 
(population 63,000), which is located in Alachua County. The service 
area of Commercial Bank is coextensive with the city limits. Its three 
largest competitors ($22 million to $39 million deposits) are subsidiaries 
of bank holding companies; the other bank in the city is an independent 
bank with $9 million in deposits. 
Citizens Bank is the only bank in Lehigh Acres (population 
6,750), a retirement community in Lee County. Eight other banks, five 
of which are larger than Citizens Bank, are located in Lee County, but 
Citizens Bank serves a localized area, and none of the other banks are 
located within 15 miles. 
Exchange Bank serves an area within 4 radius of five miles 
of its office in Palatka (population 12,200), Putnam County. A much 

1070 
-4-
larger bank ($18.8 million deposits), located one-quarter mile east 
of Exchange Bank, is a subsidiary of a bank holding company. The 
only other bank in Putnam County is a slightly larger independent 
bank ($6.7 million deposits), located outside the service area of 
Exchange Bank. 
In the case of each of the subject proposals, it appears that 
Applicant's acquisition of the bank involved would tend to increase 
local competition, without adversely affecting the viability or 
competitive effectiveness of any other institution. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisitions would not result in a 
monopoly or be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
relevant area. Neither does it appear likely that such consummation 
would substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, 
or restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition and management of Applicant and its present 
subsidiary banks are regarded as reasonably satisfactory, in the 
light of the considerations set forth in the Board's Statement of 
March 12, 1970, approving applications by Applicant to acquire The 
First National Bank in St. Petersburg, The Harbor City National Bank 
of Eau Gallie, and First National Beach Bank, Jacksonville Baaci. 

1.071 
-5-
All three of the proposed subsidiary banks have some financial 
and management weaknesses which Applicant could assist in correcting 
through the proposed affiliation. Prospects of the banks would thereby 
be improved. 
These considerations weigh in favor of approval of the three 
applications. 
Convenience and_ needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of Applicant's proposals would not significantly affect 
the convenience or needs of the communities served by its present 
subsidiaries. 
Affiliation with a larger organization could assist each of 
the proposed subsidiaries in providing expanded and improved banking 
services. Gainesville Bank would be enabled to compete more fully 
with larger banks in its area in providing mortgage services. It is 
proposed that Citizens Bank, the only bank in its area, would offer 
trust services, initially on a part-time basis, to the retirement 
community which it serves. Exchange Bank has had a history of management 
difficulties, the resolution of which, as anticipated under the proposed 
affiliation, will permit the bank to play a greater role in meeting 
the Palatka area's growing commercial needs. 
These considerations provide additional support for approval 
of the applications. 

1.072 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the records, and in the light of the factors set forth 
in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed transactions would be in the public interest, and that the 
applications should be approved. 
March 31, 1970. 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
1073 
I dissented from the Board's recent actions approving 
applications filed by Applicant (1970 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
March 12, 1970), on the grounds that Applicant had not established, 
in the light of its relationships with non-banking corporations, that 
its expansion would be in the public interest. No additional evidence 
on that issue favorable to Applicant is presented in the records on the 
three present applications, and I would therefore deny these applications 
for the same reason. 
March 31,1970. 

• 
•. • ... • . ;.:,„ 
—^^a^-v^s*^^ 
/ 
r . 
.
1 
• • f ^ L R r . f : . * 
Item No. 5 
3/31/70 
For immediate release 
March 31, IS70. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today issued 
the attached interpretation of one provision in its Truth in Lending Regulation 
Z. The interpretation specifics that when the annual percentage rate on 
outstanding credit is reduced, but other credit terms remain the same, the 
new rate may be provided to the customer without making a complete new set 
of disclosures. 
-0-

1075 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(Reg. z) 
PART 226--TRUTH IN LENDING 
Reduction in Annual Percentage Rate 
§ 22.6.817 Reduction in annual percentage rate 
(a) Section 226.8(j) specifies that if any existing extension 
of credit is refinanced, such transaction shall be considered a new trans-
action subject to the disclosure requirements of Regulation Z. The question 
arises as to whether a reduction in the annual percentage rate applicable 
to an existing extension of credit, when no other credit terms are changed, 
constitutes a refinancing under § 226.8(j), 
(b) When no other credit terms are changed, a reduction in the 
annual percentage rate applicable to an existing extension of credit does 
not constitute a refinancing under § 226.8(j), and no disclosures are required. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1630 and 15 U.S.C. 1639) 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 31, 1970. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

-• 
' * < * 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
n p T H E 
I t e m No. 6 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
3/31/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS DFF'CIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
.f^Ti^f:-' 
March 31, 1970 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
Dear Mr. Galusha: 
As requested in Mr. Strothman's letter of March 12, 1970 
the Board of Governors approves the following minimum and maximum 
salaries for the respective grades of the employees' salary struc-
ture at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and Helena Branch, 
effective April 1, 1970. 
Grade 
Minimum 
Maximum 
2 
$ 3,500 
$ 4,700 
3 
3,750 
5,050 
4 
• 4,100 
5,500 
5 
4,500 
6,000 
6 
5,000 
6,700 
7 
5,650 
7,550 
8 
6,400 
8,600 
9 
7,200 
9,700 
10 
8,050 
10,850 
11 
9,000 
12,100 
12 
10,000 
13,500 
13 
11,150 
14,950 
14 
12,300 
16,500 
15 
13,500 
18,200 
16 
14,900 
20,000 
The Board approves the payment of salaries to employees 
within the limits specified for the grades in which their respective 
positions are classified. All employees whose salaries are below 
the minimum of their grades as a result of this structure increase 
should be brought within appropriate ranges by July 1, 1970. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
