" . • ' 1/ 
I
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 3, 1969 

15 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, January 3, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 1/ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 2/ 
Mr. Bernard of the Office of the Secretary 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials used in connection therewith have 
been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Brill 
and Sammons then withdrew from the meeting. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on December 30, 1968, by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Minneapolis on December 31, 1968, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and San Francisco on January 2, 1969, 
1/ Attended morning session only. 
±J Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

16 
1/3/69 
_2_ 
of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Call for condition reports. Under the procedure prescribed 
by statute the close of business Tuesday, December 31, 1968, had been 
selected as the date for the fourth call for reports of condition to 
be made by insured banks within the calendar year 1968. The call was 
to be announced on Monday, January 6, 1969. 
In accordance with the usual practice a telegram had been sent 
to all Federal Reserve Banks on January 2, 1969, advising that a call 
for reports of condition by State member banks as of the close of 
business December 31, 1968, should be made at a specified time on forms 
furnished with the Board's letter of December 23, 1968. 
The sending of the telegram was ratified by unanimous vote. 
Messrs. Broida and Bernard withdrew at this point and the 
following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Messrs. Doyle, Heyde, and Noble of the Legal 
Division 
Mr. Wiles of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Goodfellow, and Rumbarger of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Foreign branch application. 
Exchange National Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois, had applied for permission to establish a branch in 

17 
1/3/69 
_3_ 
Tel Aviv, Israel. As reported in a memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated December 27, 1968, the Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency recommended that the application be denied. 
The same recommendation was made by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
and by the Board's staff, principally because of the applicant bank's 
somewhat less than satisfactory capital position and the bank's lack of 
demonstrated expertise in international banking operations. 
If the 
Board also concluded that the application should not be approved, the 
staff suggested that the applicant bank be afforded an opportunity to 
withdraw the application. 
In discussion it was noted that progress apparently was being 
made by the bank in eliminating certain management and loan problems 
and a certain degree of sympathy with the application was indicated. 
However, it was generally agreed that the application should not be 
approved at this time. It was understood that arrangements would be 
made for representatives of the Comptroller of the Currency and the 
Chicago Reserve Bank to discuss the situation with the bank and suggest 
that the application be withdrawn, but with indication that if certain 
steps were taken and the application was then resubmitted, it might 
receive favorable consideration. 
Foreign banking matters. A letter to Morgan Guaranty International 
Banking Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent to its proposed 
acquisition of shares of Epargne-Interessement, to be formed in Paris, 
France, was approved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 

1 8 
1/3/69 
_4_ 
A letter to Bank of America, New York, New York, granting it 
permission to continue to hold the stock of Banco Intercontinental 
Espanol, Madrid, Spain, after acquisition by the latter of shares of 
Cervezas de Santander, S.A., Santander, Spain, was approved unanimously. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
Denver U.S. Bancorporation. Denver U.S. Bancorporation, Inc., 
Denver, Colorado, had applied for approval of its proposed acquisition 
of shares of The Poudre Valley National Bank of Fort Collins, Fort Collins, 
Colorado. Denial was recommended by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
City, principally on the ground that consummation of the transaction 
would foreclose potential competition between the Fort Collins Bank and 
applicant's subsidiary bank located in Greeley. Approval was recommended 
by the Board's staff because concentration of banking resources among 
large organizations would be increased only by a small amount at the 
State level, no banking alternatives in Larimer County or in Fort Collins 
would be eliminated, and it was believed that the Fort Collins bank and 
applicant's bank in Greeley would not be likely to compete significantly 
in the foreseeable future. 
The case was discussed in preliminary fashion, and it developed 
that the positions of the Board members were mixed. Two members (Governors 
Daane and Sherrill) concurred generally in the analysis by the Board's 
staff and favored approval of the application. Two other members 
(Governors Robertson and Maisel) were inclined toward denial, principally 
because they had qualms about the trend in the State of Colorado toward 

15) 
1/3/69 
-5-
a banking structure dominated by a relatively few large holding company 
systems according to a pattern under which no clear guidelines had been 
established. 
The remaining members (Governors Mitchell and Brimmer) 
indicated that they would like to have additional information before 
reaching a judgment. Governor Mitchell stated that if the majority of 
the Board was inclined toward denial he hoped that an oral presentation 
could be held before the matter was finally decided. He also expressed 
interest in having more information on what effect it appeared that 
consummation of the transaction might have in the meeting of agricultural 
credit requirements in the area concerned. Governor Brimmer indicated 
that he would like to have up-to-date information on the status of an 
expansion project reportedly being planned by Eastman Kodak for location 
in Windsor, a community about equidistant from Fort Collins and Greeley, 
since he believed that that would have a bearing on whether, as the 
Reserve Bank suggested, approval of the application would result in the 
elimination of a significant potential competitor to the Greeley subsidiary 
of the applicant holding company. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the case was referred back 
to the staff for development of information responsive to the questions 
raised by Governors Mitchell and Brimmer and also for further analysis 
in light of the banking structure questions raised by Governors Robertson 
and Maisel. 
It was understood also that the staff would communicate to 
the applicant the nature of the questions that had been raised by Board 
members and by the Reserve Bank so that applicant would have an opportunity 
to submit additional information if it so desired. 

24 
1/3/69 
_6_ 
Processing of holding company applications. A member of the 
Board (Governor Brimmer) referred to the amount of time that was being 
taken in the processing of applications by bank holding companies and 
suggested that a Board member be designated to work with the staff in 
an effort to devise procedures for expediting the handling of such appli-
cations. After a brief discussion, Governor Sherrill was requested to 
follow through on the problem on behalf of the Board. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff attendance, 
including Mr. Via of the Legal Division. 
Bank Protection Act. The Bank Protection Act of 1968, which 
was signed July 7, 1968, contained a requirement that the respective 
Federal supervisory agencies issue regulations within six months. 
Governor Robertson referred to the steps that had been taken thus far, 
including publication of a draft Board regulation in November and 
distribution to Board members of a revised draft regulation prepared in 
the light of comments received. He indicated that he intended to bring 
the subject up for full discussion next Monday, with the hope of reaching 
a Board decision at that time, but he invited preliminary discussion 
today since it appeared that at least one Board member who was present 
today would not be present on Monday. 
Governor Maisel stated that in reviewing the material made 
available to the Board members, including the summary and samples of 
comments received and the revised draft regulation, he had marked down 
a number of questions to which he had thus far been unable to obtain 

1/3/69 
- 7-
answers that he considered satisfactory. 
In the circumstances, Governor 
Robertson suggested that there be another meeting of the Board this 
afternoon to deal with such questions, and there was agreement with his 
suggestion. 
Governor Robertson went on to describe the course of negotiations 
with respect to the proposed regulation. He advised that the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board was prepared to issue a regulation in substantially 
the same form as the revised draft prepared by the Board's staff, but 
that such a regulation was not acceptable to the Comptroller of the 
Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Those agencies 
had prepared a different type of regulation, copies of which would be 
sent to the Board members, but in his (Governor Robertson's) opinion it 
was not adequate to comply with the statute, particularly insofar as it 
dealt with the establishment of minimum standards for security devices 
and procedures. 
Governor Mitchell, who indicated that he would not be present at 
the session this afternoon or at the meeting next Monday, expressed the 
view that it was highly important for all of the agencies to issue uniform 
regulations and that differences such as reported by Governor Robertson 
must be compromised in some way. He believed that the regulations issued 
initially should be of a temporary character and that it should be 
contemplated that they would be modified later. Beyond that, he had no 
strong feeling except that he felt some effort should be made to classify 
banks according to the degree of risk inherent in their locations, with 
standards set accordingly. 

1/3/69 
-8-
Governor Sherrill also spoke of the need that he saw in this 
instance for the issuance of uniform regulations by the respective agencies. 
This led to the question whether the issuance of a Board regulation on 
Monday was mandatory, and the General Counsel expressed the opinion that 
for a variety of reasons some short delay might be justified. 
Governor 
Daane then indicated that he concurred in the views stated by Governors 
Mitchell and Sherrill with regard to the desirability of reaching inter-
agency agreement on uniform regulations and suggested that if necessary 
the Board might arrange to meet with the Comptroller and the directors of 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in an effort to resolve differences. 
Governor Robertson described the problems that appeared to be 
involved in resolving those differences without retreating to a greater 
extent than he and members of the Board's staff thought would be justified 
in light of the provisions of the statute and the legislative history. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the record revealed 
adequate consultation, not only with the other supervisory agencies but 
also with the Department of Justice and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
and that in the circumstances the Board would be justified in going ahead 
in its best judgment with the issuance of a regulation. 
After further discussion along those lines, during which Governor 
Robertson advised that a draft of press release announcing the issuance 
of a Board regulation would be made available to the Board members, the 
meeting recessed and reconvened at 3:00 p.m. with Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill present. 
Staff members in attendance 

24 
1/3/69 
_9_ 
included Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Forrestal, Molony, Coyne, Nichols, 
Hexter, Solomon, and Via. Messrs. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel; 
Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation; and 
Bouck, Consultant, also were present. 
The discussion with regard to the issuance of regulations imple-
menting the Bank Protection Act continued with a presentation by Governor 
Maisel of several questions of concern to him. 
The first set of questions had to do generally with whether it 
was necessary that definitions and minimum standards be spelled out so 
specifically as in the proposed Board regulation. 
It appeared to him 
(Governor Maisel) that the specification of minimum standards for vaults 
and security devices might inadvertently have the effect of impeding the 
advancement of technology in the field of bank security by tying the 
banking system to obsolete equipment. There was also the related question 
whether the specified devices and procedures could be proved to represent 
in fact the most effective deterrents to crimes against banks. While he 
recognized that an effort had been made to provide an element of flexibility 
in the Board regulation through inclusion of a provision under which 
waivers could be applied for in cases where banks felt that their existing 
security systems compared satisfactorily with the minimum specifications 
set forth in the regulation, he wondered whether the language of the 
regulation could not be adjusted and made more general, with the result 
that the waiver procedure would no longer be required. 

24 
1/3/69 
_10_ 
Governor Robertson and the staff replied to those questions in 
terms that the specifications set forth in the proposed regulation were 
about the minimum that could be justified to carry out what they interpreted 
to be the intent of the statute. They noted that at several places the 
language of the published draft regulation had been adjusted to introduce 
additional flexibility, particularly by the use of words such as "or the 
equivalent", and also that banks would be required to meet the regulatory 
standards pertaining to facilities only for new construction. They pointed 
out further that representatives of the insurance and equipment industries 
had been critical of the specified minimum standards on the ground that 
they were too lenient. 
Governor Sherrill commented that his principal concern arose from 
the thought that not enough information was available at this stage to 
judge the cost impact of the new regulation on State member banks or the 
extent of the administrative burden that would be imposed. This problem, 
he felt, was particularly acute if equal requirements were not to be imposed 
on all elements of the banking system. In the circumstances, he would be 
inclined, for interim purposes at least, to accept a regulation along the 
lines of the draft prepared by the Comptroller of the Currency and the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, provided they would agree to the 
use of the so-called P-l form, through which banks would be required to 
file an inventory of their security devices. 
It was his view that only 
after study of those reports could the problem be approached satisfactorily. 

1/3/69 
-11-
The staff then was asked whether it believed that any of the 
requirements of the proposed regulation could reasonably be dropped at 
this stage. Mr. Bouck replied that the regulation would then be weaker 
and less responsive to the law, as he interpreted it. In his judgment 
the requirements contained in the regulation were the minimum that should 
be included according to his understanding of the intent of the Congress. 
Mr. Via observed that the period provided for compliance with the regu-
latory requirements could be lengthened, but he doubted whether that 
would be advisable. 
Governor Maisel's next set of questions had to do with the waiver 
provision. He recalled that in commenting on the published draft regu-
lation a number of bankers had expressed the view that that provision 
would be of no great benefit, and apparently there was a good deal of 
misunderstanding concerning it. On that point Governor Robertson brought 
out that the whole procedure had been changed in the revised draft regu-
lation so that requests for waivers would now be granted automatically, 
subject to revocation. 
Bankers with whom he had talked concerning the 
revised procedure appeared to be satisfied with it. 
Governor Maisel indicated that he continued to have misgivings 
and said he would prefer to avoid the use of the word "waiver" by substi-
tuting a procedure under which a bank could measure itself against minimum 
security standards outlined in the regulation and then write to the Federal 
Reserve for an opinion if it did not meet the standards outlined but felt 

£6 
1/3/69 
-12-
its protection was adequate in light of the general purpose of the 
regulation and the intent of the law. 
There followed a discussion at the instance of Governor Sherrill 
with regard to problems that might arise if a very substantial number of 
banks applied for waivers or, on the other hand, if some banks applied 
for waivers while other banks similarly situated refrained from making 
such a request and instead installed new equipment or procedures. 
Governor Maisel's third principal question had to do with the 
desirability of achieving uniformity in the regulations of the respective 
agencies, if possible, and it was suggested by some Board members that it 
would be better for the Board not to rush to a final decision on Monday 
if a short delay would improve the prospect of uniformity among the 
agencies. Mr. Hexter expressed the view that the requirement of the 
statute would be met if a Board regulation were issued on Tuesday, and 
Governor Robertson then suggested that the Board look forward to further 
discussion of the subject on Tuesday rather than on Monday. 
In the meantime, 
he said, he would inform the other supervisory agencies that the Board 
would not be issuing a regulation on Monday, he would brief Chairman Martin 
on the status of the matter, and he would attempt to obtain a reaction 
from the Justice Department with regard to the draft regulation proposed 
hy the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpo-
ration. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

27 
itIpf 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
1/3/69 
A O D R T S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R D 
January 3, 1969. 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Banking Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of October 8, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for 
your Corporation to purchase and hold 20 per cent of the shares 
of Epargne-Interessement, Paris, France, at a cost of approximately 
$46,000, provided 10 per cent is invested within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of 
New York, and Morgan Guaranty International Finance Corporation, 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities con-
tained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

8 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R B 
OF THE 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/3/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 3, 19 69. 
Bank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 
10004 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of October 15, 1968, the Board of Governors 
grants its consent for your Corporation to continue to 
hold the stock of Banco Intercontinental Espanol ("BIE"), 
Madrid, Spain, after BIE acquires 48,000 shares of 
Cervezas de Santander, S.A., Santander, Spain, at a cost 
of approximately $425,000, provided the shares are ac-
quired within one year from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
