MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 22, 1970 

1.864 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Monday, June 22, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 9:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
.-V'llUV ;).»)•<• it," .. 
. r 
J", • : 
: • ... 
.•: • •" 
<J ' . ! ' 
4 
Messrs. Morris, Eastburn, Hickman, Heflin, 
Kimbrel, Francis, Clay, Coldwell, and 
Swan, Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, 
Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas City, 
Dallas, and San Francisco, respectively 
Messrs. 
Treiber, Baughman, and Strothman, 
First Vice Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Chicago, and 
Minneapolis, respectively 
<>v •,;..11• 

1865 
6/22/70 
-2-
There were distributed copies of a paper entitled Possible 
Repercussions in Financial Markets of Failure of Penn Central that 
had been prepared by Mr. Treiber under today's date. The paper read 
as follows: 
Failure of Penn Central 
The Penn Central Transportation Company has found it necessary to 
file a petition for reorganization under section 77 of the Bankruptcy 
Act. Up until Friday afternoon it was expected, or at least hoped, 
that there would be a V-loan by a group of banks, guaranteed 100 per 
cent by the Department of the Navy. The loan would have provided 
temporary financial relief for the company pending enactment of legis-
lation that would enable the Department of Transportation to provide 
longer-term and additional financing. 
But Friday afternoon the Defense 
Department decided that the guarantee should not be made. The petition 
for reorganization was filed yesterday. 
One of the immediate causes of the financial crisis of Penn Central 
Was its inability to refinance maturing commercial paper which it had 
issued. A few months ago it had $200 million of commercial paper out-
standing. Holders of $100 million of maturing paper wanted cash and 
they got it. The banks would not extend further credit to the company 
without a 100 per cent guarantee. 
g** " 
t J..., 
- 
* • 
Commercial paper market 
Now, what will happen in the commercial paper market? There is 
about $40 billion of such paper outstanding, of which $7.5 billion has 
b een issued by affiliates of banks. The bank-related paper and an 
additional $19 billion of finance company paper has been placed directly 
With purchasers. The balance of $13 billion has been sold through 
dealers. 
Some issuers of commercial paper have adequate lines of credit 
With banks that would enable the issuer to obtain bank credit to pay 
°ff maturing paper. Some issuers have only limited bank lines, and 
some issuers may have no bank lines. 
p^ic, 
Commercial paper customarily has short maturities. We have been 
told that the finance company paper has an average maturity of 25 days. 
A large part of the paper placed by dealers probably matures within a 
c°uple of months, although the maturity of some may be several months 

1 8 6 8 
6/22/70 
-3-
away. In addition, it has been the practice of many finance companies 
to pay their commercial paper in advance of maturity if an organization 
which has made a practice of buying the company's paper feels it has an 
unexpected need for cash. Thus some holders of finance company paper 
may view the paper as payable on demand if they want to ask for immediate 
payment. The commercial paper market is quite impersonal; most holders 
feel no restraint about demanding payment on maturity. 
Thus, with a record volume of commercial paper, most of which has 
short maturities, the demand for cash could be enormous if holders of 
the paper lose confidence in the issuers. 
We may assume that with the announcement of the Penn Central 
failure, holders of commercial paper will be analyzing their positions 
and appraising the credit-worthiness of each issuer and its ability to 
Pay. 
Some holders may decide not to renew the paper at maturity. 
Some 
issuers may perhaps sell new paper to other persons. But some issuers 
won't be able to do this; they will turn to the banks to borrow in order 
to pay their paper. Those that have adequate credit lines will get the 
money from their banks, putting the banks under some strain. 
Those that 
don't have adequate bank lines will scramble to get bank credit; and 
some of them may not get it. 
Such developments in the commercial paper market could put upward 
Pressure on commercial paper rates, with some transmission of that 
Pressure to rates on other types of obligations. 
With a high demand for bank credit there will be a great need for 
banks to get additional reserves to support the deposits created by 
the additional loans. It is hard to judge the extent of the demand for 
uank credit. 
It is likely 
to be very large by any standards. 
One 
estimate envisages a demand for $7-$10 billion of cash for issuers of 
commercial paper to take up their paper on maturity. 
Reserve Bank of New York concern 
It seemed to us at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York that we 
uld recognize the gravity of the situation, but "play it cool" as 
m y s°n would say. Certainly we should avoid stimulating fears of a 
Panic. 
sac ci 

1SG7 
6/22/70 
-4-
Use of discount window 
Over the week-end I spoke with senior officials of the eight 
largest New York City banks, encouraging them to "play it cool" and 
reminding them that as they experience the need to make loans to pay 
off commercial paper and thus get into a tighter position needing more 
reserves, they should remember that the Federal Reserve discount window 
is available. 
I said that the needs of the banks would be given sympa-
thetic consideration by the Reserve Bank. 
In other words, the first 
step to cushion the increased pressure on the banks is the Federal 
Re serve discount window. 
A reduction in the amount of commercial paper outstanding and a 
corresponding increase in bank loans in order to enable the issuers to 
pay the paper doesn't change the overall amount of credit outstanding. 
But the bank credit requires reserves, while the commercial paper 
doesn't. 
Such a shift could call for a relatively permanent increase 
in reserves. 
Presumably Federal Reserve open market operations would 
take this into consideration and additional reserves would be provided 
by open market operations to the extent necessary. As these reserves 
permeate the banking system, we would expect those banks that have used 
the discount window to pay off their indebtedness. 
In other words, we 
would look sympathetically upon use of the discount window to take care 
°f the initial pressure, but we would not expect the bank to treat that 
use as a continuous indebtedness; we would expect the bank to pay off 
the indebtedness in due course. 
K'-' l : < 
i 
r„ 
; 
m. r H . , ' 
. : -
All the New York City bankers appreciated my calling them and dis-
cussing the situation in this way. They were glad to have assurances 
the availability of the discount window. At the same time they 
recognized that they were expected not to stay in debt to the Reserve 
Bank any longer than would be necessary in the light of all the circum-
stances of the case. 
Other possible action 
If there is a severe demand on the banks to make loans to enable 
the borrowers to pay off their commercial paper, there may be need for 
more than just an increased use of the discount window. 
Suppose, for 
example, that the estimate of $6 billion of commercial paper to be paid 
in the next couple of months turns out to be true. 
r 
Re;,,,, , 
. 
. 
-:!••. 
^ u l a t i o n Q 
One alternative would be to remove or suspend indefinitely all 
r a t e ceilings under Regulation Q with respect to large certificates 

1868 
6/22/70 
-5-
of deposit. As commercial paper is paid off, the holder receiving the 
payment could buy a CD. A deposit liability would be substituted for 
a nondeposit liability. A greater portion of the lending function 
would be performed by the banking system rather than by corporate 
treasurers buying commercial paper. 
Presumably the banks have more 
expertise in credit analysis than does the ordinary corporate treasurer. 
The Federal Reserve could provide through open market operations the 
addit ional reserves needed to support the increased time deposits. 
Presumably market repercussions would be less if most of the CD's 
were issued by those banks that provide the loans to the issuers of 
commercial paper in order to enable them to take up their paper. 
Our 
Group 1, Class A director thinks that the large banks will bear the 
brunt of the loan demand to pay off commercial paper. Thus the higher 
the minimum denomination of a CD exempt from Regulation Q, the greater 
the chance there is that the money received in payment of commercial 
paper will be placed in CD's in the banks providing the funds to pay 
off the paper. 
He suggests a minimum denomination of $1 million or 
perhaps $500,000. 
If Regulation Q ceilings are suspended for large CD's, it should 
be borne in mind that the rates on such CD's could rise substantially; 
the Federal Reserve should be prepared to see this happen. 
If the 
Federal Reserve were to take off the Q ceilings, but then engage in 
larger open market purchases to keep interest rates from rising, it 
would be s timulating credit unduly and it would be branded by the 
Public as giving up the fight against inflation. 
In my view it would be desirable to suspend indefinitely Regula-
tion Q ceilings on large CD's, recognizing that market rates could 
go higher for a time and that even though that eventuality might occur 
the Federal Reserve should avoid a substantial expansion of credit in 
order to seek to hold back the rise. I feel that additional attention 
should be given to the size of a CD that merits an exempt status. 
After the participants in the meeting had had an opportunity to 
read Mr. Treiber's paper, Chairman Burns said he had thought it would 
be well for the Board to take advantage of the presence in Washington 
the Reserve Bank Presidents to ask them to join the Board at this 
meeting. 
The reason for the meeting, he continued, was to determine 

6/22/70 
-6-
what actions ought to be taken in response to the bankruptcy proceedings 
of the Penn Central Transportation Company. Along with members of the 
staff, he had worked on that matter for weeks. A plan had been worked 
out whereby Penn Central could have been left alive, and that plan had 
been supported widely within the Government--in fact, practically all 
of the financial people within the Government had supported it. How-
ever, it required, in addition to a V-loan, legislation by the Congress. 
Although for a time the indications were that the legislative leaders 
would strongly support permanent legislation to provide financial assis-
tance to transportation companies, it turned out last week that the 
support was crumbling and the Administration decided not to move ahead. 
The problem now was to deal with the consequences. No one could predict 
what was going to happen, but one possibility was a collapse in markets 
that would come quickly, not only in domestic markets but in the foreign 
exchange area. What he considered more probable, however, was a gradual 
erosion of confidence that would spread to the foreign sphere. If he 
was right, and needless to say he hoped he was not, there were certain 
Preventive actions that should be considered. 
While the Federal Reserve 
should do what it could, the possibilities for preventive action on its 
Part were limited. Meanwhile, there was a great deal that the rest of 
the Government could and should do, but it was not the purpose of this 
meeting to get into that. 

1870 
6/22/70 
-7-
The essential question, the Chairman noted, was what the failure 
of a concern like Penn Central meant. 
Penn Central had been for years a 
symbol to many people throughout the country of financial and industrial 
strength. 
It had been a railroad known to millions of people here and 
abroad. 
It might become quite difficult now for most railroads to float 
bond issues and obtain bank credit--not necessarily immediately but to 
a larger degree a month from now. And much the same thing might be 
true of the airlines that were in trouble. 
The Chairman went on to point out that there was now a vast new 
unregulated banking system—the commercial paper market—with some $40 
billion of paper outstanding. 
The way it had been expanding and func-
tioning, he had been fearful that the day might come when holders of 
commercial paper would be unwilling to renew that paper and there would 
be recourse to the banks. 
If that happened, there was the question 
whether the banks would be willing and able to accommodate these new 
borrowers, and if so to what degree. What would be the consequences 
now that a development like that was upon us? 
tb . 
In the foreign field, the Chairman continued, it was even more 
difficult to speculate. 
Penn Central alone had millions of dollars of 
Euro-dollar issues outstanding, and that paper would go sour. 
That 
w°uld be a shock to Europeans, particularly the small financiers and 
investors, just like the small investors here. 
One might reasonably 
j f i „ _ . 
exPect extensive selling of all types of U.S. securities by foreigners, 

1871 
6/22/70 
-8-
not necessarily today or tomorrow but gradually, unless a way could be 
devised of restoring confidence. And there was no quick or easy formula 
at a time like this. 
Turning to the question of the discount window, the Chairman 
noted that Mr. Holland had held conversations with the Reserve Bank 
discount officers the middle of last week, in anticipation of trouble 
arising, and that Mr. Treiber had been talking with the major New York 
banks and assuring them of support at the window when it became clear 
that the Penn Central negotiations had broken down. The assurances 
Mr. Treiber had given to the New York banks had been helpful; he (the 
Chairman) had already heard that from some of the bankers. 
Chairman Burns then invited Mr. Treiber to comment, and the 
latter said he believed the key developments were fairly well set forth 
lrt his memorandum. 
The bankers probably knew all along that the discount 
window would be available, but it had been helpful to hear that from the 
Reserve Bank. The real question was to what extent in the days to come 
the holders of commercial paper would want to get cash. It might be 
that as much as $7 to $9 billion of the paper would be presented for 
Payment over a period of time, for the maturities were quite short. 
°.t,»there might well be a need for a second-stage action on the part 
the Federal Reserve. The suspension of interest rate ceilings on 
^•arge-denomination CD's was suggested, for it might be possible to sub-
stitute CD's for much of the commercial paper paid off. 

1 8 7 
6/22/70 
-9-
The Chairman then suggested that Mr. Treiber explain again just 
what had been said to the New York banks about the availability of the 
discount window, because it might be desirable for the other Reserve 
Banks, as far as reasonable, to say much the same thing to banks in 
their Districts. 
In reply, Mr. Treiber quoted from portions of his memorandum. 
He said that an effort had been made to keep the conversations in low 
key. it had been recognized in those conversations that holders of 
commercial paper would be reassessing their positions, that some would 
allow the paper to be rolled over, but that some would want payment. 
The bankers had been told that they should remember that the discount 
window was avaiable and that the needs of the banks would be given 
sympathetic consideration. 
Inquiry was made as to what holders who were paid off would do 
with the funds, and Mr. Treiber said there had not been much discussion 
Qfribhat j point. 
Chairman Burns noted that if there were simply a recy-
cling it would appear that much of the money would go into CD's, but 
there was no way to predict that. He then asked for the views of the 
Presidents with regard to what Mr. Treiber had told the New York banks 
about the use of the discount window. 
The views expressed were to the effect that it had been a good 
hold the conversations with the bankers. 
President Morris then 
asked whether it was contemplated that a formal statement would be issued 

1 8 7 3 
6/22/70 
-10-
on behalf of the System or whether it was contemplated that the advice 
i 
given to the New York bankers with respect to the discount window would 
simply be passed along. 
Mr. Morris added that he would support the 
New York proposal on Regulation Q, for he felt that action should be 
taken on the large CD's at the same time that advice was given with 
respect to the availability of the discount window. 
Otherwise, there 
would be the risk of pumping too much in the way of reserves into the 
banking system to meet a liquidity crisis which hopefully could be met 
largely by permitting banks to get into the large CD market. 
He saw 
no compelling reason to set the cut-off point as high as $500,000 as 
had been suggested by one of the New York Bank's Class A directors. 
Mr. Treiber said the rationale, as he understood it, was that 
most of the demand for cash would come from holders of large issues of 
commercial paper. 
If money went into banks not faced with such a demand, 
the pressure would be heavy on the big banks making the large loans to 
commercial paper issuers. 
Chairman Burns commented that the paper most likely to go sour 
> i *** e 
m ight be paper issued by medium-sized concerns. 
That might hit the 
smaller banks. 
Therefore, he would not want to reject a $100,000 cut-
figure from consideration. 
Governor Brimmer asked if the Presidents had a feeling for the 
Sltuation in their own Districts, and President Morris said it was 
difficult to predict the market response to the situation. 
Governor 

1874 
6/22/70 
-11-
Brimmer then commented that what he had had more in mind was any feeling 
about the exposure of District banks vis-a-vis lines of credit behind 
outstanding commercial paper. 
In reply, President Morris said that the 
large banks in the First District were very illiquid and were not in 
position--absent the removal of Q ceilings--to meet any substantial 
demands upon them. 
Asked for comment in relation to the earlier question about 
where the money now in commercial paper was likely to go, President 
Morris commented that this was sophisticated money. 
He thought it 
would go largely into Treasuries and agency bonds, and drive down the 
rates. 
Initially, at least, it was not likely to go into the banks 
given the present rate structure. 
Governor Brimmer noted that some New York banks apparently were 
heavily exposed while others were not. 
He asked for any views as to 
fche situation in other Districts. 
President Morris said he could say there was absolutely not a 
single large bank in New England that could meet all of its credit 
lines if they were called upon simultaneously. 
Question was raised how many banks were involved in the lines 
o f credit to Penn Central, and it was stated that more than 100 banks 
Were involved in some lines of credit to that company. 
In further discussion of the situation generally, President 
c°ldwell said it was interesting to note from a survey of Eleventh 

1 8 7 5 
6/22/70 
-12-
District banks that the smaller banks did not care if ceilings were 
removed on certificates of $500,000 and over, but that they felt a 
$100,000 break point would pull money away from their banks. 
President Francis expressed agreement with Mr. Treiber's recom-
mendations. 
In his opinion, most of the large banks in the Eighth 
District were aware that the discount window was available in circum-
stances of this kind. 
It was a matter of making them more aware. 
He 
thought that a combination of such assurance with action on large CD's 
was appropriate. 
Chairman Burns then turned to the question of issuing a release 
on behalf of the System, and Governor Maisel suggested that much depended 
on whether the System actually was doing something or not. 
Chairman 
Burns responded that he had received calls indicating that the bankers 
were pleased and reassured to hear from the Reserve Bank. 
Governor 
Maisel then said that if it was merely a matter of reassuring the banks, 
he did feel that a release should be issued. The question, it seemed to 
him, was whether the Federal Reserve was saying simply that it wanted 
to continue to run the discount window in a normal way. Only if it 
Was decided to change the concept of administration of the window should 
a release be issued. The Chairman responded that the point might be 
*» i 
valid, although he was not sure that the distinctions were as clear as 
had been suggested. 

6/22/70 
-13-
Governor Brimmer then suggested that the Presidents talk to 
banks in their Districts in the same manner as Mr. Treiber had talked 
with the New York banks, being careful, of course, not to convey any 
sense of panic. Governor Daane agreed that there should be no sugges-
tion of panic. However, he saw some advantage in issuing a statement 
that would tell banks around the country what Mr. Treiber had conveyed 
to the New York banks. 
He doubted that too many long distance telephone 
calls to points around the nation from Washington would be desirable. 
Governor Robertson commented that the situation could be built 
into a crisis if care was not exercised. The calling of banks through-
out the country would indicate that the Federal Reserve was fearful. 
There was not a member bank that did not have a close relationship to 
its Federal Reserve Bank; the member banks knew that when they came to 
the Reserve Bank for help in appropriate circumstances they would get 
it. xt would be better to deal with problems in an orderly way as they 
came up, although there should be a uniformity of attitude within the 
Federal Reserve System. 
President Eastburn suggested a middle-ground course. 
The 
Reserve Banks could take advantage of calls to member banks to obtain 
information of the kind Governor Brimmer had been asking about, and in 
£pe process they could give assurances. 
Such calls could be made at 
discount officer level. 

1 8 7 7 
6/22/70 
-14-
President Heflin expressed the view that at the moment it would 
be unwise to issue any statement. There were still occasional inquiries 
about the Board's letter of September 1, 1966. The Presidents knew 
what banks in their Districts were likely to be heavily involved and 
on a selective basis they could follow the same approach as the New 
York Bank. 
President Francis said he would be reluctant to support the 
issuance of a statement, for reasons such as those that Governor 
Robertson had given. However, he could see no harm in making calls 
of the kind President Eastburn had suggested. 
President Kimbrel expressed agreement, but added that if action 
should be taken on large CD's the announcement might include a statement 
in low key that would help to allay apprehension on the part of the banks. 
President Swan said he would be opposed to the issuance of a 
statement regarding the discount window because he felt it would be 
extremely difficult to draft a statement that would not be subject to 
"Misinterpretation. 
On the matter of who should take the initiative in 
obtaining information and giving assurances, he felt sure that as soon 
a s the banks opened today they would know by word of mouth that the 
conversations had been held in New York. 
Consequently, he would approach 
tnem on the same basis. 
He would talk with the large banks that had 
Substantial commitments to issuers of commercial paper, but he would 
n o t issue any general statement. 

1 8 7 8 
6/22/70 
-15-
Chairman Burns then summarized by saying that there would be 
no release at the present time of a statement on the discount window. 
The Presidents would follow, each in his own fashion, the course of 
action that Mr. Treiber had followed in New York. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that in the process the Presidents 
could attempt to obtain more information on the exposure of the banks 
°n commercial paper and relay such information to the Board. 
Chairman Burns then commented that there would be distributed 
to the Presidents a statement that had been drafted as a possible press 
release. 
It had been agreed that it was not going to be used. 
However, 
might be of some help in talking to the member banks. 
President Eastburn suggested that it might be helpful to have 
another telephone conference call with the Reserve Bank discount 
officers this morning and read the draft to them as well as fill them 
in on the substance of the discussion at this meeting. 
Other Presidents 
agreed, with the understanding that each Reserve Bank should have some 
latitude for exercise of discretion. 
Mr. Holland then summarized a report from the Manager of the 
Open Market Account on the opening of the market this morning. 
Chairman Burns asked at this point whether there were other 
c°mments on Regulation Q, and Mr. Strothman expressed support for a 
Suspension of the ceilings on large CD's, with a break point of $100,000. 
fri-i 
tarape said, would not be purely a stop-gap measure in light of the 

1S?!> 
6/22/70 
-16-
present crisis. Instead, it would be a step that many had felt should 
be taken for some time. 
Question was raised whether there would be further discussion 
of this matter at the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee 
tomorrow, and Chairman Burns said he was not prepared to answer that 
question. The Board might take action this morning or this afternoon, 
or it might defer action until after the Committee meeting. 
If the 
Board did act this morning}the Presidents would of course be informed 
promptly. 
The Presidents and First Vice Presidents who had been in 
attendance left the meeting at this point. 
Chairman Burns then returned to the question of action that 
m ight be taken with respect to the ceilings on large-denomination CD's. 
He noted that Mr. Partee had distributed a memorandum from the Research 
Division outlining several possibilities. 
Prefatory to general discussion, the Chairman commented that 
his thought originally had been to take up again the commercial paper 
Proposal. 
In his judgment, it would be desirable to impose a reserve 
requirement on such paper issued by bank affiliates. 
The Board had 
talked about that on several occasions, including the fact that the 
restrictive effect of such action might be offset by a reduction in 
reserve requirements generally. 
However, a more important problem now 
c°nfronted the Board. As suggested in the staff memorandum, there were 

1 8 8 0 
6/22/70 
-17-
a number of alternatives that could be considered. 
One would be to 
suspend the ceilings applicable to all large CD's above a certain 
denomination. A variation would be to suspend the ceilings for a 
limited period of time. Another possibility would be to gear the sus-
pension of ceilings to the refinancing of customer paper. 
Still another 
would be to suspend the ceilings applicable to large CD's of shorter 
maturities, perhaps up to 60 or 90 days. A further possible alternative 
would be to combine action suspending the ceilings on large CD's with 
action on bank-related commercial paper and a reduction of reserve 
requirements. 
After some preliminary consideration of the several alternatives 
the Chai rman suggested a go-around of the Board members to ascertain 
their views, and Governor Mitchell said that his views had not changed 
much in the past ten days. To the extent they had changed, that was 
because evidence of a weakening of the economy had accumulated. 
Bearish 
sentiments had been expressed generally at the recent meeting of the 
Treasury's academic consultants. 
While no one had used the word "depres 
r J 
sion", references had been made to the development of a recession 
i «„ 
comparable to those that had occurred in the 1950's. 
If the System 
W a s going to do something helpful to sustain the economy, he felt that 
i t should do so fairly soon. 
Further, he had never believed that the 
j 
U S e of Regulation Q ceilings as a control device should be anything 
m o r e than temporary. 
In his view, the ceilings had been in effect 

6/22/70 
-18-
much too long, and his first preference would be to remove them, which 
meant suspension to conform to the requirements of the law. He would 
favor suspending the ceilings applicable to CD's of $100,000 and over, 
because he saw a $500,000 break point as an effort by banks to struc-
ture the market in a way hostile to the public interest. 
Of the 
alternatives, he would not prefer any of them to suspension; use of 
the language "temporary suspension" would have to be explained. 
Governor Daane said his position was not far from that of 
Governor Mitchell. According to his reading of the economy, the System 
would be justified in undertaking some easing. 
His preference would be 
to do that in an orderly way through use of the open market instrument, 
hut in light of recent developments and his own distaste for the use 
°f the Q ceilings, he would take advantage of the situation and suspend 
t he ceilings on all CD's over $100,000. 
Governor Daane added that in 
Europe last week he had sensed a growing body of thought reflecting 
l e s s confidence in the dollar. 
Suspension of the ceilings could lead 
t o a considerable international flow of funds, particularly in the form 
repayment of Euro-dollar borrowings, so he would be inclined to use 
( . L 
e Word "temporary" and explain that the Board was taking the action 
i n the light of today's circumstances. 
That would leave open the ques-
i o n 
reimposing the ceilings, and the uncertainty might help to hold 
n the Euro-dollar flows. He would be inclined to take the action 

1H&Z 
6/22/10 
-19-
Governor Maisel observed that the Board must take into account 
the announcement effect of such an action, not only overseas but in 
this country. There was the question whether announcement was not 
likely to heighten the feeling of a crisis. The Board ought not move 
in a way that would make it appear that there was a crisis and that it 
was acting accordingly. Another question related to the amount of 
credit that would be created. 
He agreed with Governors Mitchell and 
Daane that there ought to be more credit in the market. The System 
should move in an orderly way to provide reserves, but it would not 
want to let the amount of credit get out of control. Third, there was 
the question of the disposition of the funds. There were some sugges-
tions that the large corporations and banks had gone on a speculative 
binge, and it was not up to the System to underwrite them. If possible, 
the System should get the credit spread throughout the country rather 
than have it^concentrated in the large banks. 
Governor Maisel said that he would favor suspending the ceilings 
only on CD's over $1 million. With a lower cut-off point, the regional 
banks might lose funds to the New York banks, so the cut-off point was 
important. 
Further, he would suspend the ceilings only on CD's with 
maturities from 30 to 89 days, because he believed a greater degree of 
control could thereby be exercised. At the same time, he would impose 
a 5 per cent reserve requirement on bank-related commercial paper and 
reduce reserve requirements, thus getting rid of the commercial paper 
Problem that had been so troublesome. 

1 8 8 3 
6/22/70 
-20-
Governor Brimmer noted that there had been a lack of uniformity 
in the views of the Presidents and that there was also a lack of 
uniformity in the views of the Board members. 
In his opinion, today 
was not the day to take action of any kind. 
He would let the discount 
officers of the Reserve Banks have discussions with bankers in their 
Districts and obtain a better feeling as to what was happening, and 
encourage them to report back to the Board. 
He would go forward 
tomorrow with the regular Federal Open Market Committee meeting and 
review the overall situation, and then look at the CD problem again 
against that background. 
Governor Brimmer also referred to the requirement of the law 
that there be consultation with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. 
Chairman Burns indicated 
that he had had discussion with the Chairman of the Bank Board, but it 
was agreed that further consultation, at least with the FDIC, was in 
order. 
Governor Brimmer then said that he liked the idea of suspending 
the ceilings only for CD's of short maturity, up to either 60 or 90 
days, for that would retain a better degree of control over the situa-
tion. 
He understood that some banks were concerned about the effects 
of a $100,000 cut-off and for that reason he would like to look at some 
other figure. 
In summary, if within the next day or two it seemed clear 
that some action was required, he would favor a strategy involving 

6/22/70 
-21-
suspension of the ceilings on CD's in denominations above some higher 
figure than $100,000, along with action on commercial paper and reserve 
requirements. 
Governor Sherrill said that he had long wanted to suspend the 
Q ceilings at the appropriate time. The most appropriate time would 
be when there was not too much bank credit demand in relation to the 
supply. At this juncture there was still too large a demand for bank 
credit and suspension of the ceilings would risk stimulating the forces 
of inflation. 
But the appropriate time to act seemed to be much closer 
than it had been. The plant and equipment spending boom was playing 
out, and the loss of that driving force in the economy would make a 
radical change. He would like to think of suspending the ceilings at 
a time when such action would be a counterbalancing one. That was 
difficult to judge, but he did not feel that the balancing point was 
quite at hand. 
Suspension of the ceilings for short maturities appealed 
to him because such action could more easily be reversed if necessary 
and there was a limited amount of money that could be obtained in the 
short maturities. 
He favored the suggestion of suspending the ceilings 
only for CD's of $1 million and over, in an effort to effect a substitu-
tion of CD's for commercial paper. 
It appeared that the major part of 
the commercial paper outstanding that was not likely to be rolled over 
was in large blocks, although one could not be sure. 

1 8 8 5 
6/22/70 
-22-
Governor Robertson said his position was much like that of 
Governors Maisel and Brimmer. 
First, suspension of the ceilings could 
lead to an outflow of Euro-dollar borrowings and create a real problem. 
It might be that a crisis was at hand, but he was not sure. He would 
prefer to reach a decision tomorrow afternoon rather than today. 
If 
it then seemed ncessary to act, he would restrict the suspension to 
CD's of 30-59 days' maturity and denominations of $1 million and over. 
He would also impose a reserve requirement on bank-related commercial 
paper at the rate of 4-1/2 per cent. He would not want to give any 
sign that the Federal Reserve was giving up on the battle against 
inflation. 
Chairman Burns said he was torn between the desire to summarize 
the discussion and, on the other hand, to set forth his own views. 
He 
believed that while Regulation Q had accomplished something useful in 
shoring up the savings and loan associations, it was in large part 
responsible for the building up of the commercial paper market, a new 
banking system that many had felt would cause trouble. There was now 
a crisis atmosphere in the business and financial community of a kind 
that had not existed in decades. At such a time, if business and 
financial people found that the Government recognized the problem and 
dealt with it, that tended to reestablish confidence. 
In his opinion, 
action by the Board would help to check a gradual erosion of confidence 
that might otherwise occur. 

6/22/70 
-23-
Chairman Burns then said that in view of the judgments expressed 
around the table it appeared that there was the best chance of reaching 
agreement on a suspension of ceilings for CD's with maturities up to 
60 or 90 days. He felt that an attempt to act also on commercial paper 
and reserve requirements would make the situation very complicated, and 
he would suggest taking up those matters again in the next two or three 
weeks. Asked whether he believed it was vital to take any action today, 
he said the Board members would have to answer that question. 
He would 
like to see action taken now, and he was not persuaded that the Board 
had overlooked anything of importance, but it would be necessary to 
consult the FDIC„ 
The Board was advised that it appeared feasible to have a 
luncheon meeting with the FDIC and the Home Loan Bank Board today, and 
there followed a discussion of the approach that should be taken at 
the luncheon meeting. 
Further views also were expressed for and against 
taking action later today, as opposed to waiting until after the FOMC 
meeting tomorrow, and there remained differences of opinion as to the 
course that would be preferable. 
In reply to a question regarding the cut-off point, Mr. Partee 
said he would be quite opposed to going higher than $100,000. 
It 
should be recognized that $100,000 was a fair piece of money. 
It was 
money market money and, in some hands, sensitive money. Also, a cut-
off point higher than $100,000 could hurt some banks, for investors 

1 8 8 7 
6/22/70 
-24-
could obtain an additional return simply by going into the market and 
the larger banks would have no difficulty paying a higher rate. 
Further, 
it was not really known where the credit demand would fall within the 
banking system. 
Governor Daane agreed that Mr. Partee had made a good case, and 
Governor Sherrill said he recognized that the question of equity in 
interest payments had been a basic problem. 
Governor Maisel said he 
would be inclined to trust the judgment of the regional banks as to 
their own markets, and they had been fighting for a higher cut-off. 
Chairman Burns said that his conversations with the Chairman 
of the Home Loan Bank Board had run in terms of the $100,000 figure 
and that the latter had not objected. Governor Sherrill then said that 
he did not think this question was too critical. 
One could not know in 
advance exactly what would happen, and he could accept the $100,000 cut-
off. 
He had been trying to bring out the points that were of concern 
to him, but he could appreciate the counterarguments. 
Governor Sherrill 
also said that he would like to go into the luncheon meeting with a 
Board position and that he thought that there would be some advantage 
in the Board's taking its action after that meeting. 
He did not believe 
that the briefing at the FOMC meeting would change matters appreciably, 
and it should be possible for the FOMC to reach a better judgment on 
open market policy if the action on Regulation Q had been taken. 

6/22/70 
-25-
Chairman Burns then suggested that the Board members express 
their opinion with regard to a compromise under which ceilings on CD's 
of $100,000 and over with maturities up to 60 days would be suspended, 
with no indication of the duration of the suspension. 
The reactions 
were mixed, but it appeared that more Board members favored suspension 
on maturities up to 90 days than up to 60 days. 
Most members favored 
suspension for an indefinite period of time, and more Board members 
appeared to favor a cut-off of $100,000 than a higher cut-off point. 
It was generally agreed that a decision simply to suspend the ceilings 
meant that at any time the ceilings could be reimposed. 
After some further discussion along these lines, the Chairman 
inquired how many Board members would favor presenting to the other 
agencies a proposal to suspend ceilings on CD's of $100,000 and over 
with maturities up to 90 days, and four Board members indicated that 
they could go along with such a proposal. 
There followed, at the 
Chairman's request, a series of informal polls on various alternative 
possibilities, and these again reflected a mixture of opinions. 
Four 
Board members indicated that they would prefer to take action today, 
effective tomorrow, rather than to wait until after the FOMC meeting. 
Chairman Burns noted that language could be used in the press 
release to convey the thought that the Board's action would not neces-
sarily be permanent, but it was pointed out that that would have to be 
considered from the standpoint of the reaction from the domestic point 

1881) 
6/22/70 
-26-
of view. The Chairman suggested that it might not be desirable to play-
up the reasons for the action unduly, but Governor Brimmer observed 
that others would interpret the action if the Board's explanation was 
not adequate. There followed further suggestions with respect to the 
language of a press release, and an initial draft that had been prepared 
was circulated. 
It was then understood that the Board would meet again this 
afternoon after the luncheon meeting with the other agencies. 
Members of the Board's staff interested in the remaining items 
on the Board's agenda joined the meeting at this point. These included 
Mr. Farrell, Director of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations, 
and other representatives of that Division. 
Reserve Bank budgets. As summarized in a memorandum from the 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated June 16, 1970, and 
detailed in supporting documentation, the Federal Reserve Banks had 
submitted proposed budgets for the second half of 1970 that came to a 
total of $177.6 million, as compared with estimated expenses of $171.0 
million for the first half of the year. Total controllable expenses 
were budgeted at $149.1 million, as compared with estimated expenses 
of $143.0 million for the first half. This would be the largest 
increase budgeted for the second half of the year — both in amount and 
Per cent—since the present semiannual budgeting procedure was begun 
in 1964. 

1 8 9 0 
6/22/70 
-27-
After Governor Mitchell, speaking as Chairman of the Committee 
on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans, had commented on the 
proposed budgets and had recommended their acceptance, except for a 
technical adjustment in one respect that the Dallas Bank would be asked 
to make, he noted that Governor Maisel had a reservation. 
Governor Maisel said that in view of the significant increases 
that had occurred over the past two years, some might think that the 
Reserve Bank and the Board budgets had gotten out of hand. 
There 
appeared to have been a measurable decline in productivity. 
He assumed 
that the Board would want to accept the proposed Bank budgets for the 
second half of 1970, but he felt that within the next two months or so 
the Board should say that the present budget system was not satisfactory 
and shift to some flat ceiling on expenditures for next year. 
Governor Brimmer said that as a member of the Committee on 
Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans he saw in these budgets 
the implementation of several programs that the Board had approved. 
When that was the case, it was improper for the Board to say that it 
Was wrong when the Banks came in with budgets to implement those programs. 
The Board should be aware, when it was approving programs, that they had 
budget implications. 
He would not support the idea of simply imposing 
a flat ceiling on expenditures. 
However, the Board could ask the 
Committee to look into the problem, review the budget-making procedures, 
and make recommendations as to whether those procedures permitted expen-
ditures to rise more rapidly than the Board would like. 

iSffl 
6/22/70 
-28-
Governor Sherrill said that he had looked at the budget increases, 
both for the Banks and the Board, over the past two years. 
During that 
time there had been unusual demands on the System that were reflected in 
the budgets. 
If the Board wanted to reduce the System's efforts in 
various areas, including areas such as economic research, it should 
give direction as to where it wanted to effect the reductions. 
Governor Maisel noted that the Committee had voted to recommend 
that the Board approve the proposed budgets for the second half of 1970, 
but he thought it was proper for the Board to recognize that it was 
approving a total budget up over 15 per cent from the preceding year 
and up 34 per cent over a period of two years. 
In his opinion, the 
Board ought to face up to the problem of the extent to which the System 
budget had been rising in comparison with the budgets of departments 
and agencies of the Government generally. 
Governor Robertson agreed that the question posed by Governor 
Maisel deserved exploration. 
Governor Maisel then repeated that in his opinion the only way 
to prevent increases of 17 per cent per year was to say flatly that only 
a rise of 5 per cent, or whatever other figure was decided upon, would 
be permitted. 
Chairman Burns commented that when he first looked at the Board 
budget he had been surprised by the increases that had occurred, partic-
ularly in comparison with those in other parts of the Government. 
He did 

185? 
6/22/70 
-29-
not pretend to be expert on Federal Reserve Bank budget procedures, but 
the rate of increase in recent years was disturbing to him. 
After Governor Brimmer proposed that Governor Maisel's sugges-
tion be studied, the Chairman said that he had become a strong advocate 
of expenditure ceilings, not because he considered that the most 
rational way of budgeting but because he had come to the conclusion 
that the establishment of such ceilings provided the best method of 
controlling expenditures. 
He suggested that the problem discussed by 
Governor Maisel be returned to the Committee on Organization, Compensa-
tion, and Building Plans for further study. When the Committee then 
made a specific suggestion to the Board, he thought that the Board 
would be sympathetic to anything that could be done to bring System 
expenses under control. 
There was agreement with a suggestion by Governor Maisel that 
Governor Sherrill participate in the study by the Committee in view of 
Governor Sherrill's responsibilities in relation to the Board's budget. 
The budgets of the Federal Reserve Banks for the second half 
of 1970 were then accepted as submitted. A copy of the communication 
sent to the Boston Bank is attached as Item No. 1. The communications 
sent to the other Banks were similar in form. 
Discount rates. 
The establishment without change by the Federa 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on June 18, 
1970, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedule 

1 8 8 3 
6/22/70 
-30-
was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
V-loan procedures. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to 
Congressman Patman, Chairman of the House Banking and Currency Committee, 
in reply to his letter of June 11, 1970, in which he requested a report 
on System procedures in connection with the handling of V-loan applica-
tions, particularly the application for the guarantee of such a loan 
to the Penn Central Transportation Company. A copy of the Board's 
reply is attached as Item No. 2; copies of the attachments to the 
letter have been placed in the Board's files. 
Study of Regulation Q. Consideration of a memorandum from the 
Office of the Secretary dated June 18, 1970, with respect to a proposed 
System study of Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, was deferred at the 
request of Governor Brimmer, who said that he had not had an opportunity 
to discuss with the staff certain questions that he had regarding the 
proposed study. 
Economic review. A staff economic and financial review of the 
kind customarily given in preparation for meetings of the Federal Open 
Market Committee had been scheduled for this morning. 
In view of the 
circumstances, it had not been possible to allocate time for the staff 
to present the review. However, it was stated that the individual 
briefings, reduced to writing, would be made available to the members 
of the Board this afternoon. 
Copies of the briefings, as distributed, 
have been placed in the Board's files. 

18;)1 
6/22/70 
-31-
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Additional positions. As recommended in a memorandum from the 
Division of Data Processing and the Division of Research and Statistics 
dated June 17, 1970, the Board approved the establishment of four 
additional programmer positions in the Division of Data Processing to 
meet the needs of the Division of Research and Statistics for research 
and research-related projects. The Board also authorized any resulting 
overexpenditures in the 1970 budget of the Division of Data Processing. 
As recommended in a memorandum from the Director of the Division 
of Data Processing dated June 22, 1970, the Board approved the establish-
ment of two new programmer positions in the Applications Branch of that 
Division and two additional analyst/programmer positions in the Systems 
Design Branch for purposes described in the memorandum. 
The Board then went into executive session. 
Staff appointments. 
Pursuant to recommendations by Governor 
Sherrill, the Board approved the appointment of David B. Hexter, presently 
General Counsel, as Assistant to the Board effective July 1, 1970, with 
salary at the annual rate of $37,000, and the appointment of Thomas J. 
0'Connell, presently Deputy General Counsel, to succeed Mr. Hexter as 
General Counsel, also effective July 1, 1970, with salary at the annual 
rate of $37,000. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
4:00 p.m. with all members of the Board present and the following staff: 

1895 
6/22/70 
-32-
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator and 
Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
There was distributed a revised draft of press release suggested 
for use if the Board took action to suspend the interest rate ceilings 
applicable to large-denomination certificates of deposits with shorter 
maturities. 
Chairman Burns invited further comments, and Governor Daane 
inquired about the views of the Manager of the System Open Market 
Account. 
Mr. Holland summarized a rundown of market developments that 
had been given to him by Mr. Holmes at about 2:30 this afternoon, with 
particular reference to developments in the commercial paper market. 
The summary indicated that there were some encouraging developments and 
other developments that were less favorable. 
It was noted also that 
the Treasury probably would announce by the end of the week the terms 
of the first of its forthcoming financings. 

189K 
6/22/70 
-33-
Governor Daane said it was the judgment of the Special Manager 
of the Open Market Account that a suspension of Q ceilings might engender 
flows of funds such as to make it necessary to make substantial use of 
the System's swap lines. He asked whether the Manager had expressed a 
judgment, and Mr. Holland said he believed the Manager would not be 
inclined to take action right at this minute. 
Some lift was apparently 
being obtained from the conversations with banks about the discount 
window, although that might be transitory. Mr. Solomon reported that 
things were quiet today on the foreign exchange side. 
Mr. Ring then summarized reports that had come in from the 
discount officers of several Reserve Banks in light of their conversa-
tions with selected banks in the respective Districts. 
The member banks 
had expressed appreciation for the assurance that credit would be made 
available to them at the discount window as necessary and that the Federal 
Reserve was on top of the situation. The banks in New York had gone 
through the day today with no special pressures and they were not 
borrowing. 
However, it would be several days before the full impact 
became clear as lesser-known companies tried to roll over some of their 
commercial paper. That was also the feeling in other Districts, but 
nothing of consequence had developed so far. 
Some of the banks in 
those Districts had commitments to smaller firms that had been living 
off the commercial paper market. 

1 8 9 7 
6/22/70 
-34-
The discussion then turned to the proposed press release and 
Board members made several suggestions with regard to it. During this 
discussion Governor Brimmer commented that from the information picked 
up thus far it was difficult to see a basis for taking action on Regu-
lation Q today. Mr. Partee agreed that developments thus far did not 
seem to have been too adverse, but he added that the situation would 
continue delicate from day to day as companies endeavored to roll over 
their outstanding paper. 
Chairman Burns commented that what was involved was preventive 
action. 
One could not know on what scale action would be needed, and 
therefore the Board was proceeding conservatively. 
It might turn out 
that there would be a need to go further, but the purpose at this time 
should be to go far enough to take care of difficulties that could be 
foreseen. 
Governor Maisel said he attached a great deal of importance to 
proceeding in company with the other two agencies. That would suggest 
taking action tomorrow, effective the following day. Governor Brimmer 
noted that it appeared from the luncheon meeting that Chairman Wille of 
the FDIC was concerned about the appearance of acting at a time when 
enough was not known to assess the situation. 
He (Governor Brimmer) 
had some doubts about the wisdom of the whole action, but his reserva-
tions would be eased if all of the agencies went forward together. 
Chairman Burns mentioned that he had had a conversation with Chairman 

1 8 9 8 
6/22/70 
-35-
Wille subsequent to the luncheon during which Mr. Wille expressed 
rather different views, reflecting largely a matter of personal 
j udgment. 
Governor Daane said that personally he felt something could be 
said for some delay in order to see how the market would go. As between 
today and tomorrow, however, he thought it might be better to disasso-
ciate Regulation Q action from the Open Market Committee procedures and 
give the Committee a chance to consider open market operations against 
the background of the Board's having acted to suspend the ceilings. 
The Chairman then called for an informal expression with regard 
to taking action today to suspend the ceilings applicable to certificates 
of $100,000 and over with maturities up to 90 days, and it appeared that 
four Board members would be agreeable to taking such action today. 
Governor Maisel said he would abstain if a vote was taken today, but 
that he would vote for the action tomorrow, effective June 24. He con-
tinued to place importance on moving in company with the other agencies, 
and action tomorrow would also be his personal preference. 
Governor 
Brimmer likewise ind icated that despite some reservations he would vote 
tomorrow in favor of taking the action. 
Question was raised whether the other agencies were prepared to 
take action, and the understanding was expressed that it would be diffi-
cult for them to act today. However, there was a good chance that they 
could act tomorrow. 

6/22/70 
-36-
Chairman Burns then referred to the desirability of having the 
largest possible number of favorable votes within the Board and said 
that he would have no particular objection to deferring action until 
tomorrow. He noted that he had referred to the action as preventive 
in nature and had said that he feared a gradual erosion of confidence 
more than a quick collapse of the market. However, he would prefer not 
to link the action directly to the FOMC meeting. 
Governor Maisel pointed out that the Board could take action 
tomorrow morning and that the action could be announced at the beginning 
of the FOMC meeting. The FOMC policy record would disclose the sequence 
of events. 
Accordingly, after further discussion it was agreed that the 
Board would meet at 8:45 tomorrow morning. 
In this connection, Governor Robertson advised the Board that 
he 
intended to dissent. 
In his opinion, announcement of the action 
might indicate to holders of commercial paper that the Board knew some-
thing they did not know and therefore might only serve to increase their 
fears. Action of the kind contemplated might be warranted as an emergency 
measure if there was evidence of incipient disorder in the market, but 
he did not see a basis for making that judgment at this moment. 
It 
seemed questionable to him, even in theory, whether such action was 
necessary as a result of market reaction to the Penn Central bankruptcy. 
Funds used to pay off commercial paper probably would flow into Government 

1300 
? 
6/22/70 
-37-
securities or into the banking system. 
If the former occurred, market 
rates would be reduced. 
If the later occurred, the banks would be able 
to provide additional credit. Any such action should be considered 
from the standpoint of the struggle against inflation, and he felt that 
the consequences could be adverse to the best interests of the United 
States, including the U.S. balance of payments. 
It could lead to an 
undue resurgence of inflationary forces, and it might indicate that the 
Federal Reserve was weakening in its resolve to combat inflation. 
Governor Robertson indicated that he would like to have his 
position set forth in the minutes but that he did not care to have it 
expressed in the press release that would be issued if the Board took 
the proposed action. 
Governor Robertson subsequently set forth his views in more 
: : 
• ' '• . 
C.mlv 
r - i-v 
• 
*?• .oa^l.vU: 
detail in a statement prepared for inclusion in the minutes. 
The text 
I
L 
•• , o i-( ^ 
v t 
; , 
, 
: " :V 5 . .. 'O i' <! •;« • -IV 
of the statement follows: 
Whenever one has reached a conclusion opposite to that reached by 
all 
of his associates on the Board, it behooves him to reconsider the 
validity of his own position. 
This I have done. 
I continue to believe 
that the proposed action to suspend the rate ceiling on short-term C/D's 
of $100,000 and over is unwise at this time. 
Such an action might be warranted as an emergency measure - follow-
ing the bankruptcy of the Penn Central - if the Board had substantial 
evidence of incipient disorder in the commercial paper market, or if the 
circumstances were such as to suggest a high probability of that 
development. 
I do not believe that is the case. Quite apart from the lack of 
reliable evidence of current market conditions calling for this step, 
^t is questionable whether, even in theory, this step is likely to be 

1901 
6/22/70 
-38-
needed because of market reaction to the Penn Central situation. 
I 
believe there is good reason to expect that the reactions within the 
financial system itself to the Penn Central case could turn out to 
provide appropriate adjustments in financing flows. 
If investors withdraw from the commercial paper market in volume, 
which I regard as unlikely, their funds are most apt to flow into 
Treasury bills (which would reduce rates and hence lower the cost of 
government financing), or into the banking system. The latter develop-
ment would expand bank lending ability directly, and the former could 
do so indirectly by increasing, at least marginally, bank ability to 
sell C/D's within existing ceilings. 
Either development would expand 
correspondingly the ability of banks to meet demands of issuers of 
commercial paper who are unable to roll over their obligations in the 
commercial paper market. 
My position is that such regulatory action as that now proposed 
should not be taken until the circumstances that might impel it are 
clear - not conjectured; furthermore, its desirability should be weighed 
from the broader standpoint of monetary policy and the struggle against 
inflation. 
With these rate ceilings lifted, immediate and aggressive efforts 
by banks to sell C/D's could generate unsettling pressures in other 
domestic short-term markets, including the commercial paper market. 
At the same time, if banks thereby gain ample loanable funds domestically, 
they are likely to pay back their more expensive Euro-dollar borrowings. 
If this is done too fast and in too big chunks, it could seriously aggra-
vate our still very adverse balance of payments situation, as well as 
create difficulties for some of our European friends in coping with their 
economic problems. 
The sum total of all these likely bank reactions to the suspension 
of C/D ceilings could easily result in a sharp net expansion of total 
bank credit. 
I believe such a development would substantially interfere 
with the desirable broader objective of fostering only moderate growth 
^n bank credit and money in the interest of curbing inflation and 
encouraging the orderly resumption of sustainable economic growth. 
For all these reasons, I cannot in good conscience vote in favor 
°f this action. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
Item No. 1 
6/22/70 
June 23, 1970. 
MORRIS - BOSTON 
Board has reviewed and accepts budget of Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston for period July 1 - December 31, 1970, as submitted with 
Mr. Barrett's letter of June 3, 1970. 
1902 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
KENY0N 

1903 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No 
ofthe 
6/22/70 
•Miiiw 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 G 5 I 
' I ^ V b E ^ 
O F F I C E o r 
T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
June 23, 1970. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman 
House Banking and Currency Committee 
House of Representatives 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
1 am pleased to give you the report requested in your 
letter of June 11, 1970, on the type of procedures that have been 
followed in past V-loan guarantees under Section 301 of the Defense 
Production Act of 1950, and the procedures by the Federal Reserve 
with respect to the application for such a guarantee of a loan to 
the Penn Central Transportation Company. 
As you know, a V-loan application originates when a company 
has a Government contract or other operation that it believes will 
be deemed by one of the several designated Government loan-guaranteeing 
agencies to be essentia] to the national defense and cannot be financed 
by any means other than a loan under the Section of the Act referred 
to. 
Such applications are made on behalf of the company by a bank 
or other financial institution to che Reserve Bank of its District, 
which acts as fiscal agent under the Board's Regulation V for the 
particular department or other agency of the Government from which 
the loan guarantee is being requested. 
With respect to your request for a report on the type of 
procedures that have been followed in past loan guarantees under the 
Defense Production Act, attached are a copy of the New York Reserve 
Bank's standa rd form of V-loan application (Attachment 1) and a 
statement of its usual procedures in handling applications for such 
guarantees (Attachment 2). These procedures by the Reserve Bank 
are required under the following provision in Section 4 of the Board's 
Regulation V entitled "Responsibility of the Federal Reserve Banks." 
"A Federal Reserve Bank in arranging for or 
making any guarantee on behalf of any guar-
anteeing agency will be expected to make 
reasonable efforts to afford such guaranteeing 

O O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
1904 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
agency the best available protection against 
possible financial loss consistent with the 
obtaining of national defense production 
expeditiously." 
The time required by a Reserve Bank to make its investiga-
tion and recommendation to the Government guaranteeing agency varies 
according to the complexity of the application and other factors, 
such as urgency of the matter. 
In recent years, elapsed time between 
date of receipt of a V-loan application and submission to the guaran-
teeing agency, with the Reserve Bank's recommendation, has usually 
ranged from a few days to several weeks, as indicated in the list 
of the 21 V-loan guarantees since January 1, 1965, recently handed 
to your staff. The $75,000,000 V-loan application for Douglas 
Aircraft Corporation in 1966, which was considered to be an urgent 
matter because of the lack of working capital for defense production, 
was handled by the Reserve Bank in six days. 
Usually the Reserve Bank will recommend either approval 
or denial of the application on the basis of its evaluation of the 
credit-worthiness of the company. 
Sometimes in the case of doubt as 
to this factor, however, and particularly when other overriding 
factors seem apparent, the Reserve Bank will simply point out the 
financial weakness of the company without making any recommendation 
to the guaranteeing agency as to whether, in the light of such 
other factors, the V-loan application should be approved. 
As you know, the report of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York regarding the Penn Central V-loan application was delivered 
to the Department of the Navy on June 17. Attachment 3 is a statement 
of the procedures followed by the New York Reserve Bank with respect 
to this application. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
Attachments 
