MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 22, 1970 

355*) 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, December 22, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a0m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr0 Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
' i • 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on December 17, 
3-970, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules 
W a s approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
w°uld be sent to those Banks. 

3560 
12/22/70 
-2-
Boatmen's Bankshares. The Board authorized the issuance of an 
order and statement reflecting approval on December 8, 1970, of the 
application of Boatmen's Bancshares, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, which 
at present owned all but directors' qualifying shares of The Boatmen's 
National Bank of St. Louis, to become a bank holding company by acquiring 
shares of (1) Bank of Concord Village, St. Louis County, and (2) Manches-
ter Community Bank, Ballwin, both in Missouri. Copies of the documents 
are attached under Item No. 1, along with Governor Robertson's dissent-
ing statement. 
Bank of Commerce and Industry. South Side Bank & Trust Co., 
Chicago, Illinois, proposed to move to a northside location, but the 
owners did not wish to leave the present location unserved. They 
therefore proposed to organize at the northside location a new State 
bank, to be known as Bank of Commerce and Industry. It was expected 
that after some delay, intended to avoid possible loss of deposits 
f^om the present South Side Bank, the two banks would switch locations 
and titles. In a memorandum dated December 17, 1970, the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the application 
m^de on behalf of Bank of Commerce and Industry for membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 
The application was approved unanimously; a copy of the letter 
Sent to the Organization Committee of the Bank of Commerce and Indus-
try is attached as Item No. 2. 

12/22/70 
Cleveland Trust Company. The Department of Justice had requested 
copies of the reports of examination of the trust department of The 
Cleveland Trust Company, Cleveland, Ohio, for the last five years for 
use in preparing a civil suit against the trust company alleging 
violations of the Clayton Act. In a memorandum dated December 17, 1970, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Legal Division recom-
mended that the Board authorize its staff to make available to repre-
sentatives of the Department for inspection, and with opportunity for 
notetaking and copying, information in the reports that was shown to 
be reasonably relevant to a determination of the issues raised in the 
litigation. Procedures were proposed that would have the effect of 
leaving to the Board's staff in the first instance, rather than to the 
Department, the determination of what information would be deemed 
reasonably relevant. A draft letter was attached. 
Discussion centered principally upon the balance between preserv-
ing the confidentiality of reports of examination and cooperating with 
other Federal agencies in their law enforcement efforts. In favor of 
a liberal approach, it was noted that the Department of Justice might 
n°t know what information to specify, which suggested that information 
the Federal Reserve knew to be relevant, even though not specified by 
the Department, should be furnished voluntarily. 
It was agreed that 
anV information clearly related to an apparent violation of law should 
furnished, along with information considered relevant to the Justice 

3562 
12/22/70 
-4-
case, but not beyond that point. It was understood that access to the 
information would be allowed either in Cleveland or in Washington., 
Unanimous approval then was given to a letter to the Depart-
ment of Justice in the form attached as Item No. 3. 
Report on Truth in Lending. After a discussion during which 
agreement was reached on certain changes in format, the Board unani-
mously approved an Annual Report on Truth in Lending for 1970 for 
transmittal to the Congress. 
(Note: The report was transmitted to 
the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Represen-
tatives on January 4, 1971. A copy has been placed in the Board's 
files.) 
Regulation Q. In October 1970 the Board published for comment 
a proposal pertaining to permissible methods of computing and compounding 
interest under Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits. Under the proposal 
(1) the Regulation would be amended to permit member banks to pay simple 
interest at the applicable maximum rate by using 360 rather than 365 as 
the denominator of a fraction in which the numerator is the actual number 
°f days the deposit earns interest, and (2) the Board would change an 
listing interpretation of the Regulation so as to authorize the compound-
ing of interest daily or continuously by use of a similar time factor, 
a memorandum dated December 15, 1970, the Legal Division summarized 
comments received and recommended adoption of the proposed amendment 
(with technical changes) and also the proposed interpretation. Draft 
documents were attached. 

35G3 
12/22/70 
-5-
The Board unanimously approved the amendment to Regulation Q, 
effective January 1, 1971, and the interpretation. Copies of the 
amendment and the interpretation in the form in which they were sent 
to the Federal Register are attached under Item No. 4. 
Reserve Bank budgets. With a memorandum dated December 11, 
1970, the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations presented its 
review of the proposed budgets of the Federal Reserve Banks for the 
first half of 1971„ Total controllable expenses were expected to 
increase by $6 million, or 3.9 per cent. All Banks were budgeting 
V 
increases in controllable operating expenses, ranging from 1.4 per 
cent at Cleveland to 8.8 per cent at Atlanta. On a combined basis, 
the Reserve Banks expected that such expenses during the last half 
of 1970 would total $155.5 million, or $6,1 million (4.1 per cent) over 
the original estimate for that period. 
The Division's analysis of the proposed budgets indicated that, 
to a great extent, the increases could be attributed to (1) the need 
for more staff to handle an ever-increasing volume of work, new projects 
H' • • • 
relating to expansion of both System and Bank activities, and special 
studies; (2) a continuing increase in equipment cost and related expenses, 
rcfleeting the upgrading of computer systems to handle larger volume 
•if 
arid to interface with new communications capabilities; and (3) the cost 
i. ^ 
new facilities and various other changes in activities,, The Division 
recommended that the Board approve the budgets as submitted. 

3564 
12/22/70 
-6-
At the request of the Committee on Organization, Compensation, 
and Building Plans, the Division had developed comparative figures 
on Reserve Bank expenses for the last five years, and those tables 
were now distributed. 
Governor Maisel noted that in the five-year period increases 
in controllable operating expenses ranged from 39 per cent at the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland to 105 per cent at the Minneapolis 
Bank. The Board's Committee had been increasingly dissatisfied with 
the form of the budgets, as had the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations, and the Division was looking into the budget process in 
search of ways to provide more useful information,, 
After further discussion, the budgets of the respective Reserve 
Banks for the first six months of 1971 were accepted as submitted, with 
the understanding that the Banks would be so advised. 
Implementation of Holding Company Act amendments. 
In a memo-
randum dated December 18, 1970, Mr. Holland outlined suggested actions 
C o implement the new bank holding company law, expected to be approved 
by the President in the near future, and a tentative time table for 
their adoption. 
Discussion centered principally around the type and timing 
hearings to be held* Comments were made on the problems inherent 
$ formal hearings, such as the need to have hearing examiners educated 

3 5 6 5 
12/22/70 
-7-
regarding the information needed by the Board and the length of time 
likely to elapse before the hearing examiner's report would be available. 
Some doubt was expressed that formal hearings would be productive of the 
kind of information the Board would need initially. Suggestions were 
made regarding possible alternatives in which informal hearings might 
be conducted by a panel of Board of staff members with a view to identi-
fying the issues to be considered during formal hearings. Another sugges-
tion was that formal hearings take place only after the Board had pub-
lished tentative regulations for comment. 
Discussion failed to resolve divided views among members of the 
Board regarding the proper sequence of procedures, but it was suggested 
that the questions raised could be better decided after the legislation 
had been studied further. Accordingly, there was agreement with a sugges-
tion that a committee of the Board's staff, to include Mr. Hackley, 
study the problem and advise the Board regarding the kind of statement 
of the Board's plans that might be issued promptly after approval of 
the legislation. 
Counting coin and currency as reserves. Governor Robertson 
read a letter from Senator Mike Mansfield and the reply he proposed to 
wake. Senator Mansfield had expressed the view that the interpretation 
announced by the Board on December 9, 1970, regarding the counting of 
c°in and currency as reserves would have a deleterious and destabilizing 
effect on the silver market. Information he had received from bankers 

3 5 6 6 
12/22/70 
-8-
and silver producers caused him to question the extent to which the 
Board had investigated the proportion of silver coins held in ways 
that would be precluded under the new interpretation. He requested that, 
if the Board was unalterably committed to promulgating the new inter-
pretation, the effective date be postponed for at least a year with 
respect to silver coin counted by banks as reserves. 
Discussion reflected general agreement with the position taken 
in the proposed reply against postponement of the effective date of 
the interpretation. It was brought out that since the interpretation 
was published no complaints appeared to have been received from member 
banks; if in the remaining time before the effective date, January 7, 
1971, it should become apparent that severe problems were likely to 
result, the Board could consider such developments. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, unanimous approval was 
given to the sending of a letter to Senator Mansfield in the form 
attached as Item No. 5. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

35G7 
Item No. 1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
12/22/70 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
!n the Matter of the Application of 
BOATMEN'S BANCSHARES, INC., 
st. Louis, Missouri, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
°f 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of (1) Bank of Concord Village, 
St. Louis County, and (2) Manchester 
Community Bank, Ballwin, both in 
Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Gection 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Boatmen's Bancshares, Inc., 
St* Louis, Missouri, for the Board's prior approval of action 
who K 
r 
y Applicant would becomc a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of each of 
G following two banks in Missouri; Bank of Concord Village, St. 
L°uis County, and Manchester Community Bank, Ballwin. Applicant 

35G8 
-2-
\ 
;; 
. 
, 
. . i f 
presently owns all but directors' qualifying shares of The Boatmen's 
National Bank of St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Actj the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Finance for the State of Missouri and requested his views and recom-
roendation* 
The Commissioner offered no objection to approval of the 
application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 17, 1970 (35 Federal Register 16345), 
which provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit com-
ments and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy 
°f the application x^as forwarded to the United States Department of 
Justice for its consideration. The time for filing comments and views 
has expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
fchan three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
^tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Of. 
c* Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 

3569 
. I 
I I -
' i. . • 
! 
, * 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 22> 1970. 
Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A, Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

3 5 7 0 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY BOATMEN'S BANCSHARES, INC., 
ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI, TO BECOME A 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Boatmen's Bancshares, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri ("Applicant"), 
which presently owns all but directors1 qualifying shares of The Boatmen's 
National Bank of St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri ("Boatmen's National"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action 
become a registered bank holding company through the acquisition 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of (1) Bank of Concord 
tillage, St. Louis County ("Concord Bank"), and (2) Manchester Community 
Bank, Ballwin ("Manchester Bank"), both in Missouri. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authority. - -As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
tGceipt of the application to the Commissioner of Finance for the State 
Missouri and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner 
°£fered no objection to approval of the application. 

-2-
3 5 7 1 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any .combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
bc substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. In each case, the Board is required to 
take into consideration the financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in Missouri on the basis of deposits, five of 
^hich are registered bank holding companies, control 40-2 per cent 
of 
1/ 
total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
Applicants present 
Subsidiary> Boatmen's National ($269 million deposits), is the State's 
Seventh largest banking organization and controls 2.6 per cent of total 
commercial bank deposits in the State. Consummation of the proposal 
cotr^11 b a n k i n S data are as of June 30, 1970, and reflect holding 
•Pany formationc and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

-3A 
i 
would increase Applicant's control of State-wide deposits to 3 per cent; 
Applicant would become the State's sixth largest banking organization, 
and its fifth largest bank holding company. 
Boatmen's National, located in downtown St. Louis, is the 
third largest of the seventy banks in the St. Louis - St. Louis County 
area, which approximates the relevant banking market. Of the two 
larger banks in that area, the largest ($840 million deposits) is 
involved in a holding company formation application presently before 
the Board, and the second largest ($712 million deposits) is the lead 
bank in a holding company, the formation of which was recently approved 
by the Board, Consummation of the proposal herein would give Applicant 
control of approximately 7.2 per cent of deposits in the relevant banking 
Market. 
Concord Bank ($22 million deposits) is located in the southern 
P°rtion of St. Louis County, 15 miles southwest of Boatmen's National, 
Applicant's lead bank, and serves a population of approximately 110,000. 
hank's service area is largely unincorporated and primarily 
residential. On the basis of deposits, Concord Bank ranks sixth among 
ei8ht competing banks in the area. Although the area has experienced 
kittle industrial development, a substantial population growth has 
Siven rise to the establishment of several regional and neighborhood 
shoPping centers. 

' I 
3 5 7 3 
-4-
Manchester Bank ($17 million deposits) is located in a rapidly 
growing area of western St* Louis County, 23 miles west of Applicant's 
lead bank, and currently serves a population of approximately 38,000. 
Manchester Bank's primary service area, which includes Ballwin, Ellis-
v i U e , and Manchester, has experienced substantial growth in the past, 
and its projected population in 1974 is 64,000. Manchester Bank is 
the only bank within its service area; however, two new bank charters 
have recently been approved for the area, and charter applications 
f°r two additional banks are pending. 
Consummation of Applicant's proposal would not eliminate 
any significant competition between Concord Bank and Manchester Bank. 
There is no overlap of their respective primary service areas, and the 
t w° banks, located approximately 15 miles apart, generally serve small 
individual accounts and retail establishments in their respective 
Service areas. 
Nor would significant competition be eliminated between 
Manchester Bank and Boatmen's National. Boatmen's National exerts 
^ttle competitive influence in the suburban area served by Manchester 
Ijjinlc 
, 
, and Manchester Bank has no significant competitive impact on the 
°wntown St. Louis banks. Furthermore, Missouri's restrictive branch 
anking l aw s, the distance separating the two banks, and the number of 
anks in the intervening area render unlikely the development of 
si8nifiCant c o m p e t i t i o n i n t h e f u t u r e # 

3 5 7 4 
- S -
;f. 
. . . 
' 
Boatmen's National and Concord Bank deirive some business from 
each other's service area, principally due to the fact that a large number 
°f persons commute to downtown St. Louis. Although consummation of 
the proposal would eliminate some competition between these two banks, 
the significance of this fact is lessened by the fact that a large 
number of banking alternatives are available to residents of the areas 
involved. The anticompetitive aspects of Applicant's proposal are 
not regarded as substantial. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly, 
U o r b e in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to 
Monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States, 
and would not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or 
tend to create a monopoly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
APplicant acquired its present subsidiary bank, Boatmen's National, 
i n September 1969. The financial condition of Applicant is regarded 
clS 
satisfactory, its management as competent, and its prospects as 
av°rable. These same conclusions apply to Boatmen's National. 
The financial condition of Manchester Bank appears satis-
accory, its 
prospects look favorable, and its present management is 
e°nsidered capable. The financial condition of Concord Bank is 
c°nsidered generally satisfactory, its prospects appear favorable and 

3 5 7 5 
its management is regarded &s eatable. Applicant states that it 
proposes to furnish additional capital for Concord Bank, 
The Board concludes that considerations relating to the bank-
ing factors are consistent tfith approval of the application as they 
relate to Applicant, and the banks concerned. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
ttajor banking needs of the communities served by the proposed sub-
sidiaries appear to be adequately served at the present time. However, 
the evidence of increasing population and the economic: activity in St. 
Louis County suggest that additional banking facilities and services 
will be needed in the suburban areas. Applicant proposes to expand 
and modernize the banking facilities at the Concord Bank and the 
Manchester Bank and to institute trust and fiduciary services at the 
Manchester Bank. 
These considerations lend some support for approval of the 
aPplication. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained 
in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth 
i n section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the pro-
Posed transaction would be in the public interest, and that the applica-
tj-on should be approved. 
M e m b e r 22 , 1970 

357i 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
On the basis of the facts in the record, substantial com-
petition exists between Boatmen's National and Concord Bank. Concord 
Bank derives $5.8 million, or 31,6 per cent, of its deposits and $6,2 
million, or 36.7 per cent, of its loans from the primary service area 
o f Boatmen's National. Boatmen's National derives over $4 million of 
its deposits from the primary service area of Concord Bank. Notwith-
standing the fact that such competition is regarded as arising out of 
fche commuting patterns of residents in the area served by Concord Bank, 
t h G fact remains that competition will be eliminated by the consummation 
o f Appi icant's proposal. 
Moreover, consummation of the proposal will foreclose potential 
c°mpetition between Boatmen's National and Manchester Bank, and a 
Potential for increased competition between Boatmen's National and 
G°ncord Bank* As the majority opinion indicates, at the present time 
^Chester Bank is the only bank in its service area, a rapidly growing 
a r e a 
St. Louis County. Since Applicant, by virtue of its ownership 
Boatmen's National, is one of the dominant banking organizations in 
the ^t-
Louis area, it possesses a potential for meaningful partici-
Pat* •{ 
through de novo entry into the local areas served by both of its 
^r°posed affiliates, an alternative that trauld be more compatible with 
^Petitive considerations and the public interest than the present 
Pr°Posal. 

3577 
My dissent from the Board's action is not intended as a dis-
approval of Applicant's desire to more effectively serve the rapidly 
growing suburban population of St. Louis. However, the Act permits 
approval of an application that would eliminate existing competition 
and preclude the development of potential competition only when 
such anti-competitive effects are outweighed by considerations 
related to the convenience and needs of the communities involved. In 
fche instant case, the needs of the individual communities involved are 
being served adequately by existing institutions; the benefits alleged 
b y Applicant a r G n o t such as would outweigh the anti-competitive effects 
o f the transaction, and, in any event, the beneficial effects of the 
Proposal could be accomplished through less anti-competitive means, 
these reasons, I would deny the application. 
December 22, 1970 
v 

B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
3 5 7 8 
Item No. 2 
12/22/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
December 22, 1970 
Organization Committee 
Bank of Commerce and Industry 
Chicago, Illinois 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application made on behalf of Bank of Commerce 
and Industry, Chicago, Illinois, for stock in the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago, effective if and when the bank opens for 
business under appropriate State authorization, subject to the 
numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made 
in the general character of its business or in the 
scope of the corporate powers exercised by it at the 
time of admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. 
At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $300,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$450,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation Ii, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L . 
R E S E R V E 
G Y S 7 E M 
3 5 7 9 
Bank of Commerce and Industry 
~2 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to Commence Business 
has been issued. The board of directors should also adopt, at the same 
time, a resolution ratifying the action which has been taken in the 
bank's behalf in making application for membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. A certified copy of such resolution, together with advice of 
compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, should be 
transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Arrangements 
will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of 
Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required 
reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve 
Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to six months from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies 
to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is 
advised that all of the requirements have been complied with and that 
the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. 
The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosure 

3 5 8 0 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
12/22/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
December 22, 1970 
Mr. Richard W. McLaren 
Assistant Attorney General 
Antitrust Division 
Department of Justice 
Washington, D. C„ 20530 
Dear Mr. McLaren: 
This is in reply to your letter requesting copies of 
reports of examination for the past five years made by the Board 
of the Trust Department of The Cleveland Trust Company, Cleveland, 
Ohio. 
Pursuant to the provisions of 12 CFR 261.6(b), the Board 
will make available to your representatives information contained in 
reports of examination of the Trust Department of Cleveland Trust 
which is reasonably relevant to a determination of the issues raised 
in United States v. The Cleveland Trust Company (Civ. No. C-70.301, 
N.C. Ohio) wherein the complaint charges violations of sections 7 and 
8 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 17, 18) by Cleveland Trust. 
We suggest that representatives of your staff meet with 
representatives of the Board's Legal Division (Mr. Charles L 0 
Harinaccio, 737-1100, Ext. 236) for the purpose of advising the 
Board's staff of the precise nature of the information which might 
be contained in reports of examination which could be deemed reasonably 
relevant. We would propose that any information contained in reports 
examination meeting that requirement would be made available to 
your representatives for inspection at the offices of the Board of 
Governors in Washington, D. C., or at the offices of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland, whichever would be more convenient to your 
staff, under agreeable time and circumstances, and with the opportunity 
for note taking and copying. 

3581 
Mr. Richard W. McLaren 
-2-
In accordance with the understanding set forth in your letter 
it is mutually understood that any information contained in the re-
ports of examination of Cleveland Trust made available to your repre-
sentatives, as set forth herein, would remain the property of the' 
Board and would not be disclosed without the Board's consent. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
$j i 
S-US'O 
M" -l 
i 
i: 
>• 

Item No, 4 
12/22/70 
S-2154-a 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
. 
v 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Q] 
PART 217--INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Methods of Computing Simple Daily Interest 
• < • 
1. Effective January 1, 1971, 5 217.3(e) is amended to read 
Q s follows: 
^ 217.3 Interest on time and savings deposits. 
'V 
vV 
Vr 
vV 
Vc 
(e) Computation of interest. In the computation of simple 
d a i ly interest, the time factor should be expressed as a fraction in 
Vhtch the actual number of days the funds earn interest is the numerator, 
9nd the denominator is either 360, 365, or, in a leap year, 366. However, 
a deposit matures in one month (or multiples thereof), the bank may 
l"°e 30 days in the numerator (or corresponding multiples thereof). 
V? 
* 
* 
* 
* 
2. Effective January 1, 1971, § 217.6(b) is amended to read 
a s follows: 
® 
Advertising of interest on deposits. 
>V 
Vf 
"ft 
"k 
(b) Percentage yields based on one year. YJhere a percentage 
achieved by compounding interest during one year is advertised, 

3583 
S-2154-a 
- 2 -
^ e annual rate of simple interest shall be stated with equal prominence, 
together with a reference to the basis of compounding. No member bank 
shall advertise a percentage yield based on the effect of grace periods 
Permitted in § 217.3(d). 
* 
«<• 
* 
V 3 'I - /' 3a. Notice of proposed rulemaking with respect to this 
atncndinent was published in the Federal Register on October 17, 1970 
J Federal Register 16324). The principal effect of this amendment 
is t-
L0 authorize the use of a 360-day basis in computing simple daily 
Merest for a deposit with any maturity. An accompanying interpretation 
M,icates that a member bank may use the 360-day basis in compounding 
nt°rcst daily or continuously on time and savings deposits. 
b, The effective date was deferred for less than the 30-day 
Priori referred to in section 553(d) of Title 5, United States Code, 
beCa 
the effect of the amendment is to relax an existing rule and the 
believes that making the amendment effective at the beginning of 
Calendar year might facilitate administration of the Regulation. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 22, 1970. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A, Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(S£A 
m 
., 
•Ar . ; . • 
» ^ i 

3584 
S-2154-b 
r 
i 
<t l 
'dfr • 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BALKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEII 
SUBCHAPTER A BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
t^eg. Q] 
PART 217—INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Payment and Computation of Interest 
5 2 1 7 • 1 5 1 
°n of interest on time and saving 
j^\osvts . 
— 
The Board has expressed Clio following views relating to the 
Payment and computation of interest on deposits. 
(a) The maximum rate of simple interest that a member bank 
^ 
P a y ° n a C , GP° s i t l s established by § 217.7 of Regulation Q. In 
^nuary, 1970, the Board established certain rates on deposits with a 
P u r i t y of "one year or more". To qualify for a rate that may be paid 
such a deposit, the deposit must not mature before one full year -
5 or 366 days as the case may be - from the date of deposit.17 
(t>) The formula for the computation of simple interest is 
15 (1+RT) where A is the final amount, P is the amount on which 
e r est is computed, R is the annual rate of simple interest and 
8 the time period. Effective January 1, 1971, § 217.3(e) of Reg-
ation n 
^ t>as amended to authorize the use of 360 or 365 (or 366 
A 
int 
T 
ui 
•5/ J 
I 8S THUN\^OAR,N^CONS™ER T I B E CLCPOSITS (^posits in denominations of 
»av Dal 5 
U " d f 5 2 1 7 j 
l n G f f C C t i n December, 1970, a member 
datI 17,,5 
percent interest on a deposit that matures 3 months from 
t h U 
ur • i T w V 
" 
d n t e ° f d e " ° 8 i t i s in February, such deposit 
& 
90-day jJ]!„ 
f a y s - . T h 1 B o a r d regards this do minimis departure from 
l 7 - W ( ) V 
" fl u i rfd for payment of interest at 5 per cent (12 CFR 
jo-t-ilied on the Crounds of mathematical simplicity. 

in a leap year) as t:hc denominator of a fraction in which the numerator 
life- v 
ee of ay- ,.'•... • 
/ 
is the actual number of days the deposit earns interest. For example, 
a bank would be permitted to consider the time factor on a 295-day 
acpor.it as 295/365 or 295/360. On a 360-day deposit, the fraction 
could be 360/365 or 360/360; it could not be 365/360. Additionally, 
fct?,. 
•• 
S 217.3(e) authorizes in the numerator of the time fraction the use 
30 days (or multiples thereof) for deposits of one month (or 
corresponding multiples thereof). For exairple, on a deposit made 
February 1 for one month, the time fraction could be stated as 3q/360 
30/365, or 20/360 or 28/365. 
(c) Section 217.3(a) provides that the effects of compounding 
be disregarded in determining whether a member bank is paying interest 
11 excess of the rates established in § 217.7. The formula for con-
ti* 
RT 
nuous compounding is A = Pe 
where A is the final amount, P is 
th 
e amount on which interest is compounded, e is the base for Napierian 
natural logarithms, R is the annual rate of simple interest, and T 
5 
s 
Is th 
time period. 
T may be expressed as a fraction in which the 
U m Gr ator is the actual number of days the funds earn interest and the 
• minator may be either 360, 365, or, in the case of a leap year, 366. 
As jo 
permitted in simple interest calculations, a bank may consider 
C ad-, 
11 month as having 30 days. 
(d) The formula for other than continuous compounding is 
n 
N 
^ 
K/M) where A is the final amount, P is the amount on which 
Merest- i 
, , 
is compounded, R is the annual rate of simple interest, M is 

\ 
» • >1 
, 3586 
- 3 -
;,||he number of compounding periods In a year, and N is the actual number 
periods for which interest is compounded. When compounding interest 
quarterly. M = 4; compounding monthly, M = 12; and compounding daily, 
11 55 360, 365, or 366, For example, a bank may compound 5 per cent 
interest daily on a $10,000 deposit for 91 days in accordance with 
e*ther of the following: 
.05 
91 
A - $10,000 (1 + 360 ) 
or $10,127.18; or 
,0_5 91 
A - $10,000 (1 + 365 ) 
or $10,125.43. 
yiC-ftut 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S,Ce 371b and 461.) 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 22, 1970. 
lot U1 
•Jn'-i d • 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

..•^OFCO^ . 
B O A R D 
O F D O V E R N • R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
o f f i c e : o f t h e v i c e 
c h a i r m a n 
December 23, 1970 
3 5 8 7 
Item No. 5 
12/22/70 
The Honorable Mike Mansfield 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Senator Mansfield: 
This is in reply to your letter of D e c e m b e r 14 regarding 
^ e Board's interpretation of D e c e m b e r 8 that m e m b e r banks m a y not 
count as reserves currency and coin held under various customer 
arrangements restricting the bank's use of the currency and coin to 
^eet depositors' claims. 
The Board agrees with you that the Government should 
n°t interfere in the silver market. In its consideration of this 
Question, the Board took account of the fact that the Government, 
through the Treasury Department, was getting out of the silver 
Market and doing so with caution in order to avoid undue disruption 
the market. The interpretation is in harmony with that policy. 
JM'^Or.l • 
I think you will agree that the Board has a statutory duty 
to see that what m e m b e r banks are counting as reserves are truly 
'reserves" within the meaning of the Federal Reserve Act—legal 
^nder available to be paid out to meet depositors' demands. 
The 
^estion before the Board w a s whether m e m b e r banks should be 
P°rmitted to count as reserves currency and coin that they cannot use 
A good case can be m a d e that "reserves" were meant to 
lr>clud e, besides Reserve bank balances, only circulating coins and 
cUrrency~- legal tender that is ordinarily paid over the counter to 
cUstomers. Under existing conditions, a bank, of course, would 
n°t ordinarily pay out silver coins over the counter. Accordingly, 
proposed regulation issued for c o m m e n t on June 3 would have 
deluded from reserve computation all coins held principally for 
or numismatic value. However, after considering the views 
? Ml 

The Honorable Mike Mansfield 
- 2 -
s^mitted on that proposal w e decided that, while silver coins will 
n°t ordinarily be paid out over the counter, nonetheless, as long as 
there are no customer agreements tying up the coins, those coins 
are still available for use in meeting demands of any customer and 
So can be counted as reserves. However, if a customer deposits 
silver coins with a bank under an agreement that obligates the bank 
to return the coins that are being deposited, or similar coins 
S a m p l e 2 of paragraph (e) of our interpretation), w e do not feel 
the bank has full and unrestricted use of the coins. 
You were assured that our action would not be directed 
gainst silver coins as such, and the interpretation is not so directed. 
° U r interpretation extends to customer agreements involving currency 
Well as coins and to agreements involving clad coins as well as 
Silver coins 
In each case, from the standpoint of the meaning of 
n 
' 
. 
r°scrves, 11 the principle is the same. 
I do not believe that our action constitutes an interference 
VVitb the silver market, 
although it m a y do away with a small subsidy. 
Intbe paGf;5 S o m e silver coins dealers had been getting free or low-
est storage of their coins because m e m b e r banks could pass on to 
^ e r s increased earnings that, the banks could realize by counting 
the coins as reserves. So if the market is affected by our interpretation, 
fis only because the price of silver had been artificially raised, 
h°Wever 
slightly, by this practice of a few banks. Action that permits 
the Price of silver to be determined by market forces is consistent 
M t h the Government's policy in regard to the silver market. 
Thus, 
the flow of silver onto the market as a result of the melting of silver 
should be minimal, and the effect on the price of silver should 
Negligible. Figures on spot prices show that the price of silver 
•;ls risen somewhat since publication of our interpretation. 
The 
^iLStreet Journal lists quotations for spot prices of silver as 
Vn December"8 and 1. 654 on D e c e m b e r 18. M r . Wolfe, Director, 
ftce of Domestic Gold and Silver Operations, Department of Treasury, 
C°ncurR in the view that our interpretation has had a negligible effect 
° n ^ e market. 
You also suggest that w e further postpone the effective 
of the interpretation. A s you know, the Board's action is an 
lnte*pretation of the law, not a regulation. Normally, as a statement 
°f *hat existing law means, an interpretation is effective immediately. 

T h e Honorable Mike Mansfield 
-3 -
In this case, w e deferred the effective date for 30 days, as would 
be the case in regard to a regulation. W e see little adverse effect 
as a result of the effective date because m e m b e r banks and dealers 
have been on notice of this possible action at least since June 3 
(date of publication of the proposal). Moreover, our interpretation 
represents a relaxation of the proposal. Thus, w e do not consider 
the effe ctive date of the proposal unfair; and, from the viewpoint 
our responsibilities, w e consider the interpretation necessary. 
Our judgment that the interpretation will have a minimal 
cffc id on the silver market is based on the information submitted on 
the proposed a m e n d m e n t to the regulation, plus the reaction thus 
far on the part of m e m b e r banks to the recently published inter-
pretation. To the best of our knowledge, the amount of coin and 
currency held by m e m b e r banks that cannot be counted as reserves 
under the interpretation is small. W e are watching developments, 
however, and w e are ready to take any action that m a y bo necessary 
to avoid any severe strains that m a y develop in the market contrary 
to our expectations. 
Sincerely, 
