n 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 24, 1969 

679 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, February 24, 1969. 
at 10:00 a.m. 
The Board met in the Board Room 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board 
and Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics \J 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented by 
appropriate members of the staff. Copies of the relevant statistical 
Materials have been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions other than Mr. Brill and 
Messrs. Solomon and Norwood (International Finance) then withdrew from 
the meeting, as did Mr. Bernard, and the following entered: 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
£'»'!£• .-j.^, •.•:'/ C o v : - ; ! V ' b • •< .»>•;> J • r.'. ,i 
p 
«•:<: 
v vo r:.-. 
i./ Other officers and staff members of the Division also were present. 

G90 
2/24/69 
-12-
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Supporting staff from the respective divisions 
•U)' 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco 
on February 20, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Denver U.S. Bancorporation. An application by Denver U.S. 
Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado, for permission to acquire shares of 
The Poudre Valley National Bank of Fort Collins, Fort Collins, Colorado, 
had been considered by the Board on January 3, 1969, at which time 
certain additional information was requested. Such information had 
keen submitted by the staff with a memorandum of January 31, 1969. 
Vu. ! f\ The application was approved, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
It was understood that an order and statement reflecting the decision 
Would be prepared for the Board's consideration, along with a statement 
for use by Governor Robertson in explanation of his negative vote. 

G90 
2/24/69 
-12-
An application by Denver U.S. Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, 
Colorado, for permission to acquire shares of Arkansas Valley Bank, 
Pueblo, Colorado, was approved unanimously with the understanding that 
an order and statement reflecting the decision would be prepared for 
the Board's consideration. 
Southeast Bancorporation. An application by Southeast 
Bancorporation, Inc., Miami, Florida, for permission to acquire shares 
of Everglades Bank and Trust Company, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, was 
approved unanimously with the understanding that an order and statement 
reflecting the decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation. The Hongkong and 
Shanghai Banking Corporation, a foreign banking corporation that owned 
the stock of a nonmember commercial bank in the State of California and 
operated agencies in that State and in the State of New York, desired, 
apparently for reasons relating to tax considerations, to incorporate 
the New York agency as an "investment company." The investment company 
Would engage in substantially the same kinds of business as the agency 
ar*d, like the agency, would maintain for the account of others "credit 
balances incidental to or arising out of the exercise of its lawful 
Powers." 
The foreign banking corporation, through its counsel, had asked 
the Board to determine: (1) that it was not presently a bank holding 

G90 
2/24/69 
-12-
company under the Bank Holding Company Act; (2) that changing the New 
York agency into a corporate subsidiary would not cause the parent to 
become a bank holding company; and (3) that prior approval of the Board 
was not required for the formation of the investment company. If those 
rulings were granted, the Board was requested to determine "what kind 
of deposits from what sources" the new corporation could accept without 
causing its parent to become a bank holding company. 
A crucial question was whether the credit balances should be 
regarded as dep osits for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act. A 
distinction between such balances and deposits was made under New York 
State law, and the legal staff of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
believed that the credit balances likewise could be distinguished from 
deposits for purposes of the Federal law. However, for reasons cited 
a memorandum dated February 5, 1969, the Board's Legal Division 
concluded to the contrary. 
Accordingly, the Legal Division recommended advising the foreign 
banking corporation that, since the credit balances were deemed to be 
deposits within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, incorporation 
the New York agency would cause the parent company to become a bank 
holding company under the Act; that formation of the bank holding company 
system was not exempt from the statutory requirement for prior approval 
o t the Board; and that section 3(d) of the Act precluded granting such 
approval. 

G83 
2/24/69 
-5-
In its memorandum the Legal Division noted that in 1956 the 
Board had advised Belgian-American Banking Corporation and J. Henry 
Schroder Banking Corporation, both New York investment companies 
holding credit balances, that they were not considered banks within 
the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, with the result that their 
parents were not considered bank holding companies. It therefore 
appeared that if the Board accepted the findings of the Legal Division 
in the matter now before it there would be reason to reevaluate the 
status of the two aforementioned organizations. Among other things, 
the Legal Division brought out that the situation had changed since 
the date of the Board's earlier determinations because of 1966 amendments 
to the Bank Holding Company Act according to which the definition of 
"bank" was revised. 
The Legal Division also noted that there might be alternative 
Procedures available to The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
for accomplishment of its desired objectives, including the formation 
°f an "agreement" corporation pursuant to section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Comments on the matter disclosed a disposition on the part of 
Board members to feel that it would be advisable to proceed carefully 
reaching a decision. It was noted, among other factors, that the pro-
Posed investment company apparently would conduct the same kind of 

2/24/69 
-6-
' 
X f ••• 
business that was now being conducted by the agency, yet a ruling 
along the lines recommended by the Legal Division would seem almost 
to necessitate reexamination of the status of at least two other 
organizations, with the possible result that earlier Board determinations 
would have to be reversed. Some Board members also expressed concern 
that the situati on might not be completely clear from a legal stand-
point, since the legal staff of the New York Reserve Bank had not 
reached the same conclusion as the Board's staff. 
Chairman Martin suggested that it might be helpful if the 
documentation submitted by the Reserve Bank could be made available to 
the Board members for review, to which he added that apparently it 
was not necessary to render a decision immediately. 
Accordingly, it was agreed to hold the matter over for further 
consideration, with the understanding that, pursuant to the Chairman's 
suggestion, copies of the legal memorandum from the New York Bank would 
be furnished to the Board members along with such additional analysis 
as the Board's legal staff might consider appropriate in the light of 
.*;„> v 
questions raised today. It was understood that the Board's staff 
Would not at this stage pursue with The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation possible alternative procedures through which the corpora-
ls . 
tion's objectives might be achieved. 
Legislative recommendations. In a memorandum of January 31, 
v ' 
. 
• 
; j 
.,,••> 
, 
^69, the Legal Division noted that each year for the past several years 
the Board had included in its Annual Report recommendations for legislation 
hY 
th,>. 
r . 

2/24/69 
-7-
a. to permit a member bank to borrow from its Federal 
Reserve Bank at the basic discount rate on its 
promissory notes secured to the satisfaction of the 
Reserve Bank; 
b. to require all Federally-insured banks to clear 
checks at par; 
c. to establish reserve percentages on a graduated 
basis according to the amount of a bank's deposits 
and to make such requirements applicable to all 
Federally-insured banks; 
d. to permit Reserve Banks to invest in certain 
obligations of foreign governments; and 
e. to permit a home mortgage loan by an insured bank 
to a bank examiner. 
Attached 
to the memorandum, with respect to each of such recommendations 
were (1) a draft of language proposed for inclusion in the Board's 
Annual Report for 1968, and (2) drafts of letters to the appropriate 
Senate and House Committee Chairmen, each of which would enclose a draft 
°f a bill designed to accomplish the Board's proposal. All of the draft 
were based on materials used previously, with the language updated 
somewhat in certain cases in the light of recent legislation and other 
factors. 
-.•;,» j 
During today's discussion it was pointed out that no specific 
Provision had been made for inclusion of a statement in the Annual 
Report with respect to one-bank holding company legislation. 
The 
Chai 
rman and other members of the Board outlined the kind of language 
that they felt would be appropriate for use in the Annual Report, and 
it was understood that a statement along such lines would be prepared 
bV the staff. 

G90 
2/24/69 
-12-
As to the materials that had been presented by the Legal 
Division, there was substantive discussion only with respect to the 
proposal under which reserve percentages would be established on a 
graduated basis according to the amount of a bank's deposits and such 
requirements would be made applicable to all Federally-insured banks. 
It was agreed, after some debate, that the transmittal letters 
and the attached proposed legislation would be redrafted to submit, as 
an alternative, a bill going only so far as to establish the graduated 
reserve requirements. The theory was that if there appeared to be no 
prospect of obtaining legislation extending reserve requirements to all 
insured banks, it would still be helpful administratively in redressing 
inequities among member banks if the graduated basis of establishing 
reserve requirements could be provided for through legislation. 
Subject to the aforementioned change and certain editorial 
revisions, the Board approved unanimously the material that had been 
submitted for inclusion in the Annual Report along with the letters and 
accompanying draft bills that had been proposed for transmittal to the 
Congress, with the understanding that the letters would be sent on a 
date determined by the Chairman. 
Note: The letters and accompanying materials were sent 
under date of March 4, 1969. Copies of the letters to 
the Chairmen of the appropriate Senate Committees are 
attached as Items 1 through 5, inclusive; the letters 
to the Chairmen of the appropriate House Committees 
were similar in form. 

G90 
2/24/69 
-12-
State legislation. In its memorandum of January 31, 1969, 
with respect to Federal legislative proposals, the Legal Division also 
noted that the Board was in receipt of the annual invitation from the 
Bureau of the Budget to submit proposals suggested for consideration by 
State legislatures. 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to the Bureau stating 
that the Board had no proposals to submit for consideration at this 
time. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 6. 
After it was decided, following a preliminary discussion, to 
defer until Governor Maisel's return final action on a housing item 
that had been scheduled for consideration today, the meeting continued 
with reduced staff attendance. 
Officer's salary at Philadelphia. Unanimous approval was given 
to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia (copy attached 
as Item No. 7) approving the payment of salary to Eugene W. Lowe, 
Securities Officer, during the period March 1 through December 31, 1969, 
at the annual rate fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. 
One-bank holding company legislation. Governor Mitchell, who 
along with Governors Daane and Maisel and Messrs. Holland and Sanders 
had attended an interagency conference at the White House on the subject 
°f proposed one-bank holding company legislation, summarized informally 
the highlights of that conference. The meeting, held last Saturday, 
February 22, and marked by a free exchange of views, was regarded as 

G90 
2/24/69 
-12-
generally constructive. Attention had been directed primarily at the 
latest draft bill prepared at the Treasury Department, and although 
the draft continued to call for a fragmentation of administrative 
authority, in other respects it appeared to come closer to a form that 
would be found acceptable by a majority of the Board. 
In that connection, reference was made to a summarization of 
the draft bill that had been prepared by the Legal Division (Mr. Sanders) 
under today's date. It was noted that without explanation two new 
provisions had been introduced into the latest version of the proposed 
legislation. According to one of them, a bank holding company would be 
authorized to acquire, without agency approval, shares of any nonbanking 
company organized and operated outside the United States. According to 
the other, a bank holding company would be authorized to acquire bank 
stock between March 1, 1969, and June 30, 1971, without agency approval, 
but it would have to divest itself of such shares by the latter date 
unless agency approval had been obtained by that time. 
Since the reasons for, and the effects of, the new provisions 
Were not entirely clear, Chairman Martin suggested that inquiry be made 
of the Treasury in order that the provisions might be appraised more 
satisfactorily. Otherwise, it appeared to him that there was no cause 
for action on the part of the Board at this time. No view to the 
contrary was expressed. 

G90 
2/24/69 
-12-
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, 
Solomon (Adviser to the Board), and Johnson then withdrew from the 
meeting. 
Discount rates. The Secretary noted that the Board continued 
to have before it for consideration advice from two Federal Reserve 
Banks (St. Louis and Dallas) that the directors of those Banks had 
established, subject to review and determination by the Board of 
Governors, discount rates higher than the currently prevailing level 
of 5-1/2 per cent. At St. Louis the rate established was 6 per cent; 
at Dallas it was 5-3/4 per cent. 
Chairman Martin suggested that it would seem appropriate to 
defer action with respect to the established rates until after the 
forthcoming meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, scheduled for 
the first week in March, and other members agreed. 
Mr. Holland said it was his understanding that the directors 
of the two Reserve Banks concerned probably did not anticipate 
an early response from the Board. It could not be foretold, of course, 
whether the directors would again establish the same rates at their next 
"meetings. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Kenyon and Johnson then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Staff salaries. In a memorandum dated February 20, 1969, 
Prepared at the request of Governor Sherrill, Mr. Johnson pointed out 

G90 
2/24/69 
-12-
that in July 1968 Federal Government employees under the so-called 
General Schedule were granted a general pay increase, but increases in 
excess of an annual rate of $28,000 (the rate for Level V of the 
Executive Pay Schedule) were not made effective at that time. However, 
as Level V had now been raised to $36,000, the previously withheld 
increa ses would become effective at the beginning of the first pay 
period after February 14, 1969. 
In July 1968 the Board also granted general pay increases 
to its employees similar to those granted to Federal Government employees 
under the General Schedule. The Board withheld increases, or portions 
thereof, where the increases would have exceeded certain amounts, with 
a maximum of $29,000 ($500 below the Board members' salary of $29,500, 
which was fixed at Level III of the Executive Pay Schedule). Level III 
had 
now been raised to $40,000 and Governor Sherrill recommended that 
salary increases withheld in July 1968 be granted to a number of the 
Board's senior staff officers. 
Pursuant to Governor Sherrill's recommendation, the Board 
.approved unanimously the payment of salaries at the annual rates indicated 
to the following members of the Board's staff effective February 24, 1969: 
Annual salary 
Name and title 
From 
To 
Robert C. Holland, Secretary of the Board 
$29,000 
$32,000 
°aniel H. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
29,000 
32,000 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Robert Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
28,500 
31,000 
Director, Division of International Finance 

691 
2/24/69 
-13-
..i 
Annual salary 
Name and title 
From 
To 
Merritt Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
$28,500 
$31,000 
Howard H. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
28,500 
31,000 
Charles Molony, Assistant to the Board 
28,500 
30,500 
Robert L. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
28,000 
29,000 
David B. Hexter, General Counsel 
28,500 
30,500 
John R. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
28,000 
30,000 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Frederic Solomon, Director, Division of Super-
28,000 
30,000 
vision and Regulation 
Edwin J. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
28,000 
28,500 
Administration 
Thomas J. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
28,000 
30,000 
Charles Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
28,500 
30,500 
Research and Statistics 
Robert L. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
28,000 
28,500 
International Finance (on leave without pay) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
j 
. I . : {• 
y • ... :: -
/i' • r • I 
< »' .. : < 
• : 
. \ > • .•:. • i 
• • • i. I j • 
r -u- • • c 
.*« • 
.• . ; • • i . 
, . .. 
JC < i r>. I 

G32 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 1 
2/24/69 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 4, 1969. 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
The Board of Governors again recommends legislation that 
would permit member banks of the Federal Reserve System to borrow 
from the Federal Reserve Banks on the security of any sound assets 
without paying a "penalty" rate of interest whenever technically 
ineligible paper is presented. This legislation would replace pre-
sent provisions of the Federal Reserve Act that permit borrowings 
without a penalty interest rate only on the security of obligations 
that are eligible for purchase by Reserve Banks (mainly Government 
obligations) or short-term promissory notes of the member bank's 
customers that meets certain "eligibility" requirements. These 
restrictive provisions should be amended so as to facilitate rather 
than penalize efforts by banks to meet the public's changing credit 
needs. 
The original Federal Reserve Act authorized the Reserve 
Banks to discount only certain types of paper arising out of "actual" 
commercial or agricultural transactions, subject to specified matu-
rity limitations. The concept underlying this limited authority was 
that the liquidity of commercial banks could be assured only if the 
loans made by them were short term and self-liquidating in character. 
Related to this concept was the assumption that the pledging of such 
discounted paper by the Reserve Banks as security for the issuance of 
Federal Reserve notes would serve as the basis for an elastic currency; 
it was expected that the volume of currency would expand and contract 
directly in response to the varying credit needs of the economy, as 
reflected by the volume of short-term borrowing by commercial and 
agricultural enterprises. 
The principle that Federal Reserve credit should be extended 
only on the basis of short-term, self-liquidating paper was departed 
from as early as 1916, during the First World War, when the law was 
amended to authorize the Reserve Banks to make 15-day advances to mem-
ber banks, not only on the security of "eligible paper" but also on the 

G33 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
security of direct obligations of the United States. A more significant 
departure occurred in 1932, when Congress authorized the Reserve Banks 
to make advances to member banks in exceptional and unusual circumstances 
on any security satisfactory to the Reserve Banks, although at a penalty 
rate of interest. This authority, at first temporary, was made permanent 
in 1935, and it is no longer limited to exceptional and unusual circum-
stances, although such advances continue to carry a penalty rate of 
interest. 
The concept that limitation of discounts to short-term, self-
liquidating paper would serve automatically to regulate the volume of 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation has also been departed from by amend-
ments to the law and has been refuted by experience. In 1932, Congress 
authorized the issuance of Federal Reserve notes on the security of Govern-
ment obligations in addition to eligible paper and gold. This authority 
was originally of a temporary nature, but it was made permanent in 1945. 
The volume of Federal Reserve notes today fluctuates with the changing 
demands of the economy without regard to the nature of the paper offered 
as collateral for Federal Reserve credit or pledged as security for 
Federal Reserve notes. 
Each of these legislative changes took place during a period of 
economic stress that served to make clear the inadequacy of the original 
framework for Federal Reserve credit extension. The credit needs of 
American businessmen, farmers, and consumers were evolving in many ways 
that could not be adequately handled by the old instrument of short-term, 
commercial-type paper; and the rapid growth of both private and Govern-
mental economic activity generated credit requirements far in excess of 
those that could be supported by the relatively small volume of "eligible 
paper". For example, farmers today make much greater use of mechanized 
equipment; a modern combine represents a big investment, and requires 
longer-term financing. Another example is the entry of banks into con-
sumer lending in response to credit needs created by the mass marketing 
of automobiles and other durable consumer goods. Banks are now making 
term loans to business, too, in substantial volume, partly in response to 
economic changes and partly in recognition that a two-year loan may be 
sounder than a 90-day loan made in the expectation of repeated renewals. 
Despite changes in the character of paper held by commercial 
banks and the repeated and necessary departures from the original concept 
that discounts should be based only on short-term, self-liquidating paper, 
the law continues to impose unduly restrictive requirements as to the 
nature and maturity of the paper that may be discounted by the Reserve 
Banks or offered as security for advances by the Reserve Banks without 
payment of a penalty rate of interest. 

694 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
For many years, it has been generally recognized that the 
concept of an elastic currency based on short-term, self-liquidating 
paper is no longer in consonance with banking practice and the needs 
of the economy. It has long been apparent that the narrow require-
ments of the law regarding "eligible paper" serve no useful purpose 
and that it would be preferable to place emphasis on the soundness of 
the paper offered as security for advances and the appropriateness of 
the purposes for which member banks borrow. The one-year paper of 
many bank customers that is not now eligible for discount may be as 
satisfactory collateral as the 90-day notes of other customers. More-
over, the nature of the collateral provides no assurance that the 
borrowing bank will use the proceeds for an appropriate purpose. 
As long as member banks hold a large enough volume of Govern-
ment securities, they need not, of course, be particularly concerned 
as to the eligibility for discount with the Reserve Banks of customers1 
paper held by them. Since World War II, however, there has been a 
sharp net decline in the aggregate holdings of Government securities 
by member banks. Consequently, a number of banks are being obliged to 
tender other kinds of collateral when they seek to obtain Federal Reserve 
credit, and this development will be sharply accelerated if a further 
substantial increase in economic activity should cause banks further to 
reduce their holdings of Government securities in order to meet in-
creased credit demands. 
In such a situation, the Reserve Banks can accept technically 
"ineligible" paper as collateral for advances to their member banks 
only under section 10(b) of the Federal Reserve Act at a rate of inter-
est one-half of one per cent above the regular discount rate. However, 
the necessity for distinguishing between "eligible" and "ineligible" 
paper gives rise to cumbersome administrative procedures that are not 
warranted by the exigencies of current banking conditions. In order to 
avoid these problems, it would clearly be preferable to revise and up-
date the law so as to eliminate the existing restrictions with respect 
to "eligible paper". 
The Board of Governors and the Federal Reserve Banks believe 
that such a revision of the law would be desirable so that the Reserve 
Banks will always be in a position to perform promptly and efficiently 
one of their principal responsibilities - the extension of appropriate 
credit assistance to member banks to enable the latter to meet the le-
gitimate credit needs of the economy. 
Accordingly, the Board again urges legislation that would 
enable member banks to borrow from a Federal Reserve Bank, at the basic 
discount rate, on their notes secured to the satisfaction of the Reserve 
Bank. A suggested draft of a bill for this purpose is enclosed. The 
draft bill is similar to earlier bills that have been passed by the 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-4-
Senate (S. 1559 in the 89th Congress; S. 966 in the 90th Congress). 
The only substantive change that would be made by legislation along 
the lines of the attached draft that would not have been made if the 
earlier bills had been enacted relates to Reserve Bank advances to 
individuals, partnerships, and corporations (other than member banks). 
Under the earlier bills such advances would have to be secured by 
Government obligations; under the attached draft such advances could 
be made, in exigent circumstances, secured by any satisfactory security 
This change would facilitate performance of the Federal Reserve System1 
role as a source of credit of last resort. 
Enclosure 

636 
D R A F T 
A 
B I L L 
To enable the Federal Reserve banks to extend credit to member banks 
and others in accordance with current economic conditions, and 
for other purposes. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following new 
section is inserted in the Federal Reserve Act immediately preceding 
section 14: 
"SEC. 13A. (a) Any Federal Reserve bank may make advances 
to any of its member banks secured to the satisfaction of such 
Federal Reserve bank, subject to such limitations, restrictions, 
and regulations as the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System may prescribe. 
"(b) In making advances pursuant to this section, each Federal 
Reserve bank shall give due regard to the maintenance of sound 
^ 
, 
credit conditions and the accommodation of commerce, industry, and 
'CU . 
agriculture. Each Federal Reserve Bank shall keep itself informed 
of the general character and amount of the loans and investments 
'••so!:; 
of its member banks with a view to ascertaining whether undue or 
XU-u..^ 
inappropriate use is being made of bank credit for the speculative 
carrying of or trading in securities, real estate, or commodities, 
or for any other purpose inconsistent with the maintenance of sound 
credit conditions; and, in determining whether to grant or refuse 
advances, the Federal Reserve bank shall give consideration to such 

-2- 
6 9 7 
information. Whenever the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, in the light of any reports made to it by a 
Federal Reserve bank, determines that any member bank is making 
such undue or inappropriate use of bank credit, the Board may, 
in its discretion, after reasonable notice and an opportunity 
for a hearing, suspend such bank from the use of the credit 
i -' 
• 
facilities of the Federal Reserve System and may terminate such 
suspension or may renew it from time to time. 
"(c) Any Federal Reserve bank may make advances in exigent 
circumstances to any individual, partnership, or corporation on 
• V » 
its promissory notes, secured to the satisfaction of such Federal 
£'<> ! ; • 
Reserve bank, subject to such limitations, restrictions, and regu-
lations as the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
may prescribe." 
SEC. 2 The following provisions of the Federal Reserve Act 
are hereby repealed: section 10(a) (12 U.S.C. 347a); section 10(b) 
(12 U.S.C- 347b); section 11(b) (12 U.S.C. 248(b)); the second, third, 
fourth, fifth, sixth, eighth, tenth, and thirteenth paragraphs of 
section 13 (12 U.S.C. 343, 344, 345, 346, 347, 347c); section 13a 
(12 
U.S.C. 348-352); and the last sentence of the third paragraph of 
section 24 (12 U.S.C. 371). 
SEC. 3. The eighth paragraph of section 4 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 301) is amended to read as follows: 
"Said board of directors shall administer the affairs of 
said bank fairly and impartially and without discrimination in 
' 
•, 
favor of or against any member bank or banks." 

-3-
. 638 
SEC. 4. The thirteenth paragraph of section 9 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 330) is amended by changing the colon after 
"member banks" in the second sentence to a period and by striking, 
commencing with "Provided, however,", the remainder of the paragraph. 
SEC. 5. The last sentence of section 11(m) of the Federal 
Re serve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(m)) is amended by changing "of all rediscount 
Privileges at Federal reserve banks" to read "from the use of the credit 
facilities of the Federal Reserve banks". 
SEC. 6. The second paragraph of section 12 of the Federal 
•i 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 262) is amended by changing "discount rates, 
rediscount business" to read "advances under section 13A of this Act, 
rates of interest charged by the Federal Reserve banks on such advances". 
SEC. 7. The first paragraph of section 14 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 353) is amended to read as follows: 
• -ic 
. . 
"Any Federal Reserve bank may, subject to the regulations 
of the Federal Open Market Committee, purchase and sell in the 
open market, at home or abroad, either from or to domestic or 
•' • 
foreign banks, firms, corporations, or individuals, cable trans-
fers, bankers' acceptances, and bills of exchange, with or with-
out the indorsement of a member bank." 
i 
SEC. 8. Section 14(c) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 356) 
is amended by striking "arising cut of commercial transactions, as herein-
before defined". 
SEC. 9. Section 14(d) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 357) 
amended to read as follows: 

"(d) To establish from time to time, subject to review 
and determination of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, rates of interest to be charged by the Federal 
Reserve bank on advances under section 13A of this Act, which 
shall be fixed with a view of accommodating commerce, business, 
'its' 1 ]<. ) i:. 
f f 
( 
and agriculture, and of maintaining sound credit conditions; 
and different rates may be fixed for different classes of paper 
or according to such other basis or bases as may be deemed neces-
sary in order to accomplish such purposes; but each such bank 
shall establish such rates every fourteen days, or oftener if 
deemed necessary by the Board;". 
• ' 
SEC. 10. The third sentence in the second paragraph of section 1 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 412) is amended to read: "The col-
lateral security thus offered shall be notes of member banks or others 
acquired under the provisions of section 13A of this Act, or bills of 
M Xi\ 
exchange or bankers' acceptances purchased under section 14 of this Act, 
°r gold certificates, or Special Drawing Right certificates, or direct 
obligations of the United States." 
i\\i 
5. 
SEC. 11. The second sentence of section 19(e) of the Federal 
*t V , 
1
1 . 
•• 
i t . 
I n 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 374) is amended by changing "discounts" to read 
"advances". 
SEC. 12. The proviso to the first sentence in the second 
• S •• . 
r 
Paragraph of section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c) is 
.S 
amended by striking out "drafts," and "for rediscount or". 
i 
v
-
.
.
"
' 
SEC. 13. The third sentence of section 201(e) of the Act of 
July 21, 1932 (12 U.S.C. 1148) is amended by striking out "various Federal 
reserve banks and". 

T^LRfc^. 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
3 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
700 
Item No. 2 
2/24/69 
March 4, 1969. 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In some areas of the United States, many of the commercial 
oanks that are not members of the Federal Reserve System make charges 
°r the payment of checks drawn on themselves when the checks are 
Presented by mail. These charges are generally known as "exchange 
(narges ' and the banks that impose such charges are referred to as 
nonpar banks" because they do not pay at par, that is, at face value, 
checks drawn on them. 
( Deposits in checking accounts constitute the bulk of our 
ountry s money supply. The efficient operation of our economic ma-
nine requires that checks, like currency, be interchangeable at their 
ace value. Present provisions of the Federal Reserve Act expressly 
^ ohibit the making of exchange charges against the Federal Reserve 
nks and, as a practical matter, all checks drawn on member banks and 
Pa 
through the Federal Reserve collection system are paid at 
cha' W h a t e v e r r e a s o n s m aY have once existed for the making of exchange 
"ges> l t is t h e Board's opinion that, under today's highly developed 
wh k ° f C h e C k c o l l e c t i o n> t h e r e is no sound reason for any bank, 
d^ether member or nonmember, to pay less than the face amount of checks 
awn upon it. Any expense that a bank incurs in the payment of checks 
^ould be absorbed by the bank or borne by its customers - the deposi-
rs who drew the checks - rather than by the payees or indorsees. This 
the practice followed today by most banks. 
ex
 
l t is obvious that nonpar banking involves inequities. For 
.^ainple, a seller of goods or services who is willing to accept checks 
^ Payment may receive less than the price agreed upon if the purchaser 
furT h i S c h e c k o n a nonpar bank. On the other hand, he may receive 
such £ a y m e n t e v e n i f t h e check is drawn on a nonpar bank, because some 
c e r
 
n k s f o l l o w a discriminatory practice of "parring" items only for 
eXchain p e r s o n s ' 
I n a n y e v e nt, as long as banks are permitted to impose 
p ^ange charges, a seller cannot be certain that he will receive full 
G n t f o r checks that he accepts for his goods or services. 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-4-
I 701 
In addition to such inequities, nonpar banking involves un-
justified costs and inefficiencies. For example, where a collecting 
bank presents a check to a drawee nonpar bank and pays an exchange 
charge and the charge is passed back through other collecting banks to 
the payee's bank and ultimately to the payee, each of the banks as well 
a s ttlG payee must make appropriate reversing entries in its books to 
take account of the fact that the item was not paid at its face amount. 
The unjustified costs and inefficiencies of nonpar banking 
°ften take a somewhat different form. Some banks are willing to "absorb" 
exchange charges on checks cleared through them in return for the main-
tenance of a minimum deposit by the forwarding bank. To pass a check 
through such a bank frequently involves circuitous routing, perhaps to 
Places quite distant from the drawee bank, thereby unnecessarily delay-
lr*g the time of payment of the check. 
While nonpar banks today obtain substantial income from charg-
ing exchange, banks that have shifted from a nonpar to a par status have 
een able to operate profitably through the substitution of an appropri-
ate system of service charges levied against their depositors for the 
expense of handling transactions in their accounts. Thus, while the 
eUmination of exchange charges will greatly facilitate the efficient op-
eration of our nation's banking system, the loss of exchange income should 
n°t be detrimental to individual banks. 
For the reasons indicated above, the Board, beginning in its 
unual Report to the Congress for 1965, has annually recommended enactment 
°t legislation that would require all insured banks to pay checks drawn on 
uem at par, that is, without deduction of exchange charges. 
The trend of legislation in this area at the State level has 
cen toward requiring banks to pay the face amount of checks drawn upon 
em. xn recent years, Florida, Minnesota, Mississippi, North Dakota, and 
°uth Dakota have enacted legislation along these lines. However, nonpar banks 
® ill exist in Alabama, Alaska, Arkansas, Georgia, Louisiana, Missouri, North 
arolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Texas. 
Accordingly, despite the progress in the direction of par clear-
an°e that has been made at the State level, the Board continues to favor 
enactment by the Congress of a requirement that all insured banks pay at 
Par all checks drawn on them. In order to afford nonpar banks a reasonable 
me within which to adjust their practices, it is recommended that such 
Sislation be made effective one year after the date of its enactment. 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-3-
! 
A draft of a bill for this purpose is enclosed. 
Sincerely yours, 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure 
I 

. I 
7 0 3 
D R A F T 
A 
B I L L 
% 
To require all insured banks to clear checks at par. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled. That section 18 of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828) is amended by adding the 
following subsection: 
"(k) No insured bank shall pay any check drawn on it at 
less than its face amount or make any charge, by exchange or 
otherwise, against a person in his capacity as payee or in-
dorsee for the payment of such checks and remission of the 
proceeds thereof. For each violation of this subsection, the 
offending bank shall be subject to a penalty of not more than 
$100, which the Corporation may recover for its use." 
SEC. 2. The first paragraph of section 13 of the Federal Reserve 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 342) is amended by striking ": Provided further. That noth-
ln8 in this or any other section of this Act shall be construed as pro-
fiting a member or nonmember bank from making reasonable charges, to be 
j 
Gtermined and regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
Ostein, but in no case to exceed 10 cents per $100 or fraction thereof 
ased on the total of checks and drafts presented at any one time, for 
c°Uection or payment of checks and drafts and remission therefor by 
ange or otherwise; but no such charges shall be made against the 
eral reserve banks". 
SEC. 3. The amendments made by this Act shall become effective 
One v 
year after the date of the enactment of this Act. 

704 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
W A S H I N G T O N , 0 . C . 2 0 5 S I 
2/24/69 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 4, 1969. 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
The Board of Governors recommends legislation establishing a 
graduated system of reserve requirements against the demand deposits 
°f all federally insured commercial banks and, in conjunction therewith, 
authorizing the Federal Reserve Banks to extend credit to nonmember in-
sured commercial banks to the same extent such credit is made available 
to member banks. 
Under the provisions of section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
the Board could establish a graduated system of reserve requirements for 
member banks. However, the Board's ability to establish the most appro-
priate graduated system is limited by the outmoded statutory differentia-
tion, for reserve purposes, between reserve city and "country" banks. 
The Board believes that the classification of member banks into 
reserve city and country banks has become increasingly arbitrary and in-
equitable, as differences in both size and function between country and 
city banks have lessened. Required reserves should depend on the amount 
°f a bank's deposits rather than its location. 
The Board also considers that, rationally and equitably, non-
member insured banks should be required to maintain reserves in the same 
amount and form that are applicable to member banks. Deposits in non-
member banks are part of the country's money supply just as are those in 
member banks, and accordingly their exemption from federally-imposed re-
serve requirements cannot be justified. In making Federal Reserve require-
ments applicable to nonmember banks - one of the major "burdens" of Federal 
Reserve membership - the law should grant such banks access to Federal 
Reserve discount facilities - one of the major benefits of such membership. 
The enclosed draft bill is based upon the foregoing considerations. 
In the event that extension of the coverage of reserve require-
ments to nonmember banks is impractical at this time, the Board urges 
introduction and enactment of a bill to remove the statutory differentiation 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
between reserve city and "country" 
-4-
member banks. In doing so, the Congress 
might wish to establish by statute the basic structure of a graduated system 
of reserve requirements. A smoothly graduated system would permit each bank 
to maintain a relatively low reserve against a specified dollar amount of 
its net demand deposits, a higher reserve against its deposits above such a 
minimum and up to a substantial figure, and a still higher reserve against 
its demand deposits, if any, above the latter amount. Under such a structure, 
all banks of the same size in terms of deposits would carry equal reserves. 
As a bank grows in size and passes into a higher reserve bracket, its reserve-
requirement percentage would rise smoothly and gradually, because the higher 
requirement would apply only to its marginal demand deposits. 
A draft bill solely to establish such a graduated system of reserve 
requirements for member banks is also enclosed. 
Sincerely yours, 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosures 

D R A F T 
A 
B I L L 
To establish a graduated system of reserve requirements for federally 
insured commercial banks and to authorize Federal Reserve banks 
to extend credit to nonmember insured banks subject to such 
requirements. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
ILnited States of America in Congress assembled, That section 19 of the 
Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 374, 461, 464, and 465) is amended in the 
following respects: 
(a) by adding at the end of subsection (a): "For the purposes 
of this section, the terms 'insured bank' and 'noninsured bank' 
shall have the meanings given those terms by section 3(h) of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Act." 
(b) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows: 
"(b) Every insured bank that accepts demand deposits shall 
maintain reserves against its deposits in such ratios and accord-
ing to such reasonable basis or bases as shall be determined by 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System within the 
following limitations: 
(1) the required reserve ratio or ratios for deposits 
other than demand deposits shall be not less than 3 per 
centum nor more than 10 per centum; 
(2) the required reserve ratio or ratios for demand 
deposits not exceeding $5,000,000 shall be not less than 
7 per centum nor more than 14 per centum; 
(3) the required reserve ratio or ratios for demand 
deposits exceeding $5,000,000 and not exceeding $100,000,000 

,5 
: 
- 2 -
shall be not less than 8 per centum nor more than 20 per 
centum; 
(4) the required reserve ratio or ratios for demand 
deposits exceeding $100,000,000 shall be not less than 10 
per centum nor more than 22 per centum; and 
(5) the $5,000,000 figure may be increased by the 
Board to not more than $10,000,000 or decreased to not 
less than $2,500,000, and the $100,000,000 figure may be 
increased to not more than $500,000,000 or decreased to 
not less than $50,000,000. 
Every insured bank shall make reports concerning its required 
reserves to the Board of Governors at such time and in such 
form as the Board may require. In the event that the Board of 
Governors determines that an insured bank has violated any pro-
vision of this section applicable to it, in addition to the 
707 
penalties that may be authorized by other provisions of law, 
such bank shall be subject to a penalty not exceeding $1,000 
per day for each day during which such violation continues. 
~ e r 
y 
Such penalty may be assessed by the Board of Governors, in its 
discretion, and, when so assessed, may be collected by suit or 
otherwise by the Federal Reserve bank of the district in which 
such insured bank is located. Whenever it shall appear to the 
Board of Governors that an insured bank has willfully violated 
the provisions of this section regarding required reserves 
or reports with respect thereto, the Board, after having 

warned the bank to discontinue such violations, may report 
such facts to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
which shall immediately commence proceedings to terminate 
the status of the bank as an insured bank in accordance with 
the provisions of section 8(a) of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act." 
(c) in subsection (c) by changing (1) "member bank" to read 
"insured bank" and (2) "of which it is a member" to read "of the 
Federal Reserve district in which it is located". 
(d) in subsection (e) by changing (1) "member bank" to read 
"insured bank" and (2) "nonmember bank" to read "noninsured bank". 
(e) in subsections (f) and (g) by changing wherever they 
appear therein (1) "member bank" to read "insured bank" and 
(2) "member banks" to read "insured banks". 
SEC. 2. Section 11(e) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(e)) 
is repealed. 
SEC. 3. Section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act is amended by adding 
a t the end thereof the following paragraph: 
"Each Federal Reserve bank may discount paper for, and make 
advances to, any nonmember bank in its district whose deposits are 
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and that is 
subject to the provisions of this Act regarding reserves, to the 
same extent and subject to the same limitations as such Federal 
Reserve bank may discount paper for, and make advances to, member 
banks under the provisions of this Act." 

D R A F T 
A 
B I L L 
To establish a graduated system of reserve requirements for member banks 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That section 19(b) of the 
Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461) is amended to read as follows: 
"(b) Every member bank shall maintain reserves against its 
deposits in such ratios and according to such reasonable basis 
or bases as shall be determined by the Board within the follow-
ing limitations: 
"(1) the required reserve ratio or ratios for deposits 
other than demand deposits shall be not less than 3 per centum 
nor more than 10 per centum; 
"(2) the required reserve ratio or ratios for demand 
deposits not exceeding $5,000,000 shall be not less than 
7 per centum nor more than 14 per centum; 
"(3) the required reserve ratio or ratios for demand 
deposits exceeding $5,000,000 and not exceeding $100,000,000 
shall be not less than 8 per centum nor more than 20 per 
centum; 
"(4) the required reserve ratio or ratios for demand 
deposits exceeding $100,000,000 shall be not less than 
10 per centum nor more than 22 per centum; and 

"(5) the $5,000,000 figure may be increased by the 
Board to not more than $10,000,000 or decreased to not 
less than $2,500,000, and the $100,000,000 figure may be 
increased to not more than $500,000,000 or decreased to 
not less than $50,000,000." 
SEC. 2. Section 11(e) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 
248(e)) is repealed. 

B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R 5 
D F T H E 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL R E 5 E R V E SYSTEM 
2/24/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 4, 1969 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
Since February 1962, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has 
engaged in foreign currency operations on behalf of the System Open 
Market Account and under directions of the Federal Open Market Committee, 
ihese operations have been encouragingly successful in accomplishing 
their basic purposes, and have thus helped to safeguard the value of the 
dollar in international exchange markets. 
These operations have been implemented in part by the establish-
ment of reciprocal credit balances or "swap" arrangements between the 
New York Reserve Bank and foreign central banks. The authorization for 
System foreign currency operations adopted by the Federal Open Market 
Committee requires that foreign currency holdings in excess of minimum 
working balances be invested insofar as practicable, and that such invest-
ments be in accordance with the provisions of section 14(e) of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Under section 14(e), idle amounts held by the Reserve Bank in 
a n account with a foreign bank may be invested in bills of exchange and 
acceptances that arise out of actual commercial transactions and have 
maturities of not more than 90 days, or they may be placed in an interest-
earing time account with the same or some other foreign bank. However, 
certain instances there has been a scarcity of such paper for invest-
ment, time deposit facilities have not always been conveniently available, 
under present law, such idle funds could not be invested in obliga-
tions of foreign governments, such as foreign treasury bills. On the other 
^and, a foreign central bank having a balance or reciprocal credit or "swap 
arrangement with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York may invest idle funds 
ltl its account with the Reserve Bank in interest-bearing United States 
securities. 
The disadvantage in this respect under which the Reserve Bank 
must operate would be remedied by an amendment to section 14(e) of the 
ederal Reserve Act that would specifically authorize Federal Reserve Banks 
o buy and sell securities with maturities not exceeding 12 months that are 
lssued or guaranteed by foreign governments. 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
The Board recommends the enactment of such an amendment to the 
law. A suggested draft of a bill for this purpose is enclosed. The 
draft bill is similar to earlier bills that have been passed by the Senate 
(S. 1557 in the 89th Congress; S. 965 in the 90th Congress); it makes no 
substantive change that would not have been made if those bills had been 
enacted. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure 
712 
-2-

_ 713 
D R A F T 
A 
B I L L 
To enable Federal Reserve banks to invest in certain obligations of 
foreign governments. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That section 14(e) of the 
Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 358) is amended to read as follows: 
"(e)(1) With the approval or upon the direction of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and subject 
to such regulations as the Board may prescribe: 
"(A) to establish and maintain accounts in 
foreign countries and to appoint correspondents and 
establish agencies in such countries; 
"(B) to buy and sell through such correspondents 
or agencies (i) bills of exchange and acceptances 
arising out of actual commercial transactions that 
have not more than ninety days to run, exclusive of 
days of grace, and that bear the signatures of two 
or more responsible parties, and (ii) any securities 
that are direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed 
as to principal and interest by, any foreign govern-
ment or monetary authority and that have maturities 
from date of purchase of not exceeding twelve months 
and are denominated payable in any convertible cur-
rency; and 

-2-
714 
"(C) to establish and maintain accounts for such 
foreign correspondents or agencies, for foreign banks 
or bankers, or for foreign states as defined in sec-
tion 25(b) of this Act. 
"(2) Whenever any Federal Reserve bank establishes an 
account or agency or appoints a correspondent pursuant to 
this section, any other Reserve bank, with the approval of 
the Board, may be permitted to conduct, through the Reserve 
bank establishing such account or agency or appointing such 
correspondent, any transaction authorized by this section, 
subject to such regulations as the Board may prescribe." 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 5 
O F T H E 
2/24/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 4, 1969 
The Honorable James 0. Eastland, 
Chairman, 
Committee on the Judiciary, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
Section 212 of Title 18 of the United States Code, "Crimes and 
Criminal Procedure", prohibits a federally insured bank from making any 
loan to any person who examines or has authority to examine such bank. 
Conversely, section 213 of Title 18 prohibits any examiner from obtain-
ing any loan from any federally insured bank examined by him. 
While these provisions of law, designed to prevent conflicts 
of interest, are based upon sound principles, the Board believes that 
they unduly and unfairly place bank examiners at a serious disadvantage 
in the obtaining of financing for the purchase or construction of homes. 
Modification of the law to permit insured banks to make home mortgage 
loans to examiners up to some maximum amount prescribed by statute would 
n°t, in the Board's opinion, defeat or impair the accomplishment of the 
Purposes of these provisions, particularly if the examiner is precluded 
from examining the lending bank during the life of the loan. 
Accordingly, the Board recommends the introduction and enact-
ment of appropriate amendments to Title 18 that would authorize an 
insured bank to make a home mortgage loan to an examiner up to an amount 
not exceeding $30,000. 
A draft of a bill for this purpose is enclosed. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
•f^LRfcS*. 
Enclosure 

716 
D R A F T 
A 
B I L L 
To permit a home mortgage loan by a federally insured bank to a 
bank examiner. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That section 212 of 
Title 18 of the United States Code, "Crimes and Criminal Procedure", 
is amended by adding at the end thereof the following paragraph: 
"Nothing contained herein or in section 213 of this 
title shall prohibit any such officer, director, or em-
ployee from making, or an examiner or assistant examiner 
from accepting, from any such bank, corporation, member, 
institution, association, or organization, a loan in an 
amount not exceeding $30,000 that is secured by a first 
lien on a home owned and occupied or to be owned and 
occupied by such examiner or assistant examiner, but no 
examiner or assistant examiner to whom such a loan is 
made shall, as long as the loan remains outstanding, 
participate in any examination of the institution by 
which the loan was made." 

B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 6 
2/24/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
February 24, 1969. 
Mr. Phillip S. Hughes, Deputy Director, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Hughes: 
This refers to your letter of December 20, 1968, in which 
you invite the Board to submit legislative proposals for considera-
tion by State legislatures. It is understood that proposals that 
the Bureau considers appropriate, after consultation with other 
interested Federal agencies, will be forwarded to the Committee of 
State Officials on Suggested State Legislation, Council of State 
Governments, for consideration. Proposals approved by the Council's 
Committee will be circulated among State legislatures at their next 
sessions. 
The Board of Governors has no proposals to submit for your 
consideration at this time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

718 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TQ THE BOARD 
2/24/69 
February 24, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Karl R. Bopp, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
Dear Mr. Bopp: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment 
of salary to Mr. Eugene W. Lowe as a Securities Officer 
at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia at the rate 
of $15,000 per annum for the period March 1 through 
December 31, 1969. This is the rate fixed by your Board 
of Directors as reported in Mr. Hilkert's letter of 
February 6, 1969. 
i 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
