FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
July 31, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Burns 
Robertson 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Maisel 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

Minutes of a meeting of members of the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System on Friday, July 31, 1970. The meeting was 
held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance JL/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Mrs. Byrn, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Economic and financial review. 
The usual weekly economic and 
financial review was presented. 
Copies of the individual briefings 
have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the statis-
tical charts and tables prepared for today's review. 
After discussion based on the review, members of the staff who 
had attended the meeting for that purpose withdrew. 
FRB-MIT model. 
In a memorandum dated July 30, 1970, the Division 
of Research and Statistics reported that there had been an increasing 
1/ Other officers and staff of the division also were present. 

o o i n 
7/31/70 
-2-
number of requests for the FRB-MIT econometric model, many of which had 
had to be denied because of limited staff time. It was proposed that the 
model be turned over to Wharton EFA, Inc., a non-profit subsidiary of 
the University of Pennsylvania, for routine maintenance and for dissem-
ination to the public. This arrangement would free the Board's staff 
from time-consuming explanations to model users and also, it was felt, 
divorce the model sufficiently from any System policy connotations. 
A 
small committee would be established, with representation from Board 
staff and the Social Science Research Council, to review the perfor-
mance of Wharton EFA in keeping the public version of the model reason-
ably faithful to the spirit of the model now in existence. 
After some discussion of the relationship that would exist, it 
was decided that the model should be passed on to the Wharton group 
only with a clear understanding that the Federal Reserve name would be 
disassociated from it. Since the model was originally developed under 
a contract with the Social Science Research Council, it was suggested 
that the model might be given the Council's name if that was agreeable 
to the parties concerned. As to any literature that might be prepared 
by Wharton EFA concerning the history of the model, and its logic, the 
Board's staff should retain the right to review such literature to be 
sure it made clear that the Board no longer had any formal connection 

2243 
7/31/70 
-3-
with the model. Subject to these understandings, the procedure 
recommended by the Research Division was 
approved. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
