MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 3, 1969 

11G5 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, April 3, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 1/ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board 
and Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Discount rate and reserve requirement increase. There was 
distributed a draft of press release concerning actions on which the 
majority of the Board appeared to have tentatively agreed at yesterday's 
meeting, namely, an increase in the discount rate from 5-1/2 per cent 
to 6 per cent and an increase in the percentage of reserves required to 
be held by member banks against demand deposits. The draft was couched 
in factual terms and cited the actions as a "further move against inflation. 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

JLi.tb 
4/3/69 
-2-
In reply to a question, the Secretary stated that in effect 
the Board was in a position to approve a discount rate of 6 per cent for 
all Federal Reserve Banks except Boston, effective tomorrow. While the 
directors of the Philadelphia, Chicago, and Minneapolis Banks had 
established a discount rate of 6-1/4 per cent, they had made known that 
they would establish a rate of 6 per cent if advised that the Board was 
not prepared to approve the higher rate. 
Governor Maisel then distributed a statement of reasons why 
he would dissent from an action to increase reserve requirements. 
Upon reading the statement Governor Mitchell questioned the 
interpretation that it appeared to him to place upon the action, which 
he did not regard as a step toward further tightening as far as the 
monetary aggregates were concerned. He inquired whether Governor Maisel 
was submitting his statement for the record or for inclusion in the 
press release, and Governor Maisel replied that he had both in mind. 
After suggestions had been made for possible editorial changes, 
Governor Mitchell expressed concern about the impact of issuance of the 
Board's press release and Governor Maisel's statement at the same time, 
for in his view the latter would tend to neutralize the impact of the 
Board's announcement. The Board's intent, as he saw it, was principally 
to exert an effect on public psychology. Governor Robertson noted that 
the action would result in a further tightening in the positions of 

11G7 
4/3/69 
-3-
smaller member banks; in other words it would tend to even out the 
impact of monetary policy. There followed further discussion of 
Governor Maisel1s statement, after which Governor Robertson observed 
that in his view Governor Maisel was entitled to express his own 
judgment as long as his statement did not constitute an interpretation 
of the position of the majority. 
It was noted that the Board statement would be relatively brief, 
and Governor Maisel indicated that he would attempt some redrafting with 
a view to shortening his own statement; he had anticipated that the 
Board statement would be more extensive. One the other hand, he felt 
that the policy reasons for his dissent should be published, in accordance 
with what he understood to be the intent of the Public Information Act. 
Governor Mitchell repeated that in his view the action being 
taken should be regarded principally as a shifting from one instrument 
of monetary policy to another. Open market policy could be used in such 
a way as to control the monetary aggregates. Looking at the aggregates, 
he felt that the System had squeezed about as much liquidity out of the 
economy as was needed and that in fact a slightly more accommodative role 
might be in order. 
Governor Brimmer commented that what the Board was trying to do, 
as he saw it, was to change the composition of policy instruments to 
emphasize one set over another, rather than to effect a further increase 
in the degree of restraint as measured by the monetary aggregates. He felt 

117? 
4/3/69 
-13-
that it was appropriate for Governor Maisel to say whatever he wanted, 
and to take whatever space he wanted, if he disputed the way policy 
was being conducted. 
Governor Daane agreed, as long as the action of the majority 
was not mislabeled. 
Governor Sherrill then observed that the discussion had raised 
in his mind the question of what the Board actually was endeavoring to 
accomplish. The effect of the action was intended to be principally 
psychological, as he understood it, and that might indeed be the basic 
effect; he had decided that he could go along with the reserve requirement 
increase if some psychological value could be gained from it. However, 
if there was no attempt to follow up on the move, the ultimate effect 
could be to create confusion, so the action really should be looked 
upon, he believed, as a change in stance to put more pressure on the 
banking system. 
Governor Brimmer reviewed with the staff the prospective reserve 
picture during a period in which it was anticipated that the Treasury 
would be repaying debt, from which analysis it seemed clear that, given 
the current stance of open market policy, the reserve requirement 
increase—which would absorb $650 million of reserves—would require the 
Desk to do that much less by way of absorbing reserves than it would 
otherwise have had to do. In effect, the Board would be choosing the 

117? 
4/3/69 
-13-
reserve requirement route to offset growth of reserves, and in addition 
it would get the announcement effect. 
A staff member observed that one result would be to achieve a 
more pervasive impact throughout the banking system from the existing 
policy of restraint. Another would be to require banks in general to 
divest themselves of liquid assets and instead take on a non-earning 
asset, which might lead them to tighten their lending policies more 
quickly than they otherwise would. If those economic reasons were borne 
in mind, they would make a reasonable case for a reserve requirement 
change that the Board would not have to characterize as a tightening of 
policy in terms of the aggregates. 
After further discussion along the same general lines, 
Governor Maisel indicated, in response to a question, that he would 
be willing to condense his statement, perhaps bringing it down to as 
few as two paragraphs, and at the same time endeavor to set forth his 
own position in such a way as to avoid ascribing to the majority reasons 
for the action that the comments at today's meeting had suggested might 
not be held by the Board as a whole. 
In summarizing, the Chairman pointed out that the basic facts 
were these: (a) all members of the Board were prepared to approve an 
increase in the discount rate from 5-1/2 per cent to 6 per cent; and 
- C - . 
i o r t 
I . 
V s 
n 
• 
• I 
* • 
• 
(b) all members except Governor Maisel were prepared to support an 

117? 
4/3/69 
-13-
increase of one-half of a percentage point in the reserve requirement 
against net demand deposits of member banks effective in the reserve 
period beginning April 17, 1969, and applicable to average deposits in the 
period April 3 to 9, 1969, inclusive. While the reasons for which the 
respective members would feel justified in taking such actions might vary 
somewhat from one member to another, he doubted that it was necessary, 
or probably even feasible, to attempt to spell out the details in the 
Board's announcement. 
There appeared to be general agreement with that comment. Some 
members expressed a desire to review the complete press statement before 
it was released, and it was indicated that that could be arranged. Also, 
another meeting of the Board could be held this afternoon if for any 
reason that should seem desirable. 
The Board then approved unanimously, effective April 4, 1969, 
a basic discount rate of 6 per cent for all Federal Reserve Banks that 
had advised by this afternoon that their directors had established such 
rate, along with appropriately corresponding secondary rates on discount 
and advances. 
Note: The effect of the Board's action was to approve 
the following rates: for all Federal Reserve Banks 
except Boston a rate of 6 per cent on all advances and 
discounts under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal 
Reserve Act (except advances under the last paragraph 
of section 13) and a rate of 6-1/2 per cent on advances 
to member banks under section 10(b) of the Act; for the 

117? 
4/3/69 
-13-
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Cleveland, and 
Minneapolis a rate of 7-1/2 per cent, and for the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Richmondi 
Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, 
and San Francisco a rate of 7 per cent, on advances 
under the last paragraph of section 13 of the Act 
to individuals, partnerships, and corporations 
other than member banks secured by direct obligations 
of, or obligations fully guaranteed as to principal 
and interest by, the United States or any agency 
thereof. 
As to any Reserve Bank that might advise later that its 
directors had established a basic discount rate of 6 per cent along 
with appropriately corresponding secondary rates, the Board authorized 
its Secretary to advise such Bank of the approval of such rates and 
to arrange for the issuance of an appropriate press statement. 
Note: Acting pursuant to such authority, the Secretary 
advised the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston of approval 
of the following rates established by the directors of 
that Bank, effective April 8, 1969: a rate of 6 per 
cent on all advances and discounts under sections 13 
and 13a (except advances under the last paragraph of 
section 13); a rate of 6-1/2 per cent on advances to 
member banks under section 10(b); and a rate of 7 per 
cent on advances under the last paragraph of section 13 
to individuals, partnerships, and corporations other 
than member banks secured by direct obligations of, or 
obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and 
interest by, the United States or any agency thereof. 
Effective April 17, 1969, the Board approved, with Governor 
Maisel dissenting, an amendment to the Supplement to Regulation D, 
Reserves of Member Banks, the effect of which was to increase by one-
half a percentage point the ratio of reserves that must be maintained 

117? 
4/3/69 
-13-
by a member bank against its demand deposits. The full text of the 
amendment is attached as Item No. 1. 
A copy of the press statement with reference to the foregoing 
actions, as issued by the Board later in the day, is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Personnel Administra-
tion, entered the room at this point. 
Officer's salary at Atlanta. Unanimous approval was given to 
a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta (copy attached as 
Item No. 3) approving the payment of salary to Dan L. Hendley as Vice 
President in charge of the Birmingham Branch during the period April 15 
through December 31, 1969, at the annual rate fixed by the Bank's Board 
of Directors. 
Governor Mitchell then withdrew from the meeting and the 
following entered: 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Other appropriate members of the staff 

117? 
4/3/69 
-13-
Approved items. The following items were approved after 
consideration of background information that had been made available 
to the Board, the action in each case being by unanimous vote of all 
members present except that Governor Brimmer abstained from partici-
pating in the vote on Item No. 7. Copies of the respective items are 
attached under the numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Boston Overseas Financial Corporation, 
4 
Boston, Massachusetts, granting consent to its 
acquisition of shares of First Leasing Australia, 
Ltd., Sydney, Australia, and to its continued 
holding of such shares after acquisition by the 
latter organization of the stock of Reinehr 
Industrial Lease and Finance Pty. Ltd., also of 
Sydney. 
Letter to First National City Overseas Invest- 
5 
ment Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to its acquisition of substantially all 
of the stock of Inversiones y Adelantos C.A., 
a holding company to be formed in Caracas, 
Venezuela, and to its continued holding of such 
stock after acquisition by the latter organiza-
tion of substantially all of the shares of 
Adelantos y Creditor C.A., a finance company to 
be formed in Caracas, and issuance by the 
finance company of convertible debentures. 
Letter to Bamerical International Financial 
6 
Corporation, San Francisco, California, granting 
consent to its acquisition of the capital stock 
of Inversiones Ariel S.A., Guatemala City, 
Guatemala. 
Letter to Northwestern National Bank of 
7 
Minneapolis, Minneapolis, Minnesota, approving 
its application to establish a branch in Nassau, 
Bahamas. 

117? 
4/3/69 
-13-
Item No. 
Letter to the State of New York Banking Depart- 
8 
ment interposing no objection to the establish-
ment of an agency in New York City by Bank 
Saderat Iran, Tehran, Iran. 
Governor Robertson asked that the record reflect that he 
voted to approve the establishment of the Nassau branch (Item No. 7) 
for two reasons. First, it appeared to be the applicant bank's 
intention to employ a qualified manager who would reside in the 
Bahamas; second, it would seem unfair not to approve this application 
when the Board had previously approved a number of Nassau branches 
for other banks. 
Governor Brimmer abstained because he did not approve of the 
establishment of Nassau branches. Further, it was not entirely clear 
how the question of providing management for this particular branch 
would be resolved. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Industrial Valley Bank 
and Trust Company, Jenkintown, Pennsylvania, into Doylestown Trust 
Company, Doylestown, Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion 
stating that consummation of the proposed merger would appear to have 
no adverse competitive effects. 

117? 
4/3/69 
-13-
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Snyder County Trust Company, Selinsgrove, Pennsylvania, 
into The First National Bank of Sunbury, Sunbury, Pennsylvania, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency 
in a form in which the conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The First 
National Bank of Sunbury and Snyder County Trust 
Company, Selinsgrove, would eliminate existing and 
potential competition between the two banks and 
increase the concentration of banking resources in 
the Sunbury-Selinsgrove area. 
The overall effect of the proposed merger on 
competition would be substantially adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Locust Street National Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
with Lincoln National Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
conclusion stating that consummation of the proposed merger (which 
was merely a transaction to facilitate the acquisition of Lincoln 
National Bank by Lincoln National Company, a newly-formed holding 
company) would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Associated Bank Services. There had been distributed drafts 
of an order and statement reflecting the Board's action on March 17, 
1969, approving the application of Associated Bank Services, Inc., 
Green Bay, Wisconsin, to become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of shares of three banks in Wisconsin. 

1176 
4/3/69 
-12-
Th e issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 9. 
Survey of consumer awareness. In a memorandum dated April 2, 
1969, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended conducting 
a survey of consumer awareness of credit finance charges, interest rates 
paid on consumer credit transactions, and the extent to which consumers 
were making use of comparison shopping in their credit transactions. 
It was hoped that such a survey, which would be conducted by Chilton 
Research Services, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, would provide a basis 
for evaluating the effectiveness of the truth in lending legislation 
that was soon to become effective. In other words, if an initial 
survey were made at this time it might establish a benchmark against 
which to measure improvements in the levels of consumer knowledge and 
awareness, perhaps a year or 18 months later. The first survey, 
covering a national sample of 5,000 households, would cost $99,000, 
and it might be assumed that a later comparable survey would cost about 
the same amount. 
The proposal had been endorsed by the Advisory Committee on 
Truth in Lending, and it was contemplated that a subcommittee would 
work with the staff in developing the questionnaire and analyzing 
results. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that such a program was 
almost essential in order to enable the Board to report to the Congress, 

117? 
4/3/69 
-13-
as required by law, on the effectiveness of the truth in lending 
legislation. 
Governor Brimmer recalled that he had earlier been skeptical. 
However, after talking with Dr. Holton, Chairman of the Advisory 
Committee, he had concluded that a survey of the kind proposed probably 
should be made, particularly since, as Governor Robertson had pointed 
out, it would seem difficult to report to the Congress without this 
underpinning. 
The Board then authorized the survey, with the understanding 
that the authorization constituted approval of the resulting over-
expenditure in the pertinent account of the 1969 budget. A copy of 
the letter sent to Chilton Research Services pursuant to this action 
is attached as Item No. 10. 
The Board then met briefly in executive session, after which 
the meeting adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
4/3/69 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. D] 
PART 204 - RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Reserve Percentages 
1. Effective April 17, 1969, § 204.5 (Supplement to Regulation D) 
is amended to read as follows: 
§ 204.5 Supplement. 
(a) Reserve percentages. Pursuant to the provisions of section 
19 of the Federal Reserve Act and § 204.2(a) and subject to paragraph (b) 
of this section, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System hereby 
prescribes the following reserve balances which each member bank of the 
Federal Reserve System is required to maintain on deposit with the Federal 
Reserve Bank of its district: 
(1) If not in a reserve city--
(i) 3 per cent of (A) its savings deposits and (B) its time deposits, 
open account, that constitute deposits of individuals, such as Christmas club 
accounts and vacation club accounts, that are made under written contracts 
providing that no withdrawal shall be made until a certain number of periodic 
deposits have been made during a period of not less than 3 months; plus 
(ii) 3 per cent of its other time deposits up to $5 million, plus 
6 per cent of such deposits in excess of $5 million; plus 
(iii) 12-1/2 per cent of its net demand deposits up to $5 million, 
plus 13 per cent of such deposits in excess of $5 million. 

1179 
- 2 -
(2) If in a reserve city (except as to any bank located in such 
a city which is permitted by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, pursuant to § 204.2(a)(2), to maintain the reserves specified in 
subparagraph (1) of this paragraph)--
the - 
. 
• ,. , 
. 
,. 
(i) 3 per cent of (A) its savings deposits and (B) its time 
deposits, open account, that constitute deposits of individuals, such as 
Christmas club accounts and vacation club accounts, that are made under 
written contracts providing that no withdrawal shall be made until a 
certain number of periodic deposits have been made during a period of not 
less than 3 months; plus 
(ii) 3 per cent of its other time deposits up to $5 million, plus 
6 Per cent of such deposits in excess of $5 million; plus 
(iii) 17 per cent of its net demand deposits up to $5 million, plus 
17-1/2 per cent of such deposits in excess of $5 million. 
(b) Currency and Coin. The amount of a member bank's currency 
ar*d coin shall be counted as reserves in determining compliance with the 
reserve requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. 
•i< 
-k 
-k 
-k 
2a. This amendment is issued pursuant to the authority granted to 
Board of Governors by section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act to set 
reserve ratios (12 U.S.C. 461). The change is to increase by 1/2 a percent-
a8e point the ratio of reserves that must be maintained by a member bank 
a8ainst its demand deposits. 
b. There was no notice and public participation with respect to 
this amendment as such procedure would result in delay that would be contrary 

11 so 
to the public interest and serve no useful purpose. The effective date 
was deferred for less than the 30-day period referred to in section 
553(d) 
of title 5, United States Code, because the Board found that the 
general credit situation and the public interest compelled it to make 
the action effective no later than the date adopted. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 3d day of April, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

l i s t 
Item No. 2 
4/3/69 
April 3, 1969. 
In a further move against inflation, the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System today: 
1. Increased reserve requirements against demand deposits 
at all member banks by 1/2 percentage point, effective in the reserve 
computation period beginning April 17 and applicable to average deposits 
in the period April 3-9 inclusive. 
2. Approved action by the directors of 11 Federal Reserve 
Banks increasing the discount rate at those banks from 5-1/2 to 6 per 
cent, effective April 4. The discount rate is the interest rate 
charged member banks for borrowing from their district Federal Reserve 
Banks. 
The increase in reserve requirements will mean that the 
nearly 6,000 national and state member banks must set aside as reserves 
an additional $650 million, approximately $375 million at reserve city 
banks--generally the larger banks in larger cities--and $275 million at 
other member banks, frequently referred to as "country banks." 
The action will raise reserve requirements at reserve city 
banks from 16-1/2 to 17 per cent on net demand deposits under $5 million 
and from 17 to 17-1/2 per cent on deposits over $5 million. For all 
other member banks the increase will be from 12 to 12-1/2 per cent on 
deposits under $5 million and from 12-1/2 to 13 per cent on those over 
$5 million. Reserve requirements against time deposits remain 
unchanged. 
v'ay 
For immediate release. 

1182 
- 2 -
The new top rate of 17-1/2 per cent on net demand deposits 
is the highest since 1960. The last previous change in reserve require-
i 
ments took effect in January 1968, when they were raised 1/2 percentage 
point on all demand deposits over $5 million. 
The new discount rate will be put into effect tomorrow by 
the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, 
Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and 
San Francisco. The 6 per cent rate is the highest in 40 years, although 
the rate has been as high as 7 per cent, in 1920-21. 
The seven members of the Board were unanimous on the discount 
rate action, and all memtoers of the Board voted in favor of the reserve 
requirement action except Governor Maisel, who stated: "I have no dis-
agreement with the majority of the Board in either the ultimate goal 
being sought for the economy nor with the view that demand for output 
and services is continuing to rise at an inflationary pace. However, 
current money market relationships have, for the past five months, led 
to modest growth in most monetary aggregates, a sharp rise in interest 
rates, and a rapid reduction of bank liquidity. The existing relation-
ships appear to me proper to sustain a long period of non-inflationary 
growth of money and credit. 
I conclude that until evidence arises 
that the demand for funds is leading to an undesirable upward shift in 
the rate of monetary expansion, an increase in reserve requirements is 
not called for." 
-0-

1183 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 10 
4/3/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30303 
Dear Mr. Kimbrel: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to Mr. Dan L. Hendley as Vice President of the 
Birmingham Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
at an annual salary of $20,000 for the period April 15 
through December 31, 1969. This is the rate fixed by your 
Board of Directors as reported in your letter of March 27, 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 3, 1969. 
t 
1969. 
. t 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestai 
Robert P. Forrestai 
Assistant Secretary 

1184 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 4 
• F THE 
4/3/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 3, 1969. 
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation, 
67 Milk Street, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 02110 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of January 31, 1969, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("BOFC") to purchase and hold 50 per cent of the shares 
of First Leasing Australia, Ltd. ("FLA"), Sydney, Australia, at a 
cost of approximately $336,000 provided the shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter, and to continue to 
hold the shares of FLA after FLA acquires all of the shares of 
Reinehr Industrial Lease and Finance Pty. Ltd. ("RILF"), Sydney, 
Australia, for an amount in excess of the applicable limitations 
set forth in the provisions of Section 25(a) [12 U.S.C. 615(c)] of 
the Federal Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of FLA by BOFC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(1) 
(2) 
That BOFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FLA if FLA at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if FLA establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Australia or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to BOFC; 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, BOFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FLA as it may require from time to 
time; and 

1185 
Boston Overseas 
Financial Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FLA 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if FLA were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 
(4) That BOFC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of FLA at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of FLA, after giving 
effect to the elimination of all known losses; and 
(5) That FLA will confine its leasing activities essen-
tially to the leasing of equipment under leases under 
which FLA will recover the full costs of acquisition 
and any other expenses expected to be incurred by FLA 
during the lease, and that FLA shall not acquire equip-
ment for leasing before the prospective lessee has 
executed the lease agreement. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by FLA in Australia in the 
currency of that country. 
The consent for BOFC to continue to hold the stock of FLA 
after FLA acquires the stock of RILF is granted subject to the same 
condition and suspension as set forth in the immediately preceding 
two paragraphs, substituting FLA for BOFC, except in subparagraph (2), 
and RILF for FLA. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of FLA and RILF. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as 
they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
Corporation, The First National Bank of Boston, and Bank of Boston 
International, and that due consideration is being given to the pri-
orities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
. , 
•• 
. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

• 
11S6 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
4/3/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 3, 1969. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of December 16, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for 
your Corporation ("FNCOIC"): (1) to purchase and hold substantially 
all of the shares of Inversiones y Adelantos C.A. ("INADECA"), a 
holding company to be formed in Caracas, Venezuela, at a cost of 
approximately $4,125,000, and (2) to continue to hold the shares 
of INADECA after INADECA acquires substantially all of the shares 
of Adelantos y Credito C.A. ("ADCRECA"), a finance company to be 
formed in Caracas, Venezuela, at a cost of approximately $4,125,000, 
and ADCRECA issues convertible debentures to mature in up to 10 
years in the amount of approximately $275,000, provided that in 
each instance approximately 20 per cent of the investment in the 
sha res is made within one year from the date of this letter. In 
this connection, approval is also granted for the purchase and 
holding of shares of INADECA by FNCOIC and shares of ADCRECA by 
INADECA in excess of the applicable limitations set forth in the 
provisions of Section 25(a) [12 U.S.C. 615(c)] of the Federal Reserve 
Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of INADECA by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in INADECA if INADECA at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if INADECA establishes any branch 
or agency or takes any action or undertakes any oper-
ation in Venezuela or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 

1187 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of INADECA as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquistions or dispositions by INADECA 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if INADECA were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by INADECA in Venezuela in 
the currency of that country. 
The Board's consent to the continued holding of shares of 
INADECA by FNCOIC after INADECA acquires the shares of ADCRECA is 
granted subject to the same conditions and suspensions as set forth 
in the immediately preceding two paragraphs, with the substitution 
of INADECA for FNCOIC [except in (2)] and ADCRECA for INADECA. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of INADECA and ADCRECA. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the 
investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines estab-
lished under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they 
apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of your Corporation, 
First National City Bank, International Banking Corporation, and First 
Nat ional City Bank (International), and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1188 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 10 
4/3/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 3, 1969. 
Bamerical International Financial Corporation 
300 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 94104 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 29, 1969, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("BIFC") to purchase 
and hold approximately 5,500 shares (100 per cent) of the capital 
stock of Inversiones Ariel S.A. ("INVARSA"), Guatemala City, Guatemala, 
at a cost of approximately $55,000, provided such shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of INVARSA by BIFC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(1) That BIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock of INVARSA if INVARSA at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if INVARSA establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Guatemala or elsewhere, in any manner, which at 
the time would not be permissible to BIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of INVARSA as it may require from 
time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by INVARSA 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if INVARSA were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; 
and 

1189 
Bamerical International 
Financial Corporation 
-2-
(4) That BIFC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of INVARSA at a net amount in excess of its pro-
portionate share of the book capital accounts of 
INVARSA, after giving effect to the elimination 
of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
°f the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by INVARSA in Guatemala in 
the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco, with copies of Articles of Association, Memo-
randum of Association, and By-Laws of INVARSA. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
a s they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, Bank of America National Trust and Savings Asso-
ciation, and Bank of America, New York, and that due consideration is 
b e i ng given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1120 
Item No. 7 
BOARD OF GDVERNDRS 
4/3/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 3, 1969. 
Northwestern National Bank of Minneapolis, 
7th and Marquette Avenue, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 55402 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Northwestern National Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 
of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions 
of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no contact 
with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract 
by another party. In view of the unusual character of this opera-
tion, the foregoing permission is granted subject to continuing 
special observation and review by the Board and after due notice 
may be withdrawn or modified. The foregoing permission is also 
granted on the condition that adequate information covering the 
branch's operations will be maintained at your head office and will 
be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. The 
Board should be promptly notified of any modification in the branch's 
methods of operation, including changes in any contract under which 
services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
bu siness on or before May 1, 1970, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 

Northwestern National Bank 
of Minneapolis 
-2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 
With 
respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capi-
tal, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the 
Board1s concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on 
the balance of payments, the above consent is given with the under-
standing that 
in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum 
reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United 
States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment required 
will be made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your bank and Northwest Inter-
national Bank, New York, and that due consideration is being given 
to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestai 
Robert P. Forrestai, 
Assistant Secretary. 

J 
1192 
B D A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 10 
4/3/69 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20351 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 3, 1969 
Mr. Alexander R. Billington, 
Deputy Superintendent of Banks, 
State of New York Banking Department, 
100 Church Street, 
New York, New York. 10007 
Dear Mr. Billington: 
This refers to your letter of March 18, 1969, 
requesting the views of the Board of Governors regarding 
the application of Bank Saderat Iran, Tehran, Iran, for 
a license to establish an agency in New York. 
> j 
The Board of Governors interposes no objection 
to establishment of the proposed agency. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

30 
Item No. 10 
4/3/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
ASSOCIATED BANK SERVICES, INC,, 
Green Bay, Wisconsin, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 30 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Kellogg-Citizens National Bank of Green 
Bay, Green Bay; Manitowoc Savings Bank, 
Manitowoc, and The First National Bank of 
Neenah, Neenah, all in Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U 2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Associated Bank 
Services, Inc., Green Bay, Wisconsin, for the Board's prior approval 
°f action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through 
fche acquisition of 30 per cent or more of the voting shares of the 
following three banks in Wisconsin: Kellogg-Citizens National Bank of 
Green Bay, Green Bay; Manitowoc Savings Bank, Manitowoc, and The 
First National Bank of Neenah, Neenah. 

11 
-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency and the Commissioner of Banks of the 
State of Wisconsin of receipt of the application and requested their 
views and recommendations. The Comptroller recommended approval of the 
application; the Commissioner of Banks advised that he would not dis-
approve the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 27, 1968 (33 Federal Register 17708), which 
provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction, A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration, The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth, in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 3rd day of April, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Haisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill, 
(Signed) Robert P, Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary, 
(SEAL) 

1195 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
ASSOCIATED BANK SERVICES, INC., GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Associated Bank Services, Inc., Green Bay, Wisconsin 
("Applicant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval 
of action to become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Kellogg-Citizens 
National Bank of Green Bay, Green Bay ("Kellogg Bank"); Manitowoc 
Savings Bank, Manitowoc ("Manitowoc Bank"), and The First National 
Bank of Neenah, Neenah ("Neenah Bank"), all in Wisconsin. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the applica-
tion was given to, and views and recommendations requested of, the 
Comptroller of the Currency and the Commissioner of Banks of the State 
of Wisconsin. The Comptroller recommended approval of the application; 
the Commissioner of Banks advised that he would not disapprove the 
aPPlication. 

1196 
-7-
Statutory considerations, - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acqui-
sition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be sub-
stantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to 
be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
the community to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. - Kellogg 
Bank, with deposits of $88 million, is the sixth largest banking organ-
ization in the State and the largest of seven banks in Green Bay. One 
°f these six is an affiliate by common stock ownership with Kellogg Bank, 
Combined, the affiliated banks hold total deposits of about $95 million, 
representing 44 per cent of total area deposits. The second largest 
hank in Green Bay is a subsidiary of The Marine Corporation, the second 
largest banking organization and holding company in the State. Kellogg 
Bank serves primarily Green Bay and all or parts of the adjoining toxms 

1197 
-7-
of Allouez, Ashwaubenon, Howard, and Scott. The other six banks in 
Green Bay range in deposit size from about $4 million to $47.5 million. 
Manitowoc Bank's primary service area is the City of Manitowoc. With 
$40 million in deposits, Manitowoc Bank is the largest bank of three 
banks in the City, holding approximately 60 per cent of the total de-
posits therein. The two other banks hold deposits of $19 and $10 million, 
respectively. Neenah Bank, with deposits of $36 million, is the largest 
of three banks in Neenah, and the third largest in its primary service 
area which encompasses the cities of Neenah, Menasha, and Appleton. This 
area has 11 banks, one of which ($27.4 million deposits) is located in 
Neenah and is a subsidiary of The Marine Corporation. Neenah Bank, 
together with a small bank ($3 million deposits) affiliated through 
common stock ownership, holds 60 per cent of the total deposits of banks 
In Neenah and 16 per cent of the deposits in its primary service area. 
Upon formation, Applicant would control total deposits of 
$164 million, making it the fourth largest banking organization in the 
State, with control of 2.1 per cent of the State's total bank deposits. 
Applicant and the three larger banking organizations, all bank holding 
companies, would control 31.6 per cent of the deposits in the State, an 
increase of 2.1 per cent in the total now held by the three largest 
°rganizations. Consummation of the proposal would not significantly 
affect the present degree of State-wide concentration. The present levels 
concentration in the service areas of the three proposed subsidiary 
hanks would not be affected by Applicant's formation. 

-2-
11 
The three banks involved in this proposal are located in 
different counties and operate in three geographically distinct markets -
Green Bay, Manitowoc, and Neenah. None of their offices are closer than 
35 miles to one another. The banks are, respectively, 115 miles north 
(Kellogg Bank), 85 miles north (Manitowoc Bank), and 95 miles north-
northeast (Neenah Bank) of Milwaukee. Kellogg Bank operates one branch 
office; the other two banks operate only a head office. The service 
areas of the three banks do not overlap, and the data presented with re-
spect to the business each institution obtains from the areas served 
by the others indicate that the competition between and among the three 
banks is presently insignificant. Considering the distances separating 
these banks, the fact that Wisconsin law precludes the establishment of 
a branch by any one of the banks in the immediate service area of the 
others, and the presence of a substantial number of competing banks in 
the areas separating the three banks, it appears unlikely that signifi-
cant competition would develop between or among the three institutions 
should this application be denied. While the fact that Brown County, 
in which Kellogg Bank is located, adjoins Manitowoc County (the situs 
°f Manitowoc Bank) suggests a potential for competition between the 
Kellogg Bank and the Manitowoc Bank, the aforementioned distance 
separating the banks, the presence of several intervening banks, and 
the somewhat limited scope and relatively conservative nature of opera-
tions of the Manitowoc Bank, make unlikely any significant future 
competition between the ICellogg Bank and Manitowoc Bank. 

-2-
11 
In addition to the five nonaffiliated banks located within 
Kellogg Bank's service area, there are located outside of, but re-
portedly competing within that area, two smaller banks and the 
three largest Milwaukee banks, each of which is a lead bank in one 
of the three largest holding companies in the State. It appears that 
the banks competing with the Kellogg Bank are well established and that 
Applicant's operation of the Kellogg Bank would have no significantly 
adverse effect on their competitive abilities. On the other hand, con-
summation of this proposal may enable the Kellogg Bank to compete more 
effectively for large commercial accounts with the large Milwaukee-based 
banks now serving the area. Manitowoc Bank competes with two banks, 
approximately one-half and one-fourth its size, respectively, located 
in its service area, and with two banks located outside of that area. 
To some extent it also competes with the aforementioned three Milwaukee-
based banks for larger local commercial accounts. Neenah Bank competes 
with 11 banks located within its service area, with a $53 million bank 
holding company subsidiary in Oshlcosh, 12 miles south, and with the 
above-mentioned three Milwaukee banks. The Board concludes that the 
Proposed affiliation of the three banks under Applicant's ownership 
would not give any of them a significant competitive advantage over the 
smaller banks with which each now competes, and, as earlier stated, may 
reasonably be expected to enable these banks to compete more effectively 
with the larger banks located both within and outside their service areas 

0 
-7-
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of Applicant's proposal will not result in a monopoly, 
nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area, and will not 
substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain 
trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant, a newly formed corporation, has no operating history. Its 
future prospects are directly related to those of its proposed subsid-
iary banks. In view of the sound financial condition of the banks, and 
on the basis of pro forma financial data submitted on behalf of Applicant, 
its proposed financial structure appears satisfactory and its future 
Prospects favorable. Similarly, the future prospects of the three banks 
involved are favorable, operating either under their present form of 
ownership or as subsidiaries of Applicant. Applicant's management, 
which will be principally composed of certain of the directors and execu-
tives of the three proposed subsidiary banks, is viewed as sound. Manage-
ment of the banks is experienced and is viewed as satisfactory. However, 
there is convincing evidence that the service rendition of the Manitowoc 
Bank, particularly its lending practices, is lacking in competitive 
aSCressiveness and vigor. It is reasonably concluded that a more aggres-
sive community service policy will be exhibited by the bank under Appli-
cant ' s control. 

1201 
-7-
Considerations relating to the banking factors are consistent 
with approval of Applicant's proposal, and as they relate to the apparent 
need for, and likely achievement of, somewhat more vigorous management 
policies in the Manitowoc Bank lend some weight to approval„ 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved, - Green 
Bay, with a population of 63,000, is an industrially diversified port 
city in an agricultural-dairy area. Its role as a wholesale manufactur-
ing and distribution point continues to increase in iuportance. Manitowoc, 
also a port city on Lake Michigan, with a population of 32,000, is a 
nationally recognized manufacturing and distribution center. It is also 
a focal point for farming activity in the area, principally dairying. 
Neenah, with a population of 18,000, and its twin city, Menasha, with a 
Population of 15,000, are located across from one another on the Fox 
River in the area of Lake Uinnebago. Neenah is also a manufacturing 
center, principally of paper and paper products. Other local industries 
Produce metal, concrete, and textile products. Surrounding lands are 
devoted primarily to dairy farming. 
Each of the three banks' service areas is experiencing rapid 
commercial and industrial development, although the Manitowoc area 
appears to be growing at a lesser rate than the other two. The record 
reflects that the major banking requirements of the three communities 
are presently being met by the combined efforts of the banks serving 
the areas and the large Milwaukee- and Appleton-bascd banks. Therefore, 
Applicant's proposal to provide increased and improved banking services 

12Q2 
-8-
through each of the proposed subsidiary banks, if realized, would result 
not in the provision of new and previously unavailable services, but 
rather, in more convenient and perhaps more immediate service to the 
areas involved. With respect to the Manitowoc Bank, it appears that 
under Applicant's control that bank can be expected to serve better and 
more effectively, than has previously been the case, the credit demands 
arising in its area. Applicant's contribution to a generally improved 
service rendition in each of the banks involved will provide a more 
meaningful full-banking service alternative to the residents and businesses 
affected, and, at the same time, will likely assure increased competition 
for certain types of business to the larger Milwaukee-based bank holding 
company subsidiaries now serving the areas. In addition, the Neenah 
Bank could develop as a more viable competitor, particularly with respect 
to the four bank subsidiaries of the two Appleton-based bank holding 
companies. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
communities involved are consistent with and lend some weight toward 
approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in sec-
tion 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
APril 3, 1969 

1203 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
4/3/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 7, 1969. 
Mr. John H. Kofron, 
Vice President and 
Director of Research, 
Chilton Research Services, 
56th and Chestnut Street, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 19139 
Dear Mr. Kofron: 
This is to notify you that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System has accepted the research proposal 
to make a survey of consumer awareness of the cost of borrowing 
as outlined in your memorandum of February 1969, submitted to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. The purpose of this survey 
program is to provide a basis for evaluating the effectiveness of 
the Truth in Lending Act in achieving its goal of assisting con-
sumers in the informed use of credit through the comparison of 
credit costs charged by the various lenders and retailers. 
The Board agrees to the payment of $99,000 for this survey 
to be paid in three instalments as indicated in your memorandum as 
follows: 
First payment upon authorization and develop-
ment of final questionnaire 
$33,000 
Second payment upon completion of all field 
work and data collection 
33,000 
Final payment upon completion of tabulations 
and presentation of the results 
33,000 
$99,000 
It is further understood that preparations will begin 
immediately with the field work to be completed on or about July 1, 
1969, and final tabulations to be delivered on or about September 15, 
1969. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
