Minutes for March 11, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, March 11, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mrs. Heller and Messrs. Cloth, Doyle, and Noble 
of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Burton and Lyon and Miss Greene of the 
Division of Examinations 
Ratification of actions. Actions taken by available members 
of the Board on Friday, March 8, 1968, as recorded in the minutes of 
that day's meeting, were ratified by unanimous vote. 
Application of Central Banking System (Items 1-3). At the 
meeting on February 2, 1968, preliminary consideration was given to 

971 
3/11/68 
-2-
an application of Central Banking System, Inc., Oakland, California, 
to become a bank holding company through acquisition of 80 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of Central Valley National Bank, Oakland, 
California, and First National Bank of Fresno, Fresno, California. 
The Division of Examinations, the Banking Markets Section, the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, and the Comptroller of the Currency all 
recommended approval. During discussion comments by Board members were 
generally favorable; however, concern was expressed regarding the cap-
ital position of Central Valley National Bank and the indebtedness of 
the proposed holding company, incurred partially to finance the acqui-
sition of the Fresno bank's stock. Accordingly, the staff was instructed 
to request the applicant to submit additional information with respect 
to plans for reducing or eliminating the indebtedness of the holding 
company and for strengthening the capital position of the lead bank. 
It was understood that in the meantime an order and statement reflect-
ing approval of the application would be drafted so that they would be 
available for consideration when the Board voted on the application. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated March 8, 
1968, from the Legal Division submitting letters from the applicant 
setting forth a program for the sale of equity capital by the holding 
company. Submitted also were drafts of a proposed order and statement 
reflecting approval of the application. 

971 
3/11/68 
-3-
In commenting on the application, Mrs. Heller noted that the 
statement as drafted expressed concern over the use of debt financing 
by the applicant to acquire the Fresno bank. The Examinations Divi-
sion proposed that this note of concern be expanded to include a 
general statement of principle to the effect that debt financing for 
the purpose of acquiring a bank was a consideration the Board regarded 
as adverse to approval of an application. She expressed doubt that a 
statement of approval of a particular application was the appropriate 
» 
place in which to outline considerations adverse to approval. Rather, 
she suggested that the letter to the applicant indicate that the Board 
would not be inclined to approve any proposal to expand the holding 
company system until such time as the debt was retired and the capital 
structure of Central Valley National Bank was strengthened. However, 
if the Board wished to include a statement of principle along the 
lines suggested by the Division of Examinations, she would propose a 
modification that would not hamper a bank holding company from taking 
such action as might be necessary or desirable to strengthen the cap-
ital of its subsidiaries. 
Mr. Solomon agreed that there were advantages to dealing with 
each individual case according to its particular set of circumstances. 
However, it was the view of the Division of Examinations that future 
applicants were entitled to as much general guidance as the Board 
could give them. Excessive debt financing was definitely an adverse 

3/11/68 
-4-
consideration, and this was a fact of which applicants should be aware. 
The adverse factor could of course be outweighed by other circumstances. 
Mr. Hexter agreed that the issue was a fairly narrow one. If 
a statement of principle on debt financing was worded as proposed by 
the Division of Examinations, the fact of such financing would always 
be an adverse consideration, whereas with the modification suggested 
by Mrs. Heller a strong company could go ahead with its financing with-
out fear of undue criticism. 
* 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that everyone's interest 
might be served by a slight change in language from that proposed so 
that the statement would note the Board's concern but indicate that in 
this case the problem had been relieved by the applicant's plan to 
retire its debt by means of equity financing, which would enable it 
to strengthen the capital position of the lead bank. 
Governor Robertson noted that reliance was being placed on 
representations by applicant as to steps it would take in the future. 
He stated that the primary question seemed to him to be whether the 
posture of the applicant with respect to capital position was adequate 
in terms of launching a holding company system. 
Governor Brimmer observed that it was from that point of view 
that he began his consideration of the case. Following the February 2 
meeting, he noted, the applicant had been asked to detail its specific 
plan for improving the capital position of the lead bank in the near 

3/11/68 
-5-
future and its specific arid separate plan for reducing the debt of the 
holding company. He saw nothing in the plan subsequently submitted to 
satisfy his concern about the position of Central Valley National Bank. 
This was the lead bank, and the outcome of the venture would depend 
largely on its strength. Accordingly, the effort to establish a hold-
ing company might be premature. He noted that the applicant apparently 
planned to use some of the proceeds of its equity financing to purchase 
other banks in the next several months. However, with its weak capital 
structure the applicant should not acquire additional banks. If the 
present application was approved, it should be with the understanding 
that the applicant would not expand its holding company system until 
the capital structure of Central Valley National Bank had been appro-
priately strengthened and the debt of the holding company had been 
retired. 
Governor Sherrill stated that he would be willing to approve 
the application under conditions such as outlined by Governor Brimmer. 
He would not look favorably on further expansion by the holding company 
until the debt had been retired. The injection of such an indication 
would give applicant an incentive to launch the holding company in the 
proper fashion. 
Governor Daane said that, while he shared the views expressed 
on the weak points involved in the application, he would be inclined 
to approve the application, with maximum pressure brought to bear on 
debt reduction and capital structure improvement. 

3/11/68 
-6-
Governor Robertson expressed the view that the application was 
not a strong one. With the key bank undercapitalized, he had a feeling 
that the Board might be making a mistake if it authorized the launching 
of the holding company system. An offsetting factor was the competitive 
situation in California. There were many holding companies, and the 
addition of.this small one might enable its subsidiaries to compete 
more effectively. 
Several suggestions were then made as to the terms in which the 
Board's reservations should be conveyed to the applicant, both in the 
statement and in the letter of transmittal. 
Following further discussion the application of Central Banking 
System, Inc., to become a bank holding company was approved unanimously, 
and the issuance of an order and a statement in the form attached as 
Items 1 and 2 was authorized. A copy of the letter sent to the appli-
cant pursuant to the Board's action is attached as Item No. 3. 
Messrs. Burton, Cloth, Lyon, and Noble, Miss Greene, and Mrs. 
Heller withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Report on H.R. 14742 (Item No. 4). There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated March 8, 1968, from the Legal Division relating to 
a request from the Chairman of the House Interstate and Foreign Com-
merce Committee for the Board's views on H.R. 14742, a bill "To amend 
the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the Investment 
Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, to define the equitable standards 

3/11/68 
-7-
governing relationships between investment companies and their invest-
ment advisers and principal underwriters, and for other purposes." 
The memorandum called attention particularly to the provisions 
designed (1) to enable banks to establish and operate collective funds 
similar to mutual funds and (2) to regulate such activities of banks. 
Those matters had been discussed in the Board's letter of December 14, 
1967, to the Senate Banking and Currency Committee on proposed amend-
ments to S. 1659 that were designed to accomplish the same purposes. 
The draft of report on H.R. 14742, which would follow the lines of the 
December 14 letter, would reiterate that the Board favored legislation 
to permit banks to establish and operate investment funds substantially 
similar to conventional mutual funds. 
As in the report on the Senate proposal the proposed reply 
would express opposition to exemption of Smathers-Keogh collective 
funds from the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934. Other provisions of the Senate proposal to which the Board 
also objected (vesting in the Federal bank supervisory agencies, 
instead of the Securities Exchange Commission, authority to administer 
the Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 with 
respect to Smathers-Keogh collective funds) were absent from H.R. 14742, 
but the memorandum pointed out that perhaps more serious difficulties 
were inherent in a proposed new section 22(i) of the Investment Company 
Act of 1940 that would empower the Comptroller of the Currency to 

363 
3/11/68 
-8-
regulate the securities aspects of mutual funds maintained by banks. 
Among the problems would be the seeming authorization of two agencies 
of the Federal government to regulate the securities aspects of mutual 
funds maintained by banks, since the Securities and Exchange Commission 
would also have power under existing provisions of the Investment Com-
pany Act of 1940. 
The proposed report to the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce 
Committee would express the view that banks' mutual funds should be 
governed by a single Federal regulatory system, subject of course to 
the general supervision of State or Federal banking authorities from 
the standpoint of safe and sound operation, and that the applicable 
regulatory system should be that which governs mutual funds generally 
under the Federal securities laws, administered by the Securities and 
Exchange Commission. 
Attached to the memorandum was a paper discussing several tech-
nical problems that would arise from certain provisions of H.R. 14742. 
The staff proposed to furnish that paper to the Committee's staff for 
whatever assistance it might be in developing the legislation. 
In reviewing the proposed legislation Mr. Hexter summarized 
the differing approaches embodied in the Senate and House versions and 
commented briefly on problems of Committee jurisdiction. 
At the request of Governor Brimmer, Mr. Cardon explained the 
reasoning behind the recommendation of the staff that the paper 

J /o 
3/11/68 
-9-
discussing technical problems not be incorporated in the report to the 
Committee but rather be handled on a staff-to-staff basis. On the 
basis of Mr. Cardon's explanation, which went principally to problems 
of Committee jurisdiction, Governor Brimmer agreed. He noted that the 
point he regarded as significant, namely, the proposal to grant juris-
diction to the Comptroller of the Currency over securities aspects of 
mutual funds maintained by banks, was also covered in the report to 
the Committee. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter in the form 
attached as Item No. 4, it being understood that the supplemental paper 
would be handled as recommended by the staff. 
Question whether savings stamp machines constitute branches 
(Item No. 5). There had been distributed a memorandum dated March 6, 
1968, from the Legal Division relating to a request from the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago on behalf of a member bank in its District for 
the Board's opinion as to whether a certain plan for the installation 
and operation of savings stamp vending machines by a member bank would 
involve the establishment of branches under Federal banking laws. 
The memorandum described the proposed operation, commented on 
pertinent provisions of the law, and concluded that the arrangement 
would not result in the establishment or operation of branches within 
the purview of the applicable provisions of law. Attached to the memo-
randum was a draft of reply to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. It 

971 
3/11/68 
-10-
was proposed that a copy of the ruling be furnished to each Federal 
Reserve Bank and to the other Federal bank supervisory authorities, 
but publication was not deemed warranted. 
Following discussion, the letter to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago was approved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
International Development Association (Item No. 6). Unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to the Bureau of the Budget regarding 
the Treasury's revised draft bill "To provide for increased participa-
tion by the United S tates in the International Development Association, 
and for other purposes." A copy of the letter is attached as Item 
No. 6. 
Litigation relating to Regulation G. Mr. Hexter reported that 
a panel of three judges of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit 
was to convene this morning at 9:00 a.m. on the question of granting a 
temporary restraining order staying the effective date of Regulation G, 
Credit by Persons Other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers for the Purpose 
of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity Securities, even though 
Regulation G had become effective at midnight. The Board would be 
advised of the outcome later today. 
Revenue bond underwriting. Mr. Hexter recalled that the Port 
of New York Authority had appealed the decision of the U.S. District 
Court for the District of Columbia in the case of Baker, Watts & Co. 
v. Saxon that in effect ruled against the view of the Comptroller of 

3/11/68 
-11-
the Currency that certain types of bonds were within the purview of 
the term "general obligations" as used in section 5136 of the Revised 
Statutes and, consequently, that national banks could underwrite and 
deal in such securities. (The Department of Justice had decided not 
to appeal.) 
Mr. Hexter reported that the United States Court of Appeals 
for the District of Columbia had now affirmed the District Court's 
decision. Accordingly, although certiorari might be sought, it 
appeared quite clear that legislation would be necessary to enable 
banks to underwrite or deal in revenue bonds. 
Meeting with New York Clearing House. Mr. Solomon stated that 
pursuant to the understanding at the Board meeting on February 29, 1968, 
a meeting between representatives of the New York Clearing House Asso-
ciation and available members of the Board had been arranged for 
March 18, 1968, at 2:30 p.m. for the purpose of discussing the provi-
sions of Regulation U, Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing 
or Carrying Registered Stocks, that forbid banks to perform services 
in connection with stock secured "purpose" loans unless the loans were 
made and maintained in conformity with applicable margin regulations. 
Members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Brill, 
Fauver, and Sammons then withdrew from the meeting. 
International matters. Mr. Holland read the text, as follows, 
of the statement issued yesterday in Basle following the monthly 

373 
3/11/68 
-12-
meeting of the Bank for International Settlements (which Chairman 
Martin attended): 
During the course of the regular meeting of the Bank 
for International Settlements in Basle the Governors of 
the Central Banks of Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the 
Netherlands, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and 
the United States of America exchanged views on recent 
developments in the international monetary situation. 
The Central Banks contributing to the London gold pool 
reaffirmed their determination to continue their support 
to the pool based on the fixed price of $35 per ounce of 
gold. 
Governor Daane then reported briefly on three meetings that He 
had attended last week in Paris: a meeting of the Economic Policy Com-
mittee of OECD, largely devoted to developments in the United States; 
a meeting of Working Party 3 during which developments in the United 
Kingdom and Canada were reviewed; and a meeting of the Deputies of the 
Group of Ten, at which consideration was given to the latest draft of 
amendments to the articles of association of the International Monetary 
Fund to implement the system of special drawing rights. 
Secretary's Note: On March 11, 1968, 
actions were taken on behalf of the 
Board under delegated authority as 
indicated by the following letters, 
copies of which are attached under 
the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
The meeting then adjourned. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Item No. 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, approving the relocation of the 
bank's Marble Mortgage Company Office in 
Sacramento from 2201 Park Towne Circle to 
10th and K Streets. 
7 

374 
3/11/68 
-13-
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch in River-
side. 
Item No. 
8 
Secretary 

UNITED STATES OF 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF 
WASHINGTON, 
Item No. 
3/11/68 
AMERICA 
THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CENTRAL BANKING SYSTEM, INC., 
Oakland California, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Central Valley National Bank, 
Oakland, California, and the First 
National Bank of Fresno, Fresno, 
California. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1) and section 222.4(a)(1) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.4(a)(1)), an application by Central Banking System, Inc., 
Oakland, California, for the Board's prior approval of action to 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of Central Valley National Bank, Oak-
land, California, and the First National Bank of Fresno, Fresno, 
California. 

As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and requested 
his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of the 
application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the Federal 
Register on September 26, 1967 (32 Fed. Reg. 13468), which provided an 
opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with respect 
to, the proposed acquisition. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing 
comments and views has expired and all those received have been considered 
by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, pro-
vided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such period is extended 
for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 11th day of March, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson, and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin, and Governor Maisel. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forre'stal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
SEAL 

&77 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 2 
OF THE 
3/11/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY CENTRAL BANKING SYSTEM, INC., 
OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA, TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
ft. 
Central Banking System, Inc., Oakland, California ("Applicant") 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to become 
a bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
°f the voting shares of Central Valley National Bank, Oakland, California 
("Oakland Bank"), and the First National Bank of Fresno, Fresno, Calif-
1/ 
ornia ("Fresno Bank"). As of June 30, 1967, 
Oakland Bank with 33 
offices and total deposits of $186 million, was the thirteenth largest 
bank in the State in terms of total deposits. Fresno Bank, with but 
°ne office and deposits of $21 million, was the 122d largest bank in 
California. Upon consummation of this proposal, Applicant would rank 
thirteenth among the banking organizations in California. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was given 
to, and views and recommendation requested of, the Comptroller of the 
Currency. The Comptroller recommended that the application be approved. 
1/ Unless otherwise noted, the banking data are as of this date. 

-2-
Statutory considerations, - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part 
of the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anti-competitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly out-weighed in the public interest by the probable effect 
of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. In each case the Board is required to take into con-
sideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the conven-
ience 
and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Commercial 
banks in California hold total deposits of approximately $39 billion, 
of which the State's 10 largest banking organizations control about 
88 per cent. California subsidiaries of five bank holding companies 
control 8.8 per cent of total deposits in the State, with United 
' t 
. 
. • • .. 
• 
t . 
# 
California Bank (subsidiary of Western Bancorporation) accounting for 
8.3 per cent. If the subject proposal were consummated, Applicant 
would control approximately $200 million of deposits or about 
; 53 per cent of total deposits in the State, .05 per cent more than 

-3 
now held by Oakland Bank, In terms of tot'al deposits, consummation of 
the proposed affiliation would have no meaningful effect on the concen-
tration of commercial banking resources in the State and would not 
significantly increase bank 
holding company concentration in California. 
Oakland Bank operates primarily in Alameda County, from which 
about 31 per cent of the bank's total deposits are derived. Based on 
deposit statistics for Alameda County as of June 30, 19 66, Oakland 
Bank's six offices held 2 per cent of the deposits and ranked eighth- in 
size of the 19 banks (137 offices) located in the county. While Oak-
land Bank has branches in 10 other counties in northern and central 
California, the evidence indicates that the bank does not occupy a 
position of dominance in any of these counties. 
In Fresno County, the only area in which each proposed sub-
sidiary has ah office, Applicant would control, based on June 30, 1966 
data, only 4.3 per cent of the deposits held by the county's 54 bank-
ing offices (operated by 12 banks), .7 per cent more than held by 
Fre sno Bank. The Fresno Bank and the branch of Oakland Bank that 
is located in Fresno County (Parlier office) are shown as having 
1/ 
primary service areas 
that do not overlap, and each of these service 
areas is shown to contain several banking alternatives. On the basis 
of the foregoing, it appears that Applicant's formation will not sig-
nificantly alter banking concentration in Fresno County, Alameda 
County, or any other relevant area. 
2/ The areas «from which it Is estimated that each of these offices 
derives about 83 per cent of its deposits of individuals, partnerships, 
and corporations ("IPC deposits"). 

Oakland Bank derives approximately 52 per cent of its total 
deposits from 15 offices located in the cities and towns surrounding 
San Francisco Bay (no offices are located in San Francisco) and the 
balance from 18 offices which are more widely scattered throughout 
California's central valley region. In all of its designated 27 ser-
vice areas,Oakland Bank faces competition from branches of one or 
more of the State's largest banks, as well as from smaller banking 
organizations. Oakland Bank's affiliation with the much smaller bank 
in Fresno, as proposed, would have little, if any, effect upon compe-
tition in the areas served by Oakland Bank. 
Fresno Bank's primary service area encompasses the City of 
Fresno and the surrounding farming communities for a radius of 10 
miles. Based on total deposit size, Fresno Bank is the smallest of 
nine banks with offices located in its service area. Based on the 
deposits held in local offices, Fresno Bank ranks sixth. Of the 
nine banks, three control 75 per cent of the total area deposits; Fresno 
Bank controls 5 per cent. It is concluded that any increase in the 
competitive ability that may accrue to Fresno Bank as a result of 
its affiliation with Oakland Bank would not adversely affect those 
banks with which Fresno Bank now competes. 
Oakland Bank's Parlier office, with approximately $4 million 
of total deposits, is located 22 miles southeast of Fresno, and is 
the only office of Oakland Bank within 80 miles of Fresno Bank. The 
Parlier office is shown as serving Parlier and the surrounding area 

-5-
within a radius of about three miles. As previously stated, the 
estimated service areas of Fresno Bank and the Parlier office do not 
overlap. Each of these offices is shown as deriving about 77 per cent 
of its consumer, farm, and commercial loans, and about 83 per* cent of 
its IPC deposits, from its own primary service area, and only a negli-
gible amount of such loans and deposits from the primary service area 
of the other office. 
The record indicates certain differences in the services 
provided by the proposed subsidiaries. Analysis of their loan port-
folios shows that real estate loans are more than 3 1/2 times as 
large a percentage of Oakland Bank's total loan portfolio as they are 
in the case of Fresno Bank. On the other hand, commercial and indus-
trial loans constitute a significantly larger portion of Fresno Bank's 
total loans than they do of Oakland Bank's total loans. A similar 
pattern appears upon comparison of the loan portfolio of the Parlier 
office with that of Fresno Bank. Fresno Bank does not operate a 
trust department; Oakland Bank is active in this field. 
On the basis of the foregoing facts, and because of the exist 
ence of numerous sizeable banking offices in the area between the 
offices of the proposed subsidiaries, it appears that only a nominal 
degree of competition presently exists between them, and, in the 
Board's judgment, there is no reasonable likelihood that significant 
competition would develop between the two banks in the foreseeable 
future. 
Summarizing, the Board concludes, on the basis of the record 
before it, that consummation of Applicant's proposal would not result 

-6-
in a monopoly, nor further any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or 
attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area, nor 
would such consummation substantially lessen competition, tend to create 
a monopoly or operate in restraint of trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant, a newly formed corporation, has no operating history. Since its 
assets, for the most part, will consist of its stock interest in the two 
Proposed subsidiary banks, and since Applicant's management will be draxm 
in the main from management of Oakland Bank, the financial condition, 
managerial resources, and prospects of Applicant are dependent in all major 
Respects on those of the banks it proposes to acquire, particularly Oakland 
Bank. 
• Fresno Bank has experienced sound growth since its opening in 
the fall of 1962, and has competed successfully with branches of California's 
V 
largest banking organizations. Management of Fresno Bank is experienced, 
and the bank's prospects are considered favorable. 
The banking factors with respect to Oakland Bank are considered 
.!• reasonably satisfactory. The bank's prospects appear to be favorable, and 
its managerial resources are regarded as adequate. In its consideration of 
this application, the Board was concerned with respect to the use of debt 
financing by Applicant to acquire Fresno Bank and advised Applicant of the 
need for improvement of its debt position. The Board also indicated to 
Applicant that the capital position of Oakland Bank as the lead bank in a 
proposed holding company system should be strengthened. In its response 
to the Board, Applicant outlined a reasonable plan for retiring its proposed 

983 
-7-
debt, in a timely manner, by means of equity financing. Applicant's plans 
also include steps to strengthen the capital position of Oakland Bank at 
an early date. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that the con-
siderations relating to the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of Applicant and its proposed subsidiaries are not inconsistent 
with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Apparently, 
^ e proposed affiliation would have little or no effect on the services 
Provided by Oakland Bank, nor does it appear that the banking needs of the 
communities in the service area of either Oakland Bank or Fresno Bank are 
Presently going unserved. 
Applicant asserts, however, that it is prepared to provide Fresno 
Bank with assistance to enable it to strengthen its competitive position 
and to serve as an additional full service alternative in the Fresno area. 
Applicant proposes to make available to Fresno Bank the experience and 
assistance of Oakland Bank's trust, mortgage, and international banking 
departments. In addition, it is claimed that access to Oakland Bank's com-
puter facilities, credit card plan, auditing staff, and management training 
Program would enable Fresno Bank to achieve greater internal efficiency 
and broaden the scope and nature of the services it offers. 
On the record before it, the Board finds that considerations 
related to the convenience and needs of the communities involved are con-
sistent with and lend some weight toward approval of the application. 

• i 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
> 
viva 
Warch 11, 1968. 
••V-; 
! r 
U 
• , 
vn i '•, 
i > 
: 
• 
' 
; 
. 
: 
-
• 
' 
... 
... 
t !. f; ' 
I 
N. 
K. 
• 8-
,f\ I f. ' •. : ' 
... ••: 
• 
• 
. - . 
• • 
, ' 
' r ZLUJC. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth 
In section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
i": 
1 
U 
r 
1 v.. 
' . i 

B O A R D O F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
985 
Item No. 3 
3/11/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 11, 1968. 
^IjLMAlL - REGISTERED 
MgURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
Central Banking System, Inc., 
3°1 - 20th Street, 
0akland, California. 94612 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the application of Central Banking System, Inc., Oakland, 
^lifornia, to become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
° 
Per cent or more of the voting shares of Central Valley 
ational Bank, Oakland, California, and First National Bank of 
resno, Fresno, California. The Board's Order, accompanying Statement, 
and press release are enclosed. 
In connection with the provisions of the Board's Order 
plating to. the time within which the acquisition herein approved is 
be consummated, advice of the fact of consummation should be given 
writing to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
In approving the application, the Board has taken into 
consideration your assurances that positive and timely measures will 
® taken with respect to improvement of the proposed debt position 
° the holding company and the capital structure of its lead bank. 
letter of February 26, 1968, states your plan to raise a minimum 
J?3 mill ion additional equity capital with which to retire the debt 
^thin approximately 18 to 24 months after acquisition of the banks, 
ou advise that such action would enable the holding company to aid 
h e capital structure of Central Valley National Bank, and it is the 
understanding of the Board that you propose promptly to effect a 
strengthening of the capital of said bank. 

Central Banking System, Inc. 
-2-
Regarding your apparent intent for the holding company 
to acquire additional banks, the Board would not be inclined to approve 
*ny proposal to expand your system until such time as said debt has 
een retired, and the capital structure of Central Valley National 
ank has been appropriately strengthened. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Eticl osures 
-
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
'. • V; r ^v'to r ; , 

98 / 
March 12, 1968 
The Honorable Harley 0. Staggers, Chairman, 
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your letter of January 24, requesting 
the Board's views on H.R. 14742, a bill "To amend the Investment 
Company Act of 1940, as amended, and the Investment Advisers Act of 
1940, as amended, to define the equitable standards governing relation-
ships between investment companies and their investment advisers and 
principal underwriters, and for other purposes". 
From the standpoint of bank supervision, the chief question 
of legislative policy presented by the bill is whether it would be in 
the public interest for banks to establish and operate collective 
funds that would be similar to, and would compete with, mutual funds. 
Opponents of the proposal contend that permitting banks to engage in 
this activity would constitute an undesirable departure from the 
Policies of the Banking Act of 1933 (the Glass-Steagall Act). 
The Board continues to believe that the principle of 
separation of commercial banking from investment banking, which was 
recognized by the Congress in the Banking Act of 1933, is a sound and 
significant one. This separation, we are convinced, avoids certain 
conflicts of interests that might impair the ability of commercial 
banks to devote themselves single-mindedly to their primary function 
of serving their depositors, borrowers, correspondents, and trust 
accounts. 
It 
must be borne in mind, however, that the service which 
would be performed by banks, if their collective funds were made avail-
able to the general public as investment media, would be similar in 
many respects to services already performed by banks for their 
individual trust and agency accounts. Moreover, the purposes of 
separating commercial banking from investment banking are not signifi-
cantly relevant to operations of the kind under discussion, for the 
following reasons. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 4 
O F T H E 
3/11/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 

The Honorable Harley 0. Staggers -2-
The principal dangers of combining operations in those two 
fields are that, if commercial banks were permitted to underwrite and 
deal in securities, (1) a bank might find itself holding, either in 
its underwriting department or in its investment portfolio, securities 
that are unsuitable for bank investment, and (2) a bank engaged in 
underwriting and dealing might have undesirable opportunities and 
temptations to overreach its correspondent banks and other customers 
by selling to them unsuitable or overpriced securities it had acquired 
(or contracted to acquire) in its investment banking operations. 
When the nature and the anticipated mode of operation of 
banks1 collective funds are examined, however, it appears that neither 
°f these hazards would be present to any significant extent. In the 
°Peration of collective funds, the bank itself does not become the 
owner of any securities; it receives and invests the funds of the 
Participants. In other words, an essential element of the dangers 
referred to - banks acquiring securities as underwriter or dealer -
simply is not present in connection with the operation of a collective 
fund. 
It might be contended, nevertheless, that a bank's manage-
ment of a collective fund would permit it to "unload" on the fund 
Poor investments that the bank had accumulated in its own portfolio, 
to sell portfolio securities to the fund at inflated prices. The 
Board believes that these would not be real dangers, in view of pro-
visions of the securities laws and other limitations on banks1^selling 
assets to their own fiduciary accounts, the absence from banks 
Portfolios of the kind of assets that collective funds purchase 
(principally corporate stocks), the existence of day-to-day market 
Prices for almost all securities purchased by collective funds, and 
fche controls and protection resulting from governmental supervision 
of banks* operations. 
Some who oppose bank operation of managing agency collective 
funds have advanced another possible drawback, somewhat related to the 
foregoing. Banks occasionally make loans that prove difficult to 
collect because of the financial situation of the borrower. In such 
oases, it has been argued, a bank might use money of a collective 
fund to purchase a new issue of stock or other securities from the 
Weak borrower, or even to make a direct loan to that borrower, in 
order to enable it to discharge its indebtedness to the bank. 
Although such conflicts of interest and consequent misconduct 
are not impossible, this area of risk is not regarded as significant. 
For many years banks have participated in the management of employee-
benefit funds and other fiduciary accounts that hold stocks and other 
securities in an aggregate amount far exceeding those held by the 
entire mutual fund industry. The examinations conducted by bank 

The Honorable Harley 0. Staggers 
-3-
supervisory agencies have disclosed practically no such misuse by banks 
of their investment advisory and management functions. In the case of 
managing agency funds, an additional safeguard is the prophylactic 
restrictions and requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940, 
particularly publicity of the financial transactions of registered 
investment companies, which almost inevitably would expose such mal-
feasance. A further deterrent would be the adverse impact on a 
collective fund's performance - its comparative financial record - if 
any of its resources were used to make unprofitable investments; the 
detrimental effect on sales of participations might outweigh any 
benefits the bank could reasonably expect from its breach of fiduciary 
duty. 
On the basis of the experience described and the additional 
safeguards that exist in the mutual fund field, the Board believes that 
this alleged risk is negligible. 
The suggestion has also been advanced that bank operation of 
managing agency collective funds might, in certain circumstances, 
diminish banks1 prestige and even public confidence in the banking 
system. An individual who invested $10,000, for example, in such a 
fund would feel that he had sustained a $3,000 loss if the market value 
of the stock held by the fund fell 30 per cent in a bear market. It 
is argued that this might be misunderstood (by persons who were not 
aware of the difference between bank deposits and mutual fund invest-
ments) as indicating that the bank was insolvent, and that undesirable 
consequences would result. 
Whether there would be a material risk along these lines is, 
of course, a matter of judgment as to the extent to which investors 
and the banking public would be aware of the difference between (a) 
bank deposits and (b) investments in a diversified portfolio of 
securities. The Board believes that this basic distinction is well 
understood by most of the persons who would be concerned. It is also 
to be noted that Securities Act prospectuses, which must be furnished 
to persons to whom mutual fund shares are offered, call attention 
explicitly to the inevitable fluctuations in value - that is, the 
risk of loss as well as the opportunity for gain - as the market prices 
of the portfolio securities rise and fall. 
Another argument that has been advanced against bank entry 
into the mutual fund business is that banks enjoy advantages of con-
venience, prestige, and economies which would enable them, in time, to 
gain control of the mutual fund field to the virtual exclusion of 
non-bank competitors. But the Board considers it improbable, for 
reasons indicated below, that banks1 collective investment funds would 
enjoy advantages which would exclude others from the business of 
establishing and maintaining mutual funds. 

The Honorable Harley 0. Staggers 
-4-
330 
Most of the billions of dollars that are invested annually 
in mutual fund shares are elicited from investors by brokers, dealers, 
or salesmen motivated by the commissions to be earned through selling 
shares of "load" type funds. It is contemplated that banks® managing 
agency funds would be of the "no-load" type, and the history of the 
industry indicates the unlikelihood that such funds would supplant 
mutual funds that have the benefits of commission-motivated selling 
efforts. (An analogous situation, in another field, is the limited 
sales of savings-bank life insurance, which has been available for 
many decades. Despite favorable rates, such insurance has not been 
a serious competitor in the life insurance field, perhaps because of 
the absence of aggressive efforts of agents eager to earn commissions.) 
Furthermore, an important factor affecting sales of mutual fund shares 
is their "performance" as measured by capital appreciation (that is, 
increase in the market value of the portfolio) , and there is no priesent 
reason to believe that banks1 collective funds would excel those of 
their competitors in this respect. 
In the absence of convincing reasons for barring a segment 
of private enterprise from access to additional fields of activity, 
the Board doubts that such restrictive legislation is desirable. In 
this situation, moreover, participation by banks may yield valuable 
benefits in an industry that attracts the savings of millions of 
savers of limited means. Availability of such bank-operated invest-
ment media could be of service to those investors by providing (a) a 
means of performing a traditional banking function more efficiently 
and at less cost, (b) more competition for the funds of such investors, 
and (c) the opportunity to combine investment service and special 
fiduciary services when needed (a combination that is often less 
conveniently available when mutual fund shares constitute the invest-
ment vehicle). 
To recapitulate, the Board recognizes that the operation of 
collective funds by banks involves elements of risk. This is true, 
however, whenever banks - or other organizations - expand the 
services they offer. If the possibility of adverse consequences, 
however slight or remote, were regarded as sufficient ground for 
prohibiting such expansion of activities, regulated industries could 
not adapt to changed circumstances and the new needs and demands of 
our economy. In every such situation, the ultimate judgment consists 
of weighing risks against prospective benefits. With respect to the 
instant proposal, the Board of Governors concludes that the probable 
benefits to the public from increased competition are substantial and 
that the risks are relatively less significant. The Board therefore 
favors the objective of H.R. 14742 to authorize banks to establish 
and operate investment funds substantially similar to conventional 
mutual funds. Our reasoning and conclusions are also applicable to 
collective investment by banks of retirement trusts for self-employed 
individuals (so-called "Smathers-Keogh trusts" or "H.R. 10 plans"). 

The Honorable Harley 0. Staggers 
-5-
The Board understands that H.R. 14742 is intended to place 
banks' collective funds for managing agency accounts in the same 
securities-laws status, broadly speaking, as the mutual funds with 
which they would compete - that is, they would be subject to those 
laws under the administration of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
The situation would be otherwise, however, with respect to banks' 
Smathers-Keogh collective funds, if this bill were enacted in its 
present form. Under sections 27(a) and 28(a), funds of the latter 
type would be excluded from the definitions of "security" in the 
Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 unless 
there was an affirmative administrative finding that a particular 
situation "requires the protection for investors" provided by those 
Acts. The bill has comparable provisions (sections 27(b) and 28(b)) 
with respect to registration of banks' Smathers-Keogh collective funds 
under the 1933 and 1934 securities laws. 
The Board concurs in the criticisms of these provisions that 
were expressed in the testimony of Chairman Cohen of the SEC at the 
hearing before the Senate Banking Committee on the Mclntyre Amendments 
to S.1659 ("Mutual Fund Legislation of 1967", November 1967, pages 
1327-1328). The exclusion of banks' Smathers-Keogh collective funds 
from the category of "security" seems unjustified for the reasons 
specified by Mr. Cohen, and there appears to be no sufficient justifica-
tion for a general exclusion of those funds from the registration and 
related requirements of the Federal securities laws. 
The Board also notes that under the proposed new section 
22(i) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 the Comptroller of the 
Currency seemingly would be empowered to regulate the securities 
aspects of mutual funds maintained by banks. The Securities and 
Exchange Commission would also have such power under existing provi-
sions of that Act. The Board questions the advisability of authorizing 
two agencies of the Federal Government to regulate the securities 
aspects of mutual funds maintained by banks. It seems clear to us that 
banks' mutual funds, as such, should be governed by a single Federal 
regulatory system - subject, of course, to the general supervision of 
State and Federal banking authorities from the standpoint of safe and 
sound operation. The Board believes that the applicable regulatory 
system should be that which governs mutual funds generally under the 
Federal securities laws, administered by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. Accordingly, the Board recommends deletion of the final 
clause (beginning with the word "if") of the proposed section 22(i). 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wn. McC. Martin, Jr. 

332 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N • R 5 
Item No. 5 
•F THE 
3/11/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 11, 1968 
Mr. Paul C. Hodge, Vice President, 
General Counsel, and Secretary, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Hodge: 
This is in response to the request of First Bank & Trust 
Company of South Bend, Indiana, for the Board's opinion on the status, 
under the Federal branch banking laws, of the savings-stamp plan 
described in the bank's memorandum of November 28, 1967. It is under-
stood that a customer of the bank has an option to acquire the 
franchise, for the United States and Canada, of the stamp vending 
machine on which the savings-stamp plan is based. 
Banks using such machines would install them (bolted to a 
wall) "in retail stores, offices, factories, restaurants, schools, 
and other public or semi-public buildings." The sole function of the 
machine would be to receive 25-cent coins, for each of which it would 
dispense a 25-cent savings stamp of the bank. The bank would offer 
to the public (presumably without charge) a Savings Card that would 
have places for 20 stamps. When the Savings Card held 20 stamps, the 
owner would bring or send it to the bank and $5 would be credited to 
his account. 
The Board has concluded that such a machine, installed 
elsewhere than on the bank's premises for the sale of bank savings 
stamps, would not constitute a "place of business . . . at which 
deposits are received" or other banking functions performed of the 
nature contemplated by Congress in enacting section 5155 of the 
Revised Statutes and section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (U. S. Code, 
Title 12, sections 36 and 321). Consequently, in the opinion of the 
Board the arrangement described would not result in the establishment 
or operation of branches within the purview of those provisions of 
law. 
The Board requests your Bank to inform the inquiring member 
bank of the views and conclusions stated herein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

^LRES^-*" 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
3/11/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL C • R R E S P a N D E N C E 
TO THE BOARD 
March 11, 1968 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference, 
Executive Office of the President, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Attention: Messrs. J. F. G. Hyde, Jr., and H. G. Gallagher 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This refers to your Legislative Referral Memorandum of 
March 8, 1968 requesting the Board's views, by March 11, 1968, 
regarding the Treasury's revised draft bill, "To provide for 
increased participation by the United States in the International 
Development Association, and for other purposes," which would au-
thorize the United States Governor of the Association to vote for 
an increase of $1,200,000,000 in the Association's resources and 
to agree on behalf of the United States to contribute its propor-
tionate share thereof and would authorize the appropriation of 
$480,000,000 for payment of such contribution. 
This revised draft bill is essentially similar to the 
one which was the subject of the Board's letter to you of 
January 30, 1968, and the Board of Governors continues to have 
no objection to the proposed legislation. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

334 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N FSAHOISOO, C a l t t o k h x a 
94180 
Item No. 7 
March 11, 19*3 
3/11/68 
Mr. Hal Mendon, 
Senior Executive Vice President, 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
Los Angelas, California 90054. 
Dear Mr. Mendon: 
On behalf of the Board ofxgbvernoite of the 
Federal Reserve 8ystem, acting ujider delegated authority, 
this Bank has approved the relocation of your bunk's 
Marble Mortgage Company Office f\om 2201 FpTk Towne Circle, 
Suite 104, Sacramento, California\ to ojHfrters at 10th and 
K Streets, In down£e*fT~?2&ramento,^rtmded that operations 
at the bank's exj 
with the openii 
approval 1b giv| 
to be conducted 
th^tiegot 1 a t lng ,\pr oc t s s ing, 
>rtgage loans* 
are discontinued simultaneously 
at theXnow location. This 
rstanding that the operations 
ation will still be limited to 
d servicing of real estate 
It will be appreciated if you will advise the 
Board of Governors, in writing, through this bank, when the 
^office la actually established and opened for business at 
ie new location. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) 
Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin !•. Jennings, 
flee President. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
B a n F r a n c i s c o , C a l i f o r n i a . 
94180 
March 11, 1968 
Item No. 8 
3/11/68 
Mr. Hal Mendon, 
Senior Executive Vice President, 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
Los Angeles, California 90054. 
Dear Mr. Mendcm: 
On behalf of the Boaril of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, actintk under delegated authority, 
this Bank has approved an exi.eiun.on to October 3, 1968, 
of the time withinjfhifth United ^alijkfrnit Bank may 
establish a brancfTofficKin the Wcinity of Magnolia 
Avenue and Tylrir Street, i^ the City of Riverside, 
Riverside County, California 
Thid extension is 
fith the request contained 
7, 1968. 
ranted in connection 
your letter dated March 
Very truly yours, 
'(signed) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
• 
