MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 28, 1970 

304 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, January 28, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Par tee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Slocum, Director, Division of Data 
Processing 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Dahl, Egertson, and Lyon, and Miss Hart 
Assistant Directors, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Administrative Services 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions. 
M 
Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

1/28/70 
-10-
The following items were approved unanimously after consid 
eration of background information that had been made available to 
the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to First National Bank in Dallas, Dallas, Texas, 
1 
approving the establishment of a branch in London, 
England. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Banks requesting that 
2 
a survey be made as of February 1, 1970, of interest 
rates paid on consumer-type time and savings deposits. 
Reports on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was 
given to a report, for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Albany Savings Bank, Albany, New York (a mutual savings 
bank), and Glens Falls Savings and Loan Association, Glens Falls, 
i i .. ." r
C
.
! j I * > , j:,iu 
V;W t tic< 
New York. The conclusion of the report read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Albany Savings 
Bank and Glens Falls Savings and Loan Association would 
eliminate a relatively small amount of existing competition 
between the two institutions, and the potential for greater 
competition between them is limited by factors of distance 
and statutory restrictions. The overall effect of the 
merger on competition would be slightly adverse. 
There had been distributed a draft of report to the Comp-
troller of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed merger of The Fogelsville National Bank, Fogelsville, 
Pennsylvania, into The Merchants National Bank of Allentown, 
Allentown, Pennsylvania. 

1/28/70 
-10-
After a discussion during which there was agreement that the 
competitive effect of the proposed merger should be described as 
"adverse" rather than "slightly adverse" as in the draft, the report 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller in a 
form in which the conclusion read as follows: 
There is some competition between The Fogelsville 
National Bank and The Merchants National Bank of Allentown; 
the overall effect of the proposed merger on competition 
would be adverse. 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competi-
tive factors involved in the proposed merger of Wells Fargo Bank, 
N.A., San Francisco, California, and Los Padres National Bank, Santa 
Maria, California, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Comptroller. The conclusion of the report read as follows: 
dim v.'-. u-j c ion * -' 
1 \c.£ in * a^'io**-tuv • 
•.1 • ' • • < -.. • [, 
, • •".!•• • 
Consummation of the proposed merger would eliminate 
virtually no existing competition between Wells Fargo Bank, 
N.A., San Francisco, California, and Los Padres National 
Bank, Santa Maria, California. While the merger would 
eliminate the potential for competition that would attend 
the entry by de novo branch by either bank into the area 
now served by the other, circumstances suggest the amount 
of such potential is not significantly great. The overall 
effect on competition would be slightly adverse. 
Bankers International Corporation. At its meeting on 
January 23, 1970, the Board had discussed the application of Bankers 
International Corporation, New York, New York, a section 25(a) 
corporation, (a) for permission to acquire an additional 51 per cent 

307 
1/28/70 
-9-
of Deutsche Unionbank, Frankfurt, Germany; (b) for waiver or sus-
pension of all restrictions on the activities of Deutsche Unionbank; 
and (c) if (b) were not granted, various specific suspensions or 
wa iv er s . 
Bankers International Corporation had made similar requests 
with respect to its investments in Rodo Investment Trust Ltd., London, 
England, and in Bankers Trust Finanziaria S.p.A., Rome, Italy. (In 
approving these two investments, the Board had imposed its standard 
conditions but had indicated that it would give further consideration 
to the request for waiver or suspension in particular respects.) 
The Board's discussion on January 23 was based on an analysis 
of the Deutsche Unionbank application by the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation contained in a memorandum dated January 21. Attached 
to the memorandum was a draft of letter reflecting the Division's 
recommendations that the proposed investment be approved but the 
requested waiver or suspension of all restriction on the activities 
of Deutsche Unionbank be denied. With respect to the various spe-
cific suspensions or waivers requested, the draft letter presented 
alternative positions. The issues involved had been resolved during 
the Board's discussion, and the staff was requested to submit a 
revised draft letter. Such a revision had been distributed with a 
memorandum dated January 27. The new draft letter would extend the 

1/28/70 
-10-
applicable portions of the Board's conditions to the investments by 
Bankers International Corporation in Rodo Investment Trust and 
Bankers Trust Finanziaria. 
During today's discussion question was raised regarding the 
provision in the draft letter suspending the standard condition that 
the foreign subsidiary generally confine its activities to those 
permissible to its parent Edge corporation insofar as that condition 
related to restrictions set forth in section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) 
of Regulation K, Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financ-
ing under the Federal Reserve Act. A view was expressed that it 
would not be proper to grant this particular applicant such a sus-
pension unless similar treatment was accorded other Edge corporations. 
The staff brought out that the proposed suspension was consistent with 
treatment of other applications under Regulation M, Foreign Activities 
of National Banks, and, as a practical matter, with the administration 
of Regulation K. There was general agreement that, although it would 
be desirable to amend Regulation K to provide for possible suspension 
of the restrictions of section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) under certain 
circumstances, the present application should not be held awaiting 
formulation of such an amendment. Various possible procedures were 
discussed, including the publication of an interpretation or statement 
describing cases in which the Board had granted suspension, in order 
that other Edge corporations might be put on notice. 

309 
1/28/70 
-9-
Question was raised also regarding the possible need to 
clarify what would be considered a "reasonable time" during which 
underwritten securities might be held. It was noted that examiners 
presumably would be sufficiently familiar with underwriting practices 
to judge whether the holding period was reasonable in particular 
instances. A consensus developed in favor of some modification of 
the passage dealing with this point, but without specifying a precise 
holding period that would be considered reasonable. Another language 
change agreed upon was intended to insure that adequate information 
regarding the operations of the foreign subsidiary would be made 
available to Federal Reserve authorities. 
The letter was thereupon approved unanimously in the form 
attached as Item No. 3, with the understanding that the staff would 
develop an interpretation of or amendment to Regulation K to deal 
with the question that had been raised regarding equal treatment of 
Edge corporations generally. 
First National Corporation. A memorandum from the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation dated January 16, 1970, and other 
pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an appli-
cation by First National Corporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, to 
acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Freedom State 
Bank, Freedom, Wisconsin. 

310 
1/28/70 
-9-
The application was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order and statement reflecting this decision would 
be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Regulation Z. There had been distributed nine proposed 
interpretations of Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, as well as an 
explanatory staff memorandum dated January 26, 1970. The draft 
interpretations related to the following subjects: 
Premiums for vendor's single interest insurance required 
by creditor (amendment to previous interpretation) 
Credit for business or commercial purposes—more than 
4-family units 
Renewals of notes (amendment to previous interpretation) 
Disclosures on multiple advance loans 
Premiums for insurance added to an existing balance 
Disclosure for demand loans 
Mortgages with demand features 
Refinancing and increasing—disclosures and effects on the 
right of rescission (amendment to previous interpretation) 
Notice of the right to rescind in transactions involving lots. 
Mr. Cardon pointed out that the interpretation regarding 
transactions involving lots was not considered correct by land sales 
companies; in their view, the position conflicted with provisions 
of the Interstate Land Sales Full Disclosure Act, enacted in 1968. 
He described the arguments advanced by industry representatives, 
which he had found rather persuasive. 
After discussion it was agreed that the interpretation 
regarding transactions involving lots would be held for further 
study. The remaining eight interpretations were approved unanimously. 

311 
1/28/70 
-9-
A copy of the interpretations in the form in which they were published 
in the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 4. 
"Deep in the money" options. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated January 20, 1970, regarding the application of margin 
requirements to a new "high leverage investment technique" using an 
instrument described as a "deep in the money" option. The charac-
teristics of the instrument were described in the memorandum, as were 
reasons underlying the staff's view that the instruments were not 
options but margin accounts in which credit was extended in an amount 
exceeding that permitted by the margin regulations. 
Question was raised whether the matter was not more closely 
related to supervision of the securities business, and therefore 
within the province of the Securities and Exchange Commission, than 
it was to regulation of stock market credit. Staff presented reasons 
why it appeared desirable for the Board to take the recommended 
position at this time, although there was nothing to preclude referral 
of future questions to the Commission. 
The Board then approved unanimously a letter, in form recom-
mended by the staff, to a law firm that had made inquiry concerning 
the subject. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. It was understood 
that the substance of the letter would be published as an inter-
pretation in the Federal Register and the Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
Payment of architect's fee. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated January 23, 1970, from Mr. O'Connell regarding the 

312 
1/28/70 
-9-
amount of the fee due to Marcellus Wright & Partners for architectural 
services with respect to "change order" construction in the Commu-
nications and Records Center, Culpeper, Virginia. The Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond had requested authorization for payment of 
$57,787.83, whereas the architect claimed that $67,295.36 was due. 
After discussions with President Heflin and his staff, study of the 
components of the job extension or delay costs, and conference with 
Governor Sherrill, Mr. O'Connell recommended that the Board authorize 
payment to the architect of $41,8 29, plus $8,089.60 for expenditures 
by the architect incident to the change-order construction. He did 
not recommend that the architect receive a commission on the job 
extension or delay costs of $125,115 because such costs were incurred 
only by the general contractor incident to the change order and did 
not involve any out-of-pocket expense by the architect. It could be 
reasonably anticipated that tender of the amount recommended might be 
accepted. However, rejection of the offer was possible. 
Discussion included expressions of reluctance to have the 
Board assume a bargaining posture, although such a posture was not 
inappropriate for the Richmond Reserve Bank. In response to ques-
tions regarding the probable course of events, it was brought out 
that if the recommended offer were made and no avenue left open for 
consideration of paying an additional amount, the architect con-
ceivably might sue. If the matter came to the point of litigation, 

1/28/70 
-10-
authorization of an additional payment might be considered simply 
because of the costs of court proceedings, but the Board's position 
would have been established on record. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board authorized 
Payment by the Reserve Bank of the amount Mr. O'Connell had rec-
ommended. Attached as Item No. 6 is a copy of the letter sent to 
President Heflin pursuant to this action. 
Chairman Martin withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Disposition of computer system. The Division of Data 
Processing and the Legal Division, in a memorandum dated January 27, 
1970, presented a question whether in disposing of the Board's 
Model 50 computer the Division of Data Processing was constrained 
bY the requirements of the Brooks Act, under which General Services 
Administration coordinates the inventory, procurement, and dis-
bursement of data processing equipment within the Federal Govern-
m e n t ' 
I n 1967 the Board had taken the position that, while it was 
not covered by the Brooks Act, it would assist in accomplishing 
the objectives of the Act to the extent that doing so would not 
interfere with the Board's normal business. 
Inquiry by the Data Processing Division had indicated that 
e processing of requests for acquisition or disposition of data 
Processing equipment through General Services Administration was 
attended by delays and difficulties. By contrast, the Board's 

1/28/70 
-10-
acquisition of the new Model 65 had been handled directly with 
IBM and installation had been accomplished with efficiency and 
dispatch. Therefore, it was deemed to the Board's advantage to 
deal directly with organizations that wanted the Model 50 on a 
first-come, first-served basis. 
The Division had arranged to release the Model 50 to the 
Department of the Navy, the first agency to notify the Division 
officially of its desire to acquire the equipment. However, the 
Bureau of Customs had objected because GSA procedures were not 
ibeing followed, and GSA had requested that disposition of the 
equipment be handled through such procedures. 
The memorandum concluded with the recommendation that the 
Board continue to take the position that it does not come under 
the jurisdiction of the Brooks Act but that it would cooperate 
with General Services Administration and with reasonable requests 
of other Government agencies in carrying out their responsi-
bilities 
as designated by the Brooks Act. 
During discussion, the staff indicated that the Navy 
Department intended to install the Model 50 in its building across 
Constitution Avenue from the Board's building, and that the equip-
ment would continue to be available to the Board for about three 
Months for the completion of projects. The staff then responded 
t o a number of inquiries by members of the Board regarding the 

1/28/70 
-10-
mir 
nature of the negotiations and the advantages of the arrangement 
with the Navy Department. 
At the conclusion of the discussion there was unanimous 
V ! 
agreement with a suggestion that General Services Administration 
be informed that, although the Board did not feel that it was 
subject to the Brooks Act, it wanted to cooperate as well as 
possible; that the Navy Department was ready to take the equip-
ment immediately, but that if GSA could, within a reasonable 
period, arrange disposition that would be as advantageous to the 
Board as the arrangement with the Navy Department, the Board would 
« 
• ' 
be glad to accept that decision; but that, in the absence of such 
a solution, the Board would proceed with the arrangement with the 
Navy Department. Attached as Item No. 7 is a copy of the letter 
sent to GSA. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Holland then withdrew 
and arrangements were discussed for a reception being planned for 
incoming Chairman Burns. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

316 
lip 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item NOo 1 
1/28/70 
A D D R F 5 S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E ! 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 28, 1970. 
First National Bank in Dallas, 
0. Bo:; 6031, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission for First National Bank in Dallas, Dallas, 
Texas, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act to establish a branch in London, England, and to op-
erate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such 
Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened 
}
0r business on or before February 1 , 2971 , all rights granted hereby 
snail be deemed to have been abandoned and che authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
R 
Please aclvise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
eserve Bank of Dallas, when the branch is cpened for business, fur-
bishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
°ard should also be promptly informed of any future change in lo-
cation of the branch in London. 
With respect to the establishment ->f foreign branches, 
^unds provided by heme office (whether In the form of allocated 
aP'-»-tai. f advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
L]°l Purpo.?es of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of 
m
 10 B o ard's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign invest-
o n tlie balance of payments, the above consent is given with 
^ e understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
^aximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
^ ted States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
^equired will be made within the guidelines established under the 
f o
r ° 1 S n c r e d i t restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
8. 
lending and investment activities of your bank and its sub-
co l ay i e s» a n d t h a t d u e consideration is being given to the priorities 
ntained therein. Your attention is directed to the enclosed copy 
a press release of June 4, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
^closure. 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

'Wy 
T E L E G R A M 
LEASED "flRE SERVICE 
I t e m N o # £ 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
1 / 2 8 / 7 0 
WASHINGTON 
January 28, 1970 
EISENMENGER 
•- BOSTON 
LINK 
- NEW YORK 
EASTBURN 
- PHILADELPHIA 
HOCTOR 
- CLEVELAND 
PARTHEMOS 
- RICHMOND 
TAYLOR 
ATLANTA 
UAUGTIMAN 
•• CHICAGO 
JONES 
- ST. LOUIS 
NELSON 
- MINNEAPOLIS 
TOW 
- KANSAS CITY 
GREEN 
DALLAS 
CRAVEN 
- SAN FRANCISCO 
The Board would like Lo obtain up to date information on raf.es paid on 
consumer-type rime and savings deposits, in view of possible changes 
S l n c e Mis revision in Regulation Q. In th's connection, it might be 
desirable to remind the sample banks in the January 31 rate survey in 
a letter or by phone that the instructions concerning reporting of "most 
common" rates oa new deposits call for reporting the most recent rates 
1 f" there have been any recent changes. 
Additional information on interest ra<es should be obtained on a 
supplemental form, since the reporting form for the survey does not 
Provide for the new ceiling rate structure on small denomination 
(under $100,000) time and savings deposits. The Board requests that 
member banks reporting regularly on the Survey of Time and Savings 
deposits be asked to report separately their most common rate and the 
a*imum rate paid on new deposits as of February 1 for the following 
items: 

3 I S 
-2-
Most Common 
Maximum 
Rate Paid 
Rate Paid 
Passbook savings deposits 
Single maturity time deposits 
Under 1 year 
1 and under 2 years 
2 years and over 
It is bolievnd that data on such rates should be readily available 
from the banks so long as we do not request outstanding amounts in 
these categories. 
This request for data is for regulatory purposes 
a n d d o e s not require Budget Bureau clearance. 
Ihe above items should be obtained from each sample member bank, and 
I J ; > C * w , 
forwarded to Mrs. Cagle in the Banking Section by mid-February. 
On 
report sent to the Board for each bank, the Reserve Bank is requested 
to add the following: 
'J '.-* 
; 
Nt'JmG ancI location of bank and bank identification code, and the 
lowing dollar amounts (in thousands) from the October 31, 1969 Survey 
o f Tune and Savings Deposits: 
Total deposits and total time and savings 
deposits. 
(Signed) 
PARTEE 

B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
2055. 
I t e m No. 3 
1 / 2 8 / 7 0 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O Ft R E !: *> Q N O C N 
t£ 
T O 
T H E 
D D A H D 
January 28, 1970 
Bankers International Corporation, 
16 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
Thit. refers to the request contained in your letter of 
Kay 
1969, and to subsequent correspondence including Mr. Moore's 
letter of January 7, 1970.' 
The Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
( BIC") to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, through your 
w"°lly»*< wned Delavyare subsidiary ("DS') authorized in the Board' s 
letter of March 10, 1969, additional shares of Deutsche Unionbank 
G*m.bai. ("DUB"), Frankfurt, Germany, so that BIG holds, directly 
0 r indirectly. 75 per cent of DUB1s outstanding stock, at a cost ol 
Approximately $8,050,000, provided all but jA,000 of the shares are 
acquired within one year and the 14,000 within five years from the 
date of this letter. It is understood that in connection with this 
acquisition BJ.C, or D3, may acquire all the shares of Norddeutsche 
^undholz G„m.l>.h. ("NZG"), whose sole activity would be to hold 
shares of DUB, and that NZG would be subsequently liquidated upon 
t h e sale of such shares of DUB to BIC or DS, 
III i:hi.s connection, approval is a) so granted for the pur-
chase ard holding of shares of DUB by BIC and/or DS in excess of the 
applicable I.initations set forth in the provisions of Section 25(a) 
U*S.C„ 6IS(c) 1 of t\\e Federal Reserve Act and 'Section 211.9(b) 
oi: Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
o f shares of DUB by BIC or DS is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 

Bankers International Corporation -2~ 
320 
(1) That BIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in DUB if DUE at any time fails 
to restrict its activities ro these permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, .purchase and 
hold stock, or if DUB establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Germany or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to BIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BIC 
will furnish the Board with such information regarding 
the activities of DUB as it may require from time 
to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions, for its 
own account other than as underwriter or dealer, by 
DUB be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if DUB were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 
(4) That BIC or DS shall not carry or. their books the 
shares of DUB at a net amount in excess of their 
proportionate share of the book capital accounts of 
DUB, after giving effect tc the elimination of all 
known losses. 
Subject, to continuing observatior and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as tlury 
relat.e to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) 
o f Regulation K. 
The Board has considered your requests regarding 'DUB's 
activities as a broker, dealer, and underwriter of securities. That 
consideration included the fact that BIC is not engaged in banking; and 
especially the relationship between the possible acquisitions of 
certain stocks as a result of such activities and the statutory pro-
hibition on the purchase and holding of stock of a corporation "en-
8aged in the general business of buying or selling goods, wares, 
"merchandise or commodities in the United States," or "transacting 
any business in the United States except such as in the judgment of 
the Board . . . may be incidental to its international or foreign 

Bankers International Corporation -3-
business . . 
It was the judgment of the Board that in a foreign 
country where such transactions are usual in connection with the 
business of banking or other financial operations, and provided such 
stocks were acquired for underwriting or dealing but not as invest-
ments, and were not held for an unreasonable time, such acquisitions 
would not be inconsistent with the quoted statutory prohibition. 
Accordingly, the Board concluded that it would be permis-
sible for DUB under the aforementioned condition to act as dealer 
and underwriter of stocks (including rights to acquire stocks), in-
cluding shares of issuers engaged in the types of business cited in 
the preceding paragraph, so long as stocks so acquired were disposed 
within a reasonable length of time and provided that the specific 
consent of the Board be obtained for any acquisitions of stock of 
individual issuers, not covered in the case of underwriting opera-
tions by firm commitments from sub-underwriters or other purchasers, 
in excess of $500,000 or 25 per cent of the voting shares of any 
company. 
As indicated in condition (3) in the fourth paragraph of 
this letter, shocks acquired in connection with underwriting and 
dealing in securities need not be reported in accordance with Sec-
tion 211,3(d) ot: Regulation K. However, they are to be reported as 
a separate class (together with date of acquisition) in any Call 
Report of Condition or in any other information requested regarding 
t^B in accordance with condition (2) above. Also, full information 
on DlJji's activities as a broker, dealer, or underwriter of securi-
ties is to be made available on request during any examination of BIC. 
The foregoing applies only to acquisitions of stocks as a 
result of underwriting operations or in connection with maintaining 
a dealer's inventory. All other acquisitiors of stock by DUB, for 
Portfolio investment purposes or otherwise, are subject to the pro-
visions of Section 211.8 of Regulation K uncer the condition (1) 
herein applied. Investments by DUB ir, debt obligations carrying 
rights to acqu:.re shares are covered by a published interpretation 
°f the Board (1969 Federal Reserve Bulletin 548), 
With respect to DUB's issuance of savings certificates of 
deposit with maturities in excess of one year, the Board does not 
construe Section 211.4 of Regulation K as applying to the issuance 
obligations which evidence deposits received in the ordinary 
course of a banking business. 

Rankers International Corporation -4-
In regard to your inquiry regarding die possible requirement 
that DUB divulge information in contravention of German law, your 
attention is called to the following statement in the Board's press 
release of March 15, 1967, relating to the amendment of Regulation M 
and certc.in conforming amendments of Regulation K: 
"The Boarc; expects thai: the foreign branches and affiliates 
of every member bank will conduct their affairs in accord-
ance. with the laws of the countries in "which they carry on 
their activities. The Board further expects that member 
banks (and their foreign branches and affiliates) will con-
duct their activities, in the United States and abroad, 
on the basis of high standards of banking and financial 
prudence. Member banks are expecr.ed to make sufficient 
information available to the Board as will enable the Board 
to satisfy itself that those standards jre being met." 
Accordingly, the Board expects that BIC will maintain at 
3-t£ head office all such information as is necessary for the proper 
administration of its subsidiaries, and as will enable the Board 
properly to carry out its supervisory responsibilities. All records 
of BIG, including information on BIC's subsidiaries, must be made 
available to the Board's examiners on request. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Fed-
eral Reserve B-iiik of: New York, with copies of; Articles of Association 
Memorandum of i>sscciation, and By-Laws of DU'i. 
Should BIC acquire the stock of DUC> under the foregoing 
consent, the Board also approves the subsequent sale of such stock 
to DS. 
The .ioregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the irivesf.vient; by BIC now being approved will be made within 
the guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect s.s they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation, Bankers Trus>: Company, and Bankers 
Company of New York, and that due consideration is being given to 
the priorities contained therein. Furthermore, it is understood 
that any investment by DS under the foregoing consent will be gov-
erned by the principles set forth in Governor Brimmer's letter of 
January 3, 1969, to Mr. Alfred Brittain III, President of Bankers 
I'rust Company. 
Reference is also made to your letters of June 30 and 
July 21, 1969, regarding activities of your subsidiary, Rodo Invest-
ment Trust Ltd., ("Rodo"), London, England, and to your letter of 

Bankers International Corporation -5-
August 1 1969 regarding activities of your proposed subsidiary 
Bankers Trust Imansiaria S.p.A. ("BTF") s Ro,e, Italy. The Board 
has considered certain of the requests contained in chose letters 
and as e result of that consideration, amends its letters of "conl 
sent of August 15, 1969,-and January 13, 1970, as follows: 
thi< 
P a r a « r a P h s h a 1 1 " a d as the fifth paragraph of 
this letter; and (2) that the conclusions expressed here regarding 
the activities of DUB as a broker, dealer, or underwriter of securi 
ties shall apply equally to any such activities by Rodo or BTF 
, ? e 
contained in the tenth paragraph of this letter would 
also apply to the issuance of certificates of deposit by Rodo 
o L h e r requests regarding activities of Rodo and BTF* will be 
considered further by the Board and you will be informed of the 
uoard s conclusions in the near future. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
^ 
Deputy Secretary, 

S-2119a 
324 
Item No. 4 
1/28/70 
TITLE 12 «« BANKS AND BANKIEG 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Z] 
FART 226 - TRUTH IN LENDING 
Miscellaneous Interpretations 
Interpretation § 226.404 is amended to read as follows: 
* 
6.404 jreniiums for vendor's single Interest , 
alitor 
The question arises whether charges ox. premiums for single interest 
ln°urance (Verdor's Single Interest Insurance) written in connection with a 
Cre<Ut transaction nay be excluded from the finauca charge under § 226.4(a)(6) 
' Ijjjp j'tu 
the insurer waives subrogation. 
If the insurer waives all right of subrogation against the customer 
n a single interest policy of insurance against loss of or damage to property 
(whtch may include coverage for skip, concealment, conversion, and embezzle-
®nt) written in connection with a credit transaction, and the creditor com-
pile 
Wi th the requirements of § 226.4(a)(6), charges or premiums for such 
France may be excluded from the amount of the finance charge on that 
tQnsaction. However, if the insurer does not 3c waive subrogation in such 
llcV 
insurance, the charges or premiums shall be included in the finance 
Ch*tge. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1605) 
i § 

325 
S-2119a 
C 226.302 C ^ j f o r business or commercial purposes--more than U lainilv 
units 
Under 0 226.3(a), extenr.ions of credit for business or 
commercial purposes, other than agricultural purposes, arc net subject 
to Regulation Z . 
The question arises as to whether an extension of credit 
relating to a dwelling (as defined in fl 226.2(p)) which contains more; than 
4 family housing units is an extension of credit for business or com-
mercial purposes. 
Credit extended to an owner of a dwelling containing more than 
A family houa.Ug units for the purpose of acquiring, financing, refinancing 
improving, or maintaining that dwelling 
a a extension of credit for busi-
m 
ness or commercial purposes. 
. • :'"«• v.'1 • 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1603) 
M-
V'? t •• 
At: ... 

S-2119a 
Interpretation 0 225.8X1 I & emended to read as follows: 
6'811 RenegeIs.of notea 
Any renewal, of an extension of credit providing for payment of the full 
acipftl our., or, n specified date shall not be considered a refinancing under 
0), find no disclosures need he raade in connection with such renewal, 
18 22G 
(i) All disclosures required under this rMrt were r,«de in connection 
0 original extension of credit ^r a orior renewal thereof; 
(ii^ The mount of the renewal does not exceed the amount of the unpaid 
Glance 
• ut! n ny accrued and unpaid finance charge; 
vHi) The annual percentage rate (or rates) oreviously disclosed is not 
4 da 
(tv) The period fcr which renewal it; ;.ade docs not exceed by more than 
yg the 
6 •'crloi of the extension of credit ior wh:.ch disclosures were rcade. 
n instances in which disclosures cs:e required to be made and renewal 
®«de by v m i , 
' 
• 
1 
Clle creditor may not: know whether the customer will reduce his 
Nation bv « . 
H 
Payment on principal or, if reduced, the amount of that reduction. 
^ueation arises as to what disclosures should be r.ade by y.ail to the cuKtorer 
in the C £ f _ 
c^rcur-stancea, 
If th 
< 
® creditor knows the amount of the principal parent, all dis-
^ ^ C C o h 
hn 
^ 
0 U d b° 
o n t h e b a s i s o f the resulting new amount financed. If. 
ob 
' 
C r e d i t o r does not know whether the customer will reduce his original 
8fttion or if 
. 
' ' 
so« by how much, he should disclose on the assumption that then 
he n o rcc, 
0ft(l 
A c t i o n . 
in such circumstances, at the creditors option, he jay make 
Or ^ore additional disclosures based on one or more examples of graduated 

327 
S-2119a 
- 4 -
reduction. 
For example, li: a circle pnynent note for $1,000 at TL is 
P r o s e d to fcft rented for $1,010 at 6% for 3 months, in addition to the other 
iu red disclosures, the. creditor chould disclose en amount financed of $1,000 
* l c h « finance charge of $20, And rray, in addition, disclose that with a principal 
P ^ e n t of $300 the arount financed would be $701 with a finance charge of $14, 
ftud j-u a nrmcir.al payment of $500 the ai.-ount financed would be $5)0 with a 
f l^nce charge of $ 1 0 . 
'I U),,;; 
(Interprets find applies 15 U.S.C. 1639) 
i 
y-;-:/^ V. 
' , 
• 
" • 1: V -J' . 
v.; ; 
5 • •«..,. 

3 ^ 8 
S-2119a 
5 226,613 Disclosures on multiple advance loans 
In connection with construction and ether multiple advance loans 
•'Hii v -, . 
a . . . A. 
n 
S 226.8(i),which arc payable in a single sum or permanently financed 
ty the same. creditor at maturity of the construction phase with interest 
0nly payable up to such maturity,and in which either the amount or date 
..... 
an advance io not determinable, the question arises whether a method 
m*Bht be utilized to estimate the information to be disclosed under 
5 226.8(b)(?.) and (3) and (d)(3). 
In such cases,at the creditor's option, required information 
ttay be estimated and disclosed as follows: 
< 0 
The following mathematical equctions based upon assumed 
c°ntinuous advances may be utilized in estimating the amount of the interest 
mPOnent of th<i finance charge and the annual percentage rate by substi-
Jting the appropriate numerical amounts for the following symbols in the 
Rations: a > 
Symbol a: 
L •* Amount of loan commitment. 
).* 13 Stated annual interest rate expressed as a 
decimal figure. 
n » Number of interest payments to be made to maturity. 
m «" Number of interest pericds (unit-periods) in 1 year. 
P = Total amount of any prepaid finance charge under 
§ 226.8(e). 
: V ^ 
- • Vi : 
" 
' 
. . 
D » Amount of any required deposit balance under § 226.8(e) 

S-2119a 
(ii) If interest is computed from the date of each advance on 
°ni-y the amounts advanced: 
Estimated annual percentage rate = nrL + 2mP 
n(L - 2P - 2B) 
Estimated interest finance charge - nrL 
v 
•••• I,. 
2m 
(iii) If interest is computed on the full amount of the cornmit-
Tn 
c without regard for the dates of disbursements or actual amounts dis-
bursed: 
Estimated annual percentage rate. = 2nrL -i- 2mP 
n(L - 2P - 2B) 
Estimated interest finance charge - nrL 
m 
(2) If the equations under subdivision (ii) of paragraph (1) 
"tG utilized, the amounts of any required interest payments during the 
0tlRtruction phase may be omitted in making the disclosures required under 
?-26.£(b) (3) . however, if the equations under subdivision (iii) of para-
raPh ,(1) a r e utilized, then the amount of each scheduled interest payment 
8hal], b o disclosed as required under § 226.8(b)(3). 
(3) In the case of a combination construction loan and permanent 
fin 
J 
n a n c i n 5 Provided by the same creditor: 
(i) The amount of interest finance charge to be paid prior to 
the dij.% i 
uate of the first amortization payment shall be estimated as pres-
Qy* J \ 
G d under subdivisions (ii) or (ii.i) of paragraph (1) as the case may 
and shall be treated as prepaid finance charge for computational pur-
P O a e a; and 

330 
S-2ll9a 
-3< 
'•y v • (ii) Estimation of the annual percentage rate shall be made 
wlthout regard to the number of interest only payments to be made, assuming 
tlle first payment period to be that interval between the date the finance 
ch*rge begins to accrue and the date the first amortization payment is due. 
4. Disclosures made in accordance with this interpretation, when 
e along with the other disclosures required under § 226.8(b) and (d), 
shall 
constitute "all other material disclosure required under this Part" 
forred to under § 226.9(a): 
••> 
. 
.. 
Example I 
A v20,000 construction loan commitment on which the precise dates 
or 
' amounts of advances are not determinable. The obligation bears a stated 
6% j ^. 
' e r e s t rate and interest is to be paid monthly on the amounts advanced, 
and the h 
.. 
- total of the amounts advanced under the commitment plus any unpaid 
interact- i 
* 
is due and payable at the end of nine months from the date the 
^inaucn M 
beSi»s to accrue. There is a loan fee of 1% ($200), but 
t-hfcre io 
.^'equltfacl deposit balance. Substituting these terms for the 
symbolo trie equations become: 
1 2 \ 200>- " 
-0884 or 8.847. or 8-3/47. 
* 1(20,000 - (2 x 200)] 
o.M«.tcH 
p.rcentag* rate 

331 
S-2119a 
-4-
l^x. .06 x 20,000 » 450 or $450 est 1ms tec. interest finance charge component 
2 x 12 
of the finance chargc.« 
If the terms stated in the exfuple were changed so that interest 
would be computed on the full amount of the commitment from the date the 
finance charge begins to accrue without regard for the dates of disburse-
ments or actual amounts of funds dioburi.ed, the equations under (iii) above 
become: 
x .06, xJl0,Q00)-H2 xi 12 x 200_)_ - 
.1497 or 14.97% or 15,% eat lira ted 
~~9 
[(20,000 - (2 x 200)) 
annual percentage rate. 
x .On v on nnr-. = 900 or $900 estimated interest finance charge component 
12 
of the finance charge. This interest would be payable 
in 9 monthly payment* of $100 each. 
Example II 
A $20,000 construction loan followed by permanent financing in 
same amount. Six per cent interest. One point loan fee. Nine months to 
Maturity of construction phase. Nine monthly payments of interest only 
during construction phase. Twenty-year maturity on permanent financing to 
^e amortized in 240 equal, monthly payments including interest and principal . 
From mortgage amortization tables: 
Amortization of a $20,000 6% 20-year loan in 240 equal monthly payments 
including interest and principal require^ each monthly payment to be 
$1*3.29. 
Total of 240 payments = 240 x $143.29 = $34,339.60 
Subtract amount of loan principal 
$20,000.00 
Interest finance charge on permanent 
financing 
$14,389.60 

- 5 -
Add": Estimated interest finance charge 
on construction phase (pursuant 
to subdivision (ii)> 
450.00 
Add: Loan fee 1 point 
200.00 
Estimated finance charge- 
$15,039.60 
(If the interest on the constructioa phase is computed on the 
full amount: of the commitment for the full time to maturity without regard 
-°r the dates of disbursements or actual amounts disbursed pursuant to sub-
division (ill), che estimated interest finances charge for the construction 
Phase would be $900.00 which would result in l total estimated finance 
charge of $15,489,600 
Loan fee 1 point prepaid finance charge. 
$ 
200.00 
For computational purposes consider interest 
to be paid on construction phase a£ prepaid 
(not to be disclosed as prepaid). 
$ 
450,00 
Total amount treated as prepaid finance 
charge for computational purposes 
Computational 
Purposes 
Amount of loan 
~ 
$20,000 
Deduct tots.i of 
estimated finance charge 
treated as prepaid 
$ 
650 
Deduct actual amount of 
prepaid finance charge 
Estimated amount financed 
f°r computational purposes $19,350 
$ 
650.00 
Disclosure 
purposes 
$20,000 
$ 
200 
Amount financed to be 
disclosed 
$19,800 

S-2J.19a 
333 
- 5 -
Adjust first payment period (period of construction loan plus 
period from maturity date of construction loan to due date of first amorti-
zation payment) by dividing the period of the construction lean by 2 and 
adding the period of time between the maturity date of the construction 
loan and the date the first amortization payment is aue. 
months divided by 2 = 4 1/2 months plus i month - 5 1/2 month* 
F:.;om Appendix A (; age A2) of Volume I of the Board's Annual vc;r-
ccntaje Rata T..bles, read across to !i montns and on the line below opposite 
5 days (1/2 month) read + 9,0. This, adjustment should be added to the 
number of regular amortization payments to determine the number of payments 
in utilizing the Annual Percentage Rate Tables: 
240 monthly payments -J- adjustment 9.0 » 249 
Following the directions or age 1 of Volume I: 
Estimated finance charge $15,039.60 x 100 = $1,503,960 which should be 
divided by the estimated amount financed for computational purposes: 
$1,503,960 i 19,350 = $77. 72 estimated finance charge per $100 
estimated amount financed for computational purposes. 
Refer to page 309M of Volume 1, read dovzn number of payments 
column to 242; read across to 78.71 (which is nearest to $77.72 computed 
ftbove^ nr->^ 
and read up to 6.25% which is the estimated annual percentage rate 
t 0 be disclosed. 
In the example where the interest on the construction phase is 
Puted on the full amount of the commitment without regard for the dates 
advances or actual amounts advanced, the estimated finance charge per 

S-2119a 
334 
- 7 -
$100 of amount financed is $81.96. On page 309M of Volume I, read down 
to the 249th payment line and across to $32.39 which is the nearest amount 
t o $81.96, and rend up to 6.50% which is the estimated annual percentage 
r a t e to be disclosed. 
C j? 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1638 and 15 U.S.C. 1639) 
v(n». .j-
f'i^A 
, : 
. . 
. 
-
M'',' ., ...... 
'H.n -v, 
. , 

S -21 
Ufa 
§ 226.814 Premium?, for insurance Added tc an existing balance 
Subsequent to the consummation of a consumer credit transaction the 
customer may wish to purchase optional insurance in connection with the obliga-
tion. Typically, mortgage life and disability insurance may be offered to 
customer at some date after consummation under a plan in which the lender 
A Advance the amount of the premium due and .?dd that amount to the existing 
UnPaid balance of the obligation. Generally, each instalment on the original 
ligation p.-iid during the period before the next premium is due will be 
*ncre«oed proportionately to liquidate the amount of the additional advance 
^ U a G ny finance charge. Additional advances are made automatically for renewal 
< 
as t.hey become due unless the borrower requests discontinuance of 
th 
coverage. The question arises as to the required disclosures. 
In such esses the insurance agreement may be considered a single 
°C-Parate transaction, and the disclosures required under £ 226.8, at ths 
•tor s option, need be made only prior to the time the agreement is 
x°cuted and only with respect to the amount of the initial advance. For 
a mortgage life and disability insurance plan in which the annual 
advanced wns $145 repayable in 12 monthly instalments of $12.61 added 
to tho regular monthly mortgage payments would be disclosed as an "amount 
f i n 
^nced" of $145, a "finance charge" of $6.32, and a "total of payments" of 
•32. Additional disclosures as applicable under § 226.8 would, of course, 
rr,Qde. xf, as in some cases, only a portion of the advance is liquidated 
dvj ^ 
nS the premium period with the remainder payable at the end of the mortgage 
ct» the creditor would likewise calculate the amount of finance charge 
v?ould accrue on the advance until paid in full. 

S~2119a 
336 
J ? u 
I 
* 
In sone cases the advance is secured by a security interest 
x • 
. . . 
in 
real property c?Aich is used or expected tv, be use:' as the principal 
residence of the customer. In-those cases the premium advance agreement 
is rescindable under § 226.9» snd notice of the right of rescission 
Provided in s ?26.9(b) need only be given at the time the agreement is 
executed. Subsequent advances for renet/al premiums are not subject to 
the right of rescission. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 3630 and 15 U.S.C. 1639) 

S-2119a 
337 
§ 226.81!? L inc 1 osure for demand loans 
Section 226.8(b)(3) requires u creditor to disclose the number, 
amount and due dct.es or periods of payments scheduled to repay an extension 
°f credit other than open end and, in appropriate cases, the total of 
Payments. The cuestIon arises as to how these requirements should be met 
in the case of comand loans. 
Section 226.4(g) provides that for the purpose of calculating the 
finance charge and annual percentage rate, demand loans are considered to 
have a one-half year maturity unless the obligation is alternatively payable 
uP°n a stated maturity, in which case the stated maturity shall be us ad. 
In order to comply with the requirements of § 226.3(b)(3), if no 
alternative maturity date is specified, the creditor need disclose only the 
due dates or periods of payments of all scneduled interest payments for the 
first one-half year. In such cases, the creditor need not disclose the 
number, amounts or total of payments or identify any balloon payment. 
Effective May 1. 1970, creditors shall disclose the fact that the obligation 
i s Payable on demand. 
If an alternative maturity date is specified, ail disclosures 
Squired under § 226.8(b)(3) shall be made, using that date. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1639) 

. S-2119a 
338 
§ 226.816 Mortft&p.es with demand features 
Tn some cases real estate mortgages are written for a statec 
Period, for example one year", with the provision that they shall be payable 
demand after expiration of .that period, provided that until such demand 
is made the principal and interest shall be paid in scheduled periodic 
instalments until paid in full. The obligation ie thus payable according to 
a specified amortization schedule subject: to the holder's right to demand 
Payment after th-z stated period. 
rJhe question arises whether the creditor may make disclosures 
based on the specified amortization schedule or whether disclosures must 
be made, on the basis of the maturity established by the expiration of the 
8tated period. 
In such cases the creditor may make disclosures based cn the 
specific amortization schedule, provided he oisclosa*" clearly and con-
spicuously that the obligation is payable on demand after the stated period 
toSether with the fact that disclosures are made on the basis of the 
specified amortization schedule. Otherwise, disclosures shall be based 
uPon the earliest date demand for payment in full may be made under t*e 
terms of the mortgage showing the unpaid balance due at that time as a 
balloon payment .'' 
The disclosure requirements of this interpretation shall become 
Gffective May 1, 1970, 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1639) 

S-2119a 
33?) 
Interpretation S 226.903 is amended to read as follows: 
8 226.903 Refinancing and £ncreasing--disclosr/es and effects on the 
right of rescission 
In some cases the creditor of an obligation will refinance 
that obligation r.t the request of a customer by permitting the customer 
t o execute a new note, contract, or other document evidencing the trans-
ition under the terms of which one or more of the original credit terms, 
including the maturity date of the obligation, are changed. 
Except as 
^^HHjjjed in J 226,811 
such refinancing; constitutes a new transaction, 
Q n d all disclosures required under § 226.3 must be made. The question 
ari&es as to whether that transaction is subject to the right of rescission 
under £} 226.9 where the obligation is already secured by a security 
Xnterest in real property which is used or expected to be used as the 
Principal resider.ce of that customer. 
If the amount of such new transaction does not exceed the amount 
the unpaid balance plus any accrued ard unpaid financc charge on the 
listing obligation, 3 226.9 does not apply to the transaction. 
If, however, such new transaction is tor an increased amount, 
that is r 
» rot* an amount in excess of the amount of the unpaid balance plus 
y accrued and unpaid finance charge on the existing obligation, § 226.9 
pPlies to the transaction. 
However, such right of rescission applies 
O Such excess and does not affect the existing obligation (or 
Elated 
security interest) for the unpaid balance plus accrued unpaid 
f i n a"ce charge 
to 
^ 
T'1C underscored language was inserted to conform this interpretation 
j 
vjiiuux.bcurco 
l a n g u a g e wa 
terpretation § 226.811, as amended. 

. S-2119a 
310 
If a transaction is refinanced by a creditor other than the 
Apt 
^editor of th* existing obligation, the entire transaction is subject 
t0 § 220.9. 
(Interprets and applies 13 U.S.C, 1639) 
- ; 5 
c r 
Gated at Washington, D. C., the 28th day of January, 1970. 
T.y order of the Board of Governors. 
(SEAl j 
8necI) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D G F 
G C V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
an 
Item No. 5 
1/28/70 
A D D R E S i i 
n r n c i A L 
c d r r e s p o n d c n i 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 30, 1970 
Charles E. GennerL, Esq.. 
Withington, Cross. Park 
Grodi»ri, 
Tremont Street, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02108 
D e ar Mr. Gennert: 
Mr 
v
 
T h l S r e f e r s t o y° u r l G t t e r of October 8, 1969, addressed to 
oi'tTn* S n U t G r ° f t h G B o a r d ' s s t a f f> i n which you ask for an opinion 
an evf 
" 
o f Governors whether the transaction described below involves 
} W l ^ n S 1 ° n °f, C r e d i t s u b J e c t 1:0 t h e margin requirements of the Board's 
Denl 
n' 
S e c u r i t i e s C r e d i t by Persons other than Banks, Brokers, 
"CrMi<-T\ R eS u l a t : i o n T' "Credit by Brokers and Dealers," or Regulation U, 
1 b y B ; m k s f o r th<? Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Margin Stocks." 
isterer1 
-A c I l e n t o f y o u r o f f i c e> who expects to be a broker/dealer ro*-
tl»e So" W j t n t h e S e c u r i t i e s a n d Exchange Commission under section 15 of" 
itiel Cl.,rities Exchange Act of 1934, and with the State regulatory author-
de. c;i h" 1'"*tero.£ted in starting a business writing and selling instruments 
iettPv 
a G 
6 e p i n t h e 11,oney p u t a n d c a l 1 
As an example., your 
states: 
"If X stock is selling at $100 per share, the customer 
wculd pay about $3,250 to our client for a contract to 
purchase 100 shares of X at $70 per share within a 
30-day period. The contract would be guaranteed by 
an exchange member, as are standard 'puts' and 'calls'. 
When thi contract is made with the customer, our client 
will immediately purchase 100 shares of X at $100 per 
share through the guarantor member firm in a margin 
account. 
If the customer exercises the option, the 
shares will be delivered to him; if the option is not 
exercised, our client will sell the shares in the margin 
account to close out the transaction." 
"As a practical matter, it is anticipated that the 
customer will exercise the option in almost every case." 

Charles E. Gennert, Esq. 
- 
2 
-
342 
a . 
I n analyzing your question, it may be helpful to begin with 
description of ordinary puts and calls. A 'put' is an option given 
d person to sell to the writer of the put a specified amount of 
- -unties at a stated price within a certain time. A 'call' is an 
Ption giver to a person to buy from the writer a specified amount of 
--unties at a stated price within a certain time. To be freely 
of tt 
o p t i o n s ™u s t b e endorsed, or guaranteed, by a member firm 
the exchange on which the security is registered. The guarantor 
Cric*rges a fee for this service. 
The option embodied in the normal put or call is exercisable 
WritM r a t t h e m a r k e t p r i c e o f t h e security at the time the option is 
for } 
° r S°'ne , p o i n t s a w ay" f r o m t h e market. Options are designed 
Visl 
y e r / c u i' t o n i e r s w h o expect the price of a security to change, and 
Pri\,t0 r e t a i n f o r a Period the right to buy or sell it at current 
to CeS*. T h e Prim^ry motives of option buyers are (1) speculative, 
exiP£°fit b y S U° h a c h a n g e l n Price> or (?) protective, to hedge an 
Prj 
n? Positionj whether long or short, against; such a change. The 
to tM 
3 n o r m a l °P t i o n i s modest by comparison with the margin required 
Purch 
3 p o B i t i o r ' 
F o r example, the price of a 90-day call option to 
$425no 1 0 0 S h a r G S o f s t o c k selling at $35, at that price might be abcut 
years 
^ 
cent''' Tlrirty-day options are comparatively rare in recent. 
cur 
Writers of normal options are persons who are satisfied with the 
Price111 ? r i c G o f 3 security, and are prepared to purchase or sell at that 
larp'0' W i t h t h e s n a 1 1 Profit provided by the premium. Moreover, since a 
TORNA •T>ROPOLT:ION °* A 1 1 °P T I O N S a r e never exercised, a person who cus-
Prof- ^ writes normal options can anticipate that the fee would be clear 
in n ^ i n m a n y cases, and he will not be obliged to buy or sell the stock 
Huestion. 
dep0o • 
stock exchanges require that the writer of an option, shall 
of tjJlt' 
maintain in his margin account with the endorser 30 per cen 
p0s. e current market price in the case of a call (unless he has a long 
has a
I O n i n t h e stock) and 25 per cent in the case of a put (unless he 
U r e
 
S 
Position in the stock). Many endorsing firms in fact require 
relat^ d e p o s i t s - 
U n d e r section 220.3(a) of Regulation T, all financial 
aCc 
"°ns between a broker and his customer must be included in his general 
un:1-ess specifically eligible for one of the special accounts pro-
^embe l n . s e c t i o n 220.4. Accordingly, the writer, as a customer of the 
In 0 
firm, must make a deposit, which is included in his general account. 
^Urcba°r .t0 p r G v e u t 
deposit from being available against other margin 
in C Q-es, arid in effect counted twice, section 220.3(d)(5) requires that 
Puting, the. customer's adjusted debit balance, there shall be included: 
"the amount of any margin customarily required by the 
creditor in connection with his endorsement or guarantee 
of any put, call, or other option; . . . ." 

Charles E. Gennert, Esq, 
- 3 -
343 
No other margin deposit is required in connection with a normal put or 
call option under Regulation T. 
Turning to the type of transaction described in your letter, 
price paid by the buyer can be divided into (1) a deposit of 30 pei 
^nt of the current market value of the stock, and (2) an additional 
^ixed charge, or premium. To the extent that the price of the stock 
ose during the 30 ensuing days the proposed instrument would produce 
^ suits Similar to those in the case of an ordinary profitable call, 
iml-f116 c o n t r a c t r i8 h t w o u l d b e exercised. 
But even if the price fell. 
v. lkp" t h e situation with a normal option, the. buyer would still be 
^rtually certain to exercise his right to purchase before it expired, 
not°irder t 0 
roiniinize 
h i s l o s s- 
T h e result would be that the buyer would 
^ 
have a genuine choice whether or not to buy. Rather, your client 
the 
aVG '^ade ' A P°ssible for him> in effect, to purchase stock as of 
time the contract was written by depositing 30 per cent of the stock's 
current market price. 
the 
I n a suP'-,lementary letter of November 7, 1969, you suggest that 
.Proposed contract is not unusual, pointing out examples of ordinary 
the10"8 S e U i n g £ t U p fc° 2 8 p e r c e n t o f c n r r e n t market value. 
However, 
fefl.e^ampler y ° U n i e n t i o n a r G o f options running for 12 months, and they 
The 
1
e X p e c t a t J o n s o f c h a n G G S i n t h e Price of the stock over that period, 
°Pti 
y c o n t : r £ c t : s discussed above are not comparable to such 12-month 
^agni^i b e c a u s e instances of true expectations of price changes of this 
G*tei t f ° V e r a 30"6ciy period would be exceedingly rare. And to the 
tfueV t a 3 t a conl;ract of the sort: you describe does not reflect such 
servi C Xo e C' & t i 0 n S ° f p r i c e c h a nS e> P l u s a reasonable premium for the 
the t°eG 0 t t:he w r i t e r > 
i l i s n o t a n option in che accepted meaning of 
°-Xerci 
B 2 c a u s e o f t h e certainty that the contract right would be 
stock1' 
U D d e r the proposal you describe, your client would buy the 
the 
l n a m nrgin account with an endorsing fir>r> immediately on writing 
20 per11^30*"' 
endorsing firm would extend credit in the amount of° 
the C G n t 0 f t h £ c u r r G n t market price of the stock, the maximum permitted 
3 0 Per C U r r G n t supplement to the regulation. Your client would deposit the 
out of }CGMlt s u P P l i e d by the buyer, and furnish the remaining 50 per cent 
thus b U S ° W n w o r k i n 8 capital. His account with the endorsing firm would 
e appropriately margined. 
In Gffe
 
s to the buyer, however, your client would function as a broker. 
buyei, C"J " e would purchase the stock for the account, or use, of the 
a n ordj°n V h a t m i8ht be described as a deferred payment arrangement. 
Like 
^tween^n?* b r° ker, your client would put up funds to pay for the difference 
°Ustomel 1 6 prict- °f securities the customer wished to purchase and the 
Prj.ce
 
s o w n contribution. 
Your client's only risk would be that the 
T
 
securities would decline in excess of the customer's contribu-
Customer^Ue> y o u r c J i e n t would be locked in, and could not liquidate the 
o f 30 
S c o l l a t e r a J for 30 days, if the market price should fall in excess 
cent, but the risk of such a decline appears relatively minimal. 

Charles E. Gennert, Esq. 
- A -
344 
Like any other broker who extends credit in a margin account, 
your client would be satisfied with a fixed return on his venture, since 
he would realize only the premium charged. Unlike a writer of ordinary 
Puts and calls, he would not receive a substantial part of his income 
from premiums on unexercised contract rights. '.Che resemblance of his 
activities to those of a broker, and his unlik.mess to a writer or 
ordinary options, would be underscored by the fact that his premium 
would be a fixed percentage, similar to an interest charge, rather than 
a charge arrived at individually for each transaction according to the 
Volatility of th?. stock and other individual considerations. 
Thus, the buyer's general account with your client would show 
a debit for the purchase price of the stock, and on the credit side, a 
°-posit of cash in the amount of 30 per cent of that price, plus an 
c-xtensj.on of credit for the remaining 70 per cent, rather than the 
maximum permissible 20 per cent. 
For the reasons stated above, the Board is of the view that 
the proposed instruments would not be "options", but would create margin 
accounts in which credit, would be extended by your client as broker in 
an amount exceeding that permitted by the currant supplement to the 
J-sgulation. Accordingly, the present provisions of Regulation T forbid 
e writing of such instruments. 
It would also follow that the brokerage 
rni endorsing the option would be arranging for credit which the firr; 
^0uld not itself extend, in violation of section 220.7(a) of Regulation T. 
^ addition, while the activities described in your letter would make your 
llG
lcjnt: a broker/dealer, and subject to Regulation T, if for some reason 
th 
n 0 t ^ ^ 
the scope of that definition, you should consider 
p e applicability of the Board's Regulation G, "Securities Credit by 
a ^ r s o n s other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers," in the light of the 
ve discussion. A copy of Regulation G is enclosed herewith for your 
c°nvenient reference. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Closure. 

34.fi 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
^ o ^ o V ^ - . 
or T H E 
Item No. 6 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1/28/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
r. 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S F - Q N O E N C 
T D T H E 
B O A R D 
February 2, 1970 
Mr. Aubrey N. Beflin, President, 
federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
Dear Mr. Heflin: 
regard^. ^ ^ 
S c k n o w l e d * e s y° u r l e t t e r o f December 3, 1969, wherein, 
Arch" 
3 n l r i V 0 1 c e subT»itted by Marce] lus Wright & Partners 
const 
f°,Z 3 e r v i ^ e s r e^ered in connection with the change order 
Records r ' T ( h ei G n 
P C C " 4 7 > undertaken at the Communications and 
the 
Center, Culpeper, Virginia, you recommend against payment of 
figuir 
a m ° U n t e q u a l i n 8 6' 2 9 P e r c r n t o f $941,268. The latter 
Arbit J"3 
W n 0 U n t f° r W h i c h t h e G e n eral Contractorfs Demand for 
Your Do 
W ao : s e t t l e d Pursuant to Board authorization in August 1969 
author,. 
L e t t e r c o n t a i n s a further recommendation that the Board 
PCC-A7 
p a y r a e n t t o c h e Architect for services rendered incident to 
latter f" 
an,°Unt: ° f $ 4 9 > 6 2 8 ' o r 6- 2 9 P ^ cent of $790,115, the 
$125 i ? r e . ? : r e n t i n g $665,000 for basic construction work, and 
Board 
or delay costs. You have also recommended 
Paid to 
! rH a t, 1 0 n/°u r t h G ? a y n , e n t 0 f '8,089.60 for additional salarv 
iasuran™ 
/ 
Works, premiums for extended builders' risk ' 
^iscel1nn' 3 
reimbursement to the Architect for printing, travel, and 
i a n e o u s expenses, all relating to PCC-47. 
delay in 
T h e
i
B o a r d h a s considered all the circumstances attending the 
sPonsibii^mP 
l 0 n ° f P G C " 4 7 ' i n c l u d i n S ^ e Architect's share of re-
extensio 
^ 
t h l S d e l a y> a n d i n v i e w o f the fact that the job 
to> the / ° r . d e l ° y c o s t s involved no outlay of funds by, or expense 
o £ $41 82XQClllteCt' 
T h e B o a r d h a s approved payment to the Architect 
atr«ction 
T 
6' 2 9 P e r ° e n t ° f $ 6 6 5' 0 0 0> t h e c o s t of the basic con-
requested ^ 
T h ° B ° a r d a l s ° h a S authorized payment of the $8,089.60 
and explained in your December 3 letter. 
d e c H n e t o ^ 0 B ° a r d 1 S 3 W a r e ° f t h e P ° s s i b i l i t y that the Architect will 
l n the e v e n t s * * S f u U 
3 n d f i n a l PayTnent the amount herein authorized. 
t h e finalitv 
f S U C h ^ 
o c c u r r e n c e > and only after you are satisfied of 
° f this fact °t a? y S U C h p o s i t i o n o n the part of the Architect, advice 
any Proposal 
T 
b e S i V e n t 0 t h G B° a r d' together with a statement of 
made by the Architect and your recommendation thereon. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A„ Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

D
E
S
K 
B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
31G 
I t e m NOo 7 
1 / 2 8 / 7 0 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S I 
' J N O E N C 
T O 
T H E 
D O A R D 
January 29, 1970. 
Mr. Richard S. Cook, Director, 
ADP Resource Management Division (FTR), 
Federal Supply Service, 
General Services Administration, 
Washington, D.C. 
20406 
Dear Mr. Cock: 
Pursuant to understandings reached during a telephone 
conversation on January 28, 1970, between you and Messrs. Jerold E 
Slocum and Thomas J. O'Connell of the Board of Governors' staff, 
there is enclosed a completed Standard Form 120 Rev., Report of 
Excess Personal Property, your receipt of which is intended to 
enable the General Services Administration to arrange disposition 
o f the IBM Model 360/50 computer formerly leased by the Board and 
now replaced by a newly leased IBM computer, 
As you were advised by Mr. O'Connell, while it is the 
Board's position that Public Law 89-306, the Brooks Act, is not 
applicable to the Board's procurement, use, and disposition of 
equipment, the Board desires to cooperate to the maximum 
Practicable extent with the General Services Administration in 
e fecting assignment and use of ADP equipment between and among 
e eral Government agencies. Accordingly, the enclosed completed 
° rm 120 is forwarded pursuant to your request with the under-
standing that the General Services Administration will endeavor 
0£ aryarige as immediately as possible, preferably within one week 
° 
this date, for assignment of the Board's Model 50 computer to 
agency to be designated by the General Services Administration. 
V e g 
^As Mr. Slocum and Mr. O'Connell advised you during 
sterday's telephone conversation, extensive negotiations for 

347 
Mr. Richard S. Cook 
-2-
assigrment of the Board's Model 50 computer have been completed 
with the Department of the Navy, and it is understood that your 
office is currently discussing with officials of the Department 
the matter of transfer of the Model 50 computer. It is'hoped 
that in makirg your decision as to appropriate agency transferee, 
consideration will be given to the negotiations already had with 
the Department of the Navy, and to the extent to which we are 
advised that Department has apparently committed financial and 
personnel resources anticipating receipt of the computer. 
The Board appreciates the cooperation extended by the 
General Services Administration in this matter, and would like to 
be advised as soon as possible regarding your determination of 
appropriate assignment of the Board's computer. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
