Minutes for 
July 17, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

2 8 8 9 
• 
J 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, July 17, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 1J 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
hi.-i 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Gramley, 
Sigel, Smith, Eckert, Freedman, Gehman, Keir, 
Kelty, Peret, and Thompson of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Irvine, Katz, Wood, 
Brown, Emery, Gemmill, Mills, Pizer, Redding, 
Roxon, Siegman, and Smith, and Mrs. Junz of 
the Division of International Finance 
Economic review. Members of the research staff reviewed the 
U
- S . balance of payments position, selected international financial 
batters, and trends in domestic business and financial conditions, the 
c •• • < • • 
r e
Ports being based to some extent on material that had been distributed 
Preparation for tomorrow's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. 
!
 .'IV 
i/ 
Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

7/17/67 
-2-
2840 
Copies of the relevant documents have been placed in the Committee's 
files. 
Governor Brimmer withdrew from the meeting following discus-
sion based on the staff review. Members of the research divisions 
(except Messrs. Koch, Partee, and Eckert), Mr. Dahl, and Miss McWhirter 
also withdrew and the following entered: 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Messrs. Egertson, Assistant Director, and Maurer, Review 
Examiner, Division of Examinations 
Messrs. Johnson, Director, and Hart, Assistant Director, 
Division of Personnel Administration 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to St. Joseph Valley Bank, Elkhart, 
1 
Indiana, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Concord Township and commenting 
°n the bank's capital position. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research 
2 
and Statistics dated July 14, 1967, pro-
Posing a monthly press release covering 
seasonally adjusted data on member bank 
reserves and deposits subject to reserve 
requirements. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
3 
Boston approving a revision of the Bank's 
salary structure applicable to employees. 

2841 
7/17/67 
-3-
With respect to Item No. 3, it was understood that approval of 
the proposed revision would be in conformity with the agreement at the 
Board meeting on June 23, 1967, that revised salary ranges could be 
based upon midpoints at estimated market levels at the date the struc-
ture was to become effective, but without any allowance for projected 
market increases beyond that date. 
Examination of trust departments (Item No. 4). There had been 
distributed a memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated July 12 
1967, submitting draft replies to eleven questions raised by Chairman 
Patman of the House Banking and Currency Committee with respect to the 
lamination of trust departments of State member banks. Similar ques-
tions had been addressed to the Comptroller of the Currency and the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, each of which, it was understood 
from staff discussion, proposed to respond in approximately the same 
vein. 
After a discussion during which agreement was expressed with 
several suggestions for editorial changes and rearrangement of material, 
unanimous approval was given to a reply to Chairman Patman in the form 
a
ttached as Item No. 4. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
'Mr: 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 

2842 
7/17/67 
-4-
Memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administration dated 
July 12, 1967, recommending the establishment of an additional posi-
tion of personnel technician in that Division. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Jerry Jay Bender as Analyst-Operations Supervisor, Division of 
Data Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $10,927, 
effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Hilda B. R. Lewis as Statistical Assistant, Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,387, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increase 
Mary Ann Clements, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
from $9,536 to $9,851 per annum, effective July 17, 1967. 
Transfers 
Janet G. Gaskins, from the position of Stenographer in the Divi-
sion of Personnel Administration to the position of Stenographer in 
the Division of Data Processing, with no change in basic annual salary 
at the rate of $4,936, effective upon assuming her new duties. 
Larry D. Higgins, from the position of Analyst to the position of 
Applications Analyst, Division of Data Processing, with no change in 
basic annual salary at the rate of $11,306, effective July 30, 1967. 
Geraldine M. Venable, from the position of Clerk-Cashier to the 
Position of Supervisor (Cafeteria), Division of Administrative Services, 
w
ith an increase in basic annual salary from $5,122 to $5,421, effective 
•July 17, 1967. 
Patricia Willis, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, to another budget position in the Capital Markets Section. 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
OF THE 
7/17/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 17, 1967. 
Board of Directors, 
St. Joseph Valley Bank, 
Elkhart, Indiana. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by St. Joseph Valley 
Bank, Elkhart, Indiana, of a branch at the intersection 
of U.S. 20 and Middleton Run Road, Concord Township, 
Elkhart County, Indiana, provided the branch is established 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board trusts that your continuing attention is 
being given the bank's capital position which was somewhat 
less than satisfactory at the time of the last examination 
of your bank by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. The 
Board urges all means to strengthen the bank's capital 
position be considered, including the sale of new stock, 
so the growth of your bank will be on a sound basis. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

TO: 
:'. 
' 
FROM: 
• 
, #<><; t 
1S 
Board of Governors 
Division of Research and 
Statistics (Mr. Eckert) 
Item No. 2 
7/17/67 
July 14, 1967. 
SUBJECT: Proposed new press release 
on seasonally adjusted reserves 
and deposits. 
It is recommended that the Board introduce a new press 
release covering seasonally adjusted monthly data on member bank 
reserves and deposits subject to reserve requirements (the Bank Credit 
Proxy). Since October 1966, these data have been published in the 
bulletin with about a 1-month lag. With the proposed new release, 
a
vailability of data to the public could be accelerated by about 3 
w
®eks. A format of the proposed release is attached. 
Recently, some users of these statistics have requested 
e
®rlier release, and a few have expressed considerable resentment 
Jt the delay in publication resulting from the Bulletin schedule. 
The re appears to be no reason to delay release of these data until 
Publication of the Bulletin. 
It is contemplated that the initial release covering the 
uly data would be issued in early August after revisions of seasonal 
Actors are completed for all of the series. The revised seasonally 
a d
 justed series through June would be published in the July Bulletin 
n
 late July, together with an announcement concerning the revision 
atl
d the new re lease. 
Attachment. 

Slf; ; 
284.5 
of g o v ; •. 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
7/17/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R D E S P D N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 17, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. George H. Ellis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 02106 
Dear Mr. Ellis: 
As requested in your letter of June 22, 1967, the Board of 
Governors approves the following minimum and maximum salaries for the 
respective grades of the employees' salary structure at the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston, effective August 1: 
Grade 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
Minimum Salary 
$ 2,950 
3,140 
3,440 
3,760 
4,140 
4,560 
5,030 
5,570 
6,170 
6,850 
7,620 
8,490 
9,460 
10,560 
11,810 
13,230 
Maximum Salary 
$ 3,900 
4,240 
4,640 
5,080 
5,590 
6,160 
6,790 
7,520 
8,330 
9,250 
10,290 
11,460 
12,770 
14,260 
15,940 
17,860 
Salaries should be paid to employees within the limits speci-
fied for the grades in which their respective positions are classified 
It is noted from your letter that all employees whose salaries are below 
the minimums of their grades as a result of the structure ncrease will 
be brought to appropriate ranges within 90 days after the effective date 
of the new structure. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

2846 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
Q F T H E 
Item No. 4 
7/17/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 D 5 5 I 
O F F I C E OF THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
July 21, 1967 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
House Banking and Currency Committee, 
2328 Rayburn Building, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This has further reference to your letter of 
May 25, 1967, regarding the examination of trust depart-
ments in member banks of the Federal Reserve System. 
The attached memorandum contains a reply to each of the 
11 questions set forth in your letter. • 
It is hoped this information will assist the 
Committee in its review of this important part of Federal 
bank supervision. 
Sincerely 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
Enclosure 

2847 
Answers to questions about the examination of trust 
departments raised in Chairman Patman's letter of May 25, 1967. 
For the convenience of the reader, each question raised in the letter 
repeat ed and the Board's reply follows immediately thereafter. 
me 
1. To what extent are reports of examination of bank trust depart-
s
 reviewed, studied, and analyzed by your agency? Describe the review 
de °
e
®
s a n
d what subsequent action is taken. Your answer should be a complete • 
t e ?
ri
-Ption of the review process. Who receives these reports? What are the 
lewers' qualifications? 
How long does a review take? Does the reviewer 
t^
 6 a r e
Port and, if so, who sees it? Give examples of the various actions 
e n
 following supervisory reviews and analyses. 
Both the commercial and trust departments of all State member banks are 
examined annually by Federal Reserve Bank examiners selected or approved 
by t, n e
 Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The Board and the 
6 r
 bank each receives a copy of reports of these examinations. The Board 
aiSQ 
receives from the Reserve Banks summaries based on analysis of data and 
c
oiisjlen. 
U C
S contained in the examination reports, copies of the letters trans-
a
8 the report to the member banks, and copies of the replies to such 
lfi
tter 
s
 when a response is required. 
The trust department sections of these reports are reviewed in the 
s
 Division of Examinations, initially, by a Review Examiner experienced 
in trust department examinations. The time required for such reviews 
c
*n va 
r
y from one hour or less to more than one full day, depending on the size 
c 
°
m
Plexity of the department. 
The purpose of the review is (1) to evaluate the general condition of 
th« tr, 
^ s t department, including any reported sources of actual and potential 
^bii 
U t
y to the bank; (2) to ascertain if the report has been prepared in 
r d a
n c e with procedure outlined in the Board's "Trust Report Manual;" and 
(3) t 
0
 °btain reasonably uniform examination procedures. 

-2-
The review examiner prepares a memorandum based on his analysis of 
t h
e report and related correspondence for any trust department whose condition 
i s
 below average. This is submitted to an official of the Division of Examina-
tions for his information and any necessary follow-up. Similar analyses are 
of other trust departments having unusual problems, exposure to possible 
l o &
ses, or violations of applicable laws and regulations. If any matters in 
* e report require clarification, the review examiner initiates related discussion 
correspondence between the Division of Examinations and the Reserve Banks. 
Several examples of actions which might be taken following supervisory • 
r e v
iews of reports are: 
a. Changed rating assigned to trust department' by Reserve Bank. 
b. Informed Reserve Bank that preparation of report did not 
conform to Manual in some important respect; obtained more 
information on compliance of member bank's common trust fund 
with Regulation 9 of the Comptroller of the Currency, and on 
termination of tax exemption of an employee benefit trust. 
c. Discussed and exchanged information with Office of Comptroller 
of the Currency and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
regarding trust matters of mutual concern, including regulation 
of common trust funds. 
d. Obtained information from Reserve Bank regarding corrective 
action taken by member bank to provide more adequate trust 
department audit coverage and controls. 
e. Obtained information from Reserve Bank regarding action by 
member bank in correcting various weaknesses in trust depart-
ment supervision, administration, and operations. 

2849 
-3-
f. Instructed Reserve Bank to obtain application from member bank for 
Board's permission to exercise a fiduciary power in order to remove 
violation of condition of membership number 1. 
2. Are bank trust departments or trust department managements assigned 
ratings based upon examinations? What are the definitions of the ratings which 
m a
y be assigned? 
Provide a tabulation showing the number of bank trust depart-
m e
nts or trust department managements by rating category for examinations tnade 
d
uring the year 1966. 
'The Board has adopted the following rating system which the Federal 
Reserve Bank examiners are to use when rating trust departments of State member 
b
anks: 
A - Above Average 
A trust function so rated is in the hands of an experienced and 
competent full-time staff and subject to effective supervision by 
directors. There are no major problems or probable liabilities of 
significance. Administrative practices and policies are free from 
adverse comment. Operations are efficient and satisfactorily con-
trolled. Trust activities provide a reasonable profit for the bank. 
B - Average 
A trust function so rated is conducted in a generally satisfactory 
manner, but does not measure up in one or more respects to the 
standards for the top rating. Management will be regarded as 
satisfactory in the circumstances in which it is found. There 
are no major problems or probable liabilities of significance, 
but there may be unsatisfactory features of relatively important 
phases of organization, administration, or operations. Operating 
results, if- not demonstrably profitable, ordinarily will permit 
recovery of direct expenses. 
C - Below Average 
A trust function so rated has one or more major problems centered in 
inexperienced or inattentive management, failure to adhere to sound 
administrative policies, important violations of law or regulation, 
weak or dangerous operating practices, definite and sustained 
unprofitable operations, or an accumulation of unsatisfactory features 
of lesser importance. Probable liabilities are not of such nature 
as would materially affect the bank. 
None of the conditions cited will be of such seriousness, individually 
or collectively, as to suggest a hazardous situation (for which the 
"D" rating would be assigned). However, failure to adjust satisfactorily 
criticized phases or trends could result in a more serious condition and 
possibly further increase the exposure of the bank. 

*> 
-4-
D - Poor 
This rating is reserved for those trust functions where incompetent 
or neglectful administration, flagrant or continued disregard of 
applicable laws or regulations, or willful departure from sound 
principles provide a basis for serious potential loss to the bank 
from surcharge or voluntary settlement and present problems which 
management is unable or unwilling to deal with effectively. 
For State member bank trust departments examined in 1966, these 
Stings were assigned as follows: 
Number of 
Ratings 
Trust Departments 
A 
55 
B 
460 
C 
12 
Total 
527 
As indicated above, no small trust department conducted on a part-time 
k^Siq • 
is assigned an A rating. The fairly sizable number of such departments 
°
U n t s
 for a large part of the B rated departments. 
deai . 
3. There have been very few significant cases at law in recent years 
V h i
 
n
S
 w i t
h damage suits against bank trust departments or their management 
ttust 
been reported in the standard legal reporting services. Among the 
how 
Apartments examined by your organization over the past ten years, in 
b^ n k a
 n
y instances have actions by trust beneficiaries been brought against 
0 r
 bank management? How many of these actions have been settled by the 
h 6 i 
taking 
payment to the beneficiaries or their representatives or their 
durl °
r
 assigns? Provide a brief but complete description of all such actions 
to
 
t
*
l e
 past ten years where the cost of the settlement to the bank amounted 
? 5
>000 or more. 
As they may be of interest to the Committee, the following two cases 
(bo^ f 
o t
 which are matters of public record) are mentioned briefly as they 
the largest settlements by State member banks for quite some time: 

a. Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, New York, New York, had 
acted as stock transfer agent for two corporations. In 1964, the 
bank individually paid the following amounts in settlement of 
suits brought by such corporations in the United States District 
Court for the Southern District of New York: 
Swan-Finch Oil Corporation 
$ 
837,500 
Doeskin Products Inc. 
487.500 
, m m * in 
•• 
ii 
Total 
$1,325,000 
b. Wilmington Trust Company, Wilmington, Delaware, had acted as 
trustee under will of George P. McNear, Jr. In 1964, the bank 
individually paid a surcharge award affirmed by the Supreme Court 
of Delaware in the amount of $548,142. 
No cumulative record is maintained by the Board of matters of litigation 
Elated settlements involving State member bank fiduciary activities. Most 
of the 
e
 amounts involved in such matters are small in relation to size and 
a i
 of the banks. In any instance where the amount was relatively large, 
e l
y close attention would be paid. We are unable to provide full data 
V i
th r 
e
spect to past litigation and settlements. However, the following examples 
Show 
e v
eral types of litigation taken from current examination reports: 
Sffifet
1
.!:!.; 
; . • 
a. Plaintiffs - Co-partners doing business under a real estate 
brokerage firm name. 
• 
Defendant - Bank as co-executor of each of two estates. 
Amount prayed for - $5,650. 
i 
%.."-{' 
„ 
_ 
v . 
Cause of Action - Loss of broker's commission resulting from 
alleged breach of contract and negligence by bank in not 
having the probate court confirm sale of real property held 

. 
-6- 
2 8 
by the estates. Bank accepted an offer to purchase such 
real estate; the offer was subject to a real estate commis-
sion payable to plaintiffs, and to confirmation by the court. 
Subsequently, the buyers desired to rescind the contract 
and negotiations were entered into with the buyers and the 
plaintiff realtor to work out any differences. As a result 
of the delay the statutory period for filing the Petition 
for Confirmation expired and the sale was not confirmed by 
the court. The real property was subsequently sold to a 
third party with plaintiffs not acting as brokers for the 
sale. 
Bank's Defense - Probate Code Section under which a contract for 
the commission on sale of real property in a decedent's 
estate is subject to court confirmation of the sale; no 
personal liability exists on the part of the executor for 
payment of such commission without court confirmation of 
sale. Also, plaintiff contributed toward delay in confirmation. 
Present Status - Defendant's demurrer sustained. Plaintiffs will 
appeal. 
Plaintiffs - Various. 
Defendants - Bank et al, as co-trustees. 
Amount prayed for - Difference between $300,000 and $171,500 or such 
other sum as the Court may determine, plus costs. 
Cause of Action - Alleged conspiracy, fraud and breach of fiduciary 
relationship in selling real property. Involves sale of 
real estate held in trust. Trustees were required by trust 

instrument to sell said real estate upon the death of 
trustor's husband. Husband survived trustor, then died in 
1964. Trustees sold the real estate for $171,500 in 
\ 
November 1964. It is alleged by plaintiffs that a larger 
offer of $265,000 had been made by another interested buyer. 
Real estate alleged by plaintiffs to have a value of $300,000 
and further allege that additional consideration for the 
sale, not disclosed, passed from purchaser to individual 
trustee. Plaintiffs ask the Court to determine that trustees 
i 
conveyed the property not in accordance with their fiduciary 
relationship, but fraudulently, that the trustees be charged 
with the market value of $300,000 or such other sum as the 
Court may determine to be the market value, plus costs and 
expenses. Ask leave to amend the complaint and insert 
exemplary damages upon completion of discovery of the sums 
by which plaintiffs have been damaged. Bank does not intend 
to compromise. 
Bank's Defense - Denies all cause of action. 
Present status - Referred to counsel. 
Plaintiffs - Various. 
Defendant - Issuing Corporation (Bank is trustee of bond issue). 
Amount prayed for - $50,000 plus interest, costs, etc. 
Cause of Action - Contribution to the Sinking Fund was made in 
form of certificate of cremation of Debentures acquired by 
the issuer in exchange for preferred stock. Plaintiff claims 
this is a default under the Indenture. 

-8-
2854 
Bank's Defense - Payment in form made is authorized by the 
Indenture; demand by holders of 25% of outstanding Debentures 
was not made on the bank to take any action as required by 
the Indenture; and that no default has occurred. 
Present Status - Answer and Cross-Claim filed. 
Conclusions - The bank has acted in accordance with the Indenture 
and in good faith. Under the Indenture the Corporation 
agrees to indemnify the bank and a Cross Claim seeking such 
indemnity has been filed. Representation in the Supreme 
• . V 
Court is by named counsel. The issuing Corporation is 
represented by special counsel. It is believed that the 
Plaintiffs should fail in this suit. Should they prevail 
the obligation to pay will be on the issuing Corporation. 
Should any judgment be rendered against the bank it should 
be fully protected by the Indemnity of the issuing Corporation, 
d. Plaintiff - As named. 
- 
' 
• 
. 
• 
Defendant - Bank as co-trustee under will and formerly as 
J 
co-executor under will. 
Amount prayed for - $663,211. plus interest. 
Cause of Action - Two named individuals (including the defendent) 
controlled Corporation A when it did certain contract work 
for plaintiff. A redetermination of such contract results 
in the claim. The individuals later disposed of their 
holdings and through mergers and later sales Corporation B 
has bee ome the present successor to A. Plaintiff contends 

that this claim involves guarantees made by the individuals 
and should have been satisfied before the estate was 
a 
• .. 
distributed. 
Bank's Defense - Distribution of the estate has been ordered. 
No claim of plaintiff had been then made or filed and we had 
• • * • t \ i 
no knowledge of this potential claim. The time for filing 
claims has expired and the basic statute of limitations has 
long since run upon this action. 
Present Status - Bank has been dismissed both individually and 
in its representative capacity as Co-Executor and Co-Trustee, 
The dismissal was based upon matters reported at "Bank's 
Defense" above. 
•Vva i, 
* IS**, 
Conclusions - It is believed that neither the Trust nor the Bank 
individually should suffer loss by reversal of the Order 
dismissing them. 
*
v
'„y»W« .»I 
• 
Of 
4. Do you consider the present laws relating to fiduciary activities 
*8te
 C l m e r c
ial banks effective in protecting the beneficiaries of trusts admin-
the k
 
b
y such banks from actions or activities not in the best interests of 
inte
 ene
f*-ciaries? 
if the present laws are not effective in protecting the 
t0 ;*
c s t
6 of trust beneficiaries, what do you suggest or propose should be done 
°
rr
ect or improve the situation? 
* 
- 
. 
. 
-Si 
The present laws relating to fiduciary activities of State member 
bai
*s a r 
, • 
mainly laws of the various States in which such banks are located. 
V 
A
«ws are believed to be generally adequate to protect the beneficiaries 
®f t r u s t s
 administered by such banks. 

The Committee may wish to give consideration to possible Federal 
le
gislation which would extend (not retroactively) to State member banks the 
Present Federal law (section 61 of Title 12 of the United States Code) 
r
estricting national banks from voting trust holdings of own bank stock in the 
Section of directors. 
5. If an examiner discerns instances of transactions for the benefit 
o f
 the bank or its officers and employees that are not unlawful but which may 
result in unfavorable consequences to a trust or its beneficiaries, what 
he do? Please provide a wide variety of specific examples of such trans-
itions with a reasonably accurate--and realistic—description of the examiner s 
a c
ti 0 n in each example. Also describe the action taken by the examiner s 
S u
Periors. 
Federal Reserve examiners give particular attention to any trust 
Apartments transactions and holdings which may involve conflicts of interest and 
folate the fiduciary's basic duty of undivided loyalty. The reports of examina-
t i o n
 strongly criticize and urge corrective action for any such transactions 
avil
*g any adverse effect on the interests of trust beneficiaries. Such matters 
a t e
 emphasized in the transmittal letter, and the member bank is asked to advise 
th 
e
 Reserve Bank of corrective action taken or planned. Usually such actions 
s
u f f i c i e n t to obtain correction; if not, correction is achieved through 
U r t
her correspondence and conferences with bank management. If a serious 
S i
tuati o n persisted, the Board might find it necessary to issue a Cease 
a— * 
D e
sist Order to the member bank. 
The deposit of uninvested trust funds in demand deposits with the 
fid 
U c
iary bank is one example of a potential conflict of interest. Examiners 
h a V e
 had occasion to criticize banks for holding such deposits an unreasonable 
l e n
8th of time pending permanent investment or distribution. Such criticism was 
b
*
Se
<* on the fiduciary's basic duty to preserve the trust property and make it 

"U~ 
2857 
Productive. As a result, the banks generally have strengthened their pro-
cedures to assure that such deposits were either appropriately invested or 
distributed. 
In a few other instances, examiners have noted that trust funds have 
b
ee n invested in real estate mortgage loans originally made by the bank's 
commercial department. Although generally the loans were well-secured and had 
fa
vorable terms, the examiners did criticize the patently self-dealing aspects 
cfte transacti ons. In most of these cases, however, the banks had made the 
l
°ans in the commercial department expressly for placement in certain trust 
Accounts when funds became available for permanent investment. At the 
Su
8gestion of the examiners, the banks thereafter clearly earmarked loans made 
U n d
er such conditions in order to avoid the criticism of self-dealing. 
b a , , 
What remedial action is taken when developments respecting the 
re .
S o w n 
s t o c k 
h e
l
d 
i n
 trust accounts are considered sufficiently serious to 
f
o u i
r e S U
°
h a c t i o n ? 
G i v e 
a
 variety of examples (ten or more) where examiners 
D e s 
.
s u c h
 developments sufficiently serious to initiate remedial action. 
c
ribe, in complete detail, the actions taken. 
Examiners are required to show in each report the extent of trust 
P a
rtment holdings of own bank stock and the bank's policy and practice regarding 
the v voting of such stock. The kinds of situations in which examiners have 
to forestall potentially adverse developments may be illustrated with the 
f o 1
 lowing examples: 
l " V iX V •• * * ' 
a. Bank voted trust holdings of own bank stock without joinder by 
co-fiduciaries. Such holdings represented less than one per cent 
of total stock voted, and did not have any effect on outcome of 
meeting. However, the examiner's criticism resulted in procedural 
change by the bank whereby necessary co-fiduciary joinders were 
obtained for subsequent stockholders' meetings. 
b. In another instance, an examiner reported that a bank had received 

^•-fiti'l 
-12-
2858 
its own stock to be held in a trust. Because of possible 
divided loyalty and potential liability involved, the examiner 
recommended that the bank request specific authority from trust 
account beneficiaries if the stock was to be retained; this action 
was subsequently taken by the bank. 
On recommendation of the examiner, another bank changed its proxy 
mailing procedure for trust holdings of own bank stock. As a 
result, no proxies were thereafter voted by the bank without the 
written approval of the person having the beneficial right to 
vote such stock. 
In general, Federal Reserve examiners criticize the continued retention 
si
-gnificant amounts of received trust holdings of own bank stock unless 
n t
ion is specifically authorized or directed by trust instruments, applicable 
U v b » °r trust beneficiaries. Because of the question of divided loyalty, 
Otters urge bank management to dispose of such holdings, where significant, 
as S q 
0 n
 as practicable if there is no such retention authority or direction. 
10 
/. The examination of trust departments is delegated to examiners 
A 
• 
— 
r e v i
 e d
 in many offices throughout the country. What 
e w
 is made of the activities of these diverse exa 
Reserve Bank examiners are selected or approved by the Board of 
specific supervision and 
examination groups? 
e r
nors on the basis of demonstrated qualifications and recommendation of 
V e
 Banks. A vice president has direct responsibility for field examina-
State member banks and other related work of the Examination Department 
at e a c
h Reserve Bank. The Board of Governors, through its Division of Examina-
t>j 
»
 r
eceives, reviews, and analyzes reports of these examinations, and 
rdi
-nates and evaluates the examination and supervisory functions of the 

-13-
2859 
Examiners receive training by Reserve Banks and also attend the Bank 
Examination School conducted jointly by the Federal Reserve System and the 
federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in Washington, D. C. In addition, 
Elected examiners attend specialized trust schools such as The National Trust 
s
chool conducted by The American Bankers Association. 
Various conferences are held at the Board's office in Washington, D. C, 
a n d
 elsewhere with Reserve Bank examining representatives for exchange of views 
a n d
 information and discussion regarding bank examination matters. 
8. What do your bank examiners do to determine that all the assets 
a
 trust are actually in the bank's possession? 
In the examination of trust departments, examiners review the internal 
^trolfij records, and audit coverage. When these features are satisfactory, 
V e r
ification of securities is usually on a sampling basis; if these features 
t e
 not deemed satisfactory, verification of securities would be on a broader 
a 8 i s
- 
The security verification may be made jointly with the State examiners. 
Most of the inadequacies in internal controls, records, and audit 
a
ge in trust departments are in the smaller or part-time departments. In 
e
®e departments, examiners are expected either to verify all securities or 
m a l c e
 a sample large enough to indicate there is a high probability all assets 
in th e
 trust department are actually in the bank's possession. 
9. What do your bank examiners do to try to establish the market 
e
 °f trust assets? 
Federal Reserve examiners ordinarily do not calculate the market value 
of t r u 
s t
 assets. It is the System's view that these values should be deter-
a t
 least annually by the State member bank for account reviews and for 
°ther D l Purposes. The examiner considers these values and other available 

-14-
2 8 R 0 
^formation in evaluating the bank's procedures for account administration and 
^vestment reviews. The examiner is asked to report significant totals of all 
8 u
ch assets, by type of account and asset, if the information is readily 
Mailable on the bank's records. 
10. What do your bank examiners do to determine that a trust has 
received all the income it should receive? 
Adequate trust department audit coverage and/or directors' examina-
tions by a bank should include test checks to determine that all income is 
r e
ceived. Ordinarily, the examiner would check such income on a sampling basis. 
If 
the bank's audit coverage and internal controls were unsatisfactory, income 
w
°uld be checked on a broader basis. In the sampling process, the examiner 
v
°uld determine that cash and other assets received are allocated properly 
between principal and income. 
jjj., 
11. In years past there have been mysterious disappearances of 
- lions of dollars in securities from the vaults of Federal Reserve banks, 
you found similar mysterious disappearances of trust assets? 
Kave 
The first sentence of this question apparently refers to two 
Stances in 1962 involving the unexplained disappearance of securities while 
in 
n e
 custody of the Federal Reserve Banks of San Francisco and Richmond, 
Pectively. As shown by a review made at the time, those were the only 
e3c
Plained disappearances of securities in the vaults of any Federal Reserve 
that had occurred for at least the 10 preceding years. There have been 
since. Although the securities involved at both San Francisco and Richmond 
r 
8u
ff< 
Q^tli e
d in 1963, they were never presented for redemption and no loss has been 
•
e
*ed by anyone. 
With respect to trust departments of State member banks, two instances 
Of 
E x p l a i n e d disappearance of assets have been noted in examination reports, 
^scribed below: 

2861 
' -.3 -15-
In 1965, there was a disappearance of $425,000 U. S. Treasury 
2-l/27» bonds due 9/15/72, from an agency account. After a 
thorough search by the Auditing Department, the loss of these 
bonds was made known to supervisory authorities, to the FBI. to 
the U. S. Treasury Department, and to surety companies. As of 
this date, the bonds have not been located. 
An agreement with the principal and the surety companies 
was executed whereby the latter agreed to pay the interest when 
due and to deliver the principal amount thereof on ninety days' 
notice or at maturity. This agreement was executed with the 
3 un\il .Reserve yi?t.:m„ 
expectation that the bonds will be recovered on or before maturity. 
In such a 
case, the surety companies would not have to make good 
this loss and the bank's surety premium would not be increased 
because of this experience. 
As a result of this disappearance, additional safeguards and 
controls have been put into effect. All deposits to vault from 
the security cage are now evidenced by a receipt which must be 
signed by vault custodians and returned to the security cage 
within an hour. In this manner any discrepancy between the 
security cage and the vault will be promptly noted. 
In connection with the administration of three corporate trust 
division accounts in which the bank acts as coupon paying agent, 
bond coupons paid upon presentation were subsequently lost or 
destroyed in 1964. In charging* thase coupon accounts of 

2882 
- 1 6 -
municipalities involved, the bank agreed to hold harmless said 
municipalities, if such coupons were again presented for payment. 
The aggregate amount of such coupons is $721. Management indicates 
that it is unlikely such coupons would again be presented for 
payment. 
Board of Governors, 
Federal Reserve System, 
July 21, 1967. 
