Minutes for February 26, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Off ice of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel . 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

I tj / 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, February 26, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Eckert, Keir, Baker, 
Ettin, Fry, and Kelty of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Hersey, Katz, Bryant, 
Gekker, Roxon, Ruckdeschel, and Stem of the 
Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Keir commented on the Government 
securities market, Mr. Fry discussed bank credit developments, and Mr. 
Stem reviewed developments in the foreign exchange and gold markets. 
Copies of the several tables and charts distributed in connection with 
today's review have been placed in the Board's files. 

764 
2/26/68 
-2-
All members of the research divisions except Messrs. Brill, 
Partee, and Reynolds then withdrew from the meeting and the following 
entered the room: 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Wood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Langham, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Mr. Sanders of the Legal Division 
Mrs. Sette of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Veenstra of the Division of Data Processing 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Fed-
eral Reserve Banks of Cleveland and Kansas City on February 21, the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Dallas on 
February 22, and the Federal Reserve Banks of Chicago and St. Louis on 
February 23, 1968, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Extension of direct purchase authority (Item No. 1). There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated February 21, 1968, from the 
Legal Division regarding a request from Chairman Sparkman of the 
Senate Committee on Banking and Currency for the Board's views on 
S* 2923, a bill to extend for two years the authority of Federal 
Reserve Banks to purchase United States obligations directly from the 
Treasury. The current authority would expire on June 30, 1968. (Sub-
sequent to the preparation of the memorandum, Chairman Patman of the 

764 
2/26/68 
-3-
House Committee on Banking and Currency requested the Board's views 
on a similar bill in the House, H.R. 15344.) 
The memorandum reviewed the history of the authority, which 
was first provided in 1942 and had subsequently been extended a number 
of times. Also set forth were reasons the Treasury had cited over the 
years for the usefulness of the authority. Attached was a draft of 
reply to Chairman Sparkman that would state that the Board favored 
enactment of S. 2923. The memorandum mentioned certain differences 
between the language of this draft and the reports made by the Board 
on bills providing earlier extensions of the authority. 
During discussion there was agreement with changes suggested 
by Governor Brimmer in the draft letter, one of which was to restore 
certain phrases that had been used in reports on similar bills in 
past years. 
The letter was then approved unanimously in the form attached 
as Item No. 1. A similar letter was sent to Chairman Patman. 
Messrs. Cardon and Sanders then withdrew from the meeting. 
Processing of condition and earnings reports. There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated February 16, 1968, from Mr. Langham 
submitting a draft of letter that would (1) inform the Presidents of 
the Federal Reserve Banks that a proposal was under consideration to 
transfer responsibility for computer processing of member bank reports 
condition and earnings to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 

2/26/68 
-4-
and (2) request their views to assist the Board's staff in formulating 
a recommendation to the Board. The draft letter indicated that the 
principal reasons for the proposed transfer of responsibility were 
(1) the resulting major reduction of duplication of effort among the 
supervisory agencies, (2) more efficient management of, and resulting 
economies in, System data processing resources, and (3) ability to 
redirect to other areas the data processing resources currently com-
mitted to call report and earnings report processing. The draft 
letter also set forth the procedures that would be affected by the 
proposed change. 
After summary comments by Mr. Langham, Governor Mitchell 
expressed the view that although in the long run the bank supervisory 
agencies probably would all be better served if the reports in ques-
tion were processed by the FDIC, there were a number of questions to 
be resolved first. One was the need to decide what the Board wanted 
out of the call report; if the call was to provide purely benchmark 
data that was one thing, but if current data were to be obtained that 
was another. It was his impression that during recent years the Board 
had processed call reports more quickly than the FDIC. He believed 
the Corporation's timing would improve; however, he also believed that 
the data were sufficiently important to the Board that before respon-
sibility for them was transferred the Board should have before it a 
specific proposal by the FDIC defining what data would be available 

764 
2/26/68 
-5-
and on what time schedule, and to what extent the Board would have 
access to the reports for special purposes. 
Governor Mitchell also said he doubted that the Reserve Banks 
would be enthusiastic about the proposed change in relationships. 
Editing, which was a technical job, would present a problem. While 
the Division of Data Processing had worked out machine editing tech-
niques that were helpful, it was sometimes necessary to go back to 
the source of the data to clear up difficulties, and the Reserve Banks 
were in the best position to do that. The editing problem, of course, 
was fundamental to the question of statistical accuracy. He believed 
the Reserve Banks also would dislike the prospect, which seemed to be 
involved in the proposal, of discontinuing the operating ratios now 
furnished to member banks. 
Governor Mitchell reiterated that a concrete proposal should 
be obtained from the FDIC, spelling out precisely what would be done 
by the Federal Reserve and what by the Corporation. The outline now 
available was not sufficient to use as a basis for soliciting Reserve 
Bank views. 
Governor Daane expressed agreement with Governor Mitchell. 
The operating ratios, he noted, were useful not only to the Reserve 
Banks but also to member banks. If such ratios would be unavailable, 
0 r would not be available as quickly as they were now, the Reserve 
Banks should be asked to comment on that point in particular. 

f^OtC 
2/26/68 
-6-
Governor Sherrill commented that, since the Reserve Banks 
would handle the State member bank reports initially, he saw no reason 
why they could not calculate operating ratios from them. Neither did 
he believe that editing would present a major problem, because the 
Reserve Banks would control the original data. The System could fol-
low an editing process of its own, manual or otherwise, or it could 
request any desired editing by the FDIC. The proposal would consider-
ably reduce the load on the Board's data processing facilities, and 
it did not seem to make sense to continue the duplication involved in 
the present divided processing of condition and earnings reports. His 
understanding was that the FDIC was willing to provide data in virtu-
ally any form the Board might request, and it appeared that the Corpo-
ration's facilities were now programmed to process the reports promptly. 
Therefore, he believed the Board would be warranted in exploring the 
Proposal. Although he had no strong feeling on whether the Board 
should obtain the Presidents' views first or obtain a concrete pro-
posal from the FDIC first, the latter procedure might be preferable. 
t 
Governor Brimmer expressed dislike of the proposal, which he 
regarded as an example of focusing on data processing problems almost 
t o the exclusion of monetary policy considerations. He envisaged 
Serious disadvantages in turning over to the FDIC, primarily because 
It had the data processing capacity, a function the Board had per-
formed and the results of which he, among others, found useful. More-
°VGr> if the proposal were sent to the Reserve Banks in the suggested 

/ b o 
2/26/68 
-7-
form, it would carry at least an implication of Board endorsement. He 
did not regard the proposal as one that should be related narrowly to 
the problem of data processing; among other things, the relationships 
between the Reserve Banks and their member banks should be considered. 
He then asked for the views of the Research Division. 
Mr. Partee agreed that the call report data should meet high 
standards of accuracy, for the information was widely used. However, 
it should be noted that the Comptroller of the Currency had entered 
into an agreement whereby the FDIC would process national bank call 
reports. The Comptroller presumably would still permit copies of the 
national bank reports to go to the Reserve Banks, although that was a 
matter within his discretion. If so, it would be possible for the 
Reserve Banks to process data on national banks from those copies, 
but that would mean a duplication of processing. Moreover, there 
wight be some difficulty in regard to official corrections; if the 
Comptroller dealt only with the FDIC, corrections by the Reserve Banks 
would result in different sets of figures. Perhaps there could be an 
agreement whereby the Reserve Banks would edit the national bank 
reports, but in order to work out that kind of agreement it would 
Probably be necessary to show an attitude of cooperation by recogniz-
ing 
that it would be efficient for State member bank call reports to 
b e processed by the FDIC. 

764 
2/26/68 
-8-
Mr. Byrne commented that there was a timing problem involved. 
Unless a decision was made soon, neither the Board nor the FDIC would 
be in a position to process the mid-year call. 
After further discussion there was unanimous agreement with a 
suggestion by Chairman Martin that Governor Mitchell act as chairman 
of a committee, on which Governors Brimmer and Sherrill also would 
serve, to work on the formulation of a detailed and specific draft of 
agreement that might be entered into with the FDIC. It was understood 
that in discussing such an agreement it would be emphasized that the 
Board was not yet committed to any particular arrangements. 
Messrs. Byrne, Leavitt, Langham, and Veenstra then withdrew 
from the meeting. 
Annual Report. Mr. Molony inquired whether the Board wished 
to have any further discussion of Part I of its Annual Report for 1967. 
He noted that the draft discussed at the meeting on February 13 had 
subsequently been revised and distributed in galley proof. 
Governor Daane suggested certain changes in passages relating 
t o international developments, and there was agreement with his sug-
gestions. 
Part I was then approved unanimously for inclusion in the 1967 
Annual Report. 
Messrs. Partee and Wood and Mrs. Sette then withdrew from the 
feting. 

2/26/68 
-9-
Views of Reserve Bank directors on monetary policy. At the 
meeting on February 15, 1968, the Board discussed a draft of letter 
that would invite comments by the directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks on proposed discount rates. The staff was requested to submit 
a revised draft based on views expressed by members of the Board, and 
such a draft had now been distributed with a memorandum dated Febru-
ary 23 from the Office of the Secretary. 
Mr. Holland commented that the revised draft was intended to 
reflect three principal themes of the earlier discussion--namely, that 
the sending of the letter grew out of discussion at the December 1967 
meeting of the Conference of Chairmen rather than out of the circum-
stances relating to any particular discount rate action; that the 
views of directors regarding all aspects of monetary policy would be 
welcomed; and that, while interested in the views of the directors, 
the Board held final statutory authority with respect to the use of 
a H instruments of monetary policy (except open market operations). 
Chairman Martin said he had been considering the possibility, 
mentioned by Governor Maisel during the earlier discussion, that the 
letter could have a divisive effect on the System. There was admit-
tedly a risk in that regard, but on balance he thought it might be 
desirable to make clear that directors should not take offense if the 
B°ard did not always see fit to follow their views. 
14 

2/26/68 
-10-
Governor Brimmer raised the question whether the invitation 
contained in the letter was so broad that it might seem to undercut 
the role of the Federal Advisory Council, which was supposed to pro-
vide a sounding of banking industry opinion on a range of policy 
questions. He also wondered whether the sending of the proposed let-
ter might hamper Reserve Bank Presidents who, as members of the Federal 
Open Market Committee, should not feel bound by the views of their 
directors on matters for which the latter had no statutory responsi-
bility. 
Chairman Martin said it was his impression, on the FAC ques-
tion, that the Board-appointed directors of a Reserve Bank often felt 
they had a somewhat different point of view from that of the bankers, 
so they would like to make their own thinking known. The effort in 
the letter should be, without offending either group, to establish 
another means of registering representations with the Board, while at 
the same time minimizing divisive effects. 
Governors Mitchell and Daane expressed the view that undue 
emphasis in the letter on inviting directors' views on the general 
posture of monetary policy might create problems for the Board, and 
they offered suggestions for an alternative structuring of the letter. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
further revisions would be made in the draft letter to take into 
account the points that had been raised, and that the revised draft 
w°uld be considered by the Board. 

7 f i 7 
• 
» 
2/26/68 
-11-
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On February 23, 1968, 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf of 
the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Appointment 
Virginia Herbert as Secretary, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,937, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases, effective February 25, 1968 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Office of the Secretary 
Dolores Ann Winkler, Secretary 
$ 6,547 
$ 6,752 
Research and Statistics 
Adeline E. Belloni, Statistical Assistant 
5,161 
5,565 
(change in title from Statistical Clerk) 
Caroline H. Cagle, Economist 
14,135 
15,307 
Edward R. Fry, Economist 
14,857 
15,841 
Phyllis H. Lockhart, Statistical Assistant 
6,495 
6,681 
Bank Operations 
Edwin G. White, Senior Operations Analyst 
13,507 
13,957 
Examinations 
Jane C. Charuhas, Training Technician 
7,634 
7,859 
Sandra L. Connor, Secretary 
6,137 
6,342 
Personnel Administration 
R uby S. Dove, Secretary 
7,162 
7,367 

» o 
2/26/68 
-12-
Salary increases, effective February 25, 1968 (continued) 
Name and title 
Division 
Office of the Controller 
JCi'M- ' . . . . • • . • • • 
Susie T. Oros, Senior Accountant 
By • a • • 
Data Processing 
. U t? i u , 
Joyce T. Plummer, Statistical Assistant 
(change in title from Statistical Clerk) 
Lee R. Thompson, Senior Computer Operator 
Transfer 
i'i biii,,' 
Carolyn Nesbit, from the position of Stenographer in the Division 
of Examinations to the position of Secretary in the Division of Research 
and Statistics, with an increase in basic annual salary from $5,161 to 
$5,565, effective February 25, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Glenn L. Hogle, Personnel Specialist, Division of Personnel Admin-
istration, effective the close of business February 23, 1968. 
Acting in the absence of Governor Robertson, 
Governor Sherrill today approved on behalf 
of the Board the establishment of an addi-
tional secretarial position in the Division 
of Research and Statistics, as recommended 
in a memorandum from that Division dated 
February 23, 1968. 
On February 26, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
Basic annual salary 
From 
To 
$10,475 
$10,744 
5,493 
5,937 
5,565 
5,751 

2/26/68 
-13-
By the Acting General Counsel of the Board 
York approving the Bank's acting as fiscal 
agent with respect to a proposed issue of 
bonds by the International Bank for Recon-
struction and Development. 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
City approving the appointment of Richard W. 
Leavitt, Jr., as assistant examiner. 
W V 
Letter to Security-Peoples Trust Company, 
Erie, Pennsylvania, approving (1) investments 
in bank premises and (2) the establishment of 
a branch in Millcreek Township, Erie County. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
•aicMr: .. 

770 
BOARD • F DOVER N D R5 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E 5Y5TEM 
I t e m 
N o - 
1 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 2 0 5 5 1 
2 / 2 6 / 6 8 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 1, 1968 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510. 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
Do 
J , 
• 
This is in response to your request of February 6, 1968, 
for the Board's views on S. 2923, a bill "To amend section 14(b) of 
the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, to extend for two years the 
authority of Federal Reserve banks to purchase United States obliga-
tions directly from the Treasury." The current authority expires 
June 30, 1968. 
Normally, Federal Reserve purchases of Government securi-
ties are made in the open market. Since its original enactment in 
^942, the $5 billion direct-purchase authority of section 14(b) has 
een used sparingly, from the standpoints of frequency, amount, and 
^ration alike. 
Nevertheless, the Board believes that such authority 
furnishe 
s a desirable degree of protection to the Treasury against 
inevitable uncertainties in estimates of receipts and expenditures 
and in borrowing operations. Its continuing availability permits 
m°re economical cash and debt management and assures the availability 
an immediate source of funds in the event of a national emergency, 
tso, timely use of the authority--for example, during periods 
"Mediately preceding tax payment dates--can avoid the creation of 
Unnecessary financial strains that might occur if the Treasury 
were required to draw heavily on its accounts at such times. 
Accordingly, the Board favors enactment of S. 2923. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
Item No. 2 
2/26/68 
m 
771 
February 27, 1968 
Mr. F. T. Davis, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Davis 
This refers to your letter of February 22, 1968, and 
enclosures, concerning the proposed issue by the International Bank 
for Reconstruction and Development of its Two Year Bonds of 1968, due 
March 15,' 1970, in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $125 
million. In this regard, you state that it is proposed to amend 
Schedule A of the Fiscal Agency Agreement, dated as of February 6, 
1950, between the International Bank and your Bank to include the 
bonds in question. 
Acting on behalf of the Board pursuant to delegated 
authority, the Acting General Counsel of the Board has approved of 
your Bank acting as fiscal agent with respect to the proposed bond 
issue and the execution and delivery by your Bank of an agreement 
with the International Bank substantially in the form of the draft 
of Supplement No. 34 to the Fiscal Agency Agreement enclosed with 
your letter. 
Very truly yours 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Assistant Secretary 

A. 
A,'. X-
2*. 
£ 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 3 
2/26/68 
A D D R E S S OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
BOARD 
February 27, 1968 
Mr. Maurice J. Swords, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64198 
Dear Mr. Swords: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of February 23, 1968, the Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointment of Richard W. Leavitt, Jr., as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. 
Please advise the salary rate and the effective date 
of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
v: 
ity, 
£>yr yeitr 
• 1 
f--"?r.i 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

773 
gov;-. 
W r e ^ : -
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
2/26/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 29, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Security-Peoples Trust Company, 
Erie, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the 
Board of Governors under delegated authority,approves an investment in 
bank premises by Security-Peoples Trust Company, Erie, Pennsylvania, of 
$249,053 to complete remodeling of your computer center and for the 
acquisition of three properties as described in Chairman Nichols' letter 
January 31, 1968, to the Reserve Bank. 
The Director also approves under delegated authority the estab-
lishment of a branch by Security-Peoples Trust Company, Erie, Pennsylvania, 
a t the northwest corner of the intersection of West 26th Street and Crescent 
Drive, Millcreek Township, Erie County, Pennsylvania and incident thereto an 
investment of $10,000 in bank premises, provided the branch is established 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
In considering the branch application, it has been determined that 
t h e proposed branch will serve the convenience and needs of the community, 
ar*d that establishment of the branch will not tend to create an undesirable 
competitive situation. It is noted that your bank's capital position is 
below a desirable level, and you are therefore urged to consider all means 
to strengthen the capital structure. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
