Minutes for 
October 13, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

3944 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, October 13, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Ass istant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Messrs. O'Connell and Shay, Assistant General 
Counsel 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Irvine, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Heller, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on October 9, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleve-
land on October 11, and the Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond, Atlanta, 
St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas on October 12, 1967, of the rates on 
discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved unani-
mously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to 
those Banks. 

3 9 1 5 
10/13/67 
-2-
Permission to carry reduced reserves (Item No. 1) . Unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to City National Bank, Charlotte, North 
Carolina, granting its request for permission to carry reserves 
required of banks not in reserve cities. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 1, 
Expenditures for Culpeper project (Item No. 2). There had been 
circulated a memorandum from the Division of Bank Operations dated 
September 26, 1967, regarding a request from the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Richmond for approval of additional expenditures estimated at 
$175,000 for construction of the Communications and Records Center at 
Culpeper, Virginia. The request related to an estimated overrun of 
expenditures above the $5,500,000 originally authorized for the build-
ing program in August 1966; it was not related to the authorization in 
the Board's letter of August 17, 1967 (sent pursuant to action on 
August 9), to spend not to exceed $470,000 for changes incident to plans 
for the computer and communications facilities. 
The original authorization for the project included an allowance 
for contingencies of $322,540. It was now estimated that the total of 
contingencies expenditures might amount to $497,540, the largest single 
item being $250,000 for excess cost of rock excavation over engineering 
estimates. Attached to the memorandum was a letter that would approve 
the additional expenditure. 
The letter was approved unanimously. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 2. 

3946 
10/13/67 
-3-
Open Market Committee policy record entry. There had been 
distributed a memorandum from Mr. Broida dated October 11, 1967, sub-
mitting a revised draft of policy record entry covering the meeting of 
the Federal Open Market Committee on July 18, 1967. The entry had been 
approved by the Board on September 15, 1967, and no further suggestions 
for changes had been received. It was proposed to release the entry to 
the press on Monday, October 16, with subsequent publication in the 
November Federal Reserve Bulletin, and the material was being submitted 
at this time for final review. 
Governor Daane observed that the entry listed those members of 
the Committee who voted for an action and those who voted against it. 
He raised the question whether it might not be desirable also to iden-
tify members who were absent, thus making it clear that they did not 
simply abstain from voting. However, he recognized that, with the 
recent move toward making the policy record entries available to the 
public within 90 days, undue significance might be attributed to a 
technical change in the format of the voting record. 
After a discussion during which comment was made that a change 
such as Governor Daane had suggested would alter a practice of many 
years' standing, it was understood that the question would be considered 
further by the staff. 
The release of the July 18 entry to the press on Monday after-
noon, October 16, was then authorized. 

3947 
10/13/67 
-4-
Gold loan agreement with Bank for International Settlements 
(Item No. 3). There had been distributed a memorandum from Mr. Solomon, 
Adviser to the Board and Director, Division of International Finance, 
dated October 11, 1967, stating that the Board of Directors of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York had authorized, subject to approval 
by the Board of Governors, a further extension of the $25 million gold 
loan arrangement with the Bank for International Settlements. 
The proposed renewal provided that during the one-year period 
beginning on November 1, 1967, the Bank for International Settlements 
would be authorized to borrow against gold collateral amounts up to a 
maximum of $25 million for periods not in excess of seven days. Total 
borrowings during any calendar month could not exceed the equivalent 
of $25 million for a total of seven days. The New York Reserve Bank 
would make a commitment charge of 1/4 of one per cent per annum on that 
part of the maximum loan facility not used in any calendar month. It 
was proposed to repeat requests that had been made when the arrangement 
was renewed late in 1966, namely, that the Bank use its swap facility 
with the Federal Reserve rather than gold loans when feasible, and 
that gold loans not be used over quarter-ends. 
(Drawings under the 
swap arrangement would involve an interest payment at the three-month 
Treasury bill rate and would avoid any impact on the U.S. balance of 
payments.) 
The memorandum stated that the Bank for International Settle-
ments used the gold loan facility to meet short-term needs for dollars 

3948 
10/13/67 
-5-
and typically repaid the loans within one or two days. The availability 
of the loans might enable the Bank to maintain its liquid dollar deposits 
at lower levels than would otherwise be necessary. However, the avail-
ability of the gold loans and the swap facility assisted the Bank in 
making rapid changes in its position in connection with its role in 
central bank cooperation. 
It was brought out in the memorandum that since November 1, 1966, 
the Bank had used the gold loan facility 11 times for a cumulative total 
of one-day outstandings of $120 million. However, the swap facility had 
been used by the Bank 16 times, for a cumulative total of $238 million. 
While utilization of the gold loan facility had been reduced substan-
tially from the level of the previous year, combined use of gold loans 
and swap drawings had expanded. 
Ten of the 11 gold loans were obtained at times when the Trea-
sury bill rate was above the discount rate, and half of the 16 swap 
drawings occurred when the bill rate was less than the discount rate. 
While the pattern of utilization might suggest that cost rather than 
convenience was an important factor in determining which facility was 
used, it appeared that gold loans were used primarily at times when 
utilization of the swap facility was heavy and there was little or no 
niargin for additional drawings. 
The memorandum recalled that in recommending that the Board 
renew the gold loan arrangement last year, Mr. Young (then Senior 

3949 
10/13/67 
-6-
Adviser to the Board and Director of the International Finance Division) 
had suggested that it might be appropriate to alter the policy on inter-
est rates on gold loans so that the rate on such loans would be set at 
the rate on three-month Treasury bills or the discount rate of the New 
York Reserve Bank, whichever was higher. However, time had not per-
mitted full discussion of this proposal before the date for renewal of 
the gold loan arrangement with the Bank for International Settlements. 
It was suggested that the Board might want to reconsider the matter at 
this time. The application of the same rate formula to gold loans as 
that applied to swap drawings would eliminate the slight incentive to 
use gold loans when the discount rate was lower than the Treasury bill 
rate. Also, the Bank for International Settlements might then drop its 
annual request for renewal of the gold loan arrangement, since it did 
involve the payment of a small commitment fee. It was noted that the 
New York Reserve Bank had not been enthusiastic about the proposal to 
change the interest rate policy on gold loans last year. 
The memorandum concluded with the recommendation that the Board 
spprove renewal of the loan agreement with the Bank for International 
Settlements on the terms proposed by the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York, subject to the condition that the Bank be requested to minimize 
its use of this facility and not to use it over quarter-ends. If at a 
later time the Board should decide to change its interest rate policy 
°n gold loans generally, such a change would, of course, apply to the 

10/13/67 
-7-
next renewal of the arrangement with the Bank for International Settle-
ments . 
After discussion, renewal of the agreement on the terms proposed 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York was approved unanimously. A 
copy of the telegram sent to the Reserve Bank pursuant to this action 
is attached as Item No. 3. 
Gold loan policy. Governor Brimmer observed that the staff had 
again suggested that the Board might wish to consider a revision of the 
interest rate policy on gold loans, for possible first application to 
the renewal of the gold loan arrangement with the Bank for International 
Settlements that had just been considered. A year ago the Board had 
deferred consideration of the question pending further study. (On 
October 26, 1966, the Board gave preliminary consideration to proposed 
revisions in the System's policy regarding gold loans that dealt not 
only with interest rates but also with certain other features.) 
Governor Brimmer said he could see some merit in providing for 
similar interest rates on gold loans and on swap drawings. He expressed 
the view, however, that if a change was to be made in the policy it 
should be made at a time when the Board was not confronted with the 
need to make a decision on a specific loan request. 
Governor Daane commented that while he would not object to fur-
ther staff study of the question, the Bank for International Settlements 
had been so cooperative in the efforts to maintain international financial 

8951 
10/13/67 
-8-
stability that he hesitated to raise a question about the interest 
rate on gold loans to the Bank. Moreover, it would be his inclination 
not to worry unduly if the Bank used gold loans instead of swap draw-
ings, although the latter could be encouraged. 
Governor Brimmer remarked that perhaps the Board, then, was 
ready to dispose of the pending question regarding possible revision 
of the gold loan interest rate policy, and Governor Daane responded 
that he would be willing to resolve the question on the basis of making 
no change. 
After further discussion it was agreed to make no change in the 
current policy with respect to the rate of interest on gold loans. 
Messrs. Sammons and Irvine then withdrew and the following 
joined the meeting: 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sigel, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Messrs. Keir, McGouldrick, and Petersen of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Survey of time and savings deposit rates (Item No. 4). There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated October 11, 1967, from the 
Division of Research and Statistics requesting authorization to con-
duct a census of time and savings deposit rates at the end of October 
similar to the three surveys conducted earlier this year. A System 
subcommittee was working on plans for a survey on a sample basis that 

10/13/67 
-9-
was expected to be put into effect for quarterly dates beginning on 
January 31, 1968, and which would be the basis for a new statistical 
series. The sampling alternative had not been found practicable for 
an October survey, and therefore a census-type survey was proposed in 
order to maintain continuity in the series and assure the availability 
of current information on time and savings deposit rates and flows. 
After comments by Mr. Brill, the proposed October survey was 
authorized. A copy of the telegram subsequently sent to all Federal 
Reserve Banks pursuant to this action is attached as Item No. 4. 
Survey of State and local government financing. On July 10, 
1967, the Board approved the first stage of a survey for the purpose 
of documenting the impact of 1966 money market conditions on State and 
local governments. The first stage dealt with the experience of large 
State and local units. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated October 11, 
1967, 
from the Division of Research and Statistics outlining plans for 
the second stage of the survey. Two phases were proposed: in the first, 
approximately 11,000 smaller governmental units would be requested to 
respond to a questionnaire, the purpose of which was to identify those 
units that had experienced borrrowing difficulties in 1966; in the sec-
ond phase, the units reporting borrowing difficulties would be requested 
to respond to a more detailed questionnaire. Other procedures planned 
for the survey were described in the memorandum, and attached were 
drafts of questionnaires and letters to respondents. 

10/13/67 
-10-
After comments by Mr. Keir, members of the Board raised several 
technical questions, to which the staff responded, regarding survey pro-
cedures. It was understood that Governor Maisel would pursue some of 
his questions further with the staff. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board authorized the 
conducting of the second stage of the survey, subject to clearance with 
the Bureau of the Budget. 
Messrs. Sigel, Eckert, Keir, McGouldrick, and Petersen then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Outside counsel fees at Boston Reserve Bank (Item No. 5). There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated October 11, 1967, from Mr. 
Hackley regarding a request from President Ellis of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston for approval of the payment of compensation to special 
counsel, in an amount not in excess of $25,000, for anticipated ser-
vices in connection with the acquisition of a site for a new Reserve 
Bank building. Although the request came within the dollar limit of 
the Board's delegation of approval authority to its General Counsel, 
Mr. Hackley submitted the matter to the Board because it was related 
to the Reserve Bank's long-range building program. The memorandum 
described background considerations, including the fact that the figure 
°f $25,000 was only an estimate and was set in order to fix a limitation 
beyond which no payments would be made without further reference of the 
matter to the Board. In the circumstances, it did not seem unreasonable 

3 9 5 4 
10/13/67 
-11-
to grant Mr. Ellis' request, and a draft of letter to that effect was 
attached. 
After discussion, the letter was approved unanimously. A copy 
is attached as Item No. 5. 
Task force on civil rights (Item No. 6). At the meeting on 
September 28, 1967, Mr. O'Connell reported on the establishment, at 
the direction of the White House, of a task force on civil rights, with 
the Attorney General as chairman. One of the studies of the task force 
was to deal with discrimination in the practices of lending institutions 
and methods of stopping such practices. A subcommittee formed to con-
€ 
i 
duct that study included representatives of the Treasury, the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board 
(among other agencies); the Board of Governors, being requested to 
name a representative, designated Mr. Leavitt. 
In preparation for today's meeting, copies of the following 
documents had been distributed: 
The report (presumably the final draft) of the sub-
committee . 
A draft of letter to the Attorney General. 
The Board's letter of May 23, 1961, to the Commission 
on Civil Rights, taking the position that the Board 
did not believe it had legal authority to require that 
mortgage loans by member banks (national or State) be 
made on a nondiscriminatory basis, and citing practical 
problems that would be encountered in any effort to use 
the examining process as an enforcement instrument. 

10/13/67 
-12-
3955 
The Board's letter of July 16, 1964, to the Bureau of 
the Budget expressing the view that the Board is not a 
"Federal . . . agency which is empowered to extend Fed-
eral financial assistance to any program or activity" 
within the purview of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act, 
and indicating that study would be given to questions 
regarding the relationship between Title VI and the 
activities of the Federal Reserve Banks. 
The Board's letter of June 7, 1965, to the Bureau of 
the Budget expressing the conclusion that the Federal 
Reserve Banks do not "extend Federal financial assis-
tance to any program or activity" within the meaning 
of Title VI. 
Mr. O'Connell stated that Mr. Leavitt had attended a meeting 
of the subcommittee on September 29 and had been asked to report within 
two days the Board's position regarding the question whether there was 
present statutory authority to prohibit discrimination in the lending 
practices of member banks and their borrowers. He had been asked to 
comment on a draft of the subcommittee's report. 
On October 3 a letter had been sent to the subcommittee chair-
man, over the signature of Associate General Counsel Hexter, expressing 
the view that the time allowed was inadequate to respond to the ques-
tions posed, in view of their scope. The letter referred to the posi-
tion taken by the Board in its 1961 letter to the Commission on Civil 
Rights. It was requested that, in view of the time that had elapsed, 
more time be allowed to reconsider the legal question presented, and 
that in the meantime a copy of the letter be included in any interim 
report the subcommittee might submit to the task force. 

8956 
10/13/67 
-13-
Mr. O'Connell said the Board had now received what appeared to 
be a final version of the report of the subcommittee, substantially the 
same as the draft. The two basic parts of the report dealt with admin-
istrative methods of prohibiting discriminatory practices by (1) lending 
institutions and (2) builders or developers. It was proposed that Exec-
utive Order 11063, regarding equal opportunity in housing, be extended 
to provide an implementing force for Federal agencies to prohibit dis-
crimination by financial institutions. The report would take the posi-
tion that it would be feasible for the Secretary of the Treasury to 
require that banks that were Government depositaries agree not to follow 
discriminatory lending practices. An alternative would be to require 
agreement to nondiscriminatory lending as a condition to Federal deposit 
insurance. 
The report would hold that the President had power to direct 
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to require nondiscrimination by the 
. 
: 
.
.
. 
savings and loan associations it supervised, on the ground that Federal 
statutes applicable to such institutions were intended to provide more 
and cheaper housing financing, which purpose would include a requirement 
that loan services be made available to the maximum extent without regard 
to race or color. 
The proposed report would show a list of the members of the sub-
ji 
committee, including Mr. Leavitt, and contained nothing to relieve the 
impression that the views expressed were shared by the agencies repre-
sented. There was no indication, for example, that (as the Board's 

8957 
10/13/67 
-14-
staff understood) the General Counsel of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation had expressed a judgment that the Corporation did not have 
authority to enforce nondiscrimination through administrative action. 
The Board's staff had expressed a strong objection to having the report 
submitted to the Attorney General without making it clear that neither 
the Board nor its representative had participated in the writing of the 
draft nor concurred in its conclusions. 
The present question, Mr. O'Connell said, was what position the 
Board wished to take with respect to the report, which it was expected 
would be transmitted by the Attorney General to the President on Monday, 
October 16. The terms of the report were such that, if the Board wished, 
it could state its understanding that the report dealt with functions 
of the Treasury Department, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Home Loan Bank Board, and therefore it would be inappropriate 
for the Board to comment. However, the staff did not recommend that the 
Board so limit its approach. Instead, the staff recommended that the 
Board express the views contained in the distributed draft letter to 
the Attorney General. 
In essence, the draft would indicate that the Board did not 
believe there was in existence clear statutory authority under which 
the Board or the Federal Reserve Banks could prohibit lending practices 
by State member banks of the discriminatory nature contemplated in the 
task force study, and that even if enabling legislation should be 

' 7 Q C Q 
10/13/67 
-15-
enacted, practical problems of enforcement could impose a new and poten-
tially detrimental dimension to the bank examination scope and function. 
The draft would also refer to the competitive disadvantage that institu-
tions subject to such regulation would suffer compared with other lend-
ing institutions. 
Mr. O'Connell noted that the draft used the term "clear statutory 
authority" because in earlier Board discussions both pro and con views 
had been expressed in regard to the Board's authority, although the 
majority view had been that authority was not to be found in present 
laws. After mentioning certain general statutory provisions that had 
been cited as providing possible authority, Mr. O'Connell stated that 
in the judgment of the Legal Division such provisions did not clearly 
support administrative action of the sort proposed. 
In other comments on the development of the draft letter, Mr. 
O'Connell indicated that, since time had not permitted a comprehensive 
survey of Reserve Bank views, four selected Reserve Banks had been 
requested by telephone to express views on the questions at issue. 
Replies had now been received from the Legal and Examination Depart-
ments of those four Banks. The Legal Departments had arrived at the 
same judgment as embodied in the Board's earlier letters, namely, that 
the Board had no present statutory authority to enforce nondiscrimina-
tion in lending and that Title VI of the Civil Rights Act did not apply 
to the Board or the Reserve Banks. Attention had been given to the 

3959 
10/13/67 
-16-
possibility that the Board's power to impose conditions in granting 
membership in the Federal Reserve System to State banks might be used 
as a vehicle for requiring nondiscrimination. However, it had been 
pointed out that such a requirement was not practicable since at most 
it could be imposed only on incoming banks and not retroactively on 
banks already in the System. The Examination Departments of the four 
Reserve Banks consulted had raised the same sort of questions regarding 
practical difficulties in examining procedures that the Board had men-
tioned in its 1961 letter to the Civil Rights Commission, and had men-
tioned inequitable competitive effects. If a builder or developer, in 
order to obtain a loan from a bank, was required to agree to nondiscrim-
ination, the penalty for noncompliance being that his loan would be due 
immediately or that his credit facility would be cut off by the bank 
(these were possible courses of action suggested by the subcommittee), 
it seemed evident that he would seek credit from an institution that 
need not impose such a requirement. 
Mr. O'Connell noted, in concluding his review, that the draft 
letter would indicate that the Board was in full accord with the aims 
of the task force and was aware of the existing potential for discrim-
inatory practices by both lending institutions and their borrowers. It 
would be urged that the questions the Board had raised be given consid-
eration in formulating the report of the task force to the President. 

3980 
10/13/67 
-17-
Governor Mitchell agreed that the Board did not have clear 
statutory authority, and that the examining function did not offer a 
reasonable enforcement medium. However, he did not believe it advis-
able to imply that there was no way in which the objectives of the task 
force could be accomplished by administrative action. For example, the 
denial of deposit insurance might be feasible. 
Mr. O'Connell observed that it had been thought best not to 
comment on the feasibility of using denial of insurance as an enforce-
ment device, especially in view of the position understood to be taken 
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation that it had no present 
statutory authority. 
Governor Maisel observed that the subcommittee report dealt 
Primarily with the possibility of implementing the objective of non-
discrimination through regulations of the Treasury, the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board (the latter 
through its subsidiary, the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corpora-
tion). It seemed to him that the critical question, as far as the Fed-
eral Reserve was concerned, was whether it would help to enforce regu-
lations issued by the other agencies. He gathered from recent discus-
sions of other questions that if another agency, say the Treasury 
Department, had a valid regulation in effect, the Federal Reserve would 
require the banks it examined to comply with that regulation. Rather 
than dwell on the question of the Board's authority, which as far as he 

3961 
10/13/67 
-18-
could see was not raised in the report, he suggested that the letter 
indicate that the Board did not know whether or not the Treasury and 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation had statutory power to enforce 
nondiscrimination, but that if they were in a position to issue regula-
tions to that end the Federal Reserve would do whatever was possible to 
assist in enforcing those regulations through the examining process. 
It would also seem appropriate to reiterate the problems of using the 
examining process that had been mentioned in the 1961 letter to the 
Commission on Civil Rights, and perhaps to suggest that any enabling 
legislation provide enforcement machinery. He believed it would be 
better not to refer to the possibility that builders or developers 
might escape the force of the regulation by borrowing from institutions 
that need not require nondiscrimination agreements. He regarded that 
argument as erroneous, because the need to have available Federally-
guaranteed mortgage loans substantially restricted the ability of 
builders and developers to shift to institutions that did not use 
guaranteed loans. 
During discussion of Governor Maisel's suggestions, Governor 
Mitchell expressed the view that it might be going too far to state 
that the Federal Reserve would undertake to enforce anti-discrimination 
regulations issued by other agencies. In response to his inquiry, the 
staff indicated that there was little or no occasion under present cir-
cumstances for System examiners to police regulations issued by the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 

O
v
M »<€•* 
10/13/67 
-19-
Governor Brimmer observed that two questions confronted the 
Board. One related to the position the Board should take. Not having 
participated in the discuss 
ions that led to the views expressed by the 
Board in 1961 and 1965, he could form no firm judgment on them pending 
an opportunity for further study. The other question was procedural, 
namely, in what way to place the Board's views before the Attorney 
General. It was his experience with the work of task forces that the 
substance of their findings was more important than the deadline for 
submitting them. He suggested that the Attorney General be informed 
of the Board's belief that, from the standpoint of the task force 
itself, the report would be less effective if it did not reflect the 
considered views of the several agencies concerned. Therefore, he 
believed that an earnest request for more time might be favorably 
received. 
Mr. O'Connell commented on interagency communications that 
seemed to indicate a firm intention on the part of the Attorney General 
to submit the task force report to the President on October 16. He had 
some question about the usefulness of further analysis by the Board's 
staff of the substantive issues, which had been studied at length on 
Previous occasions. Also, he had some hesitation about making a commit-
ment that the Federal Reserve would attempt to enforce other agencies' 
regulations of the type here proposed. He then commented further on the 
firmness with which the FDIC staff was understood to hold the view that 

10/13/67 
-20-
there was no statutory authority for the Corporation to issue nondis-
crimination regulations. 
Governor Brimmer commented that, with due respect to the judg-
ment of agency counsel, the chief interpreter of the law was the Attor-
ney General. He (Governor Brimmer) did not believe the Board should 
inadvertently throw its weight behind the position held by another 
agency's staff, and for that reason he had some misgivings about the 
draft 1 
etter. It would appear better to take a neutral position. 
As the discussion continued, various suggestions were offered 
for changes in the draft letter to accommodate the views that had been 
expressed. Mr. Hackley then proposed that the letter express the Board' 
understanding that the report was directed toward action by agencies 
having jurisdiction with respect to Government deposits and Federal 
insurance, that the Board had no authority in those fields, but that 
the Federal Reserve of course would cooperate to the extent it could in 
detecting apparent violations of anti-discrimination regulations and 
would report them to the agencies originating such regulations. The 
letter, as he envisaged it, might omit reference to the Board's 1964 
and 1965 letters, which could have the merit of not reviving questions 
delating to the applicability of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act, even 
though the Board's Legal Division considered the position taken to be a 
sound one. 

3 9 8 4 
10/13/67 
-21-
Governor Brimmer, however, suggested that the letter include 
reference to the earlier positions taken by the Board, since that infor-
mation might be of use to the task force, and Chairman Martin agreed. 
Further comments disclosed general agreement with the approach 
that had been outlined, and with a suggestion that the reference to 
competitive disadvantages be omitted. 
At the conclusion of the discussion unanimous approval was given 
to a letter to the Attorney General in the form attached as Item No. 6. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: A letter was sent today 
to Bank of America National Trust and Sav-
ings Association, San Francisco, California, 
acknowledging receipt of notice of its intent 
to establish a temporary and limited banking 
facility on board the R.M.S. Queen Mary, a 
ship of British registry, to be operated dur-
ing the final voyage of the ship departing 
from Cherbourg, France, on October 31, 1967, 
and arriving in Long Beach, California, on 
December 9, 1967. 
Acting in the absence of Governor Robertson, 
Governor Sherrill today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Alonzo M. McLeod as Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Lawrence H. Burd as Programmer, Division of Data Processing, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $9,523, effective the date of entrance 
uPon duty. 

10/13/67 
-22-
3985 
Appointments (continued) 
Barbara A. C. Norton as Keypunch Operator, Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,845, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Transfers 
Robert Lacey, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, from the Capital Markets Section to the Flow of Funds and Savings 
Section, with no change in basic annual salary at the rate of $4,776, 
effective November 6, 1967. 
Johnnie D. Jones, Jr., from the position of Laborer to the posi-
tion of Window Washer, Division of Administrative Services, with an 
increase in basic annual salary from $3,853 to $4,326, effective 
October 22, 1967. 
Mary K. Nantell, Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative Ser-
vices, to another budget position in the Cafeteria, with no change in 
basic annual salary at the rate of $4,463, effective October 16, 1967. 
Leave without pay 
Virginia F. Gums, Charwoman, Division of Administrative Services, 
granted additional leave without pay for the month of October 1967. 
Foreign travel 
Authorization for travel to Ottawa, Canada, on October 18, 1967, 
by Robert L. Sammons and Robert M. Dunn of the Division of Interna-
tional Finance to attend a meeting of the U.S.-Canadian Balance of 
Payments Committee, it being understood that transportation by Gov-
ernment plane was to be provided. 
Governor Sherrill today noted on behalf 
of the Board a memorandum advising of 
the death of Andrew Fassino, Foreman of 
Laborers in the Division of Administra-
tive Services, on October 3, 1967. 
On October 13, 1967, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letter, a copy of which is attached under 
the item number indicated: 

10/13/67 
-23-
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
V 4 y ;' ~ '' . -" 
• ' 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
approving the designation of Henry J. Chambliss 
and Kemp McKenzie as special assistant examiners 
Item No, 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
• F T H E 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
Item No. 1 
10/13/67 
v.wr; 
October 13, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
City National Bank, 
Charlotte, North Carolina. 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, the Board of Governors, acting 
under the provisions of Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
grants permission to the City National Bank to maintain the same 
reserves against deposits as are required to be maintained by 
member banks not in reserve cities, effective as of August 23, 
1967, the date it became a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such permission 
is subject to revocation by the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman 
Secretary. 

3968 
susji;,-. 
RES^' 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
10/13/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CQRRESPGNDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 13, 1967 
Mr. Edward A. Wayne, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Wayne: 
' This refers to your letter of September 21, 1967, requesting 
approval of an additional expenditure of $175,000 for construction of 
the Communications and Records Center at Culpeper. 
For the reasons stated in your letter, the Board authorizes 
the additional expenditure of $175,000 for the construction of the 
Culpeper facility over the amounts of $5,500,000 authorized August 31, 
1966, and of $470,000 authorized on August 17, 1967, for changes 
incident to plans for the computer and communications facilities. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
j 

_ _ 
Item No. 
T E L E G R A M 
10/13/67 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
October 13, 1967 
WAAGE - NEW YORK 
Board approves .granting loan or loans on gold up 
to a total of $25 million by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York to Dhe Bank for International Settlements on the 
terms described in your wire of October 5, 1967, subject 
to the condition that the Bank for International Settlements 
be reminded of our desire that they use the foreign currency 
swap facility rather than gold loans to as great an extent 
as possible and that the gold loan not be utilized over 
year-end or any ot^her end-of-quarter. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
SHERMAN 

3970 
Item No. 4 
T E L E G R A M 
1 0 / 1 3 / 6 7 
LIAIKD WIKK HRVICK 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
m -
October 18, 1967. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Pursuant to the Board's letter of December 29, 1966, a regular Survey of 
Time and Savings Deposits at all member banks was initiated as of the last 
business day of the first month of each calendar quarter. At that time it 
was recognized that a continuation of the Survey in its proposed form 
might prove unnecessary and provisions were made to review the question 
of frequency and content after the completion of the first three Surveys in 1967 
This scheduled review has now been considered by the Board. The scheduled 
October 31 Survey should be made, with no changes in the format used by the 
respondents or in processing procedures from the July 31 Survey. Beginning 
in 1968, it is expected that information pertaining to time and savings 
deposit rates will be obtained by a new survey on a sample basis. 
i '') 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Sherman 

3971 
*4l RES**: 
BDARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
10/13/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E : 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 13, 1967. 
Mr. George H. Ellis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts 02106. 
Dear Mr. Ellis: 
This is in response to your letter of October 2, 1967, 
requesting approval of the payment of compensation of not in 
excess of $25,000 to special counsel for legal services antici-
pated in connection with negotiations for the acquisition of 
buildings owned by New England Telephone Company or, in the 
alternative, for the acquisition of a new site, the demolition 
of buildings, and the erection of a new building or an addition 
to the present building. 
It is recognized that, for the reasons indicated in 
your letter, the actual legal fees that may be involved cannot 
be determined at this time. However, the Board has approved 
payment of compensation to special counsel not to exceed $25,000 
for the purposes above described. This action should not be 
regarded, of course, as reflecting Board approval of any specific 
building program by your Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

TSiti^V 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
5 Q S 5 I 
Item No. 6 
10/13/67 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
October 13, 1967. 
The Honorable Ramsey Clark, 
Attorney General, 
Department of Justice, 
Washington, D. C. 20530. 
Dear Mr. Attorney General: 
This refers to the recently organized Task Force on Civil 
Rights for 1968, which Mr. David Rose, Executive Secretary of the 
Task Force, advised the Board's General Counsel by letter of 
September 27, 1967, is under your Chairmanship, and formed for the 
purpose of considering a number of topics for possible administrative 
or legislative recommendations in the area of civil rights. Mr. Rose's 
letter further advised of the formation of a Subcommittee of the Task 
Force to consider, among other topics, "methods which prohibit discrim-
ination in the lending practices of banks and other financial institu-
tions which receive deposits of Federal money and/or which have public 
deposits insured by the Federal Government." 
As you are aware, pursuant to the request in Mr. Rose's 
letter of September 27, the Board designated a member of its staff to 
serve on this Subcommittee, and our representative attended the initial 
meeting of the Subcommittee held on September 29, 1967. Subsequent to 
that meeting, the Board's representative was requested to comment on a 
draft Subcommittee Report proposed to be transmitted to the Task Force. 
By letter of October 3, 1967, the Board's Associate General Counsel 
advised the Chairman of the Task Force Subcommittee that in view of the 
extremely limited time afforded, the Board was not prepared to comment 
on the draft Report, and wished this fact to be made known to the Task 
Force. The Board has received what appears to be a copy of a final 
Report of the Subcommittee which, presumably, has been forwarded to you. 
We wish to make clear the fact that, contrary to the impression that 
might be given by the Report's cover sheet listing the Subcommittee 
members, the Board's representative on the Subcommittee has not submitted 
any comments on the Report, and the Report does not reflect the views of 
this Board on the questions discussed therein. 
The Subcommittee Report is concerned with the authority of 
the Treasury Department to require nondiscriminatory lending practices 
by banks as a condition to their receiving Federal Deposits, and/or the 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL 
RESERVE 
SYSTEM 
The Honorable Ramsey Clark 
-2-
authority of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal 
Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation to require nondiscriminatory 
lending practices by the institutions under their respective supervision 
and jurisdiction as a condition to Federal insurance of the accounts held 
by these institutions. The Board believes inappropriate an expression 
of opinion on its part as to the existence or not of the authority of the 
aforestated agencies in the areas mentioned. However, should it be 
det 
ermined that authority does exist that would enable the Secretary of 
the Treasury or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to promulgate 
valid regulations of the nature discussed in the Subcommittee Report, 
°r should such authority be premised upon the passage of enabling 
legislation, the Board and the Federal Reserve Banks would, within the 
framework of their supervisory responsibilities, cooperate fully with 
the Department of the Treasury and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation in the enforcement of laws and regulations applicable to 
antidiscriminatory lending practices. It should be borne in mind, the 
Board believes, that the extent of the abilities of the Board and the 
Federal Reserve Banks to cooperate in the aforementioned respects would 
undoubtedly be affected by numerous, and substantial, practical consid-
erations relating to the examination and supervision processes. 
Inasmuch as the Board has no statutory responsibility with 
respect to the placement of Federal funds or the insurance of deposits, 
the Subcommittee Report does not encompass consideration of, nor proposal 
f°r, statutory authority that might enable the Board to enforce prohibi-
tion against discriminatory lending practices against State member banks 
°r borrowers from those banks. However, the Board believes that its 
view in this regard should be presented to the Task Force for its 
consideration in formulating its presentation of this entire matter 
to the President. 
By letters dated May 23, 1961, and June 7, 1965, addressed, 
respectively, to the Commission on Civil Rights and the Bureau of the 
Budget, copies of which are enclosed, the Board set forth in detail its 
conclusions on numerous related aspects of its authority, and that of 
the Federal Reserve Banks, to act effectively with respect to discrim-
inatory practices. The May 23, 1961 letter from Chairman Martin stated, 
in substance, that at that date the Board found no legal authority to 
establish a requirement that mortgage loans by member banks be made on 
a nondiscriminatory basis. The Board's June 7, 1965 letter to the 
Bureau of the Budget advised that, following a study of the provisions 
o f Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Board had concluded 
that the Federal Reserve Banks were not subject to its provisions, and 
referred to an earlier communication by the Board advising the Bureau 
o f the Budget of the Board's view that provisions of Title VI of the 
Civil Rights Act of 1964 were not applicable to the Board for the reason 
that 
the Board was "not a Federal agency empowered to extend Federal 
financial assistance to any program or activity within the purview of 
Title VI" of the Act. 

B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL 
RESERVE 
SYSTEM 
The Honorable Ramsey Clark 
-3-
The Board has carefully re-examined its earlier-stated 
position with respect to statutory authority which would enable it, 
or the Reserve Banks, to act administratively with respect to 
prohibiting discriminatory lending practices by State member banks 
or borrowers from such banks. This re-examination has served to 
reaffirm the 
validity of the position earlier stated, and to support 
the conclusion that at the present time there does not exist clear 
statutory authority that would enable the Board or the Federal Reserve 
Banks to prohibit lending practices by State member banks of the 
discriminatory nature contemplated in the Task Force's study. 
The Board wishes to convey its expression of full accord 
with the aims of your Task Force, and its cognizance of the existing 
Potential for discriminatory practices both by lending institutions 
and their borrowers. Because of this, and the Board's opinion as to 
the assistance that its views in this area might provide to your Task 
Force, we believe that any report which your Task Force submits to 
the President would be seriously deficient were it not to reflect these 
views. Accordingly, we urge that in the formulation of the Task Force 
Report, careful consideration be given to the Board's views, along 
with those of the agencies directly affected by the action contemplated 
by the Task Force's Subcommittee Report. 
Sincerely yours, 
I. 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
/« 
. 
J 
f \ 
. - 
X- 
' 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosures 

3975 
\ 
t 
E 
BOARD OF 
GOVERNORS 
Item No. 7 
OF THE 
10/13/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 16, 1967 
Mr. J. L. Hardin, 
Assistant Chief Examiner, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear Mr. Hardin: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in your letter of October 10, 1967, the Director 
of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the 
Board of Governors under delegated authority 
approves the designations of Henry J. Chambliss 
and Kemp McKenzie as special assistant examiners 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
