MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 19, 1969 

' "J 1 
i W t > X X 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, August 19, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Ma isel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard of the Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Lawrence and Wiles of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International 
Finance 
Messrs. Kline and Sanford of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Farmers and Mechanics 
National Bank of Woodbury, Woodbury, New Jersey, into Peoples National 
Bank of New Jersey, Westmont, Haddon Township, New Jersey, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
conclusion reading as follows: 

8/19/69 
-2-
While existing competition between Peoples National Bank 
of New Jersey, Westmont, and The Farmers and Mechanics National 
Bank of Woodbury is limited, consummation of the proposed merger 
would eliminate potential for increased competition between them. 
Several commercial banking alternatives would remain in the area, 
however, and banks located in Philadelphia are also convenient 
for many area residents. The overall effect of the proposal on 
competition would be slightly adverse. 
During the discussion of the foregoing report the staff was 
requested to submit for the Board's information a report on develop-
ments in the State of New Jersey, as reflected by recently-filed 
applications, resulting from the fundamental changes that had been 
made in the State banking laws. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Lambertville National Bank, Lambertville, New Jersey, 
int o First Trenton National Bank, Trenton, New Jersey, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
conclusion reading as follows: 
There is a small amount of competition existing between The 
Lambertville National Bank and First Trenton National Bank. 
Potential for increased competition between proponents is limited. 
The overall competitive effect of the proposed transaction would 
be slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of People's Bank of Virginia Beach, Virginia Beach, Virginia, 
with Ocean Bank, also of Virginia Beach, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion 
stating that consummation of the proposed merger (which was merely a 

ZS13 
8/19/69 
-3-
transaction to facilitate the acquisition of People's Bank of Virginia 
Beach by Peoples Corporation, Virginia Beach, Virginia, a newly-formed 
holding company) would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of First County Bank, Driver, Virginia, with The Bank of 
Nansemond, also of Driver, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion stating that 
consummation of the proposed merger (which was merely a transaction to 
fac ili tate the acquisition of The Bank of Nansemond by First Virginia 
Bankshares Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, a bank holding company) 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of The Citizens and 
Southern Belvedere Bank, Decatur, Georgia, by The Citizens and Southern 
DeKalb Bank, Avondale Estates, Georgia, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion 
reading as follows: 
A close relationship has existed between The Citizens and 
Southern DeKalb Bank, Avondale Estates, and The Citizens and 
Southern Belvede re Bank, Decatur, since the organization of the 
latter. Thus, there is no effective existing competition between 
proponents. However, there is potential for development of 
competition between the two banks in the event the close relation-
ship were to terminate. The overall effect of the proposal on 
competition would be slightly adverse. 
Lincoln First Banks. The Board authorized issuance of an order 
and statement reflecting approval on August 1, 1969, of the application 

8/19/69 
-4-
of Lincoln First Banks Inc., Rochester, New York, to acquire shares of 
the successor by merger to National Bank of Westchester, White Plains, 
New York. Copies of the documents are attached under Item No. 1. 
Policy record entries. With a memorandum of August 18, 1969, 
Mr. Holland had submitted for final review the policy record entry covering 
the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on May 27, 1969. 
The 
entry had been approved by the Board on July 24, 1969, and no further 
suggestions had been received. 
Release of the entry on Monday, August 25, as proposed, was 
authorized. 
With another memorandum of August 18, 1969, Mr. Holland had sub-
mitted a draft of policy record entry covering the meeting of the Federal 
Open Market Committee on June 24, 1969. The entry took into account 
comments that had been received following distribution of a preliminary 
dra ft. 
The entry was approved unanimously, with the understanding that it 
would be distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents for possible further 
comments and that it would be released about September 22, 1969, after 
final review by the Board. 
Interest rate control legislation. The Vice Chairman advised that 
he had been requested by Under Secretary of the Treasury Walker to attend 
an interagency meeting tomorrow on certain questions relating to extension o 
the so-called interest rate control legislation. The first question was 
whether an effort should be made to have the legislation extended for one 

2615 
8/19/69 
-5-
year or for a longer period or to have it made permanent. 
Governor 
Robertson recalled that the Board had heretofore taken the position that 
it would be desirable if the legislation were made permanent and said it 
would be his intention to restate that position. 
While no Board member expressed a view to the contrary, Governor 
Mitchell noted that his position had always been lukewarm. It was his 
suggestion that Governor Robbertson not push too hard at the interagency 
meeting or make an issue of the matter. 
The other question scheduled to come up, Governor Robertson said, 
was whether the legislation should be expanded to cover noninsured 
institutions, this being a problem of concern to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation because of the situation that had developed in the 
State of Massachusetts. Governor Robertson said he would propose to 
indicate that, while the Federal Reserve would not oppose expansion of 
the coverage of the legislation, it was not prepared to assume a role of 
leadership in such an effort. Other Board members expressed agreement 
with the approach proposed by Governor Robertson. 
Question was raised whether it appeared that other currently pro-
posed legislation would be discussed at the interagency meeting, and 
Governor Robertson indicated that that was not his understanding. 
If 
other issues arose, however, he would comeback to the Board before taking 
position on them. 

2616 
8/19/69 
-6-
One member (Governor Maisel) expressed the view that the time was 
drawing near when consideration should be given to an increase, probably 
of an across-the-board nature, in the ceiling interest rates applicable 
to time and savings accounts. It was the consensus that the Board 
should examine the issues involved closely and attempt to establish a 
policy position before discussion was entered into with other agencies, 
through the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation or 
otherwise. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

2617 
Item No. 1 
8/19/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
I a the Matter of the Application of 
' 
LINCOLN FIRST BANKS INC., 
' 
Rochester, New York, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of voting 
' 
shares of the successor by merger to 
' 
National Bank of Westchester, 
' 
White Plains, New York.
 
1 
- 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK BY 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Lincoln First 
Banks Inc., Rochester, New York, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent 
more of the outstanding voting shares of the successor by merger 
National Bank of Westchester, White Plains, New York. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
b i t t e n notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller 
^commended approval of the application. 

2618 
t 
A^ discussed in the accompanying Statement, the New York 
State 
Banking Board approved an application involving the same pro-
posal in accordance with a recommendation of the New York State 
Superintendent of Banks, and advised this Board of its action. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 27, 1969 (34 Federal Register 5776), which 
Provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
vlews with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for 
its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of thi3 date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, 
o t (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 19th day of August 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L . Carmichael 
Elizabeth L . Carmichael, 
(SEAL) 
Assistant Secretary. 

2619 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEH 
APPLICATION BY 
LINCOLN FIRST BANKS INC. FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION 
OF VOTING SHARES OF THE SUCCESSOR BY MERGER 
TO NATIONAL BANK OF UESTCHESTER, 
WHITE PLAINS, NEW YORK 
STATEMENT 
Lincoln First Banks Inc., Rochester, New York ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 
f°r prior approval of the acquisition of GO per cent or more of the 
outstanding voting shares of the successor by merger to National Bank 
o f Westchester, White Plains, Net; York ("NBIJ"). Applicant proposes to 
acqui r e shares of a neu national bank into which NBIJ will be merged. 
Th 
e new national bank has no significance except as a vehicle for 
accomplishing the acquisition of the bank to be merged into it; the 
Proposal is therefore treated herein as one to acquire shares of NBW. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
r cquired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
anc* recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
t h e application. 

2G20 
-n-
Pursuant to the requirements of Article III-A of the Net; York 
Banking Lav;, Applicant submitted an application involving the same 
proposal to the New York State Banking Board. The Banking Board approved 
the application on May 0, 1969, in accordance with the recommendation of 
the New York Superintendent of Banks, a copy of which was transmitted to 
the Board of Governors. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part 
of the United States, llor may the Board approve any other proposed acqui-
sition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be sub-
stantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or 
Uhich in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the transaction are 
clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the 
transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be 
served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant is the 
twelfth largest banking organization and the fifth largest bank holding 
company in the State of Hew York.-^ 
It has four subsidiary banks, which 
y 
Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of December 31, 1963, 
refer to insured commercial banks, and reflect holding company acquisitions 
and mergers approved by supervisory authorities to date. 

hold $1.2 billion in deposits, or 1.4 per cent of the total amount of 
i 
deposits held by all banks in the State. Acquisition of NBU, which 
has $427 million in deposits, would increase Applicant's share of State 
deposits to 1.9 per cent. It uould become the State's eleventh largest 
hanking organization, but its present ranking anong bank holding 
companies in the State would not be affected. 
NBU is the second largest of si:: banks headquartered in 
Westchester County and the seventh largest of 12 banks with offices in 
the county. Of its 33 offices, 32 are located in Uestchester County, 
and over 35 per cent of its deposits originate in that area. Uestchester 
County is located in Hex; York's Third Banking District; it is also a part 
the New York City metropolitan area, and banks headquartered in the 
c*ty, as well as banks headquartered in the Third District, are permitted 
under New York law to branch throughout the county, subject to the "hone 
0i-"fice protection" provision of the law. Five of the largest banks in 
New York City have a total of 45 offices in the county. The only larger 
bank headquartered in the county, The County Trust Company ($061 million 
deposits), recently became a subsidiary of a registered bank holding 
company. 
Applicant's subsidiaries are located in separate Banking 
districts in upstate New York (Districts 6, 7, C, and 9), and no office 
any of them is located within 150 miles of an office of NBU. NBU does 
110t compete in any of the upstate areas served by Applicant's subsidiaries 
a n d banks in Applicant's system derive no significant amount of deposits 

, i 
or loans from Westchester County. Under State law, neither NBW nor any 
of Applicant's subsidiaries may branch into an area served by the other. 
Development of future competition between NBW and Applicant would there-
fore appear to depend either upon NBW's joining another holding company 
which would compete in upstate New York, or upon acquisition by Applicant 
of another bank in the Third District or the New York City area. In view 
of NBW's retail orientation and its lack of a strong base in a central 
city, its formation of a new holding company does not appear likely, and 
its joining with another existing holding company does not appear clearly 
preferable to the present proposal. Similarly, although it is possible 
that Applicant could enter into competition in the Westchester County 
area through acquisition of a smaller bank, that alternative would not 
appear so preferable competitively as to necessitate rejection of the 
present proposal. 
With respect to the effect of the proposal on competing banks 
in Westchester County, it does not appear that the size of Applicant, 
when 
related to other organizations competing in the area, is such as 
to involve any decisive or unfair competitive advantage which would be 
to the detriment of the continued viability and competitive effectiveness 
of NBW's competitors. On the contrary, Applicant would be one of the 
Waller organizations competing in the area, and its entry into the New 
Vork 
metropolitan area can reasonably be anticipated to increase the 
already high level of competition in that area, without significant 
adverse effects on smaller banks and without raising significant barriers 
to entry by others into the area. Consummation of the proposal would 

also have the effect of removing the home office protection currently 
accorded the City of IJhite Plains under the law, permitting branching 
into the city by banks headquartered elsewhere in the Third District or 
in New York City. 
The proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly or be 
in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any relevant area. Approval of the application 
and consummation of the proposal would not substantially lessen compe-
tition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of 
the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant's financial condition, and that of its subsidiary banks, is 
considered satisfactory. The management of Applicant and its banks is 
competent, and their prospects appear favorable. 
The financial condition of NBW is reasonably satisfactory, its 
management is capable, and its prospects appear favorable regardless 
°f whether the present proposal is consummated. 
Considerations relating to these factors are consistent with 
approval of the proposal, although they provide no significant weight in 
support of that action. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Uhile 
consummation of Applicant's proposal would have no immediate effect on 
the services provided by its present subsidiaries, the resulting increase 
in Applicant's size and the increase in the geographical breadth of its 
system would facilitate improvements in the scope and quality of the 

o r o 1 
services which each of the subsidiaries provides. Similarly, although 
the banking needs of customers in the Westchester County and New York 
City areas are well served by the many banks which are located in those 
areas, and although NBW is itself an aggressive, full-service institution, 
consummation of the proposal would make it possible for improvements to 
be made in NBW's service offering. As a subsidiary of Applicant, NBW 
would have increased ability to arrange loan participations to better 
serve those customers whose requirements are beyond its lending capacity. 
Applicant also proposes that the bank will offer a broader range of 
trust and international services. 
Considerations bearing upon the convenience and needs of the 
immunities involved lend some support for approval of the application. 
Sumrnary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth 
in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
action would be in the public interest, and that the application should 
b e approved. 
August 19, 1969. 
