MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 26, 1971 

531 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, February 26, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 1/ 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 2/ 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Ormsby, Special Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Staff presented the usual weekly review of economic and finan-
cial developments. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for 
the purpose of the review have been placed in the Board's files along 
with copies of the individual briefings. 
L' Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
ZJ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

5 3 C 
2/26/71 
-2-
There followed a report by Mr. Cardon on legislative develop-
ments of interest to the Federal Reserve, after which members of the 
staff who had attended for the economic and financial review withdrew 
from the room. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Philadelphia and San Francisco on February 18 and by 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, 
and Dallas on February 25, 1971, of the rates on discounts and advances 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Those who joined the meeting at this point included: Mr. Hackley, 
Assistant to the Board; Messrs. O'Connell and Sanders of the Legal 
Division; Mr. Dahl and Miss Hart of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation; Mr. Ring of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations; 
supporting staff of the respective Divisions; and Mr. Bilby, Consultant. 
Bank of America. The Board approved unanimously applications 
by Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, San Francisco, 
California, to acquire stock of Bank of America, Ltd., to be formed in 
London, England, and Banque Ameribas Societe Anonyme, to be formed in 
Luxembourg, it being understood that the staff had clarified certain 
questions with regard to the applications to Governor Brimmer's satis-
faction and that the staff would review the letters of advice to be sent 

536 
2/26/71 
-3-
to Bank of America to make sure that certain other points mentioned by 
I 
Governor Brimmer were spelled out clearly. 
Copies of the letters sent pursuant to the Board's action are 
attached as Items 1 and 2. 
Regulation A. In a memorandum dated January 15, 1971, Governor 
Mitchell proposed that the Board publish for comment a revised version 
of Regulation A, governing Federal Reserve Bank lending, which would 
implement recommendations growing out of the Fundamental Reappraisal of 
the Discount Mechanism. Submitted with the memorandum were: 
(1) the 
proposed revision of Regulation A; (2) a staff memorandum citing changes 
made since the proposed regulation was previously presented to the 
Board in May 1969; and (3) a draft of press release. The latest com-
ments of the Reserve Bank Presidents on the proposed revision of Regu-
lation A were summarized in a staff memorandum dated January 25. 
t 
In a memorandum dated January 14, Mr. Hackley discussed three 
proposals to liberalize present rules regarding the eligibility of paper 
for discount or as collateral for advances, as follows: 
1. Elimination from Regulation A of the provision making 
ineligible any paper the proceeds of which are used for "perma-
nent or fixed investments"; 
2. Amendment of Regulation A to provide specifically for 
the eligibility of paper the proceeds of which are used for the 
purchase of services; and 
3. Issuance of an interpretation modifying and supplementing 
a 1965 Board ruling regarding the eligibility of finance company 
paper. 

5 3 ^ ; 
2/26/71 
-4-
The first two of these proposals would be implemented by the proposed 
complete revision of Regulation A, while the third proposal would be 
implemented by issuance of an interpretation that would become effective 
immediately. 
With a memorandum from the Office of the Secretary dated Janu-
ary 18, 1971, there had been made available to the Board a memorandum 
that Mr. Cardon had prepared for Chairman Burns under date of August 7, 
1970, concerning likely Congressional reaction to the proposed imple-
mentation of the redesigned discount window. 
Discussion at this meeting of the action recommended in Governor 
Mitchell's memorandum extended to both the objectives of the proposed 
revision of Regulation A and the question of publishing the revision for 
comment at this time. Three members of the Board (Governors Mitchell, 
Maisel, and Sherrill) supported the proposed revision of the regulation 
fully and urged its publication for comment promptly. They felt that 
the objectives of the revision were highly desirable, that the financial 
atmosphere was appropriate for making the revision available for comment, 
and that it would be advisable to adopt a revised regulation without 
undue delay in order that there might be an opportunity for experimenta-
tion with it before the advent of another period of credit stringency. 
Governor Daane indicated that he would not object to publication 
of the proposed revision for comment, although he continued to have some 
reservations about certain aspects of the proposal, particularly the 

538 
2/26/71 
-5-
effect in relation to Trading Desk operations and the reference to 
greater flexibility in the frequency and size of discount rate changes 
that was envisaged in the operation of the redesigned discount window. 
Governor Daane was not entirely certain whether this was the best time 
for release of the proposal for comment, since he believed that expecta-
tions of a further discount rate cut would be stimulated. 
The second of the reservations mentioned by Governor Daane led 
to some discussion as to whether reference to more flexible discount 
rate adjustment might be omitted from the package published at this time. 
However, it was the prevalent view that this feature was integral to the 
recommendations growing out of the discount study. It was noted, also, 
that the practice in recent months of making modest and more frequent 
discount rate changes had been compatible with this phase of the dis-
count study recommendations. 
Governor Brimmer supported the proposal to publish the proposed 
revision for comment, although he felt that the draft press release 
should be improved, in respects that he mentioned, in the interest of 
making various features of the redesigned discount window more clear and 
explaining the underlying rationale more adequately. Governor Brimmer 
observed, however, that there had earlier been some criticisms within 
the Congress and, at his request, Mr. Cardon outlined his views on 
Congressional reactions that might be anticipated. His remarks were 
generally along the lines of the views expressed in his August memorandum 

539 
2/26/71 
-5-
to the Chairman, referred to above. In essence, Mr. Cardon foresaw the 
likelihood that members of the Congress would request that the revision 
of the regulation not be adopted until Congressional hearings could be 
held; and that at such hearings questions would be raised about improving 
the availability of credit to various sectors of the economy such as 
housing, particularly in periods of credit restraint. 
Governor Robertson did not object to the publication of the 
proposed revision for comment on grounds of timing, but he remained of 
the view that adoption of several elements of the redesigned discount 
mechanism might have undesirable consequences. While he agreed with 
the objective of making Federal Reserve membership more appealing, espe-
cially to smaller and intermediate-size banks, he was concerned that 
the availability of the so-called basic borrowing privilege would cause 
banks to rely on the Federal Reserve for liquidity and that they would 
turn to longer-term investments, which might lead to supervisory diffi-
culties in the future, particularly in periods of monetary restraint. 
Further, he believed that a reasonable degree of uniformity in discount 
window administration had been achieved in recent years and that it would 
be better to leave the present administrative mechanism in place than to 
institute changes which appeared to envisage a reduction of Federal 
Reserve surveillance, at least in the early phases of borrowing. Like-
wise, he felt that the seasonal borrowing privilege would lead banks to 
be careless about maintaining adequate liquidity, that little could be 

540 
2/26/71 
-5-
accomplished under the emergency lending provisions that could not be 
accomplished under present arragements, and that the whole program 
might be criticized as offering a bonanza to the banking system, with 
resultant demands to open the discount window to other financial institu-
tions. However, while he had these kinds of adverse reactions, he noted 
that no one could be sure what would happen until some experimentation 
had taken place and that adjustments could always be made as necessary. 
There followed a general discussion in the light of Governor 
Robertson's comments during which members of the Board more favorable 
to the proposals explained why they felt that the proposed mechanism 
provided safeguards that should be adequate to offer reasonable protec-
tion against developments such as Governor Robertson had mentioned. 
Chairman Burns then said that, based on limited study, he felt 
that the discount study recommendations, as reflected in the proposed 
redesign of the discount window, were constructive, far-sighted, and 
dealt with an urgent need. However, he had some concern about the pub-
lication of the proposed revision of Regulation A for comment at this 
particular time, for reasons such as Mr. Cardon had discussed. While 
he would be willing to go along if the majority of the Board favored 
publication now, he was inclined to believe that it might be better if 
such publication could be tied in with some recognition of the Board's 
concern with the problems of the Homebuilding industry. As one possi-
bility, the Board and the Federal Open Market Committee might consider 

541 
2/26/71 
-5-
further the expansion of System Account operations in agency issues. 
An indication of the Board's concern would, he believed, increase 
the likelihood that the proposed discount window mechanism would be 
regarded more sympathetically by the Congress. 
The Chairman then mentioned the possibility of moving today on 
the proposals described in Mr. Hackley's memorandum of January 14, 
particularly the issuance of the proposed interpretation, but it was 
the general sentiment of the Board that that should await action on the 
proposed revision of Regulation A and be a part of the total package. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
further work would be done on the proposed press release, in line with 
the comments by Governor Brimmer and others at this meeting, and that 
there would be additional discussion of the proposed revision of Regu-
lation A at another meeting when all members of the Board again were 
available. 
It was understood, also, that within the structure of the 
Presidents' Conference study of certain related questions such as the 
definition of Federal funds and the guidelines for seasonal borrowing 
was continuing. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff attendance 
Margin regulations. At yesterday's Board meeting the staff had 
presented for consideration a proposal to amend the Board's margin regu-
lations in order to apply specific and comprehensive standards to any 
future extensions of credit that were directly or indirectly for the 

542 
2/26/71 
-5-
purpose of contributing capital to brokerage firms. The discussion of 
the proposal had centered on the possible implications of such amend-
ments for brokerage firm financing. Questions had also been raised 
relating to the Board's legal authority and responsibility in this area 
vis-a-vis the Securities and Exchange Commission, the standing within 
the margin regulations of presently outstanding credit of this type, 
and the timing of any action that the Board might want to take, partic-
ularly as to public announcement. 
With a memorandum of February 25 the staff had submitted a tran-
script of staff views, as expressed at that day's meeting, the memorandum 
that was distributed to the Board under date of February 24 which included 
draft changes in the margin regulations and a proposed letter of refer-
ral to the SEC, and certain suggested modifications of the proposed 
amendments, with an explanation of their effect. 
Governor Sherrill said that his preference would be to do nothing 
at this particular time, in spite of the risk of possible embarrassment 
to the Board. If any action was taken, he would want it to include 
provisions that would assure that existing loans were not called into 
question as violating the margin regulations. 
Governor Sherrill then withdrew from the meeting to keep another 
appointment. 
Chairman Burns commented that the taking of action along the 
lines proposed, even though it might be justified, ran the risk of pro-
voking dire consequences in the securities industry. He would want to 

543 
2/26/71 
-10-
act, therefore, only after seeking the advice of the best experts avail-
able. He suggested that Mr. Partee be asked to explore the matter in 
strict confidence with members of the Securities Investor Protection 
Corporation and that views be sought, also in confidence, from the 
Securities and Exchange Commission. He agreed that the situation did 
not lend itself to consultation by the Board with representatives of the 
securities industry generally, or to the making of inquiries through 
the Federal Reserve Banks, since rumors could quickly begin to circulate. 
After discussion, there was general agreement with the steps 
the Chairman had proposed and Governor Maisel was requested to talk with 
Governor Sherrill about initiating discussion with a member of the SEC. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

BOARD D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
2/26/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 2, 1971 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
Bank of America Center, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 11, 1970, the 
Board of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M, for Bank of America 
National Trust and Savings Association ("B of A"), San Francisco, 
California, to purchase and hold up to 75 per cent of the shares 
of Bank of America, Ltd. ("BAL"), London, England, at a total cost 
of approximately $4,500,000, provided the shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board1s consent to the proposed holding of the shares 
of BAL by B of A is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if BAL shall in any manner engage 
in any activity or take any action whatsoever 
that would not be permissible if BAL were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
B of A will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of BAL as it may require 
from time to time; and 

Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association 
-3-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions, for its 
own account other than as underwriter or dealer, by BAL 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if BAL were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
The Board has considered your requests regarding BAL's 
activities as a broker, dealer, and underwriter of securities. That 
consideration included the restrictions set forth in condition (1) 
above and especially the relationship between the possible acquisitions 
of certain stocks as a result of such activities and the provisions 
in Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act on the purchase and 
holding of stock of a corporation "engaged in the general business 
of buying or selling goods, wares, merchandise or commodities in 
the United States," or "transacting any business in the United 
States except such as in the judgment of the Board. . .may be in-
cidental to its international or foreign business. ..." 
It was 
the judgment of the Board that in a foreign country where such trans-
actions are usual in connection with the business of banking or other 
financial operations, and provided such stocks were acquired for 
underwriting or dealing but not as investments, and were not held 
for an unreasonable time, such acquisitions would not be incon-
sistent with the quoted provisions. 
Accordingly, the Board concluded that it would be permis-
sible for BAL under the aforementioned condition to act as dealer 
and underwriter of stocks (including rights to acquire stocks), in-
cluding shares of issuers engaged in the types of business cited in 
the preceding paragraph, so long as stocks so acquired were disposed 
of within a reasonable length of time and provided that the specific 
consent of the Board be obtained for any acquisitions of stock of 
individual issuers, not covered in the case of underwriting opera-
tions by firm commitments from sub-underwriters or other purchasers, 
in excess of $500,000 or 25 per cent of the voting shares of any 
company. 

Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association 
-3-
As indicated in condition (3) in the fourth paragraph of 
this letter, stocks acquired in connection with underwriting and 
dealing in securities need not be reported in accordance with Sec-
tion 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they are to be reported as 
a separate class (together with date of acquisition) in any Call 
Report of Condition or in any other information requested regarding 
BAL in accordance with condition (2) above. Also, full information 
on BAL's activities as a broker, dealer, or underwriter of securi-
ties is to be made available on request. 
The foregoing applies only to acquisitions of stocks as 
underwriter or dealer. All other acquisitions of stock by BAL for 
portfolio investment purposes or otherwise (including any equity 
position obtained as part of the fees earned for services rendered) 
are subject to the provisions of Section 211.8 of Regulation K under 
the condition (1) herein applied. Investments by BAL in debt obliga-
tions carrying rights to acquire shares are covered by a published 
interpretation of the Board (1969 Federal Reserve Bulletin 548), 
It is understood that the financing provided by BAL will 
be for international and foreign purposes. The Board is currently 
reviewing the status of foreign subsidiaries of member banks and 
Edge Corporations as regards the appropriateness of furnishing fi-
nancing to U.S. residents for use in the United States. 
The Board has noted that as of December 31, 1970, the for-
eign loans and investments of your bank and its subsidiaries exceeded 
the guideline ceiling applicable under the foreign credit restraint 
effort now in effect. The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that those foreign loans and investments will be reduced as 
soon as possible to a level consistent with the guidelines; that the 
investment now being approved will be made within those guidelines; 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B D A R D • F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
2/26/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 2, 1971 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
Bank of America Center, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 11, 1970, the 
Board of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M, for Bank of America 
National Trust and Savings Association ("B of A"), San Francisco, 
California, to purchase and hold up to 60 per cent of the shares 
of Banque Ameribas Societe Anonyme ("Banque"), Luxembourg, at a 
total cost of approximately $3,600,000, provided the shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed holding of the shares 
of Banque by B of A is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if Banque shall in any manner engage 
in any activity or take any action whatsoever 
that would not be permissible if Banque were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
B of A will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of Banque as it may require 
from time to time; and 

548 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions, for its 
own account other than as underwriter or dealer, by 
Banque be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if Banque were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b) , and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
The Board has considered your requests regarding Banque*s 
activities as a broker, dealer, and underwriter of securities. That 
consideration included the restrictions set forth in condition (1) 
above and especially the relationship between the possible acquisitions 
of certain stocks as a result of such activities and the provisions 
in Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act on the purchase and 
holding of stock of a corporation "engaged in the general business 
of buying or selling goods, wares, merchandise or commodities in 
the United States," or "transacting any business in the United 
States except such as in the judgment of the Board. . .may be in-
cidental to its international or foreign business. ..." 
It was 
the judgment of the Board that in a foreign country where such trans-
actions are usual in connection with the business of banking or 
other financial operations, and provided such stocks were acquired 
for underwriting or dealing but not as investments, and were not 
held for an unreasonable time, such acquisitions would not be incon-
sistent with the quoted provisions. 
Accordingly, the Board concluded that it would be permis-
sible for Banque under the aforementioned condition to act as dealer-
and underwriter of stocks (including rights to acquire stocks), in-
cluding shares of issuers engaged in the types of business cited in 
the preceding paragraph, so long as stocks so acquired were disposed 
of within a reasonable length of time and provided that the specific 
consent of the Board be obtained for any acquisitions of stock of 
individual issuers, not covered in the case of underwriting opera-
tions by firm commitments from sub-underwriters or other purchasers, 
in excess of $500,000 or 25 per cent of the voting shares of any . 
company. 

Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association 
-3-
As indicated in condition (3) in the fourth paragraph of 
this letter, stocks acquired in connection with underwriting and 
dealing in securities need not be reported in accordance with Sec-
tion 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they are to be reported as 
a separate class (together with date of acquisition) in any Call 
Report of Condition or in any other information requested regarding 
Banque in accordance with condition (2) above. Also, full informa-
tion on Banque's activities as a broker, dealer, or underwriter of 
securities is to be made available on request. 
The foregoing applies only to acquisitions of stocks as 
underwriter or dealer. All other acquisitions of stock by Banque, 
for portfolio investment purposes or otherwise (including any equity 
position obtained as part of the fees earned for services rendered) 
are subject to the provisions of Section 211.8 of Regulation K under 
the condition (1) herein applied. Investments by Banque in debt 
obligations carrying rights to acquire shares are covered by a pub-
lished interpretation of the Board (1969 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
548). 
It is understood that the financing provided by Banque 
will be for international and foreign purposes. The Board is cur-
rently reviewing the status of foreign subsidiaries of member banks 
and Edge Corporations as regards the appropriateness of furnishing 
financing to U.S. residents for use in the United States. 
It is understood that although, because of French legal 
and tax requirements, the Paris office of Banque may be staffed by 
personnel supplied by a third party under a service contract, active 
management personnel will be supplied by B of A and the other share-
holders of Banque. The Board should be promptly informed of any 
modifications in these arrangements or in the other methods of opera-
tion of Banque. 
The Board has noted that as of December 31, 1970, the for-
eign loans and investments of your bank and its subsidiaries exceeded 
the guideline ceiling applicable under the foreign credit restraint 
effort now in effect. The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that those foreign loans and investments will be reduced as 
soon as possible to a level consistent with the guidelines; that the 
investment now being approved will be made within those guidelines, 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
