V 5. 
• ^67) 
Minutes for 
October 25, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
t o the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
!f you were not present, your initials will indicate 
0 n ly that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

4070 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
Sys tem on Wednesday, October 25, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
i'U 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Messrs. O'Connell and Shay, Assistant General 
Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Miss Hart and Messrs. Noble, Plotkin, Shuter, 
and Via of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Shull, Cleaver, Golden, Greenspun, King, 
Lougee, and Wiles of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Misses Greene and McShane, and Messrs. Achor, 
Burton, Donovan, Guth, Harris, Kline, Lyon, 
Maguire, and Rumbarger of the Division of 
Examinations 

10/25/67 
- 2 -
4 094 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
°f Chester-Schroon-Horicon Bank, Chestertown, New York, into Glens Falls 
Nati onal Bank and Trust Company, Glens Falls, New York, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion read 
as follows: 
Due to the sparse population and distance between 
offices in the relevant area, no significant competition 
has developed between Chester-Schroon-Horicon Bank, 
Chestertown, and Glens Falls National Bank and Trust 
Company, and potential for increased competition between 
them is limited. The overall competitive effect of the 
transaction would not be adverse. 
Applications of Barnett National Securities Corporation 
-Litems 1-3^. There had been distributed drafts of an order and state-
ment reflecting the Board's approval on October 9, 1967, of the appli-
Cations of Barnett National Securities Corporation, Jacksonville, 
Florida, to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
American National Bank and Trust Company in Winter Haven, Winter Haven, 
Florida, and The American National Bank in Cypress Gardens, Cypress 
Gardens, Florida. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are attached 
9 8 Items 1 and 2; a copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached 
a s Item No. 3. 
Application of Colorado CNB Bankshares. There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated October 12, 1967, from the Division of 

4072 
10/25/67 
-3-
Examinations, with other pertinent papers, regarding the application 
°f Colorado CNB Bankshares, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to become a bank 
holding company through acquisition of at least 67 per cent of the 
voting shares of the following banks in Denver: The Colorado National 
Bank of Denver, Northeast Colorado National Bank of Denver, and South 
Colorado National Bank. The Division recommended approval, as did the 
Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. 
Mr. Lyon summarized the facts involved in the application, and 
in response to an inquiry by Governor Brimmer commented on measures 
being considered through which the capital position of Colorado National 
Bank would be strengthened. 
All members of the Board then expressed themselves as willing 
to approve the application. 
Governor Mitchell commented that in his 
view the proposal would not be inimical to the public interest, and 
"-nat it would be in the corporate interest. Governor Brimmer commented 
that steps to improve the capital position of Colorado National Bank 
should be encouraged. Governor Robertson expressed the view that there 
W a s little alternative to approval in light of previous decisions on 
^niilar applications in Colorado. However, the Bank Holding Company 
was designed to moderate expansion of bank holding companies rather 
than to encourage the setting up of a whole new system of banking. He 
Understood that another application from Colorado would be forthcoming, 
appeared to him that the situation would gradually develop to 

4073 
10/25/67 
- 4 -
the point where nearly all of the banks in the State were included in 
holding company groups. 
The application was then approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order and statement reflecting this decision would be 
Prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Application of Central Wisconsin Bankshares. Central Wisconsin 
Bankshares, Inc., Wausau, Wisconsin, had filed an application to become 
a bank holding company through acquisition of up to 100 per cent of the 
v°ting shares of Mosinee Commercial Bank, Mosinee, Wisconsin. The appli-
cant had formerly operated as a bank holding company, but its status as 
such terminated in 1966 when, under amendments to the Bank Holding Com-
Pany Act, one of its two subsidiaries no longer met the definition of a 
bank." xts remaining "bank" subsidiary was First American National 
&ank, Wausau, Wisconsin. 
The Board, as required by the Bank Holding Company Act, requested 
'he views of the Wisconsin Commissioner of Banks regarding the present 
aPPlication. The Commissioner recommended denial, and the statute there-
fore required that a formal hearing be held. Pursuant to the Board's 
°rder dated January 6, 1967, such a hearing was held in February 1967. 
Th 
e hearing examiner (David London) recommended that the application be 
aPProved. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated October 12, 
1967 > from the Division of Examinations recommending approval. Other 

4074 
10/25/67 
- 5 -
Papers distributed included a memorandum, also dated October 12, in 
which the Banking Markets Section recommended denial. 
The Division of Examinations expressed the following views: 
(1) concentration would be increased only in Marathon County and therein 
only by an insignificant amount; (2) existing competition between the 
Present and proposed subsidiary banks was not significant; (3) no mean-
ingful banking alternative would be eliminated since Mosinee Commercial 
Bank presently fell substantially short of providing adequate banking 
services to its local customers; (4) the competitive ability of Mosinee 
Commercial Bank should be considerably improved as a subsidiary of the 
holding company; (5) the competitive position of First American National 
Bank in the Wausau area would not be improved by consummation of the 
Proposal; (6) the improvement in the services of Mosinee Commercial 
Bank, which would enhance its acceptability to the local banking public, 
w°uld be substantially beneficial to the convenience and needs of the 
c°mmunity; and (7) the banking factors were at least consistent with 
aPProval and the anticipated improvement in the Mosinee bank's manage-
ment and prospects was a point in favor of approval. 
The Banking Markets Section advanced the following views: (1) 
k°th banks operated in the Mosinee market area, with a considerable 
^ount of competition existing between them that would be eliminated, 
a ] 
with a banking alternative; (2) the applicant's principal sub-
idiary already held such a dominant position in its market area that 

4075 
10/25/67 
- 6 -
even a small increase in its market share through external growth would 
be inimical to the preservation of meaningful competition; and (3) the 
impact on convenience and needs was a mixture of gains and losses, but 
balance appeared somewhat adverse. 
The memorandum from the Division of Examinations included, at 
the request of the Legal Division, a notation that the record upon which 
the Board must decide this case was the record established during the 
Public hearing. The hearing examiner's recommended decision had been 
based upon that record and the evidence in it. A memorandum from the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago presented facts that for the most part 
Paralleled those in the hearing record, but that memorandum had not been 
introduced in evidence and was not a part of the record. If the Board 
aPProved the application and opposing banks sought judicial review, the 
^egal Division would not include the Reserve Bank's memorandum as part 
o f the record. 
Mr. Lyon summarized the application, after which Mr. Smith 
stated that the Banking Markets Section believed there was an important 
*ssue regarding competition. Consummation of the proposal would elim-
inate one banking alternative in the Mosinee area, and the bank could 
sold to other possible purchasers with less adverse competitive 
6 f f 
e°ts if an internal solution could not be worked out to enliven the 
s overly conservative management. Although the offers that had 
n made were not as attractive to the shareholders as the present 

i2076 
10/25/67 
- 7 -
°ne, they were less objectionable from the competitive standpoint. The 
Section believed that First American National Bank competed signifi-
cantly in the Mosinee area; it seemed difficult to reconcile the state-
ment of the hearing examiner that "American National's business in the 
Mosinee service area is not insignificant" with his subsequent statement 
that "there is no substantial competition between the two banks." It 
aPPeared to the Banking Markets Section that First American National 
Bank could substantially increase its competition in Mosinee; it already 
attracted a significant amount of deposits because it paid 4 per cent 
°n savings accounts compared with 2 per cent paid by the Mosinee bank. 
Although First American drew almost no commercial loans from Mosinee, 
its loan rates were higher than those of the Mosinee bank. The Section 
ws c 
not convinced of the validity of the alleged benefits of the pro-
posal to the convenience and needs of the Mosinee area; the additional 
Services that would be provided were already available to those who 
willing to drive 15 miles over good highways. 
In response to Chairman Martin's request for further comment on 
the seeming inconsistency of the hearing examiner's statements regarding 
0lnPetition, Mr. Noble suggested that the answer might lie essentially 
n the spread between the rates paid by the two banks on savings accounts. 
Firat . 
American National Bank derived over $1 million in savings accounts 
fr 
the primary service area of Mosinee Commercial Bank, apparently not 
beCa use of its own aggressiveness but because of defection from the 

4077 
10/25/67 
-8-
Mosinee bank. Stated differently, this circumstance seemed to reflect 
a measure of dissatisfaction of Mosinee residents with the local bank. 
Therefore, it might be said that the business First American drew from 
the Mosinee area was related somewhat to the convenience and needs 
factor. 
Governor Maisel expressed his understanding that the Board was 
required by the statute first to appraise the competitive factor and 
0nly then to evaluate other factors in which possible offsets might be 
found. it appeared to him that Mr. Noble's reasoning followed the 
Averse course. 
Mr. Noble replied that evaluation of the competitive effect 
aPpeared to depend in large measure on the selection of the relevant 
market. 
if the principle of deposit overlap was used as a first crite-
r*°n, the presence of overlap in itself would indicate competition. 
However, deposit overlap might result when services were dissimilar 
and residents of one community reached into another area for services 
n°t available locally. 
Mr. Shull agreed that identification of the relevant market 
did not depend completely on deposit overlap. However, where overlap 
€ty "l 
lsted, an area of concern was thereby identified. 
Mr. Solomon suggested that a distinction might be made between 
j-aence and the conclusion drawn from evidence. While it was true 
U d t First American drew deposits from the Mosinee area, a conclusion 

4078 
10/25/67 
- 9 -
might be reached that that circumstance had a more significant relation-
ship to lack of service and failure to meet the needs of the community 
than it did to the question of competition. 
Governor Robertson observed that interest rates were an element 
competition. It seemed possible that the Mosinee bank believed it 
c°uld best serve its community by charging relatively low rates on 
loans, as an offset to which it paid only 2 per cent on savings. 
Further discussion included comments on the relatively low 
v°lume of agricultural loans in First American's portfolio. It was 
brought out that the bank had expressed an intention to enter that 
field of lending more aggressively. On the other hand, the small vol-
111116 of farm loans by First American might indicate that the Mosinee 
bank was serving its surrounding rural territory adequately; if so, the 
aHeged benefit of the proposed transaction to the convenience and needs 
the community might be questioned. 
Governor Maisel then inquired whether the hearing examiner was 
trained in evaluation of competitive considerations and what means were 
ayailable to the Board to insure that examiners who conducted hearings 
r it were qualified to judge such aspects of an application. 
Mr. O'Connell responded that, since the Board had decided not 
to retain hearing examiners on its staff, arrangements were made through 
th Civil Service Commission to obtain the services of hearing examiners 
as needed. With the cooperation of the Commission it had been possible 

4i i'79 
10/25/67 
-10-
to obtain certain examiners repeatedly, thus enabling them to gain 
experience in areas of Board responsibility. 
The examiner who con-
ducted the hearing in the present case was one of the more experienced 
°f those available. 
Governor Maisel said he found it difficult to accept the con-
elusions of the hearing examiner. He was concerned that if the examiner 
did not have sufficient knowledge as to what constituted competition, 
he could not come to a reasonable conclusion. It appeared that this 
case presented a classic example of competition; in only a few other 
instances could he recall circumstances where the existence of competi-
tion, as defined in basic text books, could be so easily proved. The 
fact that the hearing examiner apparently had not recognized the situa-
tion suggested that something was wrong with the system under which 
hearings were conducted. 
Governor Robertson commented that there also appeared to be a 
c°ntradiction between the statement by the Division of Examinations 
fchat no major banking needs were going unserved in the Mosinee area 
a n d the statement that the holding company arrangement could provide 
better services there. 
Mr. Lyon responded that the meaning had been that major needs 
i n the Mosinee area were being served either by the local bank or by 
hanks elsewhere, but the convenience and needs of the community would 
he benefited if additional needs were provided locally. 

4080 
10/25/67 
-11-
Governor Brimmer inquired to what extent the Research Depart-
ment of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had participated. He 
noted that the Reserve Bank's memorandum was dated in December 1966. 
Mr. Smith said he believed the Research Department agreed that 
an anticompetitive situation was presented. However, the exploration 
by 
that Department had not been of the depth undertaken under present 
Procedures. Other staff comments brought out that although a represen-
tative of the Research Department had joined an examiner from the 
Reserve Bank in interviewing businessmen in the Mosinee area, no full-
scale analysis had been prepared by the Research Department. 
Governor Brimmer then inquired whether the Division of Exami-
nations believed that no adverse competitive situation was presented 
°r whether an adverse competitive effect was believed to be outweighed 
W other considerations. 
Mr. Lyon responded that the Division believed the adverse com-
petitive effects were outweighed. He reviewed the volume of business 
that each of the banks concerned drew from the other's primary market 
area. 
In answer to a question by Governor Maisel, the staff said it 
W a s expected that if the proposed transaction was approved the rate of 
interest paid on savings deposits at the Mosinee bank would be raised 
to a competitive level with banks in surrounding communities. 

4 094 
10/25/67 
-12-
The Chairman then requested the tentative views of the members 
°f the Board, in response to which Governor Mitchell said he was 
^clined at present to accept the favorable recommendation on the 
ground that a more aggressive and better-managed bank would provide 
better services in Mosinee. Some competition would be eliminated, and 
If the Mosinee bank started to pay 4 per cent on savings accounts it 
n o doubt would raise its rates on loans also. However, he leaned 
toward the view that the considerations under the convenience and needs 
factor outweighed adverse competitive effects. 
Governor Maisel inquired whether the indication that a compet-
itive rate of interest on deposits would be paid by the Mosinee bank 
W a s sufficiently strong to constitute an obligation to increase the 
rate if the holding company application was approved. 
Mr. O'Connell expressed doubt that it would be appropriate to 
attempt to compel a bank to increase its rate. However, the Board was 
diing he re with an organization that had demonstrated good faith, and 
did not believe that the problem was likely to arise. 
Governor Maisel then said he believed there was clear evidence 
competition between the two banks; this was a classical case in 
which a bank, by paying more, had obtained a substantial amount of 
^Usiness from the territory of another bank. He felt that the appli-
Cation might be approved on the ground that the adverse competitive 
ef f 
tect would be offset by other factors. However, he would regard it 

40f 
10/25/67 
-13-
a s offset only if, in addition to improvements in service, the savings 
rate in Mosinee was increased. 
Governor Brimmer said he took an adverse view of the applica-
tion. He was impressed by the reasoning of the Banking Markets Sec-
tion, which reflected the only economic analysis available. The Board, 
earlier this year, had revised the procedures to be followed in pro-
cessing merger and holding company cases precisely because it wanted 
the benefit of such analysis. In this case the Research Department of 
the Reserve Bank had not participated fully, and in any event its views 
Were not part of the record on which the case must be decided. He did 
n o t find convincing the argument that the hearing examiner's conclu-
sions reflected the flavor of oral testimony as well as facts and fig-
U r e sj and he shared, to some extent at least, Governor Maisel's reser-
Vations regarding the hearing examiner's qualifications. Therefore, 
did not think the Board should base its decision on the hearing 
GXaminer's conclusions. Both the Reserve Bank and the Division of 
laminations had expressed the view that no major banking needs in 
Hosinee were going unserved. The Banking Markets Section had mixed 
£ 
flings on the convenience and needs factor but on balance believed 
the adverse competitive effects were not outweighed. 
Governor Sherrill stated that he was disposed to deny the 
aPPlication on the basis that competition actually existed at present 
11 sPite of management policies that restricted competition. He did 

4 094 
10/25/67 
-14-
not see that the elimination of competition would be offset sufficiently 
by other factors to warrant approval. 
Governor Robertson said he also would deny. He believed the 
adverse competitive effect was evident, with nothing presented to con-
stitute an effective offset. Also, he thought it must be recognized 
that First American National Bank already held a high proportion of 
hank deposits in Marathon County; if the proposed transaction was con-
summated, the holding company banks would hold over half the deposits 
individuals, partnerships, and corporations. 
Chairman Martin commented that there was some competition 
between the banks; the case was close, and a matter of judgment was 
Involved. However, he favored approval of the application on the ground 
that the proposal was in the public interest because it would improve 
fche level of banking services in the area. 
K i-, 
Chairman Martin then observed that the tentative views expressed 
had been evenly divided. Therefore, unless some member was disposed to 
change his position, the decision on the case should be deferred, in 
accordance with the procedure previously followed in similar circum-
8tances, until all of the members of the Board could participate. 
K i• > 
Governor Mitchell reiterated that his conclusion was not a firm 
°ne> and Governor Maisel suggested that it might be helpful to see drafts 
^ statements in support of a decision either way. He also suggested 
tha the applicant might be asked to clarify its intentions regarding 

4 094 
10/25/67 
-15-
the matter of interest rates that would be paid on savings accounts in 
Mosinee. 
Mr. O'Connell pointed out that both the proponents and opposing 
banks had been represented at the hearing, the record of which must be 
fche basis for the Board's decision. Therefore, if any further inquiries 
were to be made, it would seem proper also to provide opponents an oppor-
tunity to comment. 
There ensued a discussion of the question of reopening the hear-
ing- It was brought out that personal testimony would not be necessary; 
hearing examiner could accept written representations from the 
Pities. However, Governor Brimmer expressed the view that lack of 
economic analysis made the record weak and that reopening the hearing 
w°uld provide an opportunity to include expert testimony on the compet-
itive factors. It was of concern to him that the application had not 
^een subjected to adequate economic scrutiny, and that the hearing 
examlner did not have the benefit thereof in preparing his report and 
recommended decision. 
->1. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that it would be worth while, 
if Li < 
L»e procedure was not too cumbersome, to obtain clarification of the 
^tention of the applicant in regard to the interest rate question. 
Pernor Mitchell, however, commented that he did not find a need for 
assurance. To him it was inconceivable that a company would adver-
*Se different rates on savings accounts at its component organizations 

4085 
10/25/67 
-16-
in nearby localities. Governor Robertson said he thought Governor 
Mitchell's assumption was well founded. 
Chairman Martin then suggested that further consideration of 
the application be deferred until such time as all members of the 
Board were available, at which time the possibility of reopening the 
hearing record could be considered again if members desired. 
After further discussion, there was agreement with the Chairman's 
Procedural suggestion, it being understood that staff work on statements 
support of both approval and denial would proceed. 
Application of Franklin County Trust Company. There had been 
Retributed a memorandum dated October 16, 1967, from the Division of 
Examinations, with other pertinent papers, regarding the application of 
Franklin County Trust Company, Greenfield, Massachusetts, to merge The 
Or 
ange National Bank, Orange, Massachusetts. The Division recommended 
aPproval, as did the Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve 
B a r* of Boston. 
After comments by Mr. Egertson, discussion indicated a favor-
flbl 
e attitude toward the application on the part of all members of the 
Board. 
The application was then approved unanimously, it being under-
wood that an order and statement reflecting this decision would be 
Rafted for the Board's consideration. 

4086 
10/25/67 
-17-
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board, and Mr. Kakalec, Con-
troller, joined the meeting at this point. Either now or earlier, 
several staff members concerned with the presentation of the foregoing 
topics left the room. 
Policy record entry. With a memorandum from Mr. Holland dated 
October 24, 1967, there had been submitted a draft of policy record 
entry covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee held 
°n August 15, 1967. The draft entry took account of comments received 
from Committee members and staff following distribution of a preliminary 
draft. The entry was now presented for approval by the Board for inclu-
si-on in its Annual Report for 1967. 
Mr. Holland's memorandum called attention to a suggestion by 
Governor Mitchell that had not been incorporated in the revised draft 
entry, jn place of the range shown in the entry for the staff's projec-
tion of the bank credit proxy, Governor Mitchell had suggested that only 
the upper limit of the range be shown. This reflected his belief that 
it 
L was desirable to avoid placing undue emphasis on such projections in 
the policy record. Governor Mitchell noted that the current economic 
Policy directive adopted at the August 15 meeting included a "one-way" 
Proviso clause, intended to guard against bank credit expansion at a 
rate greater than expected, and that a reader would therefore need to 
^ow only the upper limit of the expected range to evaluate operations 
under the directive. However, the staff believed that omission of the 

4 087 
10/25/67 
-18-
lower limit of the projected range was likely to confuse or mislead 
the reader. Staff projections were developed in the form of ranges to 
avoid implying a greater degree of precision than intended. If only 
one of the two limits was shown in the policy record, readers might be 
confused regarding the nature of the projection. Moreover, some readers 
might interpret the single limit shown in the record as if it were a 
Point estimate, since it would be the only number shown. 
After comments by Governor Mitchell and by Mr. Holland on the 
former's suggestion, several members of the Board expressed their will-
ingness to accept the reasoning of the staff. The discussion included 
reference by Governor Mitchell to the fact that a memorandum from Mr. 
^rill discussing aspects of the use of a proviso clause by the Open 
Market Committee in its directives had now been distributed to the 
Committee. 
The policy record entry was then approved unanimously for inclu-
si°n in the Board's Annual Report. It was understood that the entry 
w°nld be distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents, primarily for in-
formation but with an indication of the date by which any further com-
m e n ts should be received. It was contemplated that the entry would be 
^leased to the press about November 13, 1967, after final review by 
th ti 
e Board, and that it would subsequently be published in the Federal 
Reserve Bulletin. 

4088 
10/25/67 
-19-
Release of minutes. Governor Robertson noted that the minutes 
of the Federal Open Market Committee for calendar 1961 had now been 
transferred to National Archives and were available to the public. He 
suggested, in light of questions raised at a recent House Banking and 
Currency Committee hearing, that consideration be given to the transfer 
°f additional Committee minutes, with a view to moving toward a sched-
ule of public availability of such minutes with a lag of three or four 
years. 
Mr. Holland mentioned that the initiation of foreign currency 
operations beginning in 1962 introduced problems not theretofore asso-
ciated with release of the Committee's minutes. As a result, some dele 
tions might be indicated. Governor Robertson observed that the problem 
w°uld have to be faced sooner or later, and he suggested moving forward 
to a decision. 
Boston building program (Item No. 4). There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum dated October 24, 1967, from the Division of Bank 
Operations recommending approval of a request by the Federal Reserve 
^ank of Boston for authority to acquire from the New England Telephone 
Telegraph Company the remaining parcel of land in the block in 
ich the Reserve Bank building was located, at a cost not in excess 
of $ 2 
j000,000, with such down payment as might be necessary. The 
B°ard had authorized the Bank on May 24, 1967, to negotiate with the 
telephone company and to bid for the property, with the understanding 

4089 
10/25/67 
-20-
that further details would be supplied for the Board's review and 
approval before any option to purchase was exercised. 
Information 
bearing upon the proposed purchase was set out in the memorandum, and 
attached was a draft telegram that would grant the requested authority. 
The telegram was approved unanimously. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 4. 
Stock market credit (Item No. 5). On October 20, 1967, the 
Board published for comment a number of proposals to broaden the cover-
age of and, in most respects, to tighten its regulations governing the 
Use of credit in stock market transactions. Questions arose, especially 
the part of dealers who make a market in convertible securities, 
regarding the treatment of bank loans to purchase such securities under 
the proposed amendments to Regulation U, Loans by Banks for the Purpose 
Purchasing or Carrying Registered Stocks, and the New York Stock 
Exchange had expressed concern about the situation. 
There had been distributed a memorandum dated October 24, 1967, 
from the Legal Division outlining the problem and possible courses of 
action. in brief, the Board's proposals provided that if a bank loan 
t o Purchase a convertible security was outstanding on October 20 the 
loan would not have to be brought up to margin if the same convertible 
Security continued to be held as collateral. The proposals also pro-
vided that new loans by banks against convertible securities entered 
i^to after October 20 would have to be brought up to margin no later 

4 087 
10/25/67 
-21-
than 30 days after the new regulations became effective, if the pro-
posals were adopted. 
The present problem had arisen because the proposals were not 
explicit as to bank loans made against convertible securities before 
October 20, but in which there were substitutions of collateral after 
that date. It was not clear whether any substitution that occurred 
after October 20 would be regarded as a new extension of credit, so 
that the loan, like any other new loan against a convertible security, 
would have to be brought up to margin within a fixed period if the pro-
posals were adopted. 
A number of firms that made markets in convertible bonds and 
carried their positions on bank credit normally would be effecting 
constant substitutions but, because it was not clear whether such a 
Substitu tion would be regarded as a new loan, they had felt it was 
safer, for the time being, to keep their positions fixed as of 
October 20. 
I 
The memorandum mentioned and commented on four possible courses 
of action: (1) to adopt the restrictive view that all bank credit on 
securities convertible into registered stock would have to be brought 
UP to margin within 30 days after the effective date of the requirement 
Unless eligible for the single exception; (2) to adopt the more lenient 
view that all loans on convertible securities that were outstanding at 
th 
e close of business on October 20 would remain outstanding as heavily 

4U191 
10/25/67 
-22-
undermargined but regulated loans; (3) to refrain from answering the 
question, leaving bond dealers to arrive at their own answer; and (4) 
to adopt a compromise position, which the staff recommended and which 
had the support of the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission 
and of the New York Stock Exchange. 
Under the proposed compromise the Board would reiterate its 
view that for purposes of the proposed amendments, same-day substitu-
tions of convertible securities were equivalent to new extensions of 
credit, and any such extensions of credit would have to be brought up 
to margin within 30 days of the effective date of the amendments. At 
same time, the Board would indicate that it would give sympathetic 
consideration to a proposal for inserting into Regulation U a new pro-
vlsion, applying to dealers who make a market in convertible bonds, 
comparable to the provision of Regulation U that permits a bank to 
finance positions of an odd-lot dealer or the provision of Regulation T 
(Credit by Brokers, Dealers, and Members of National Securities Exchanges) 
that permits a broker-dealer to finance positions of a specialist, on 
terms more favorable than those generally allowed under the margin regu-
lations. 
The staff assumed that the Board probably would not want to 
commit itself in advance to adopt such a provision. However, staff of 
tlle New York Stock Exchange believed that if it were indicated to the 
k°nd dealers, through the New York Reserve Bank, that the Board would 

10/25/67 
-23- 
'109'-
give careful consideration to a proposal of this kind, the dealers 
would be ready to assume more active support of the market. 
At the beginning of the discussion Miss Hart noted that the 
Board was confronted with two related but separate questions. The 
broader question had to do with credit that individuals or firms had 
outstanding for their own account on convertible issues; the second 
question related to credit used, for their own positions, by bond 
houses that make a market in convertible securities. If the Board 
a<*opted the more lenient position that had been listed among the alter-
natives, a body of credit would thereby be identified that would be 
outstanding for an extended time without being subject to margin 
requirements. However, it might be considered that that would be jus-
tified in order to restore stability to the market. 
Miss Hart reported her understanding that the Securities and 
Exchange Commission did not feel that adequate information was avail-
ahle at this point to form a judgment whether or not market makers in 
convertible issues needed a special provision under which they could 
finance their positions, but did feel that it would be desirable for 
the Board to invite documented proposals in support of such a provision. 
^•he Stock Exchange staff had expressed the view that, although much 
upended upon the strength of the commitment, if the Board indicated 
it would give careful consideration to a proposal for making special 
credit available to market makers in convertible issues, such firms of 
tH 
n e Exchange would resume a more active role in the market. 

4093 
10/25/67 
-24-
Mr. Partee remarked that the research staff, in presenting the 
margin regulation proposals to the Board, had not intended to convey 
an impression of dislike for convertible bond financing, or necessarily 
that it wanted to roll back the amount of credit used for that purpose. 
The thought had been that most purchases of convertible issues were 
analogous to purchases of stocks, and therefore transactions should 
come under the same margin requirements as stock transactions. 
Under 
the more lenient view, which he preferred, there would be an area of 
credit on which relatively low margin would be maintained. 
However, 
the volume of such credit would diminish over time as retention require-
ments were brought to bear and issues were converted from bonds to 
stocks. He would favor permitting same-day substitutions of convert-
ible bonds and making a special credit provision for market makers in 
convertible issues. 
Governor Robertson confirmed that the New York Reserve Bank 
Relieved the proposed compromise would solve the immediate problem. 
It 
Seemed to him that the Board need not decide at this time whether to 
adopt a lenient or a restrictive course. 
There followed comments by Mr. Partee, in response to an inquiry 
by Governor Mitchell, regarding the rationale for permitting same-day 
snbstitutions, even for stocks. 
Governor Robertson then reiterated his view that the Board 
should not attempt to alter proposals that had been published for 

4 094 
10/25/67 
-25-
commerit. After the allotted time had elapsed and comments had been 
received, the Board could reach decisions. In the meantime the only 
Problem that must be dealt with, in this instance, was the position of 
the specialists. He would favor dealing with that question in the 
manner suggested by Miss Hart. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that traders should not be 
locked in for two months or more simply because of lack of information. 
He would not favor the so-called "lenient" position. However, if a 
majority of the Board favored that position, he believed that the 
traders should be advised immediately. 
Miss Hart observed that the Board would not have to publish any-
thing on the question of same-day substitutions. It would be sufficient 
to instruct the Federal Reserve Banks how to answer questions. 
Governor Robertson commented that the Board nevertheless would 
he bound into a position, prior to consideration of comments received 
from the public. It could hardly reach an opposite conclusion later. 
Hp 
a e was presently disposed to vote against the "lenient" rule when the 
time came, but he did not want to take that position now. 
Governor Maisel observed that if the Board were to say that 
its proposals contemplated the "non-lenient" rule, it could always 
decide later to substitute the "lenient" rule. If the Board said 
n°thing, some people would assume that the "non-lenient" rule was 
Jj.. 
c 
"tended, and they would conclude that they could not take a chance. 
°thers would take a chance. 

4095 
10/25/67 
-26-
Mr. Brill commented that the reason for passing some word along 
was that an important segment of the market now found itself paralyzed 
because of the ambiguity of a Board proposal. If the Board wanted to 
Perform a useful function for the market, it should make the intent of 
its proposals clear. On the matter of same-day substitutions, it was 
bis view that the "lenient" rule was appropriate. He did not feel that 
convertibles should be treated different from equities. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether the dealers would be suffi-
ciently assured if the Board at this stage indicated only that it would 
be willing to consider some special provision for them, and if it did 
n°t take any position on same-day substitutions. 
Miss Hart replied that it was difficult to say at this point. 
It was not known how much of the current market difficulty resulted 
from panic selling and how much from the failure of dealers to support 
the market. 
Mr. Partee expressed the view that the difficulty did not lie 
ifl Panic selling but in the fact that the market was frozen. The trouble 
W a s that anyone who now held convertibles acquired on a 20 per cent 
basis was not going to want to acquire any other convertible security 
i^ the forthcoming period unless his present margin status could be 
maintained. 
Thus the market was in effect frozen, and would be for 
some time unless the Board made known its intent. 

4096 
10/25/67 
-27-
As things stood, Mr. Partee added, the Board had cast a cloud 
°ver the convertible market. A number of issues had been postponed, 
and there would no doubt be others. There would be some restraint in 
this area even if same-day substitutions were permitted; if the Board's 
Proposals were adopted, no additional credit would be available on con-
vertibles on the easy terms that had theretofore prevailed. 
Governor Mitchell noted that apprehension had been expressed 
about the volume of corporate issues. This would be one way of getting 
some of them deferred. 
Mr. Partee commented that one other effect was to favor the 
Profit prospects of one person as against another. Cash buyers would 
in a favored position. 
Governor Brimmer then recommended that the Board agree upon the 
compromise suggested by Miss Hart. The Board had set out originally to 
close loopholes in the margin regulations with a view to curtailing 
excessive use of credit in the market. Cash buying was preferable to 
Credit buying. The compromise suggestion would amount to saying what 
in fact been the Board's intent. 
Governor Robertson noted that the compromise had the support of 
^•he Securities and Exchange Commission and the Stock Exchange. 
Chairman Martin suggested going ahead on that basis. In reply 
to 
questions by Miss Hart, members of the Board indicated that that 
v°uld mean that the Board's staff could so advise the staffs of the 

4 087 
10/25/67 
-28-
New York and American Stock Exchanges, and that the Board's staff and 
the Reserve Banks would be free to answer questions received from bond 
dealers. 
Mr. Partee said he understood that the Board's position was, in 
nonlegal terms, that any loan made by a bank after October 20 for the 
Purchase of convertibles would be in effect a new loan. The answer was 
in the affirmative. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to the sending of a 
telegram to the Federal Reserve Banks in the form attached as Item No. 5 
It was understood that the substance of the telegram would be conveyed 
to such organizations as the New York Stock Exchange and the American 
Stock Exchange, and to bond houses and others particularly interested, 
^ut that no press release would be issued by the Board. 
Employee physical examinations. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated October 4, 1967, from the Division of Personnel Admin-
istration describing the purpose, scope, and cost of a proposed program 
Periodic medical examinations to be provided to members of the Board' 
staff 40 years of age or more. The program as outlined would involve 
a n estimated annual cost of $12,700, including doctor's fees, services 
a substitute nurse, laboratory fees, and medical supplies. In addi-
t:lon, there would be an estimated initial cost of $835 for medical equip 
Itlent. If the program was approved, a provision for funds would be in-
cluded in the budget of the Personnel Division for 1968. It was 

4098 
10/25/67 
-29-
recommended that the program be approved, subject to determination of 
sufficient employee interest through a poll of eligible staff members. 
Governor Robertson suggested that the program be put into effect, 
on a voluntary basis, without a survey of employees. There being gen-
eral agreement with that suggestion, the program was approved unanimously. 
Dinner for System personnel. The Board authorized a dinner at 
a local hotel on December 28, 1967, for Federal Reserve System personnel 
attending the annual meetings of the Allied Social Science Associations, 
vV'> /t 
i 
* 
to be held in Washington, at an estimated cost of between $800 and $850. 
The authorization included approval of any resulting overexpenditure in 
the pertinent account of the 1967 budget of the Division of Research and 
Statistics. 
Task force on travel. Chairman Martin stated that the White 
House was setting up a task force to make recommendations for stimula-
tion of foreign travel in the United States, particularly as an aid to 
the balance of payments. The Board had been asked to designate a mem-
ber to participate in the work of the task force and, at Chairman 
^rtin's suggestion, Governor Brimmer was designated. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On October 24, 1967, 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf of 
the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
staff: 
lowing actions relating to the Board's 

10/25/67 
-30-
4099 
Advance of sick leave 
Violet Herrmann, Grill Cook, Division of Administrative Services, 
for an additional 26 days beginning October 6, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Selma L. Mclntire, Teletype Operator, Division of Administrative 
Services, effective the close of business November 17, 1967. 
'••••'t" 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Bank Operations dated October 24, 
1967, requesting approval of arrangements for a reception and dinner 
a t a local hotel on Wednesday, November 15, in connection with the 
Management Information Conference, at an estimated cost of about $500. 
Memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administration recom-
mending the appointment of Bernice O'Brien as Clerk-Librarian in that 
Division, with 
annual salary at the rate of $2,351 (4-hour day), effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
On October 24 and 25, 1967, actions 
were taken on behalf of the Board under 
delegated authority as indicated by the 
following letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item num-
bers indicated: 
SlLOctober 24, 1967 
^L-the Director of the Division of Bank Operations 
Item No. 
Letter to United National Bank, Miami, Florida, 
6 
Wanting its request for permission to maintain 
^educed reserves. 
j^L_the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to Community Bank and Trust Company, 
7 
Faoli, 
Pennsylvania, granting an extension 
time within which to establish a branch in 
Tredyff rin Township, Chester County. 

wt 
4100 
10/25/67 
-31-
On. October 24, 1967 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Item No. 
Letter to Ann Arbor Bank, Ann Arbor, 
8 
Michigan, approving the establishment 
°f a branch in Pittsfield Township, 
Washtenaw County. 
setter to Wayne Bank, Wayne, Michigan, 
9 
waiving the requirement of six months' 
notice of withdrawal from membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
B^the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
Letter to Austin State Bank, Austin, 
10 
Minnesota, approving an investment in 
hank premises. 
Letter to Farmers State Bank of Lakefield, 
11 
Lakefield, Minnesota, approving an invest-
®ent in bank premises. 
Letter to State Bank of Sleepy Eye, Sleepy 
12 
Eye, Minnesota, waiving the requirement of 
six months' notice of withdrawal from mem-
bership in the Federal Reserve System. 
i^L-the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
better to Pawnee County Bank, Pawnee City, 
13 
^ebraska, waiving the requirement of six 
m°nths' notice of withdrawal from member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. 
^Lthe Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
jitter to Roswell State Bank, Roswell, 
14 
Mexico, approving the establishment 
a branch at the Roswell Industrial 
i r Center, formerly Walker Air Force 
Base. 

'1101 
10/25/67 
-32-
On October 24T 1967 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Item No, 
Letter to attorneys for The Moody Founda- 
15 
tion, Galveston, Texas, granting an exten-
sion of time until December 28, 1967, for 
Hi' 
the Foundation to register as a bank hold-
in8 company. 
• I •• 
. . . . " 
" 
' 
QlLPctober 25, 1967 
* 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter to Union Trust and Deposit Company, 
16 
Parkersburg, West Virginia, approving an 
investment in bank premises. 

4102 
Item No. I 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
10/25/67 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Applications of 
2ARNETT NATIONAL SECURITIES CORPORATION, 
"Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per cent 
more of the voting shares of The 
V^ican National Bank and Trust Company 
ltl Winter Haven, Winter Haven, Florida, 
^ 
The American National Bank in Cypress 
ardens, Cypress Gardens, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATIONS UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There have come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.4(a)(3) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 PTrn 
CFR 222.4(a)(3)), applications by Barnett National Securities 
°rPoration, Jacksonville, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of 
acquisition of 30 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
^^ican National Bank and Trust Company in Winter Haven, Winter Haven, 
^ i d a , and The American National Bank in Cypress Gardens, Cypress 
Ga 
ens, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
Stroller of the Currency of the applications and requested his views and 
c°®mendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of both applications. 

-2- 
4103 
Notice of receipt of the applications was published in the 
Fe<leral Register on July 26, 1967 (32 Federal Register 10939), providing 
atl opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposals. A copy of each of the applications was for-
warded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said applications be and hereby are approved, 
Provided that the acquisitions so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 25th day of October, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors, Robertson, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Mcrritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
r 
(SEA L ) 

4104 
Item No. 2 
10/25/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
BARNETT NATIONAL SECURITIES CORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE AMERICAN NATIONAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY IN WINTER HAVEN AND 
THE AMERICAN NATIONAL BANK IN CYPRESS GARDENS 
STATEMENT 
Barnett National Securities Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida 
^ Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board 
Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1042(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 
Qq 
u Per cent or more of the voting shares of The American National Bank 
anci Trust Company in Winter Haven, Winter Haven, Florida ("Winter Haven 
Bank")^ an(j -jhg American National Bank in Cypress Gardens, Cypress Gardens, 
Pi 
Ida ("Cypress Gardens Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller of the 
ency of receipt of the applications and requested his views and 
Commendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval of both 
^Plications. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides that 
e Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a monopoly 
°uld be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize 

1105 
- 2 -
to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the 
United States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed acquisition 
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly,,, or which in any 
other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly out-
V7Gi»Shed 
in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
In meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In 
each case the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
a n d the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant, the 
f n 
largest holding company and fourth largest banking organization 
itl the State of Florida, presently controls eight banks with aggregate 
, 
y 
GPosits of $337 million. 
The ten largest banking organizations, seven 
which are bank holding companies, presently control 39 per cent of the 
total commercial bank deposits in the State. Upon consummation of the 
Pr°Posals, Applicant, which now controls 4.06 per cent of the total deposit 
by the State's 444 commercial banks, would control 4.29 per cent of 
Such deposits. Approval of the applications would therefore have only 
•effect on the present degree of State-wide concentration. 
PT^anking data are as of December 31, 1966, unless otherwise noted, and 
*ect acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

-3-
1106 
Both of the proposed subsidiary banks are located in Pollc County, 
Florida. Applicant presently has no subsidiary in Polk County and none 
within 50 miles of Winter Haven or Cypress Gardens. Because of this fact 
and because the City of Orlando, in which are located several large banks, 
betx/een Applicant's closest present subsidiary and the Winter Haven -
Cypress Gardens area, it seems reasonable to conclude that no significant 
competition exists or is likely to develop between the present and proposed 
subsidiaries. Upon consummation of its proposals, Applicant would become 
fourth bank holding company in Polk County and would control 6.9 per 
c°at of commercial bank deposits in the county. The four bank holding 
c°mpanies would control nine of the county's 20 banks, and 37.1 per cent 
Of J-L 
n e total commercial bank deposits. 
Although Winter Ilaven Bank (deposits, $16.1 million) and Cypress 
° a r d e n s B ank (deposits, $3.3 million) are located less than three miles 
apart > there is no effective competition between them and little prospect 
that 
such will develop in the future. The latter bank was organized in 
1964 bv 
y stockholders of Winter Haven Bank for the purpose of competing 
t e effectively for the accounts of residents of the Cypress Gardens area. 
Bank 
sitice it-
i C S opening, Cypress Gardens Bank has relied upon the Winter Haven 
a s a source of management, income producing loans and other business, 
uumerous operating services. The strong relationship existing between 
further evidenced by the fact that common stockholders hold almost 
89 Per o 
ccnt of the stock of Winter Haven Bank and almost 93 per cent of 
the 
stock of Cypress Gardens Bank; three of the five officers and all 

-4-
1107 
members of the board of directors of Cypress Gardens Bank hold similar 
Positions at Winter Haven Bank. Further, Cypress Gardens Bank serves, 
Principally, a residential area, while Winter Haven Bank serves the 
business community of its area. Affiliation with Applicant, therefore, 
T;ould not eliminate existing or potential competition between the two 
baaks. 
In addition to the two proposed subsidiaries, the Winter Haven 
^Press Gardens area is served by the Exchange National Bank of Winter 
Ha 
Ve<i (deposits, $33 million), which is affiliated with the Exchange 
Clonal Bank of Tampa (deposits, $167 million), and by Lake Region Bank 
of Commerce, Winter Haven, which has deposits of $0 million. Located 
Vithin a distance of 5 to 15 miles from Winter Haven are four banks in 
the 
e $5-$io million size range, as well as the Peoples Bank of Lakeland, 
hich is the largest bank in Polk County, with deposits of $63 million. 
It d 
0 G S n o t appear that the proposed acquisitions would have any signif-
icant 
a 
adverse effect on the viability or competitive effectiveness of 
ComPeting institutions. 
In light of these facts, the Board concludes that consummation 
Of t h 
Proposed acquisitions would not result in a monopoly nor be in 
^rth erance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the b • 
usiness of banking in any area. There is no probability that the 
acquisit.. 
ACion may have the effect of substantially lessening competition 
llulr*g to create a monopoly in any section of the country, nor would 
anV other manner be in restraint of trade. 

-5- 
4108 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The citrus 
industry is the dominant industry in the Uinter Haven - Cypress Gardens 
area. Upon consummation of the proposals, Applicant plans to employ one 
more specialists thoroughly familiar with the industry, and to make 
^em available to its subsidiary banks. Applicant believes that the avail-
akility of such expertise will enable the proposed subsidiaries to accept 
credit risks in the area's major industry that they are not now accepting, 
^ile at the same time maintaining desirable credit standards. 
Applicant also states its intention to provide both banks with 
^e additional loan capacity, resources, and programs necessary to permit 
t^em to more meaningfully extend their services to Florida's phosphate 
Industry, which is centered in Polk County. 
Although larger banks are apparently presently serving the needs 
f both the citrus and phosphate industries, the provision by Applicant of 
meaningful conveniently located alternative source of such services, 
G H as the possibility of greater facility which affiliation would 
Pr°vide i n arranging loan participations, are considerations weighing 
°mc\7hat in favor of approval of the subject applications. 
Financial and managerial resources. - Applicant's financial 
L-».on, its management, and its prospects are considered satisfactory. 
Winter Haven Bank and Cypress Gardens Bank both share the same 
cement, which is considered competent. Earnings of both banks have 
bOod, although earnings of 
Cypress Gardens Bank have resulted, to 
5 e extent, from loans generated by Uinter Haven Bank. 

The capital of Cypress Gardens Bank appears completely adequate 
Applicant, recognizing a need for additional capital at Uinter Haven Bank 
w/'rfw .V :V 
^ s outlined a reasonable proposal for providing it. Prospects of both 
banks are good, and those of Uinter Haven Bank will be improved by the 
contemplated provision of additional capital. 
Consideration of the banking factors provides additional weight 
toward approval of the applications. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
Action 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
factions would be in the public interest and that the applications 
8h°nld be approved. 
October 25, 1967. 

B D A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
10/25/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 25, 1967. 
AIR MAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
Barnett National Securities Corporation, 
100 Laura Street, 
Jacksonville, Florida. 32203 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the applications of Barnett National Securities Corporation 
to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The American 
National Bank and Trust Company in Winter Haven, Winter Haven, Florida, 
and The American National Bank in Cypress Gardens, Cypress Gardens, 
Florida. The Board's Order, accompanying Statement, and press release 
are enclosed. 
In connection with the provisions of the Board's Order 
relating to the time within which the acquisition herein approved is 
to be consummated, advice of the fact of consummation should be given 
in writing to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
In connection with the Board's approval action, your attention 
is directed to the communication earlier had with you by Vice President 
Stephenson of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta whereby you were made 
aware of the Board's concern over the deficiency of capital in The 
American National Bank and Trust Company in Winter Haven. Responding 
to Mr. Stephenson's inquiries as to any proposals that Applicant had 
augmenting the capital of The American National Bank and Trust 
Company, Applicant advised of its intention to increase that bank's 
capital by at least $300,000 within 18 months of September 15, 1967, 

4111 
Barnett National Securities Corporation--2 
or by March 15, 1969. The Board reiterates its concern regarding 
the. capital position of The American National Bank and Trust Company 
in Winter Haven, and you are advised that the Board's action in 
approving Applicant's acquisition of that bank has been premised 
upon the aforementioned statement of intent regarding the strength-
ening of the bank's capital structure. Advice of action taken in 
this regard should be given in writing to the Board through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
, • , 
• 
Enclosures 

41.1.2 
Item No. 4 
T E L E G R A M 
10/25/67 
LEASED WINE SERVICE 
'. > \ 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF T H E F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
J" 
' 
. 
• 
- 
' 
October 25, 1967 
W v i * 
E H i s - Boston 
0 Board approves proposals in your letter of October 11 and 
^subsequent conversations to offer New England Telephone 
c*nd Telegraph Company, for property adjoining your building, 
$1,750,000 with a $500,000 immediate down payment, with the 
°Ption, if necessary, of raising the offer to $2,000,000 and 
making the down payment up to the full purchase price. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
r . 
•f .h; 
SHERMAN 
Httiii .
.
.
.
.
.
. 
, 
& 
H & , 
. 
. 
' II 
\ 
" 
' 
it 
i I 
" - 1 ? 
. 
• ; 
- 
• 
• 
-i. 
. Sf

4113 
Item No. 5 
T E L E G R A M 
10/25/67 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF T H E F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
October 25, 1967 
T o THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS. 
(Would appreciate your providing text of this wire to Counsel of your 
ank as well as to other interested staff and, if you deem desirable 
to branches.) 
y 
^he Board has received a number of inquiries concerning what its proposed 
ainendments to Regulation U (Loans by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing 
0 r Carrying Registered Stocks), which were released for comment on 
October 20, 1967, would require in regard to substitutions taking place 
a£ter that date in respect to collateral serving to secure loans by banks 
the purpose of purchasing convertible securities, where the loans 
Were outstanding at the close of business on October 20. The Board has 
rePlied that proposed section 221.3(r) was designed to bring all loans 
r the purpose of purchasing or carrying convertible securities fully 
within the ambit of margin regulation, with the sole exception provided 
ky Proposed paragraph 221.3(r)(l) covering a loan which had been made 
before the close of business on October 20, where the same convertible 
Security was held as collateral in the account continuously thereafter. 
an excepted loan need be brought into a fully margined status only 
^ the security is converted into the underlying stock. With that exception, 
loan against a convertible security which was for the purpose of 
^Urchasing or carrying such a security would be subject to the "bring-up" 
Pr°vision of proposed paragraph 221.3(r)(2), if the proposals are adopted. 

- 2 - 
111 4 
This means that, for purposes of the proposals, a substitution of security 
Collateral against a loan of this kind is treated as if a new extension of 
credit had taken place. 
A t the same time, several firms that make markets in convertible securities 
have represented to the Board that they will be unable to continue to act 
in this capacity unless they can carry positions for this purpose on less 
than a 70 per cent margin, as would be required by the rule described above. 
The Board has indicated in response that it will give careful consideration 
to Proposals that broker-dealer firms making markets in convertible securities 
De eligible 
for bank credit on a good faith loan value, for the purpose of 
carrying out this function, in much the same way that odd-lot dealers are 
under section 221.2(k) of Regulation U, or that specialists are under 
Section 221.4(g) of Regulation T (Credit by Brokers, Dealers, and Members 
of National Securities Exchanges). 
It 
^ 
would be appropriate for your Bank to state the Board's views, as described 
ak°ve, 
r e g p 0 n g e to any inquiries that may be received. Additionally, it 
^e helpful if your Bank would communicate with any persons who have 
air 
eady raised such questions, especially in cases where the answers given 
e inconclusive or inconsistent with the Board's views. 
Th 
e Board's staff is preparing a memorandum describing information which 
^°uld be submitted by broker-dealer firms supporting an exemption for bank 
Ctgj j 
x t which is used to carry out the function of making a market in convertible 
8ecU] 
urlties, and copies of this memorandum will be sent you as soon as it i« 
to be supplied to any firm that may wish to make such a submission. 
SHERMAN 

4115 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 6 
10/25/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 25, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
United National Bank, 
Miami, Florida. 33131 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, the Director of the Division of 
Bank Operations of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
authority, grants permission pursuant to provisions of Section 19 
of the Federal Reserve Act to the United National Bank, Miami, 
Florida, to maintain the same reserves against deposits as are 
required to be maintained by banks not in reserve cities, effective 
with the first biweekly reserve computation period beginning after 
the date of this letter. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such permission 
is subject to revocation by the Board of Governors. 
.Wii 
•V 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

(• 
CrVMt"T or 
r 
• u r 
^ ' N a t i o n 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K O F 
P H I L A D E L P H I A 
P h i l a d e l p h i a , P k n n » y l v a n i a 
19101 
Item No. 7 
10/25/67 
r 
October 2k, 196j 
Mr. H. Fred Miller 
President 
• 
Community Bank and Trust Company 
East Lancaster Avenue 
Paoli, Pennsylvania 19301 
Dear Mr. Miller: 
Under date of July Ik, 1965, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approved the 
establishment by Community Bank and Trust Company of an 
out-of-town branch office at the northeast corner of the 
intersection of Routes 202 and 363 in Tredyffrin Township, 
Chester County, Pennsylvania, provided the branch is 
established within one year of the aforesaid date. 
Under date of June 6, 1966, you were advised the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System had ex-
tended for six months from July 1.4, 1966, the time withia 
Wiich your bank could establish a branch at the subject 
location. 
Under date of December 21, 1966 you were advised 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System had 
extended to January l4, 1968, the time within which your bank 
c°uld establish a branch at the subject location. 
Under date of October 23, 1967 you have advised 
that the branch will not be established within the extended 
time and you ask for another extension. 
This is to advise you that the Federal Reserve Bank 
Philadelphia, acting under delegated authority from the Board 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, extends for six 
Months from January l4, 1968 the time within which Community Bank 
Trust Company may establish a branch at the subject location. 
Yours sincerely, 
Cmmwbrnu 
Joseph R. Campbell 
Vice President 

•( j v yy 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
2 JO SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
i n / 9 q / A 7 
8 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60690 
i U / O / b / 
(J 12) HA 7-2320 
October 2b, 1967 
Mr. William M. Howard 
Assistant Vice President 
Ann Arbor Bank 
Ann Arbor, Michigan 48107 
Dear Mr. Howard: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank has approved the establishment 
by your bank of a branch in the vicinity of Packard and 
Carpenter Road3, Pittsfield Township, Washtenaw County, 
Michigan, provided the branch is established within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
The Reserve Bank finds that capitalisation of Ann 
Arbor Bank is adequate, the management is satisfactory, that 
the proposed branch will serve the needs and convenience of 
the co<:znunity, and that the branch will not tend to create 
an undesirable competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
E. 0. Fait3 
Assistant Vice President 
JEM:lp (P^ 
/ 
cc - Mr. lMerritt Sheraan v 
Mich. Fin. Inst. Bureau 
Examiner's File 
C O P Y 

0 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
<i 1 1 8 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
Item No. 9 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60690 
^Q/25/67 
(312) HA 7-2320 
October 2h, 1^67 
Mr. Jkmm L. Malinger 
Vioe President 
Wsyne Btnk 
Wayne, Michigan 
fiwr J*. Mellinger: 
On beiuiif of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Dank waives the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal from tlie Federal lieserve Systera. 
ttider tlie provision* of Section 206.10(c) of the Board's 
Rs#xl*tion H, your institution may accomplish termination of 
its iMoborship at any tiiae within eight months from the date 
that notics of intention to withdraw from membership was sivea, 
Upon surrsnder to the Federal Reserve Bonk of Chicago of the 
Federal Reserve stock issued to your institution, such ctock 
vill be cancelled and appropriate refund will be made thereon. 
It ia l-equested that the certificate of flkjmbership 
be returned to tlie Federal Reserve Dunk of Chicago. 
Very truly yours, 
% 
-
• ; 
'tests 
Lclond I v o o g 
Vice President 
LR:rk 
cc - Mr. Merritt Sherman 
Detroit Branch 
C O P Y 
\ 
99-183 

41.19 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K O F M I N N E A P O L I S 
item NO. 10 
M I N N E A P O L I S , 
M I N N E S O T A 
55440 
10/25/67 
AREA CODE 0t2 333-0301 
October 24, 1967 
Board of Directors 
Austin State Bank 
Austin, Minnesota 
55912 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 24A of the 
ederal Reserve Act, on behalf of the Board of Governors, acting 
under delegated authority, this bank approves an investment of not 
^ 0 r e than $565,000 in a new bank building by Austin State Bank, 
Austin, Minnesota. That amount includes: 
$125,000 land acquisition 
^0sts (to be written down to $31,250 before completion of the new 
uilding), and $440,000 cost of clearing land, architects fees, 
a n d construction costs. 
, 
It is understood that carrying value of your new 
Ullding, as shown by your books, will at no time exceed $480,000. 
is also understood that present quarters are to be sold as soon 
a s is practical. 
Very truly yours, 
•... v 
<v <- ' • 
L. G. Gable 
Vice President 
LGG:B 

1120 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K O F 
M I N N E A P O L I S 
M I N N E A P O L I S , 
M I N N E S O T A 
55440 
Item No. 11 
AREA CODE 8t2 393-038! 
10/25/67 
October 24, 1967 
Board of Directors 
Farmers State Rank of Lakefield 
Lakefield, Minnesota 
56150 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 24A of the 
Federal Reserve Act, on behalf of the Board of Governors, 
acting under delegated authority, this bank approves an 
investment in bank premises of not to exceed !j 133,000 by 
Farmers State Bank of Lakefield, Lakefield, Minnesota, for 
the construction of a new bank building. That amount includes 
$26,000 land acquisition and clearing costs, $93,000 estimated 
construction costs, and $4,500 architect's fees. The remainder 
is to allow for construction costs which might exceed the 
architects estimates. 
It is this bank's understanding that premises now 
occupied are to be sold for an amount exceeding the present 
carrying value. 
Very truly yours, 
L. G. Gable 
Vice President 
LGG:B 

1121 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K O F 
M I N N E A P O L I S 
I T E M N O. 12 
M I N N E A P O L I S , 
M I N N E S O T A 
55440 
10/25/67 
A R E A 
C O D E 
8 12 
333-03«1 
October 24, 1967 
Board of Directors 
State Bank of Sleepy Eye 
Sleepy Eye, Minnesota 
56085 
Gentlemen: 
"vVit '' *' 
Executive Vice President Schmid's letter dated 
October 18, 1967, together with the accompanying September 16, 
"67 resolution, signifying your intention to withdraw from member-
®hip in the Federal Reserve System and requesting waiver of the 
s ix months' notice of such withdrawal, has been received. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
legated authority, this bank waives the requirement of six months' 
noti c e of withdrawal. 
Under the provisions of Section 208.10 (c) 
the Board's Regulation H, your bank may accomplish termination 
its membership at any time within eight months from the date 
nat notice of intention to withdraw from membership was given. 
^ 
When arrangements have been completed for continuation 
deposit insurance by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
and the decision is reached on the date you wish to terminate 
^embership, please write us of that date and enclose: (1) your 
eaeral Reserve Bank stock certificate for cancellation, and (2) 
R e
U r c e r tificate of membership. 
Upon surrender of your Federal 
Serve stock, you will receive payment for that stock plus 
ccrued dividends to date. 
^ 
Please also provide us with instructions for transferring 
sewhere the proceeds from your Federal Reserve Bank stock and 
r assets of your bank held here. 
Very truly yours, 
/ 
.y-Mv 
w 
l. G. Gable 
i 
Vice President 
•V 
• ; 
L C G : b 

r 
OCTOGER 
1 9 S 7 
MEMBERSHIP EiLS 
1 2 2 ' 
Item No. 13 
10/25/67 
-3ARD OF DIRECTORS 
COUNTY DAN:; 
•'AWiCG CiTV, NEBRASKA 
• v 
7:;j 
*.;JS HAS REFERENCE TO YOUR LETTERS DATED AUGUST 
3 1 
2 1 , 
1 5 6 7 , 
OACR:ZO BY JOE KE::OGKA:J,, PRGSJDSN?^ 
? O C Z M Z 2 
ACCOMPANYING REGOLUYSON, OA7ZO AUGUG7 3 0 ^ 
si G R A Y I N G 
-i.-NT I ON TO WITHDRAW FROM MSM3SRCM3P IN Ti-JE JERAL f.j: 
^ 
> w « 
w 1 • ttwtiMW 
r tiw'i'i 1-4| 
* 3T£» 
REQUESTING WASVER CF THE 0 8 21 MONTHS9 KG7SCE CF GJCH 
C.I DEHALF 0 7 
THE OWARO OF COVERNORG ACTING ur:22a 
: " ' ' C J 
KEKSERS:-:3P AT AKVTOME UJVIUW EICHT CGN7H3 FRC;: 
7 ; : -
CJV- 
V : A 7 
" C 7 5 C E 
IN7EN7J0N 7 0 WITHDRAW FROM KZTWERSHIP WAG 
VJPOK SURRENDER OF THE FEDERAL RZGERVS STOCI: 
3 EGGED 7 0 VGWR 
E7U760M SUCH STOCK U3LL OE CANCELLED A?CD AM A P K ; 0 ? 3 T A 7 E 
R E F ^ D 
MADE THEREON, 
V^UP' 7 
1 0 R3EQTJ::STCD 7 : ! < I T 7 : ; :- CERTIF8CATS OF MEXEERSKIP OE RE-
7 0 
7 : : 3 3 BANK WHEN YOU HAVE RECEIVED PERM3GG:C:J 7 0 
OPERATE 
W AFJ !REUSED N0NJ4EMQER OA 
VERY TRULY YOUR 
M. J* SUORDE 
VOCE PREGSOENY 
pi* S7Af:LEY 
Supervising EXAMINER 
F ^ E R A L 
DEPOSE7 
INSURANCE CORPORATION 
CO C . 
RANKIN, VICE 
PRESIDENT 
DRANCIJ, FEDERAL RESERVE BAN:; 

C O P Y 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K O F D A L L A S 
DALLAS, TEXAS 
7 5 2 2 2 
Item No. 14 
10/25/67 
1123 
October 2k, 19^7 
Mr. J. K. Lusk, President 
Ro swell State Bank 
P. 0. Box 205Y 
Roc well, New Mexico 8ti201 
Dear Mr* Lusk; 
Ihis refers to the request containea in yoar letter 
of October 9, IJo'f, for permission to continue to operate a 
branch at the Ho swell Industrial Air Center, formerly Walker 
Air Porce Base. 
On behalf of the Board of Oovernorj, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank approves the establishment by 
Hocvell Utate Bank, Ho swell, Mew Mexico, of a branch at Rosvell 
Industrial Air Center, formerly knovn as Walker Air Pbrce Base. 
The approval to establish a branch and continue operations at 
this location is concurrent with revocation effective June 30, 
1967, of authority by the Treasury Department to operate a 
military banking facility at Walker Air Force Base. 
Matters &lven special consideration In passing upon 
the application Indicate that the bank's capitalization is 
adequate, management is satisfactory, and the branch vlll not 
tend to create an undesirable competitive situation. The con-
venience and needJ factor, though somewhat weak, appears suf-
ficiently strong to Justify continuance of the banking services 
which have been provided by the Rosvell otate Bank since 1951* 
Sincerely, 
Thomas R. Sullivan 
Vice President 
bcc: Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 

C O P Y 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K O F D A L L A S 
D A L L A S , TEXAS 
7 5 2 2 2 
Item No. 
10/25/67 
October 
1967 
Mr. Louis J. DibroLl, Ssq. 
Dibrell, Dibrell & Greer 
American lational Building 
Qalveaton, Texas 77550 
He: The Moody Foundation 
Dear Mr, Dibrell: 
This refer:) to the request contained in your letter 
of October 23, 
for an extension from October 29# 1967> 
for the registration of The Moody Foundation as a bank holding 
company under the Bank Holding Company Act as amended. 
On behalf of the Board of Governor a, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank hac approved your request for 
an extension of tine for registration. The Moody Foundation 
vill be allowed until December 28, 19&7, within which to 
register with the Board of Governors in accordance with the 
requirements of section 5 of the Act. 
Sincerely, 
Thomas R. Jul!Ivan 
Vice President 
bcc: Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F 
R I C H M O N D 
RICHMOND. VIRGINIA 
23213 
item NO. 16 
10/25/67 
Ostobor 15. IW7. 
losrd of Slmtori, 
felsa Trust sad Bipoiit nowyu|, 
tarkorsburg, Vsst TirgiaU lilOl. 
Osatisasat 
Fursusat to ths fmlilni of foctloa 2U 
of the fotsrsl Itiinrt Act, tks fttoral Kiiirn Ink 
of ftlsbaoni, on bohalf of M i uador Authority dil«|ik«4 
by tho 8osr4 of Govsraors of tho Moral Ktitrvi Systsa, 
•pproroa on s441tloasl lirrittasnt in bask prtaiiti of 
1*40,000 by Union Trust aa4 Dsfoiit Colony, Psrksrsburg, 
*ast fir finis, for tbs puiposo of purchsslag qusrtsrs 
nov bolag lass ad by tho book. 
Tours rory truly, 
» . . . 
/s/ 
John L. Nosker 
Jcta L. Bosksr, 
tUo fros 14sat. 
