f 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
A 
August 20, 1970 

v » « 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, August 20, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
M r . Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
M r . Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
M r . Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on August 10, by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and 
\ 
• 
.; >: >', •; •' iO <1
 
: 
. , 
Dallas on August 13, and by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta on 
August 19, 1970, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing 

8/20/70 
-2-
schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Missouri Bancshares. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated August 14, 1970, and other pertinent papers 
had been distributed in connection with an application of Missouri 
Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to become a registered bank 
holding company through acquisition of shares of Kemper State Bank, 
Boonville; The Central National Bank of Carthage; The Peoples National 
Bank of Warrensburg; and Security National Bank of Joplin, all in 
Missouri, in addition to shares of The City National Bank and Trust 
Company of Kansas City, Kansas City, Missouri, which, as a one-bank 
holding company, the applicant presently controlled. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
First National Charter Corporation. A memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated August 10, 1970, and other 
pertinent papers, including a proposed order, had been distributed in 
connection with an application of First National Charter Corporation, 
Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of National Bank of Boonville, 
Boonville, Missouri. 
i .,.'•> 
' ' ! , • i • 
• 
' ' •'ViM 
". '.'A^i. 
• '• !'••• j.ll j V al .T; 
^ 
The application was approved unanimously and the issuance of the 
order was authorized. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 

23<)5 
8/20/70 
-3-
Atlantic Bancorporation. 
Drafts of orders reflecting the Board's 
approval on August 13, 1970, of the applications of Atlantic Bancorpora-
tion, Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of The Exchange Bank of 
St. Augustine, St. Augustine, and Hastings Exchange Bank, Hastings, 
both in Florida, had been distributed. 
The issuance of the orders was authorized; copies are attached 
as Items 2 and 3, respectively. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Lisbon National Bank, Lisbon, 
New Hampshire, into The Littleton National Bank, Littleton, New Hampshire, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Littleton 
National Bank and Lisbon National Bank would eliminate 
competition existing between the two banks and some 
potential for increased competition. There would be an 
increase in the concentration of commercial banking 
deposits in the Littleton-Lisbon-Sugar Hill area, and 
the number of commercial banking alternatives in the 
relevant market area would be reduced from five to four. 
The overall effect of the proposed merger on competition 
would be adverse. 
A draft of report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed consolidation of The 
County National Bank of Bennington, Bennington, Vermont, and Catamount 
National Bank, North Bennington, Vermont, concluded that the effect of 
the proposal on competition would be adverse. 

2389 
8/20/70 
-4-
After discussion, it was agreed that the report should be 
rewritten in terms of the Reserve Bank's conclusion that the effect 
would be substantially adverse. Accordingly, unanimous approval was 
given to the transmittal of the report in a form in which the conclu-
sion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed consolidation of The County 
National Bank of Bennington and Catamount National Bank, North 
Bennington, would eliminate competition between the two banks 
and some potential for increased competition between them. 
The number of banking alternatives in Bennington would be 
reduced from four to three and there would be a rather sig-
nificant increase in the concentration of bank deposits in 
the Bennington area. The overall effect of the proposed 
consolidation on competition would be substantially adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Farmers & Traders Bank, Shelbyville, Kentucky, into Shelby 
County Trust & Banking Company, also of Shelbyville, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Farmers & Traders 
Bank, Shelbyville, into Shelby County Trust & Banking Company, 
Shelbyville, would eliminate competition existing between the 
two banks. The resulting institution would control about 29 
per cent of the deposits in the relevant market and about 53 
per cent of the deposits of banks in Shelbyville. 
Overall, 
the effect of the proposal on competition would be adverse. 
Other actions. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 

2390 
8/20/70 
-5-
Item No. 
Letter to First Union National Bank of 
4 
North Carolina, Charlotte, North Carolina, 
deferring definitive response to the question 
whether it would be permissible for an 
affiliate of a national bank to make mortgage 
loans to bank examiners of the Federal Reserve 
System until after Congressional disposition 
of proposed legislation to amend the Bank 
Holding Company Act. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
5 
relating to the question whether a bank loan 
to a mutual fund would be indirectly secured 
by the fund's portfolio of securities held by 
the bank as custodian. 
It was understood that the substance of the letter to the Dallas 
Bank would be sent to all Federal Reserve Banks and to the Securities 
and Exchange Commission for their information. 
Elk Horn Bank and Trust Company. In order to improve its 
capital position, as requested by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
and the State banking authorities, Elk Horn Bank and Trust Company, 
Arkadelphia, Arkansas, was considering the sale of common stock or the 
sale of a serial issue of subordinated capital notes, each in the 
amount of $150,000. With respect to the latter, approval of the Board 
would be required under section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q, Interest 
on Deposits, which states that such obligations may be issued if the 
appropriate Federal supervisory authority has determined that "exigent 
circumstances require the issuance of such obligation without regard 
to the provisions (maturity) of this Part." 

8/20/70 
-6-
In a memorandum dated August 18, 1970, Mr. Leavitt expressed 
the view that "exigent circumstances" were not involved and recommended 
that the bank be so notified. 
Following discussion, unanimous approval was given to Mr. Leavitt 
recommendation. Attached as Item No. 6 is a copy of the letter sent to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis requesting that the member bank 
be notified of the Board's decision. 
Establishment of Edge corporations. 
In a memorandum dated May 12 
1970, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Legal Division 
discussed the question whether the establishment of Edge corporations 
by major banks at multiple locations in the United States should be 
sanctioned or limited to some extent by the Board. The memorandum 
explored the legal aspects of the issue and traced the development of 
Edge corporations. Among other points, it was noted that section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act does not restrict the number or geographic 
location of Edge corporations, but that no individual bank had estab-
lished more than one out-of-State banking corporation. With two 
exceptions, all such corporations were located in New York City. 
Pending before the Board were applications (discussed in 
memoranda dated April 1 and May 8, 1970, respectively) of (1) The Chase 
Manhattan Bank (National Association), New York, New York, and (2) First 
National City Bank, New York, New York, to organize section 25(a) 
corporations in Los Angeles, California. 
(The First National City Bank 

8/20/70 
-7-
application included an alternative proposal: the establishment of an 
agency in Los Angeles by First National City Bank (International), 
San Francisco.) 
It was the conclusion of the staff that the basic justification 
for permitting a single bank to establish Edge corporations at multiple 
locations in the United States was enlargement of the international 
financing facilities available to U.S. exporters and importers and 
others with international trade and investment interests. The argument 
in opposition to permitting a multiplication of Edge subsidiaries would 
stem from a reading of the legislative history. For reasons set forth, 
the staff recommended that the Board approve the pending applications. 
In a memorandum dated August 12, 1970, the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation recommended that the Board also approve the 
application of Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, 
San Francisco, California, to establish an Edge corporation in Chicago, 
Illinois. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the Chase Manhattan 
application to establish an Edge corporation in Los Angeles posed no 
problem in that it fell into a category previously approved, paralleling 
the establishment by First National City Bank of an Edge corporation in 
San Francisco. The application of Bank of America to establish an Edge 
corporation in Chicago opened up the question whether the Board looked 
upon the Chicago market as one having characteristics such as to justify 

8/20/70 
-8-
the establishment of Edge corporations there by banks outside of the 
home State. 
He was satisfied that the Chicago area met the requirements 
of an emerging international market and that approval of Bank of America's 
application was in order. 
In connection with the proposal of First National City Bank to 
establish an Edge corporation at a second location in California, 
Governor Brimmer said one line of argument in support of approval 
appeared to be that State-wide branch banking was permissible in 
California and Edge corporations should be allowed to follow suit. 
He did not agree. Congress had not made provision for domestic branch-
ing of Edge corporations. Consequently, he would deny the First National 
City application on the grounds that the bank had had an opportunity to 
choose its location within the region and had made its choice. 
Other members of the Board supported the view that a policy 
rather than a legal question was involved and that denial of the applica-
tion could be considered arbitrary, involving unnecessary interference 
with decisions of private business, while approval would tend to 
increase competition. 
Governor Sherrill indicated that, while he 
favored approval of the present application, the broader question was 
one which the staff task force studying policy questions relating to 
international operations of U.S. banks should take into consideration. 
Following further discussion, the applications of Chase Manhattan 
and of Bank of America were approved unanimously. The application of 

23<)5 
8/20/70 
-9-
First National City Bank also was approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting. 
Copies of the letters sent to the respective applicants are attached 
as Items 7-9. 
Private Export Funding Corporation. Governor Brimmer reported 
that in accordance with the understanding at the Board meeting on 
August 18, 1970, he had informed representatives of Private Export 
Funding Corporation (as indicated in his memorandum dated August 19) 
that the Board would not be in a position to approve its application 
to form an Agreement corporation^ but that the Board was prepared to 
approve investments in PEFCO by Edge corporations. During the conver-
sation PEFCO had noted that larger banks having their own Edge corporations 
might be willing to go forward in that manner, but question was raised 
about smaller banks that might not be prepared to make the minimum 
capital investment of $2 million required to form Edge corporations. 
Governor Brimmer had suggested the possibility of multi-bank Edge 
corporations, and PEFCO had indicated that it would explore that 
alternative. Arrangements had been made for further discussion with 
the staff tomorrow. 
(Note: 
Attached as Item No. 10 is a copy of the 
letter sent to PEFCO confirming the Board's position.) 
Governor Brimmer recommended that the Board adopt in principle 
a procedure whereby approval of investments by Edge corporations in 
PEFCO would be delegated to a member of the Board, the applications to 
be limited to a brief letter requesting approval of a corporation's 

23<)5 
8/20/70 
-10-
subscription to a certain number of shares at a certain cost. 
Governor 
Brimmer also recommended that the procedure not be put into effect until 
the Board formally authorized PEFCO as a permissible investment for Edge 
corporations, at which time the necessary amendment to the Board's Rules 
Regarding Delegation of Authority could be made. 
There was general agreement with the procedure outlined by 
Governor Brimmer. During the discussion, however, Governor Maisel raised 
certain questions on which Board policy did not appear to him to have 
been clearly defined. These related to the conditions under which banks 
should be allowed to participate in more than one Edge corporation and 
whether the establishment of an Edge corporation should be permitted for 
the sole purpose of investment in a single corporation, such as PEFCO. 
Various views were expressed, but there was no crystallization of 
opinion. Governor Brimmer suggested that in light of the comments the 
staff should proceed with its discussion with PEFCO on the assumption 
that, although questions might develop, as of the moment there was no 
reason to discourage PEFCO from considering the Edge corporation route. 
Chairman Burns remarked that an economic analysis of the issues 
involved in the establishment of Edge corporations (a "purposes and 
functions" paper) would be helpful to him, and it was understood that 
the staff would prepare such a paper. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
8/20/70 
UNttfED STATES Of AliERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD bt bOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON* D 4 C . 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
FIRST NATIONAL CHARTER CORPORATION,
 
1 
Kansas City, Missouri,
 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per
 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of
 
1 
the National Bank of Boonville,
 
5 
Boonville, Missouri.
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First National Charter Corpora-
tion, Kansas City, Missouri ("Applicant"), a registered bank 
holding company, for the Board
!s prior approval of the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of the National Bank 
of Boonville, Boonville, Missouri ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller offered 
no objection to the approval of the application. 
i 

ZIVJ7 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 17, 1970 (35 Federal Register 11542), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consid-
eration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and 
managerial resources and future prospects of Applicant and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the second largest bank holding company and the 
fourth largest banking organization in Missouri, has two subsidiary 
banks with $407 million in deposits, which represent 3.8 per cent of 
the total deposits of all banks in the State. 
(All banking data are 
as of December 31, 1969, adjusted to reflect holding company formations 
and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) 
Bank (deposits $9.4 million) is the smaller of two banks 
in Boonville, and is the second largest of 11 banks serving Cooper 
and Howard Counties, the relevant market. Applicant's two present 
subsidiaries are located more than 100 miles west of Bank, and it does 
not appear that existing competition would be eliminated, or significant 
potential competition foreclosed, by consummation of the present proposal. 

2398 
-3-
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consumma-
tion of the proposed acquisition would not have significant adverse 
effects on competition in any relevant area. The banking factors, 
as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank, are regarded 
as consistent with approval. Considerations relating to the con-
venience and needs of the communities to be served lend some weight 
in support of approval; Applicant proposes to expand the services 
offered by Bank, and to assist it in meeting the larger credit needs 
of the area, through participation with Applicant's subsidiaries. 
It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
xvould be in the public interest, and that the application should be 
approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, on the basis of the findings summarized 
above, that said application be and hereby is approved, provided 
that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 20 , 1970. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors 
Maisel, Brimmer, and Slierrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, and 
Daane. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

2 3 9 9 
Item No. 2 
8/20/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C . 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
ATLANTIC BANCORPORATION, 
' 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 
' 
80 per cent or more of the voting 
' 
shares of The Exchange Bank of St.
 
1 
Augustine, St. Augustine,
 
1 
Florida.
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Atlantic Bancorporation, 
Jacksonville, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of The Exchange Bank of St. Augustine, 
St. Augustine, Florida ("St. Augustine Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 

2400 
• 
i 
- 2 -
Banking for the State of Florida and tfequested his views and recom-
mendation. The Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on June 19, 1970 (35 Federal Register 10123), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board, 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the fourth largest banking organization in 
Florida, controls 15 banks with aggregate deposits of $577 million, 
representing approximately 4.7 per cent of total bank deposits in 
the State. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1969, adjusted 
to reflect bank holding company acquisitions approved by the Board 
to date.) On acquisition of St. Augustine Bank (deposits $23 million) 
and of Hastings Exchange Bank, Hastings, Florida, acquisition of which 
by Applicant is approved by the Board by separate Order of this date, 

2401 
- 3 -
ink ' T u ill tl 
Applicant would control 4.9 pet
4 tieht of duch deposits, and would 
remain the fourth largest banking organization in the State, 
Hastings 
Exchange Bank and St. Augustine Bank have been affiliated through 
common ownership since organization of the former in 1950, and, 
because of this and their geographical separation, no competition 
exists between them. 
St. Augustine Bank is the largest of three banks located 
in the relevant market, which encompasses approximately the eastern 
two-thirds of St. Johns County. The other two banks in that market 
are both subsidiaries of the State's third largest banking organization, 
a registered bank holding company. One of these is only marginally 
smaller than St. Augustine Bank; the other is a new bank which opened 
for business in April of this year. Applicant's nearest subsidiary to 
St. Augustine Bank is located 30 miles from the latter and does not 
compete with it. Consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
eliminate no existing competition, and it does not appear that it 
would foreclose significant potential competition, or have adverse 
effects on the viability or competitive effectiveness of any competing bank. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consum-
mation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect 
on competition in any relevant area. The banking factors, as they 
relate to Applicant, its present subsidiaries, and St. Augustine Bank 
are consistent with approval. Considerations relating to the 

2402 
- 
4 
-
convenience and needs of the communities to be served are also 
consistent with approval of the application. 
It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public 
interest, and that the application should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such time be extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 20, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns, and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, and Maisel. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governors Daane, Brimmer, and 
Sherrill. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

Item No, 
8/20/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
ATLANTIC BANCORPORATION, 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Hastings Exchange Bank, Hastings, 
Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Atlantic Bancorporation, 
Jacksonville, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Hastings Exchange Bank, 
Hastings, Florida ("Hastings Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Corr.missioner of 

2404 
- 2 -
Banking for the State of Florida arid ifbqiiested his views and 
i 
U i 
' 
. . f 
recommendation. The Commissioner recotorriended dj^roval of the 
application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 18, 1970 (35 Federal Register 10059), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and 
managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the fourth largest banking organization in 
Florida, controls 15 banks with aggregate deposits of $577 million 
representing approximately 4.7 per cent of total bank deposits in 
the State. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1969, adjusted 
to reflect bank holding company acquisitions approved by the Board 
to d ate.) 
On acquisition of Hastings Bank (deposits $4 million) and of 
The Exchange Bank of St. Augustine, St. Augustine, Florida, acquisition 

2405 
- 3 -
of which by Applicant is approved by the Board by separate Order of 
this date, Applicant would control 4.9 per cent of such deposits, and 
would remain the fourth largest banking organization in the State. 
The Exchange Bank of St. Augustine and Hastings Bank have been 
affiliated through common ownership since organization of the latter 
in 1950, and, because of this and their geographical separation, no 
competition exists between them. 
Hastings Bank is the only bank located in Hastings, an 
agricultural community with a population of 600, located at the fringe 
of a market centered in Palatka (Putnam County), 11 miles southwest. 
The larger of two Palatka banks (the only other banks in the market) is 
a subsidiary of Applicant; the other Palatka bank is a subsidiary of 
another registered bank holding company, and both are larger than 
Hastings Bank. 
Applicant's subsidiary in Palatka derives a small amount of 
business from the area served by Hastings Bank, and therefore some 
competition would be eliminated by consummation of the proposal. 
However, Hastings Bank does not compete in Palatka, and, because of 
its limited size and relatively remote location, exerts little 
competitive impact on the Palatka market. These same considerations, 
together with the State law's prohibition against branching, make it 
unlikely that competition between Hastings Bank and the Palatka sub-
sidiary would become significant in the future. The proposed acquisition 
would not have serious anticompetitive effects in any relevant market. 

- 4 -
2406 
Because of Hastings Bank's dependence on an agricultural 
economy, its deposits are subject to seasonal fluctuations; its access 
to the financial and management resources of Applicant through the 
proposed affiliation would result in improvements in its prospects. 
Applicant's ability to provide a broader service offering would also 
result in greater convenience to the area served by Hastings Bank, 
and these considerations provide support for approval of the application. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be consum-
mated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
unless such time be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 20, 1970. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, and Maisel. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governors Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

..^OfCOl^'. 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N • RS 
. 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ill! >7 
Item No. 4 
8/20/70 
A O D H E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B Q A P O 
August 24, 1970. 
M r . Thomas Grant, Jr., 
Senior Vice President, 
First Union National Bank, 
of North Carolina, 
Post Office Box 10498, 
Charlotte, North Carolina. 
28201 
Dear M r . Grant: 
In your letter of May 20, 1970, you inquired as to the 
propriety of Cameron-Brown Company, a mortgage banking firm, making 
mortgage loans to bank examiners for the Federal Reserve System. 
It 
is understood that Cameron-Brown is wholly owned by First Union National 
Bancorp., Inc., which also wholly owns First Union National Bank of 
North Carolina. 
Proposed legislation now pending in Congress to amend the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 does not contain any language that 
would repeal section 5(c) of the A c t , which authorizes the Board to 
"... make examination of each bank holding company and each subsidiary 
thereof . . . ." 
If the A c t , as amended, continues to authorize 
examination of all registered bank holding companies, including one-
bank holding companies, and their subsidiaries, the Board is of the 
opinion that subsidiaries such as Cameron-Brown would be precluded 
by law from making loans to bank examiners employed by the Federal 
Reserve System. 
There are unresolved questions, both legal and 
p o l i c y , as to whether System examiners should presently be precluded 
from borrowing from affiliates of national banks, and the Board believes 
that a decision now on the matter might later create hardships for 
examiners who have so borrowed if the proposed new legislation is 
enacted. 
For this reason the Board prefers to defer a definitive 
response to your letter until after Congress has disposed of the 
proposed legislation to amend the Bank Holding Company A c t . 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L . Carmichael 
Elizabeth L . Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2 4 f ) 8 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 5 
8/20/70 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 2 4 , 1970 
M r . Thomas R . Sullivan, 
Vice President, 
»Federal Reserve Bank of 
Dallas, 
(Station K ) , 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Dear M r . Sullivan: 
This refers to your letter of December 29, 1969, and subsequent 
correspondence transmitting the request of counsel to the First National 
Bank of Dallas ("First") for an interpretation by the Board of Governors 
on the question whether the bank's extension of credit to the Ling Fund, 
Inc. ("Ling"), a diversified open-end investment company registered pur-
suant to the Investment Company Act of 1940, is "indirectly secured" by 
the fund's portfolio of securities in view of the fact that the portfolio 
is held by the bank's trust department as custodian. 
The line of credit 
is acknowledged by counsel to have been extended for the purpose of pur-
chasing or carrying "margin stock", as defined in § 221.3(v) of Regula-
tion U . 
Accordingly, if the credit is secured, directly or indirectly 
by any stock, such credit may not exceed the maximum loan value of the 
securities of such portfolio, as prescribed in § 221.4 (the Supplement 
to Regulation U ) . 
In response to an earlier request, the Board determined that 
the portfolio of a registered investment company indirectly secured an 
extension of credit by a bank where the bank was custodian of the fund's 
portfolio (1961 Federal Reserve Bulletin 657; 12 CFR 221.113). 
In that 
case, the fund had agreed with the bank 
(1) 
that there would be an asset coverage of 400 per -
cent at the time any part of the loan was taken 
down 
(2) 
to maintain an asset coverage of 300 per cent 
at all times 
(3) 
that the fund would not amend the custodian 
agreement or substitute another custodian with-
out the bank's consent 

B O A R D 
QK. G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
24f)9 
M r . Thomas R . Sullivan 
- 2 -
(4) 
that the fund would not mortgage, pledge or 
encumber its assets elsewhere than with the 
custodian bank 
The Board concluded that this arrangement made the stock more readily 
available as security to the lending bank than to other creditors of 
the borrower. 
I 
Under the present arrangement., Ling agrees to maintain a 
fixed asset coverage at all times, including the time when any part of 
the credit is taken down. 
While there is no provision that Ling may 
not amend or cancel the custodian agreement, the fund cannot do so 
without giving First sixty days
1 notice, affording the bank adequate 
opportunity to call the loans. Under the fund's prospectus, to which 
the terms of the credit arrangement are subject, Ling is not permitted 
to mortgage, pledge, or encumber its assets. 
In view of these provisions 
the Board concludes that the arrangement between First and Ling does not 
substantially differ from that described in 12 CFR 221.113. 
Subsequent to publication of the interpretation described above 
the Board, by regulation, adopted a definition of the term "indirectly 
secured" (12 CFR § 221.3(c)). 
The Board stated that this new section 
had "been inserted to incorporate the substance of interpretations of 
the Board that are published at §§ 221.110 and 221.113, and to incorporat 
former § 221.3(f)" (33 Federal Register page 2706, February 8, 1968). 
Accordingly, the resemblance in practical effect between the terms of the 
arrangement between First and Ling and that described at 12 CFR 221.113 
indicates that such an arrangement amounts to "indirect security" within 
the meaning of the regulation. 
An examination of section 221.3(c) reinforces the Board's 
conclusion. 
The regulation states that the term "indirectly secured" 
includes 
" . . . any arrangement with the customer under which 
the customer's . . . ability to sell, pledge, or other-
wise dispose of stock owned by the customer is in any 
way restricted so long as the credit remains outstand-
ing, . . . " 
It is clear that Ling cannot dispose of its portfolio securities without 
giving immediate notice to First, or remove the portfolio from First's 
custody without a sixty day delay during which the bank can call the 
loans. 

B O A R D 
QK. 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
24f)9 
M r . Thomas R . Sullivan 
- 3 -
Although section 221.3(c) contains several provisos under 
which the general rule would not apply, none of these provisos appear 
to fit the present case. The first has to do with a situation where 
the restriction arises solely by virtue of an arrangement which pertains 
generally to the customer's assets. This proviso does not apply if a 
substantial part of such assets consists of stock, as they do in the 
case of Ling. 
Nor does the general rule apply if the bank "in good faith has 
not relied" upon the stock as collateral, particularly if the stock is 
held by the bank only in the capacity of custodian. 
It might appear at 
first sight that this language applied to the custody arrangement described 
above. However, in an interpretation discussing the question of good faith 
reliance the Board stated that 
" . . . while the question of whether or not a bank 
has relied upon particular stock as collateral is 
necessarily a question of fact to be determined in 
each case in the light of all relevant circumstances, 
some indication that the bank has not [so] . . . 
relied would seem to be afforded by such indications 
as the fact that (1) the bank had obtained a reasonably 
current financial statement of the borrower and this 
statement could reasonably support the loan, and 
(2) the loan was not payable on demand or because of 
fluctuations in market value of the stock, but instead 
was payable on one or more fixed maturities which were 
typical of maturities applied by the bark to loans 
otherwise similar except for not involving any 
possible question of stock collateral." 1968 Bulletin 
439; 12 CFR 221.117; Published Interpretations «J 6480. 
The first condition is clearly inapplicable in a case where the assets 
of the borrower consist almost entirely of securities. As to the second, 
the extensions of credit to Ling are payable on demand, or on very short 
maturities, a condition characteristic of collateral loans. 
Accordingly, 
none of the provisos in section 221.3(c) would have the effect of 
exempting the custody arrangement between Ling and First from the general 
rule of section 221.3(c). 
In view of the conclusion expressed above, First may not 
extend credit to Ling in excess of the maximum loan value of the securities 
held by the bank as custodian, as expressed in the current Supplement to 

B O A R D 
QK. 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
24f)9 
M r . Thomas R . Sullivan 
- 4 -
the regulation. 
It would be appreciated if you would transmit the 
Board's conclusions to counsel for First. 
Ver}' truly yours, 
(Signed) Normand Bernard 
Normand R . V . Bernard, 
Assistant Secretary. 

• * 
f W R E & V 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
2 4 1 2 
Item No. 6 
8/20/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 2 0 , 1970 
*Mr. Harold E . Uthoff, 
Chief Examiner, 
Federal Reserve Bank of S t . Louis, 
S t . L o u i s , Missouri 
6 3 1 6 6 . 
Dear M r . Uthoff: 
In his letter of August 13, 1970, Senior Vice President 
Isbell forwarded letters dated July 7, 1970, and July 3 1 , 1970, 
from Elk Horn Bank and Trust C o m p a n y , Arkadelphia, A r k a n s a s . 
In 
the July 31 letter the bank asked if the Board would approve its 
proposal to increase capital by $150,000 through sale of a serial 
issue of subordinated capital notes having an original maturity of 
less than seven y e a r s . 
Section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q 
provides that capital notes having an original maturity of less 
than seven years may be issued, with Board approval in the case 
of State member b a n k s , only when "exigent circumstances" exist. 
The Board has denied the bank's request since no "exigent circumstances" 
which would justify approval were brought to its attention. 
Please 
notify the bank of the Board's a c t i o n . 
Very truly y o u r s , 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . K e n y o n , 
Deputy Secretary. 

2413 
B O A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 7 
8/20/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E 5 P O N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
August 20, 1970 
The Chase Manhattan Bank 
(National Association), 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New Y o r k , New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association dated February 10, 1970, and Organization Certificate 
dated January 16, 1970, of Chase Manhattan International Banking 
Corporation, Los A n g e l e s , California, and there is enclosed a 
Preliminary Permit authorizing that Corporation to exercise such 
of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act as are incidental and preliminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K , 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the 
Board authorizing it generally to commence business. 
Before the 
Board will issue its final permit to commence business, the 
President, Treasurer, or Secretary, together with at least three 
of the directors, must certify (1) that each director is a citizen 
of the United States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital 
stock is held and owned by citizens of the United States, by cor-
porations the controlling interest in which is owned by citizens 
of the United States, chartered under the laws of the United States 
or of a State of the United States, or by firms or companies the 
controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United 
States; and (3) that of the authorized capital stock specified in 
the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent has been paid in 
in cash and that each shareholder has individually paid in in cash 
at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. 
Thereafter, the 
Treasurer or Secretary shall certify to the payment of the remaining 
instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 

The Chase Manhattan Bank 
(National Association) 
-2-
Your attention is called to the fact that Chase Manhattan 
International Banking Corporation will have no separate base under 
the foreign credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or invest-
ments will need to be made under the ceiling of The Chase Manhattan 
Bank (National Association). Accordingly, the foregoing approval 
is given with the understanding that any foreign loans and invest-
ments of the Corporation will be made within the guidelines estab-
lished under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as 
they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
bank and that due consideration will be given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

2415 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E : 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
August 20, 1970 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve A c t , as amended, has this 
day approved the Articles of Association dated February 10, 1970, 
and Organization Certificate dated January 16, 1970, of CHASE 
MANHATTAN INTERNATIONAL BANKING CORPORATION duly filed with said 
Board of Governors, and that CHASE MANHATTAN INTERNATIONAL BANKING 
CORPORATION is authorized to exercise such of the powers conferred 
upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and preliminary 
to its organization pending the issuance by the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System of a final permit generally to 
commence business in accordance with the provisions of said 
Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
• 
. 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2416 
B D A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
8/20/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 20, 1970 
M r . G . A . Costanzo, 
Executive Vice President, 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New Y o r k , New York. 
10022 
Dear M r . Costanzo: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated February 19, 
1970, of First National City Bank (International - Los Angeles), 
Los Angeles, California, and there is enclosed a preliminary permit 
authorizing that Corporation to exercise such of the powers conferred 
by Section 2.5(a) of the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and 
preliminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K , 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. 
Before the Board will 
issue its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
or secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
(2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
by citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
under the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States, 
or by firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned 
by citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized 
capital stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per 
cent has been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individ-
ually paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. 
Thereafter, the treasurer or secretary shall certify to the payment 
of the remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, in accord-
ance with law. 

2417 
M r . G. A . Costanzo 
-2-
Your attention is directed to the fact that First National 
City Bank (International - Los Angeles) will have no separate base 
under the foreign credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or 
investments will need to be made under the ceiling of First National 
City Bank and its subsidiaries. Accordingly, the foregoing approval 
is given with the understanding that any foreign loans and investments 
of the Corporation will be made within the guidelines established 
under the foreign credit: restraint effort now in effect as they apply 
to the foreign lending and investment activities of your bank and 
its subsidiaries and that due consideration will be given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kemneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

2418 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 2 0 5 5 1 
AUG 
2 0 1970 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated February 19, 1970, of FIRST NATIONAL CITY BANK (INTERNATIONAL -
LOS ANGELES) duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that 
FIRST NATIONAL CITY BANK (INTERNATIONAL - LOS ANGELES) is authorized 
to exercise such of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) 
as are incidental and preliminary to its organization pending the 
issuance by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of 
a final permit generally to commence business in accordance with 
the provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations 
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
pursuant thereto. 
^ ^ BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
-
 By-
(Signed) Kennath A. Kenyon 
K e n n e t h A . K e n y o n , 
D e p u t y S e c r e t a r y . 

2-119 
B D A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
' 
• F THE 
Item NO, 9 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
8/20/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 20, 1970 
M r . C. M . van Vlierden, 
Executive Vice President, 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
Bank of America Center, 
San Francisco, California. 
94104 
Dear M r . van Vlierden: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated July 8, 1970, 
of Bank of America International of Chicago, and there is enclosed 
a preliminary permit authorizing thaL Corporation to exercise such 
of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act as are incidental and preliminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K , 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the 
Board authorizing it generally to commence business. 
Before the 
Board will issue its final permit to commence business, the presi-
dent, treasurer, or secretary, together with at least three of the 
directors, must certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the 
United States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock 
is held and owned by citizens of the United States, by corporations 
the controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United 
States, chartered under the laws of the United States or of a State 
of the United States, or by firms or companies the controlling in-
terest in which is owned by citizens of the United States; and (3) 
that of the authorized capital stock specified in the Articles of 
Association at least 25 per cent has been paid in in cash and that 
each shareholder has individually paid in in cash at least 25 per 
cent of his stock subscription. 
Thereafter, the treasurer or 
secretary shall certify to the payment of the remaining instalments 
as and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 

mm 
Mr. C. M . van Vlierden 
-2-
Your attention is directed to the fact that Bank of America 
International of Chicago will ha^e no separate base under the foreign 
credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or investments will 
need to be made under the ceiling of Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association and its subsidiaries. Accordingly, the fore-
going approval is given with the understanding that any foreign loans 
and investments of the Corporation will be made within the guide-
lines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities 
of your bank and its subsidiaries and that due consideration will 
be given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

2421 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . E . 
2 0 5 5 1 
August 20, 1970 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
^Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated July 8, 1970, of BANK OF AMERICA INTERNATIONAL OF CHICAGO 
duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that BANK OF AMERICA 
INTERNATIONAL OF CHICAGO is authorized to exercise such of the 
powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental 
and preliminary to its organization pending the issuance by the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final permit 
generally to commence business in accordance with the provisions 
of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
(SEAL) 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(Signed) Kenneth A* Kenyon 
K e n n e t h A . K e n y o n , 
D e p u t y S e c r e t a r y . 

o i o o 
,OF GOV 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No« 10 
8/20/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
A u g u s t 21, 1970. 
M r . Nelson Schaenen, Chairman, 
Private Export Funding Corporation, 
53 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Dear M r . Schaenen: 
Reference is made to your letter of M a y 1.3, 1970, in which 
you applied to the Board to enter into an Agreement with Private 
Export Funding Corporation ("PEFCO"), pursuant to Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve A c t . 
Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act provides that Agree-
ment Corporations shall be "principally engaged in international or 
foreign banking . . . " 
The Board has reviewed the proposed organi-
zation and operations of PEFCO in relation to the statutory provisions 
and has carefully considered the arguments presented in support of 
PEFCO qualifying under these provisions. 
The quoted language of Section 25 differs from that of 
Section 25(a), regarding Edge Corporations, which are "organized 
for the purpose of engaging in international or foreign banking or 
other international or foreign financial operations . . . " 
It also 
differs from the language of the now obsolete 1919 amendment to 
Section 25 which temporarily authorized investments by national banks 
in corporations "principally engaged in such phases of international 
or foreign financial operations as may be necessary to facilitate the 
exports of goods, wares, or merchandise from the United States..." 
On the basis of the Board's study of the PEFCO proposal, 
the Board has concluded that PEFCO will not; be "principally engaged 
in international or foreign banking" and that accordingly it may not 
enter into an agreement with PEFCO under Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve A c t . 

M r . Nelson Schaenen 
- 
2 
-
However, the Board has concluded that PEFCO Is a corporation 
in which corporations organized under section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (Edge Corporations) might invest with Board consent, and 
the Board is prepared to approve such investments upon application. 
The Board would also be prepared to authoiUze the establishment of 
a new Edge Corporation to be formed for the purpose of enabling 
participation in PEFCO by smaller banks which individually could not 
be expected to own Edge Corporation subsidiaries or to establish them 
for this purpose. 
You also raise the question as to whether interlocking 
personnel, relationships between PEFCO and member banks would be 
prohibited by Section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 78) 
or whether Section 20 of said Act (12 U.S.C. 377) may be applicable 
to the relationships described. 
Based on the information submitted, 
the Board is of the view that PEFCO would not be subject to section 32 
since it would not be "primarily engaged" in the types of securities 
activities described in that statute. 
Further, it does not appear 
to the Board that any member bank would be affiliated with PEFCO in 
any of the ways specified in section 2(b) of the Banking Act of 1933 
(12 U.S.C. 221(a)) so as to call into question the provisions of 
section 20 of the Act. 
It should, of course, be noted that any 
substantial change in the facts that have been presented might 
require reexamination of the Board's position. 
Under the guidelines of the voluntary foreign credit 
restraint program currently in effect, the loans that would be made 
to foreigners and purchased by PEFCO would be exempt from the 
voluntary foreign credit restraints, which are applicable to the 
shareholding banks and to PEFCO, since those loans would be guaranteed 
by the Eximbank and thereby covered by the VFCR exemption for exemp-
tion for Eximbank-guaranteed or Eximbank-participation loans. 
Since 
PEFCO is a domestic corporation, investments by member banks and 
Edge Corporations in FEFCO are not to be counted against their re-
spective guideline ceilings. 
However, the Board continues to be 
concerned with minimizing the outflow of capital from the United 
States in view of our balance-of-payments problems. 
The Board 
therefore believes it highly important that PEFCO make every effort 

2424 
M r . Nelson Schaenen 
- 3 -
to secure from foreign sources as much of the financing of its 
operations as possible. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
