FR 609 
January 3, 1967 
Minutes for 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
7 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, January 3, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. 01Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal and Mrs. Heller, Senior Attorneys, 
Legal Division 
Mr. Gemmill, Chief, Special Studies and 
Operations Section, Division of International 
Finance 
Messrs. Maguire and Lyon, Supervisory Review 
Examiners, Division of Examinations 

10 
1/3/67 
-2-
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, 
1 
New York, New York, approving the establishment 
of a branch near Flatbush Avenue and Avenue U, 
Brooklyn. 
Letter to Allegheny Valley Bank of Pittsburgh, 
2 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch in Blawnox, Allegheny 
County, subject to an increase in the bank's 
capital stock to the amount required by statute. 
Letter to The First Pennsylvania Banking and 
3 
Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
approving the establishment of a branch at 
5601-03 North Broad Street. 
Letter to The Western Security Bank, Sandusky, 
4 
Ohio, approving (1) the establishment of branches 
at 603 Columbus Avenue and 105 West Market Street, 
and (2) an investment in bank premises incident 
thereto. 
Letter to The City Bank Company, Lorain, Ohio, 
5 
approving the establishment of a branch near 
Oberlin Avenue and Tower Boulevard. 
Letter to the Bureau of the Budget regarding a 
6 
proposed Executive Order entitled "Modification 
of Executive Order No. 11198 Imposing Interest 
Equalization Tax on Certain Commercial Bank 
Loans." 
The proposed Executive Order referred to in Item No. 6 would 
exempt from the interest equalization tax debt obligations of foreign 

m 
3 
1/3/67 
-3-
obligors acquired by foreign branches of U.S. banks. The draft reply-
to the Bureau of the Budget's request for the Board's views would have 
indicated that the Board favored the proposed Executive Order. However, 
during discussion a consensus emerged that the letter should simply 
interpose no objection and stress the need to watch the situation as it 
unfolded so that the tax could be reimposed promptly in the event of 
adverse balance of payments consequences. 
Form F.R. Y-6. There had been distributed a memorandum dated 
December 29, 1966, from the Division of Examinations and the Legal 
Division regarding a proposed revision of Form F.R. Y-6, to be used by 
bank holding companies in submitting annual reports to the Board. A 
notice of proposed rule making was published in the Federal Register in 
accordance with Board action on November 8, 1966, and copies of the 
proposed revised form were sent to the Federal Reserve Banks for com-
ments and suggestions. 
Comments and suggestions subsequently received had been reviewed, 
and the distributed memorandum summarized those of substance. Several 
suggestions involving language changes for clarification purposes pre-
sented no problems. However, the item requiring the reporting of owner-
ship of shares in financial institutions was the subject of complaints 
by several bank holding companies and the Association of Registered 
Bank Holding Companies. Among the objections raised were the problem 
of determining the percentage of ownership of mutual savings banks or 

4 
1/3/67 
-4-
savings and loan associations, the undue burden that the gathering of 
such information would place on reporting holding companies, the pos-
sibility of inadvertent reporting omissions, and the vast amount of 
information of an inconsequential and trivial nature that would be 
sent to the Board. 
It was felt that some of the complaints were valid. Accordingly, 
it was now suggested that with respect to mutual savings banks and sav-
ings and loan associations, the required information be limited to 
director and officer relationships; and that with respect to commercial 
banks and corporations owning a majority of the shares of a commercial 
bank, the percentage of ownership required to be reported be limited to 
25 per cent or more. 
Following summary remarks by Mr. Lyon, discussion centered upon 
the percentage of stock ownership that should be required to be reported 
in the interest of eliciting significant information without imposing 
undue burden. Some of the members of the Board expressed the view that 
a 5 per cent cutoff would be reasonable. 
There was agreement with Governor Robertson's suggestion that 
the matter be referred to the staff for review, in consultation with 
Governor Mitchell, prior to further Board consideration. 
Underwriting of revenue bonds. A suit (Baker, Watts & Co., et 
al. v. Saxon) had been filed in the United States District Court for 
the District of Columbia by a group of investment banking firms asking 

10 
1/3/67 
-5-
a declaratory judgment with respect to the ruling of the Comptroller 
of the Currency to the effect that national banks were permitted under 
the law to underwrite various kinds of revenue bonds. This 1963 ruling 
of the Comptroller of the Currency was at variance with the Board's 
long-standing position that the terms of the law prohibited member 
banks from underwriting municipal securities other than general obliga-
tions, and at the invitation of the Court the Board filed a brief 
reflecting the Board's views as stated publicly in the past. Subse-
quently, the Court issued an order granting the plaintiffs' motion for 
summary judgment and, at the request of the Comptroller, an order stay-
ing the effect of the Court's judgment pending possible appeal. 
At today's meeting Mr. O'Connell reported receipt of a telephone 
call from the Department of Justice for the purpose of obtaining an 
informal reaction to a course of action the Department proposed to 
pursue. The Department intended to appeal, on behalf of the Comptrol-
ler, the Court's order on the ground that the plaintiffs did not have 
standing to sue. However, in anticipation of a possible rejection by 
the Court of this contention, the Department would include in its 
brief, and oral argument if held, a full exposition of the Comptroller's 
interpretation and that of the Board (as stated in the amicus curiae 
memorandum filed by the Board in the District Court). The Department 
would, if possible, remain neutral with respect to the conflicting 
views of the supervisory agencies. 

10 
1/3/67 
-6-
The ensuing discussion turned principally on the means by 
which a review of the conflicting interpretations might be assured, 
and Mr. O'Connell indicated several possible courses the litigation 
might take. 
Mention was made that the question whether commercial banks 
should be permitted by law to underwrite revenue bonds would be con-
sidered by the Board when it discussed the legislative recommendations 
to be included in its Annual Report. It was emphasized that the Board's 
position as represented in the present litigation was based on the 
Board's views as stated publicly in the past. 
It was agreed that the Department of Justice should determine 
its own course of action independent of any expressed opinion on the 
part of the Board, but that the Department should be made aware that 
the Board favored a course of appeal that would assure a review of the 
conflicting interpretations and a decision thereon. It was understood 
that Mr. O'Connell would apprise the Department of Justice by telephone 
of the Board's view; also that he would prepare a supporting memorandum 
for the Board's records. 
Members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman, Young, Brill, and 
Solomon (Adviser) then withdrew from the meeting. 
Call for condition reports. Pursuant to the prescribed proce-
dure, the close of business on December 31, 1966, had been selected as 
the date for the fourth call for reports of condition to be made by 

7 
1/3/67 
-7-
insured banks within the calendar year 1966. The call was to be 
announced on Friday, January 6, 1967. 
The Secretary reported that in accordance with the customary 
practice a telegram had been sent this morning to all Federal Reserve 
Banks requesting that a call be made upon State member banks on 
January 6, 1967, for reports of condition as of the close of business 
December 31, 1966, on forms furnished with the Board's letter of 
December 19, 1966. 
The sending of the telegram was ratified by unanimous vote. 
Reappointment of consultants. Governor Shepardson referred to 
a memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administration dated 
December 29, 1966, submitting recommendations from four divisions for 
the reappointment of 22 consultants for the calendar year beginning 
January 1, 1967. 
The reappointment of the 22 consultants listed in the December 29 
memorandum for the calendar year beginning January 1, 1967, was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that the terms of reappointment in 
each case would be as stated in the memorandum. 
Arrangements with Mr. Furth. Governor Shepardson referred to 
earlier informal discussions of a recommendation from the Division of 
International Finance that J. Herbert Furth be appointed a consultant 
for the year 1967 on a when-employed basis, and he called upon Messrs. 
Solomon and Young for further comments. 

10 
1/3/67 
-8-
Mr. Solomon stated that Mr. Furth expected to be largely occu-
pied during the next several months on a project of the National Bureau 
of Economic Research referred to in the previous Board discussions. 
However, since Mr. Furth had been authorized to use office space in the 
Board's building while working on the Bureau's project, the Division 
of International Finance would like to be able to call upon him upon 
occasion for consultation, and it therefore recommended that he be 
appointed on the usual basis as a consultant for the current year. 
Mr. Solomon said he would estimate that at the most Mr. Furth would not 
be called upon for an aggregate of more than six weeks during the year, 
and he felt that the need for his services might be much less. 
Mr. Young stated that the study in which Mr. Furth would be 
engaged for the National Bureau had to do with the risks to the U.S. 
monetary system of the large deposits in this country made by foreign 
private holders. Mr. Furth was to prepare an exploratory memorandum, 
which was to be submitted to the National Bureau in two months' time, 
and a determination would then be made as to whether the project should 
go forward into a more detailed analytical study that might require 
approximately a year. Mr. Young felt that the National Bureau's study 
would be of definite interest to the Board and that the Board, having 
made office space available for Mr. Furth's work on the National Bureau 
project, might wish also to be in a position to call upon Mr. Furth 
directly from time to time. 

9 
1/3/67 
-9-
Governor Shepardson said that he would recommend that Mr. Furth 
be appointed a consultant on the usual basis applicable to consultants, 
at a rate of $75 per day plus expenses, when actually employed. This 
would not include the provision of secretarial services. Governor 
Shepardson also mentioned that if the National Bureau project proceeded 
there might be occasion for Mr. Furth to use some unpublished informa-
tion of the Board, mainly of a statistical nature, and that his recom-
mendation would include making such unpublished information available 
to Mr. Furth for the National Bureau study on the same basis that it 
would be made available to any scholar or academician carrying on work 
in this field. In response to a question, Governor Shepardson said 
that it was assumed that if Mr. Furth were to be called upon from time 
to time for very brief comments that would not materially interfere 
with his work for the National Bureau, these would not be considered 
as consultations to be covered by Board compensation; in other words, 
Mr. Furth should not be receiving compensation from the Board at the 
same time that he was receiving compensation from the National Bureau. 
He also felt that since the Board would be making office space available 
for the National Bureau study, the Bureau would not object to minor 
occasional calls upon Mr. Furth, although any use of his time for sub-
stantial portions of a day or for full days would, of course, be covered 
by the Board's consulting arrangements. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Board approved the 
designation of Mr. Furth as a consultant with the understanding that 

10 
1/3/67 
-10-
an appropriate letter spelling out clearly the terms of the arrangement 
would be addressed to Mr. Furth. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of International Finance dated 
December 22, 1966, recommending that Carl H. Stem, Economist in that 
Division, be granted a four months' leave of absence with pay beginning 
approximately January 1, 1967, to enable him to complete his doctoral 
dissertation. 
Memorandum from the Division of Administrative Services recommend-
ing an increase in the basic annual salary of Nathan L. Hunter, Messenger-
Driver in that Division, from $3,609 to $3,925, effective January 29, 
1967. 
Governor Shepardson today noted on behalf 
of the Board a memorandum advising of the 
death of Mildred E. Pilger, Assistant Chief, 
Records Section, Office of the Secretary, on 
December 14, 1966. 
Governor Shepardson also noted today on 
behalf of the Board a memorandum advising 
that Mary M. Maroney, Economist, Division 
of International Finance, had filed appli-
cation for retirement effective December 31, 
1966. 

1 1 
flip® 
••SjSSg!f>' 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
1/3/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T P T H E 
B O A R D 
January 3, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, 
New York, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Chemical Bank New 
York Trust Company, New York, New York, of a branch in 
the vicinity of the intersection of Flatbush Avenue and 
Avenue U, Brooklyn, New York, provided the branch is 
established within two years fromthe date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

B O A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
It
/
eir; No* 2 
•F THE 
^ / e y 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D O R C S B 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 3, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Allegheny Valley Bank of Pittsburgh, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Allegheny Valley 
Bank of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, of a 
branch at the northeast corner of the intersection of 
Center Avenue and Freeport Road, Blawnox, Allegheny 
County, Pennsylvania, provided the branch is established 
within one year from the date of this letter, and that, 
prior to establishment of the branch, the bank's capital 
stock is increased to $250,000, the amount required by 
Paragraph 3 of Section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act and 
related Federal statutes. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

13 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
1/3/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A O D R E 8 B 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 3, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The First Pennsylvania Banking 
and Trust Company, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The First 
Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, of a branch at 5601-03 North Broad Street, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, provided the branch is 
established within six months from the date of this 
letter. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary 

15 
* * » • » * 
BOARD 
O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
1/3/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 3, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Western Security Bank, 
Sandusky, Ohio. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment by The Western Security Bank, Sandusky, Ohio, 
of a branch at 603 Columbus Avenue, Sandusky, and a branch at 105 West 
Market Street, Sandusky, provided each branch is established within 
six months from the date of this letter. 
The Board of Governors also approves pursuant to the provi-
sions of section 24(A) of the Federal Reserve Act an investment of 
$462,794.11 in bank premises incident to the establishment of the 
branches. 
Very truly yours,, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branches; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

15 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R B 
O F THE 
Item No. 1 
1/3/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 3, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The City Bank Company, 
Lorain, Ohio. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The City Bank 
Company, Lorain, Ohio, of a branch in the vicinity of 
the intersection of Oberlin Avenue and Tower Boulevard, 
Lorain, Ohio, provided the branch is established within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary 

16 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 6 
OF THE 
1/3/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E 
O F 
T H E 
V I C E 
O H A I R M A N 
January 6, 1967 
The Honorable Charles L. Schultze, Director, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Schultze: 
This is in response to the Bureau of the Budget's letter 
of December 23, 1966, to Chairman Martin, requesting the views of 
the Board with respect to a proposed Executive Order entitled 
"Modification of Executive Order No. 11198 Imposing Interest 
Equalization £ax on Certain Commercial Bank Loans." 
The Board has no objection to the proposed Executive 
Order. However, the Board shares the opinion.expressed in 
Secretary Fowler's letter of December 22, 1966, to the President, 
that removal of the interest equalization tax from dollar loans 
by foreign branches of U. S. banks could lead to an outflow of 
dollar deposits from the United States. Moreover, there is some 
possibility that the opportunity to make long term credits abroad 
free of the interest equalization tax might induce U. S. banks to 
repay existing advances from their foreign branches sooner than 
might otherwise occur. 
For these reasons, the Board recommends that this 
situation be carefully observed following promulgation of the 
proposed Executive Order and that the legislative authority to 
reimpose the tax be exercised promptly in the event that con-
ditions so warrant. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
opgo^. 
J. L. Robertson 
