FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
June 1, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

137C 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, June 1, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
.Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administra tion 
Mr. Crews, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs , Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
also attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. 
The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on May 27, 1971, of the rates on 

137 
6/1/71 
-2-
discourits and advances in their existing schedules was approved unani-
mously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent 
to those Banks. 
The application of The Central Bancorporation, Inc., Cincinnati, 
Ohio, to acquire the successor by merger to The First Trust and Savings 
Bank, Zanesville, Ohio, was approved unanimously and the issuance of an 
order reflecting this decision was authorized. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 1, 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond (copy attached as Item No. 2) approving the appointment 
of John F. Rand as Senior Vice President and payment to him of salary at 
the rate fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. 
(As noted in the letter 
the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans had 
previously approved, under delegated authority, the payment of salary to 
one other officer at the rate fixed by the Richmond directors.) 
Consumer agency bills. After agreement was reached on several 
changes in a draft that had been distributed, unanimous approval was 
given to a letter responding to the request of the Subcommittee on Execu-
tive Reorganization and Government Research of the Senate Committee on 
Government Operations for a report on three bills to establish offices 
or agencies to represent consumers. A copy of the letter, in the form 
in which it was approved, is attached as Item No. 3. 
Substitute interlock bill. A memorandum dated May 28, 1971, 
from Mr. Cardon summarized the provisions of a draft bill developed by 

1378 
6/1/71 
-3-
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board as a possible Administration substi-
tute for the provisions of H. R. 5700 dealing with interlocking rela-
tionships. Attached was a draft reply to the request of the Office of 
Management and Budget for comments. 
Discussion developed agreement on a change in language relating 
to a point raised by Governor Mitchell. The letter was then approved 
unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
Munich meeting. 
Governor Mitchell and Mr. Robert Solomon 
reviewed the highlights of the 1971 ABA International Banking Conference 
<• 11 ... y 
*1 - } 
they had attended last week in Munich, Germany, along with Chairman 
Burns and Governor Daane. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1379 
Item No. 1 
6/1/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
THE CENTRAL BANCORPORATION, INC., 
Cincinnati, Ohio, 
for approval of acquisition of 100 per 
cent of the voting shares (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of the 
successor by merger to The First Trust 
and Savings Bank, Zanesville, Ohio. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by The Central 
Bancorporation, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio ("Applicant"), a registered 
bank holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acqui-
sition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualify-
ing shares) of the successor by merger to The First Trust and Savings 
Bank, Zanesville, Ohio ("Bank"). The new bank has significance only 
a s a means of acquiring all of the shares of the bank to be merged 

1380 
-2-
into it; the proposal is therefore treated herein as one to acquire 
shares of The First Trust and Savings Bank, 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent of 
Banks of the State of Ohio and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Superintendent recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 15, 1971 (36 Federal Register 7160), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for 
its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
such consideration the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the ninth largest banking organization in Ohio, 
controls two banks with deposits of approximately $501 million, repre-
senting less than 3 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the 
State. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 

1381 
-3-
through April 30, 1971.) The acquisition of Bank, with deposits of 
$24 million, would increase Applicant's control of deposits in the 
State by only 0.1 per cent, and its present ranking among banking 
organizations in the State would not change. 
Bank has five offices and is the smallest of three banks 
located in Muskingum County, all of which are headquartered in Zanesville. 
The two larger banks control approximately 43 and 30 per cent of 
county deposits, respectively, and Bank controls 27 per cent of such 
deposits. Applicant's subsidiary nearest to Bank is located in Marietta, 
60 miles southeast of Zanesville, and the nearest offices of the two 
banks are separated by one county and five banking offices. It appears 
that there is no significant present competition between Applicant's 
subsidiaries and Bank; that consummation of the proposal could serve 
to stimulate additional competition in the Zanesville area by severing 
a present relationship between Bank and the largest bank in Zanesville. 
It further appears that the proposed acquisition would not foreclose 
significant potential competition because of Ohio's restrictive branch-
ing laws and of the distances involved; nor does it appear that any 
competing banks would be adversely affected by the proposed acquisition. 
Based upon the record, the Board concludes that consummation of the 
proposed acquisition would have no significant adverse effect on 
competition in any relevant area. 

-3-
1382 
The banking factors and convenience and needs considerations 
involved in this proposal are consistent with and lend some weight in 
favor of approval of the application. Affiliation with Applicant would 
enhance Bank's prospects, and permit Bank to improve and enlarge present 
services in its trust department, and in its installment and mortgage 
lending. In addition, Applicant would assist Bank in researching the 
feasibility of establishing other branches in northern Muskingum County 
which is apparently in need of additional banking facilities. It is the 
Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public 
interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, pro-
vided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 1, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Daane. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1383 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R B 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 2 
6/1/71 
W A S H I N G T O N ' , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E : 
TO T H E 
H O A R D 
^LRtf;. 
June 3, 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Dr. Wilson H. Elkins 
Chairman of the Board 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Richmond, Virginia 
23213 
Dear Dr. Elkins: 
The Board of Governors has approved the appointment and 
payment of salary at the annual rate of $32,000 to Mr. John F. Rand 
as Senior Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
for the period June 1 through December 31, 1971. 
Also, acting under delegated authority of the Board, the 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans has 
approved the payment of salary at the annual, rate of $20,000 to 
Mr. Robert I). McTeer, Jr. as Assistant Vice President of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond for the period June 1 through December 31, 
All salaries listed above are as fixed by your Board of 
Directors as reported in your letter of May 13, 1971. 
1971. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

........ 
1381 
S ^ - 
B O A R D GF G O V E R N O R 
O F T H t 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
l t e m 
N o ' 
3 
W A S H I N G T O N , n 
C. 2 D 5 S I 
/ 1 / 
/ 
I 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
June 1, 1971 
The Honorable Abraham. A. Ribicoff, 
Chairman 
Subcommittee on Executive Reorganization and 
Government Research 
Committee on Government Operations 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. 
Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your request for a report f r o m 
the Board on S. 867, S. 1177, and S. 1205, all of which would provide 
for the establishment of one or m o r e new agencies to represent 
consumers and coordinate consumer affairs for the federal govern-
ment. 
One matter the bills do not include, and which we recommend 
be included, is the transfer to any new consumer agency of some of the 
existing consumer protection functions now lodged in various depart-
ments and agencies of the government. 
Among the functions that 
logically should be transferred to such an agency are those assigned 
to the Board under section .105 of Public Law 90-321, which requires 
the Board to p r e s c r i b e regulations for the implementation of the 
Truth in Lending Act. 
The responsibility of prescribing such 
regulations should be vested in an agency that devotes full time to 
consumer affairs. 
Furthermore, transfer of this rule-making 
function to the new agency would be m o r e consistent with the Board 
of Governors primary responsibilities in the field of monetary policy. 
There arc provisions in m o r e or less the same f o r m in 
each of the bills that would authorize the new office, agency, or 
bureau to obtain information f r o m other federal agencies upon 
request, unless compliance with such a request would conflict 
with other statutes. 
We anticipate that there would be little 

The Honorable Abraham A. Ribicoff 
- 2 - 1 3 8 5 
o c c a s i o n for e x e r c i s e of this authority with respect to matters under 
the B o a r d ' s jurisdiction, particularly if Congress accepts our 
recommendation to transfer the function of prescribing Truth in 
Lending regulations. 
In any event, the provisions r e c o g n i z e that 
such requests are to be consistent with responsibilities vested by 
statute in the agencies to which the requests are addressed. 
While we hope favorable consideration will be given to 
the B o a r d ' s suggestion, we favor the enactment of legislation along 
the general lines of the three bills b e f o r e your subcommittee. 
Sincerely, 

1386 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N • R S 
Item No. 4 
6/1/71 
O F " 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
, 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
A D D R E S S a r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
June 1, 1971 
Mr. C. William F i s c h e r 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative R e f e r e n c e 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dea.r M r . 
F i s c h e r : 
I am writing in response to your request of May 27 for the 
B o a r d ' s views on a draft bill relating to interlocks between financial 
institutions and other companies, and to ownership of c o m m e r c i a l 
bank shares by mutual savings banks. 
The Board believes that the proposed draft is too broad in 
scope and grants too much discretion to supervisory agencies. 
The draft authorizes the supervisory agencies to prohibit 
all interlocks among depositary institutions. 
While it is m o s t unlikely 
that the agencies would go that far, such a broad grant of authority 
seems unnecessary and unwise, when for a number of years the 
Clayton Act has incorporated an objective 
standard--geographic 
p r o x i m i t y - - t h a t has worked reasonably well as a rule-of-thumb to 
identify situations where interlocks would be anticompetitive. 
The 
Board believes that it is better to retain such an objective standard 
in the statute, with modifications such as a size test to prohibit 
interlocks among institutions that do business nationwide. 
M o r e o v e r , the draft would grant similarly broad authority 
to prohibit interlocks between financial institutions and. "non-depositary 
institutions, " such as insurance companies and sales finance companies, 
and interlocks between financial institutions and companies with which 
they do business. 
If, as the Board believes, a blanket prohibition of all 

M r . C. William F i s c h e r 
1387 
such interlocks would be gravely disruptive, the Congress should 
not be asked to grant administrative agencies such power, nor should 
administrative agencies be asked to accept responsibility f o r its use 
without: statutory standards indicating how it is to be used. 
The difficulties would be compounded by dispersing such 
authority among five different agencies. 
For these reasons, the Board favors a different approach, 
in line with Chairman Burns' testimony, and a proposed draft has 
been submitted in response to a Congressional request made when he 
appeared b e f o r e the House Committee on Banking and Currency. 
A 
copy of this draft is enclosed. 
The Board does not favor the prohibitions in the proposed 
draft against ownership of bank stock by savings banks. 
The draft 
would i m p o s e much m o r e stringent requirements, including divestiture, 
on mutual savings banks that own c o m m e r c i a l banks than Congress has 
i m p o s e d on other bank holding companies in the Bank Holding Company 
Act, as recently amended. 
In view of the standards established under 
that A c t to guard against possible anticompetitive effects of bank 
holding company operations generally, the Board seesno need to 
establish stricter rules for this special class of holding companies. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosure 

• 
1388 
Amendment Offered by Mr. 
to H.R. 5700 
•ike line 2 and all that follows through page 13 
line 11, and insert in lieu thereof the following 
Sec. 2. (a) Definition?; ana rules of eonstruer,j.on. — 
(1) The definitions and rules of construction set forth 
in this subsection apply for the purposes of this section. 
(2) The term '"depositary", used with reference to any 
organization except a holding company, characterizes it as a bank, 
a savings bank, or a savings and loan association. 
(3) The term "depositary holding company" means a bank 
holding company as defined in section 2(a) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 or a savings and loan holding company as 
defined in section'408(a)(1)(D) of the National Housing Act. 
(4) The characterization of any corporation (whether a 
depositary institution or not) as an "affiliate" of, or as 
"affiliated" with, any other corporation means that 
(A) one of the corporations is a depositary 
institution and the other is an affiliate thereof, or 
both corporations are affiliates of the same depositary 
institution, as the term "affiliate" is defined in 
relation to a member bank by section 2(b) of the Banking 
Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 221a(b)); 

n 
-
(13) one of the corporations is a depositary holding 
company and the other is a subsidiary thereof, or both 
/ 
corporations are subsidiaries of the same depositary 
* 
/ 
1 
J 
holding company, as the term "subsidiary" is defined 
in section 2(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
/ 
/ 
or section 40S(a)(1)(H) of the National Housing Act; or 
(C) more than 50 "oer cent or the voting stock of 
/ 
one corporation is owned in the aggregate by one or more 
/ 
persons who would also own more than 50 per cent of the 
/ 
voting stock of the other corporation if no person's 
ownership of any voting stock of either corporation were 
taken into consideration to the extent that it exceeds, 
/ 
1 
as a percentage of all outstanding voting stock of that 
/corporation, twice the percentage owned by that person 
/ 
of all outstanding voting stock of the other corporation. 
/ 
' ' :•'• 
' 
• • •'• • ' 
(5) The term "management official" means an employee with 
management functions, an officer, or a director, or any person 
who has a representative or nominee serving in any such capacit 
/ /" N 
p i 1 
I I ' - ' - " 
II 
- 
- . 1 
r 
•> 
(oj i.he term or n e e , usee with reference to a depositary 
institution, means either a principal office or a branch. 
(*/) Nothing in this section authorizes any relationship 
otherwise prohibited by section 3 of the Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 
19) or any other provision of law. 

/ 
/ 
/ / 
1390 
/ 
(b) T nvQG i n::;• i j- i og :. --A management official of c: depositary 
institution having total assets exceeding -$1,000,000,000 may not; 
:;orvo as a management official of ar:y other depositary institution 
nol: affiliated therewith and having total assets in excels of 
that amount. 
(c) (l>'0"L';r;,>lri.aal 
. --A management official of a 
depositary institution may not serve as a management official 
of any other depositary institution not affiliated therewith if, 
within any area comprised of any city, town, or vi 
f 1 T .or,-, 
r-.,1 
'vj CI* 
find any 
adjoining city, town, or village there are located an office of 
one of the institutions or any depositary affiliate thereof and 
an office of the other institution or any depositary affiliate 
tnereofj except that this prohibition does not apply during any 
period nou exceeding six months' duration when, according to 
/ 
uhe records of both institutions, they arc giving active con-
sideration to their merger or consolidation, or to purchase of 
a substantia 1 portion of the assets and assumption of a sub-
stantial portion of the liabilities of one by the other. 
(d) Cc. ,r,v. 
with nonde v 
corporations^.--A manage-
ment official of a depositary institution having capital, surplus, 
and undivided profits aggregating more than $1,000,000 may not 
4.vc. 
u *«*c.«A*agamenoj,xcLaj. o^coi.to*.<,*i~i.cn nou a*«.*ili.ated 
therewith waich is not a depositary institution and which has 

' ' 
1391 
capital, surplus, and undivided profits aggregating more than 
s 1,000,000 ii* that corporat ion is ia. a posit ioa to engage in sueh 
substantial competition with the depositary institution that 
the elimination of competition by agreement between them would 
constitute a violation of the Act of July 2; 1690 (the Sherman 
Antitrust Act), the Act of October 15, 1914 (the Clayton Act), 
or any other Acts in pari materia. 
_ , -(e) depositary holding companies.--The,prohibitions of 
subsections (b), (c), and (d) on service by a management official 
of any given depositary institution also apply to service by any 
• 
' ' J •1 • r. fj.:. / • , . t • 
' *. • •. • f* u 
>. •. •1 
management official of any depositary holding company with which 
it is affiliated. > 
(f) Penalty.-- Whoever willfully and knowingly violates any 
provision of subsection (b), (c) , (d), or (e) of this section 
shall be fined not more than $5,000. 
< 
Conforming Amendment to 
Effective Date Provisions 
\ 
H.R. 5700 
Page 27, strike lines 13 through 16 and insert: 
i 
(b) Section 2 and the amendments made by section 13 become 
effective on the first day of the fourth calendar year which 
begins after the date of enactment. 
