o/,: 
2 / : 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 29, 1969 
i 

O f 97 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, January 29, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
1/ 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman-
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell^./ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
w 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill2/ 
u i ... 
•1/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 
i! Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis trat ion 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
it 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
re 

I 
238 
1/29/69 
-12-
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
The following letters were approved unanimously after consider-
ation of background material that had been furnished to the Board. 
Copies are attached under the item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letters to (1) Wells Fargo Bank International Corpo- 
1-3 
ration, New York, New York; (2) National Bank of 
Detroit, Detroit, Michigan; and (3) Security First 
International Corporation, Los Angeles, California, 
granting consent for each to continue to hold stock 
°f Western American Bank (Europe) Limited, London, 
England, after the latter issues $20,000,000 of 
dollar denominated subordinated notes. 
Letter to Allied Bank International, New York, 
4 
New York, approving the establishment of an 
agency at 63 Wall Street, New York, New York, 
subject to certain conditions. 
Reports on competitive factors. Reports on the competitive 
factors involved in the following proposed mergers were approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
conclusion in each of the reports stating that consummation of the 

o 
/w 
1/29/69 
-3-
proposed merger (designed to facilitate acquisition of the existing 
bank by a newly-formed holding company) would have no adverse competi-
tive effects: 
Proposed merger of National Bank of Commerce Trust and 
Savings Association, Lincoln, Nebraska, with Capital 
City National Bank, also of Lincoln. 
Proposed merger of B. A. National Bank, San Francisco, 
California, and Bank of America National Trust and 
Savings Association, also of San Francisco. 
American Bancorporation. There had been distributed drafts of 
an order and statement reflecting the Board's approval on January 7, 
1969, of the application of American Bancorporation, Inc., Columbus, 
Ohio, which at present owned a majority of the voting shares of The 
Adelphi National Bank, Adelphi, Ohio, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of shares of The Harpster Bank, Harpster, Ohio. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
°f the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are attached 
u n d e r Item No. 5. 
Reports to discount officers. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated January 23, 1969, from Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations proposing a reporting system to the discount officers 
the Reserve Banks for the purpose of assisting them with respect to 
the principle of equal treatment for banks under similar circumstances, 
as referred to in the report of the Steering Committee for the Funda-
mental Reappraisal of the Discount Mechanism. In October 1968 the 

1/29/69 
-12-
discount officers had adopted a recommendation that the Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations select unusual cases from the quarterly 
reports of borrowings submitted by the Reserve Banks to the Board and 
distribute summaries thereof to the discount officers. 
It was proposed to distribute the first report to the discount 
officers the week of January 27, covering activity in the third quarter 
°f 1968. The report would be in substantially the same form as the 
quarterly summary presented to the Board, with the exception that the 
names of borrowing banks would be deleted. 
The proposed reporting system was approved unanimously. 
Employment of consultant. At the request of Governor Robertson, 
the Board unanimously approved the employment of Carl M. Flora as a 
consultant in the truth in lending function of the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation, with compensation at the rate of $100 for each 
day worked for the Board plus per diem and travel expenses in accordance 
with the Board's travel regulations. 
Adoption of Regulation Z. With a memorandum dated January 24, 
1969. Governor Robertson transmitted to the Board a final draft of 
Proposed Regulation Z, Truth in Lending. The draft reflected revisions 
to incorporate those suggestions that it had been deemed advisable to 
adopt after analysis of comments received following publication of an 
earlier draft in October 1968. All significant comments and suggestions 
had been discussed with the Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending, the 

301 
1/29/69 
-24-
aim of the staff being to achieve a practical, workable approach that 
would carry out the objectives of the statute without imposing unneces-
sary obligations that would result in higher costs being passed on to 
the consumer. 
The memorandum also discussed a number of points on which the 
Proposed regulation might be subject to criticism, such as the compromise 
Provision for dealing with inconsistent State laws; the decision not to 
accede to requests for a separate regulation for real estate credit; 
the decision not to adopt suggestions for exempting certain loans from 
the statutory right of rescission on transactions involving residential 
Property; the treatment of the initial add-on charge on credit cards; 
and the decision not to provide an exemption for agricultural loans. 
A draft of press release to announce adoption of the regula-
tion also had been distributed, along with alternative language suggested 
for certain passages of the release. 
Governor Robertson observed that work preparatory to issuing 
the regulation had run somewhat behind schedule. It had been hoped to 
issue the regulation on January 15. Although the requirements would 
Qot become effective until July 1, a great deal of time and effort would 
be necessary for preparation, reproduction, and distribution of materials, 
training of personnel, and education of lenders. He expressed the view 
that as many suggestions had been accommodated as was feasible in the 
light of the Board's responsibilities under the statute. There were 
some points on which corrective legislation should be sought. 

302 
1/29/69 
-24-
Governor Robertson described procedures contemplated for 
dissemination of the regulation and related information by the Federal 
Reserve and the other administering agencies, for training personnel, 
and for handling inquiries. He emphasized that the regulation as now 
Proposed was not a perfect piece of work and that experience under it 
would disclose defects. 
In response to questions, the staff commented on the general 
content of the communications that had been received. Comments on 
suggestions that had not been accepted essentially paralleled the 
discussion of such points in Governor Robertson's memorandum. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the staff extract from the 
comments received the ten or twelve principal issues and furnish the 
members of the Board a paper indicating how such issues were disposed 
°f and on what rationale. He felt sure that as members of the Board 
traveled around the country they would be confronted with many 
C<K>t}> 
inquiries. 
Governor Brimmer also suggested certain changes in the supple-
ment to the regulation in the interest of clarifying the use of 
Mathematical symbols. After discussion, it was understood that the 
arrangement would be changed as suggested. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that if it should quickly 
be 
come apparent that certain points created major problems, a prompt 
effort should be made to have the statute amended. Governor Robertson 

1/29/69 
-12-
agreed that troublesome points could be expected to bring a barrage 
rj f-i 
' ; , - ; , 
•' 
r * • • • «« 
of complaints and that corrective legislation should be request with-
it . 
. 
out delay. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, Chairman Martin suggested 
a - 
,s. 
. 
' 
' 
that it be ascertained whether Governors Mitchell and Sherrill had any 
. 
f; { ' •: 
problems with respect to the proposed regulation that they would like 
to have the Board consider further. 
(Note: No such problems were 
indicated.) 
The Board then unanimously approved Regulation Z, including 
Supplement I, effective July 1, 1969, subject to refinement of partic-
ular points in the light of today's discussion. A copy of the 
regulation as subsequently issued is attached as Item No. 6, together 
with 
a copy of the press statement announcing the Board's action. 
Governor Sherrill joined the meeting at this point and several 
members of the staff concerned with the foregoing agenda items left the 
room. 
Retirement System. A memorandum from Governor Maisel dated 
January 17, 1969, transmitted the report prepared by the Board's 
consultant, Professor Dan M. McGill of the University of Pennsylvania, 
the proposals submitted by the Ad Hoc Committee of the Conference 
Presidents and the related study of the Retirement System of the 
federal Reserve Banks (Bank Plan) prepared by Arthur Stedry Hansen 
Consulting Actuaries. A second memorandum from Governor Maisel, dated 
January 21, commented on and suggested that the Board consider in 

1/29/69 
-12-
principle a number of policy questions raised by the several reports. 
It would be understood that the specifics for final action would be 
arrived at through agreement with a committee of the Conference of 
Presidents, with the possible result that alternative proposals would 
be brought back to the Board. The questions presented were as follows 
(1) Whether the Bank Plan should be made non-contributory 
except for Social Security. 
(2) What choice should be made among the following formulas: 
(a) the existing pension formula: 1 per cent 
of final average annual salary plus 3/4 of 
1 per cent of final average annual salary 
above $4,800 times years of service; 
(b) 1.6 per cent of final average annual salary 
times years of service, less 50 per cent of 
Social Security at time of retirement; 
(c) 1-3/4 per cent of final average annual 
salary times years of service, less 50 per 
cent of Social Security at time of retire-
ment, with a maximum of 80 per cent of 
final average annual salary. 
h >:, •• , 
(3) Whether the Retirement System should allow members to 
withdraw or transfer their contributions previously 
placed in the annuity fund plus actual earnings thereon 
since 1934. 
(4) Whether an automatic dependent spouse benefit paid 
partially from the retirement fund and partially from 
group life insurance should be authorized. 
(5) Whether a fixed period of three years for periodic 
review of pensions to retirees should be established. 
(6) Whether a thrift plan with a choice of investments and 
withdrawals should be authorized, and whether the Banks 
should (a) pay for the administrative and investment 
costs for such a plan, or (b) contribute 25 per cent of 
the amount that an employee places in the plan up to 
1-1/2 per cent of his salary. 

305 
1/29/69 
-24-
o \ 
0l: 
(7) Whether Board personnel should be authorized to join 
such a thrift plan. 
(8) Whether the present system of investment of Retirement 
System funds should be shifted to provide for: (a) a 
general policy for the Banks' funds to be invested 
in a manner similar to that for Government trust 
funds; (b) annuities for existing and future retirees 
to be purchased from insurance companies. 
(9) Whether, as an alternative to all of the foregoing, the 
Conference of Presidents might consider amalgamating 
the existing Bank Plan into the Board Plan. 
(10) Whether all Reserve Bank Presidents, and perhaps First 
Vice Presidents, should be requested to convert from 
the Bank Plan to the Board Plan. 
In response to a question, there was a discussion of the 80 
Per cent limitation on retirement benefits. It was brought out that 
such a limitation, which paralleled one in Civil Service retirement, 
had been stipulated for the Bank Plan in 1964 when a pension formula 
was adopted that otherwise would have resulted in unduly liberal 
benefits, especially for longer-term employees. Mr. Sherman observed 
that many industrial pension plans provided allowances that ran above 
80 per cent of final average annual salary, especially when profit 
sharing plans and stock option privileges were involved, but aside 
from such special features, retirement plans in general did not 
Provide benefits equal to more than 80 per cent of final average 
annual salary. 
Speaking more generally, Mr. Sherman said the points that 
stood out to him from the study that had been made were that the Bank 

306 
1/29/69 
-24-
Plan was a good one and its benefits were competitive with those 
offered by the better employers. The work done by the Ad Hoc Com-
mittee, the Hansen firm, and Dr. McGill had been constructive and had 
Provided a needed review of the Retirement System. Although actuarial 
figures were not available regarding the cost of the proposals by the 
Hansen firm, the cost of Governor Maisel's proposals would obviously 
be somewhat less. 
The Bank Plan, with all its good features, was a complex 
one, Mr. Sherman continued. It would be considerably simplified if a 
noncontributory system was established. However, there would still be 
two plans, with the Board having to be the final arbiter for changes 
in the Bank Plan, and therefore the burden on the Board would not be 
reduced as much as it would be if the Board Plan were adopted for the 
Reserve Banks. However, the Reserve Banks had not been enthusiastic 
about such a possibility. Also, the Bank Plan was more favorable in 
some respects. Nevertheless, Mr. Sherman felt that it would be a 
good thing for the Reserve Banks to know more than most of them now 
knew about the Board Plan. 
The Board then discussed the policy questions that had been 
Presented, the first of which was the proposal that the Bank Plan be 
made noncontributory except for Social Security. Governor Maisel had 
indicated in his memorandum of January 17, 1969, that he agreed with 
fche recommendations of the Hansen firm, the Ad Hoc Committee, and 

307 
1/29/69 
-24-
Professor McGill that this change be made, especially since the 
present arrangement was contributory only to a limited extent. 
Governor Maisel commented that under the present set-up 
only about 15 per cent of Reserve Bank employees were required to 
contribute to the Retirement System. A number of employers who had 
established contributory systems at about the same time as the Bank 
Plan had now abandoned them. Contributions were made by the Reserve 
Bank, by Social Security, and by the individual, which meant that the 
trustees of the Retirement System were responsible to the individual 
for money contributed as well as to the employer. Thus, many ques-
tions had arisen as to the rights of the individual. 
Members of the Board expressed agreement with the proposal to 
make the Bank Plan noncontributory. 
The discussion then turned to the question of the pension 
formula, concerning which Governor Maisel's recommendation in his 
•January 17 memorandum read essentially as follows: 
My view is that the amount of pension benefit provided 
by the present formula places the Federal Reserve Banks well 
up in the top group of progressive employers in the business, 
academic, and public service worlds, and that no change 
directed at increasing pension benefits is needed or justi-
fied, particularly if the recommendation for establishment 
of a thrift savings plan is approved. At the same time, I 
concur with Hansen, the Ad Hoc Committee, and McGill on the 
desirability of changing over to an offset basis for inte-
grating with Social Security. 
Therefore, I would stay as close as possible to the 
present pension scale, with the exception of altering the 
current situation to include an offset rather than an over-
lap integration with Social Security. To make this possible, 

1/29/69 
-12-
I would recommend shifting from the present 1 per cent of 
final average salary plus 3/4 of a per cent of salary over 
$4,800 for each year of service, with a limit of 80 per cent 
of final average salary, to 1-3/4 per cent of final average 
salary times years of service, plus 1/2 of Social Security, 
with this total limited to 80 per cent of final average 
salary. It would also be necessary to guarantee that the 
minimum amount of Bank-provided pension be frozen at the 
allowance effective at the beginning of retirement and that 
people who, at the moment, would be better off under the 
existing system would be allowed to remain under the present 
contributory plan and to retire under the present regulations. 
The proposal for establishment outside the Retirement 
System of a thrift savings plan, with optional participation, 
would afford an attractive means whereby substantial additional 
retirement income could be obtained through the employee's 
savings—in many cases the inclusion of income from such 
savings could bring aggregate retirement income, particu-
larly for those in higher salary brackets, to well above 
the pension-Social Security maximum of 80 per cent of 
terminal salaries. 
Since Alternative #6 (the 1-3/4 per cent formula) produces 
larger allowances for every salary group and every period of 
service of 25 or more years than the pension-Social Security 
allowance under the present Bank Plan, it would seem that 
virtually all present active members would prefer the proposed 
formula to the present benefit, provided their past contribu-
tions also were used to provide an annuity in addition to the 
pension here discussed. For those whose benefits are sig-
nificantly below the 80 per cent maximum imposed by the 
Board since July 1, 1964, the net effect would be an increase 
in total benefits equal to the amount of the higher Bank-
provided pension. For persons whose aggregate retirement 
allowances under the present Bank Plan would exceed the 80 
per cent maximum, the gain would come more largely because, 
under the proposed plan,they would be permitted to receive 
the annuity purchased with their own contributions over and 
above the 80 per cent maximum. In other words, the 80 per 
cent maximum under proposed formula would be applied against 
the Bank-provided pension and the Social Security payment, 
and the annuity would not enter into that computation. 
Governor Maisel commented that the formula he proposed would 
somewhat less costly than the one recommended by the Hansen firm 

309 
1/29/69 
-24-
and endorsed by the Ad Hoc Committee; namely, 2 per cent of final 
average salary times years of service to 30, plus 1 per cent times 
years of service over 30, plus 50 per cent of Social Security. The 
formula of 1.6 per cent of final average salary times years of service, 
iess 50 per cent of Social Security, with an 80 per cent limitation, 
could probably be put into effect only by exerting pressure on 
employees through the fact that the Retirement System already held 
their previous contributions. Governor Maisel did not believe it was 
w°rth while to use such an influence upon employees in order to save 
the difference between that formula and the alternative he recommended. 
Governor Daane inquired whether the view that the formula 
recommended by the Hansen firm and the Ad Hoc Committee was too 
generous was based on a view that the pension-salary percentage was 
c°o high or on comparision with other governmental or progressive 
Private plans. 
Governor Maisel replied that the Bank Plan was a good one 
even in i t g preSent terms. Although the present proposals would 
^ake some improvements, it seemed unnecessary to go as far as the 
Hansen firm an(j tiie Ad Hoc Committee had recommended. 
Governor Daane then raised the question whether, in view of the 
°ver-all thrust of other plans, it might not be desirable to go to 
far side of the spectrum rather than the near side, even if it 
Waq not necessary. 

310 
1/29/69 
-24-
Mr. Sherman noted that the Hansen formula was different in 
nature in that its benefits peaked at 30 to 35 years of service, but 
from there on it was relatively less favorable. Thus a question was 
raised whether to cut down on the benefits that could be accrued 
alter 30 to 35 years. Any of the formulas being considered would 
exceed the benefits that the Hansen firm cited as adequate. 
Governor Daane again questioned whether the 1-3/4 per cent 
formula was in fact too generous in the light of trends toward 
including stock options and profit sharing in private pension plans. 
Mr. Johnson commented on the comparison between the 1-3/4 per cent 
formula and other alternatives with the Civil Service retirement 
Plan, f o r which the required contribution was expected shortly to be 
increased from 6.5 per cent to 7 per cent. Mr. Johnson believed, how-
ever, that the Civil Service retirement formula would move at some 
Point to a straight 2 per cent rate for all years of service. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that if Civil Service 
exPected to move to a straight 2 per cent in the near future, it 
w°nld be a mistake to adopt at about the same time a revised plan 
Providing only 1-3/4 per cent for the Reserve Banks. Governor Maisel 
°bserved that the increase to 2 per cent in the Civil Service pension 
formula was farther away than the increase to 7 per cent in the 
c°ntribution 
rate, and the latter increase could be balanced against 
1-3/4 per cent rate for the Reserve Banks. 
•„ 
. 
.• 
. z . . . . r • 

311 
1/29/69 
-24-
Governor Daane then expressed agreement with the alternative 
advocated by Governor Maisel, with its integration with Social Secu-
rity, but said that he would like to leave open the question of using 
a 2 per cent rate rather than 1-3/4. 
Mr. Johnson observed that it should be remembered that the 
over-all package of possibilities now presented included a proposed 
thrift plan, outside of the Retirement System but still sponsored by 
the Federal Reserve, that could provide a substantial additional 
benefit. 
e 
Governor Daane remarked, however, that while the proposals 
were linked together, no decision had as yet been made regarding the 
thrift plan. Since the proposals were being taken up one by one, he 
had thought it proper to raise the question of using a 2 per cent rate. 
After a discussion of the distribution of prospective retirees 
acc°rding to term of service and salary levels, the members of the 
Board expressed themselves in favor of the formula Governor Maisel had 
recommended, although it was noted that Governor Daane wanted to leave 
°Pen the question of the possible use of a 2 per cent rate rather than 
^3/4. 
fry* , 
Governor Maisel's January 17 memorandum had indicated that if 
a decision was made to discontinue future employee contributions to the 
Retirement System, a question arose as to what action should be taken 
W i th respect to the monies now standing to the accounts of the individ-
Ual members. These monies were derived from (a) required contributions, 

1/29/69 
-16-
(b) voluntary contributions, and (c) interest credited on both at the 
assumed or regular rate. The issue was whether the required contri-
butions and interest thereon should be retained in the plan or made 
available in cash or some other form to the employees concerned. 
There was no question about the voluntary contributions; they would 
have to be made available for refund, presumably with interest, if 
the employee so desired. 
The Hansen recommendation, with which the Ad Hoc Committee 
concurred, was that active employees be given the option of with-
drawing all contributions in cash, presumably with interest, or of 
having them retained in a segregated fund (thrift plan) and used to 
Provide additional benefits at retirement. Professor McGill felt 
nat the Retirement System would be morally justified in retaining 
the required contributions and interest thereon and applying the funds 
toward the costs of the benefit liberalizations being contemplated, 
^e suggested, however, that if failure to refund the required con-
tributions would create a serious morale problem among the employees 
af f 
ected, and if as a matter of policy the Federal Reserve wished to 
Permit withdrawal of the required contributions, there was precedent 
f°r taking such refund. 
Governor Maisel1s inclination was to make available the 
recluired contributions by permitting (a) transfer to the proposed 
thrift plan or (b) purchase of a single premium deferred annuity. 
Si 
n°e the required contributions had been accumulated to provide an 

313 
1/29/69 
-24-
annuity at retirement, this would simply mean that they were being 
used for the purpose intended and presumably as understood by all 
concerned. While the employees did not have a legal right to such a 
refund, he believed they had a moral right. 
Discussion reflected unanimous agreement on the part of members 
the Board with Governor Maisel's position regarding employee con-
tributions. 
In his January 17 memorandum Governor Maisel had noted that the 
Ad Hoc Committee and the Hansen firm recommended inclusion in the 
I 
Retirement System of an automatic dependent spouse benefit according to 
a certain formula, in the event a member of the System died or retired 
011 disability prior to age 65. Professor McGill had agreed that such 
Provision for dependent spouses and minor children was desirable as an 
employer-provided benefit. He concluded that the Hansen formula would 
ke satisfactory and would provide survivor income under all circum-
stances reasonably close to projected income needs. 
Governor Maisel favored providing a benefit of this type, and 
expressed the view that Professor McGill's suggestions regarding 
use of group life insurance rather than the Retirement System for 
Providing part or all of the benefit deserved careful study. Also, 
r°fessor McGill's suggestions regarding lump sum death benefits and 
limits on group life insurance impressed Governor Maisel favorable. 
He 
suggested that the Presidents' Conference be requested to study the 
matter further, with a fairly strong recommendation that a dependent 

1/29/69 
-12-
spouse benefit be provided partially through group life insurance and 
Partially through the pension system and that it endeavor to take 
account of benefits available to a dependent spouse not only from 
Social Security but also from other sources. 
The other members of the Board expressed agreement with 
G°vemor Maisel's suggestion, as well as with his view on the ensuring 
question on the list he had presented, namely, that it seemed desirable 
to have a mandatory review at least every three years of the pensions 
being paid retirees. 
Chairman Martin withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
The Ad Hoc Committee had recommended that a "money purchase" 
Plan be considered with a view to its adoption under the formula 
Proposed by the Hansen firm or some amended version. Professor McGill 
had recommended the adoption of a thrift plan and had provided a 
detailed proposal for establishing such a plan, to be operated outside 
t*le Retirment System and to be initiated by voluntary transfer to the 
Plan of the accumulated contributions of present active members held 
the Annuity Accumulation Account, plus interest thereon. 
Governor Maisel stated his view that the establishment of a 
thrift plan along the lines proposed by Professor McGill would be 
desirable. In his view, it would be attractive to employees and 
aPpropriate for the Federal Reserve. Its adoption would simplify the 
ac*ministration Qf th e Retirement System and would remove any basis for 
c°ntroversy regarding the disposition of earnings or capital gains 

315 
1/29/69 
-24-
on investments such as had arisen in recent years. He suggested that 
the Board indicate to the Presidents' Conference that it would be 
sympathetic to having the Reserve Banks pay the administrative and 
Investment costs for operating the thrift plan. 
Governor Maisel noted that the Hansen Report also suggested 
that the employer contribute 25 per cent of the amount that the 
employee placed in the plan. Professor McGill had recommended con-
tributions by the employer of 50 per cent of the employee savings 
(a maximum of 3 per cent of salary of participants), noting that 
this would make the thrift plan even more attractive and would be 
in keeping with prevailing practice under thrift plans adopted by 
a good many of the more progressive private employers. A clear policy 
Question was involved. 
Governor Maisel1s feeling was that either the 25 per cent 
contribution, up to a certain maximum, or the payment of expenses of 
Setting up and maintaining the account for each participant could be 
justified by the Federal Reserve. It seemed appropriate for the 
empl0yer to provide some small percentage of salary as an incentive to 
Saving under the safeguards suggested for the thrift plan. However, 
^ the Board should conclude that no matching contribution would be 
justified the thrift plan still would be attractive to a considerable 
number of employees, particularly if the Federal Reserve paid the 
^ministrative and investment costs. 

316 
1/29/69 
-24-
In response to questions, Governor Maisel described procedures 
contemplated for setting up the plan and the types of investment 
choices that might be available. In general, there would be some 
similarity to arrangements for health insurance, in which the employee 
could choose among several plans and annually had the right to change. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that the idea was good but 
that it might be advisable for the Federal Reserve to limit its role 
to defraying administrative and investment costs. However, his mind 
Was not closed on that point. 
Governor Robertson stated that he would oppose the making of 
Etching contributions, although he would be willing to have the 
System pay administrative and investment costs. 
Governor Sherrill spoke in favor of matching contributions 
as a clear fringe benefit. The thrift plan itself would be such a 
benefit, but he doubted that it would be generally recognized as such, 
believed that if a fringe benefit was to be provided, it should be 
0lle 
such terms that employees were fully aware of it. 
Governor Brimmer commented that he had no difficulty in 
accepting the thrift plan itself, but that he felt somewhat uncom-
f o 
rtable about providing matching contributions, partially for 
ad*inistrative reasons. 
The next question Governor Maisel had presented was whether 
o j* 
n°t Board personnel should be authorized to participate in a 
ttlrift plan if one was offered to Reserve Bank employees. He expressed 

317 
1/29/69 
-21-
1/ ... \/ c, 
the view that, regardless of whether Board and Bank employees were 
under the same pension plan, participation in the proposed thrift 
Plan could and should be made available to Board personnel. He 
believed that the Board could justify contributing to the thrift 
Plan or paying administrative and investment fees. However, he did 
.. . v u.i 1 • ^ 
not advocate that Board members be eligible to receive any Federal 
Reserve contributions under the thrift plan, partly because such 
contributions would add to their compensation beyond that provided 
by 
statute and particularly because of conflict of interest aspects. 
The latter consideration might also make it unwise for Board members 
to Participate in the thrift plan even without contributions on 
their behalf. 
Other Board members expressed the view that if a thrift plan 
W a s Justified for Reserve Bank employees, particicpation by Board 
Personnel was also justified. However, some expressed reservations 
about the making of matching contributions. 
Mr. Sherman commented that without doubt the contributory 
feature would be more effective in attracting employees to partic-
ipate than the payment of administrative costs. As a matter of 
Principie> he did not see anything basically different between 
Providing matching contributions and providing some of the fringe 
benefits the Board now offered, such as paying part of the cost of 
derating the cafeteria. 

318 
1/29/69 
-24-
Governor Robertson suggested one difference. While nearly 
everyone used the cafeteria to about the same extent, some employees 
would be able to avail themselves of the thrift plan to only a small 
extent while others could participate up to its limits. He suggested 
that when the details of the thrift plan became specific, a better 
„ 
. , , . • .. . . 
- .... 
judgment might be possible. 
The discussion then turned to the question of investment of 
" 
- 
• » , 
Retirement System funds. In his memorandum, Governor Maisel had 
Uui 
traced the history of investment of such funds. Professor McGill, 
while recognizing reasons for limiting investments in the future 
to Government securities, had suggested that the Federal Reserve 
could logically distinguish its function in managing its Retirement 
s 
ystem from its responsibility for managing the money supply of the 
. 
. . , 
nation. He felt that if the Federal Reserve were to decide that 
rational management of its Retirement System called for maximization 
investment yield consistent with safety, it could implement such 
a Policy by having the assets of the Retirement System held and invested 
• 
•• 
. 
-
y hank trustees or life insurance companies in accordance with broad 
guidelines and subject to periodic review. 
Governor Maisel's feeling was that the Retirement System 
s should be invested in Government securities. The ability of 
v li 
th 
e Retirement System to meet its liabilities was fundamentally a 
'Ji'^'J N.v. > , 
. 
"^ral obligation of the Federal Reserve System. If yields on Gov-
ernment securities exceeded the assumed rate of interest used in 

319 
1/29/69 
-23-
calculating pension fund liabilities, the rate of assessment could 
be lowered. If the yields fell below the rate of interest needed to 
meet actuarial requirements, then the contributions of the Reserve 
Banks and the Board would be higher—a general principle that would 
find supporting precedent in the operations of the Civil Service 
Retirement System and the Social Security system. He believed that 
the investment function could be performed efficiently and properly 
under an investment committee of the type now provided for by the 
Rules and Regulations, but he urged that serious consideration be 
given to purchasing from two or more life insurance companies 
annuities for presently retired members. Whether the System moved 
to a noncontributory basis, as recommended, or whether it remained 
contributory, the objective of investment policy should be to 
Provide a sound pension fund that could meet its liabilities, and 
•.I. J 
8 could be done in his judgment, by limiting investments to 
Government securities. 
The proposed establishment of a thrift plan outside the 
p . , 
, 
irement System presented a different investment problem, and it 
as Governor Maisel's recommendation that its establishment be con-
•^•tioned upon the placement of its funds with an investment agency 
utside the Retirement System, with the understanding that within 
the 
e limits of administrative feasibility participating employees 
0uld have a choice of placing them in a Government bond account 
or in available equity or diversified funds selected by the agent. 

320 
1/29/69 
-24-
Governor Maisel, in discussing investment policy, pointed 
out that the present system contained risks of accusations of conflict 
of interest, in that Reserve Bank Presidents who attended meetings of 
the Federal Open Market Committee also consulted with the bank that 
handled Retirement System investments about the application of funds. 
Whether or not there was in fact a conflict of interest, public focus 
the conduct of retirement funds had greatly sharpened in recent 
years. 
Other Board members expressed support for the view that the 
Questions of investment policy and the procedures under which invest-
ments were made deserved further study. While they did not necessarily 
agree that there was any real conflict of interest under the present 
arrangement, the appearance and potential of one were admittedly 
Present. 
i 
With respect to the ninth question, relating to the possible 
advantages of amalgamating the existing Bank Plan into the Board Plan, 
G°vernor Maisel had made no recommendation but had presented in his 
memorandum arguments for and against such a move. 
In response to an inquiry, Governor Maisel indicated that he 
not think an amalgamation was a serious possibility. Mr. Sherman 
commented that while he would not advise exerting any pressure for 
amalgams 
he thought it would be well for the Reserve Bank 
Pr-esidents to know more about the Board Plan. At present, he believed 
they had a number of misconceptions about it. 

1/29/69 
-12-
During further discussion there was general agreement that 
Information regarding the Board Plan should be offered to the Reserve 
Bank Presidents, without pressure to amalgamate the plans unless the 
Presidents themselves wished to pursue the possibility. 
With respect to the tenth and final question he had raised, 
Governor Maisel stated that regardless of what consideration was 
given to converting the Bank Plan to the Board Plan, he believed that 
the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks—and perhaps the First 
Vice Presidents—should make such a shift. The basic reason would 
be to eliminate or at least minimize the conflict of interest that 
now existed in having the Presidents serve ex officio as trustees of 
the Retirement System, and thus as top management representatives 
°f the Reserve Banks in connection with all policy matters regarding 
the Retirment System, and at the same time having them function as 
the dominant influence on the scale of benefits payable to themselves 
as beneficiaries of the Retirement System. The shift was also 
•*-°gical for the Presidents by reason of their association with the 
Federal Open Market Committee. 
Advantages and disadvantages of such a shift were discussed, 
w^th mixed views expressed by Board members. Among the actions 
taken into account was the attitude that might be held by the Presidents, 
which at this point was not clear. In view of the divided opinion 
within the Board, it was suggested that the possibility of the shift 
b e explored fully, with an open-minded approach. Accordingly, there 

' ) 9 9 
1/29/69 
-26-
was agreement with a proposal by Governor Robertson that the question 
he opened up with the Presidents for complete discussion, although 
without a tone of insistence, particularly since other arrangements 
for insulating the Presidents from conflict of interest implications 
were also going to be explored. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that 
Governors Maisel and Brimmer and Mr. Sherman would serve as a com-
mittee to meet with a committee of the Conference of Presidents 
regarding the Retirement System proposals, with the understanding 
that Governor Daane should feel free to participate in any way he 
wished with special reference to his view that the question of a 
Per cent pension formula should be left open for consideration. 
Governor Mitchell then joined the meeting, as did Mrs. Heller, 
Adviser, Legal Division, and a number of the members of the staff 
who had been present withdrew. 
r.:yi ..... 
. 
, 
Labor relations. Pursuant to recent discussions, the Board 
had been furnished memoranda from Mr. Johnson dated January 23 and 28 
and from Mr. Hexter dated January 23, 1969, bearing upon the approach 
t° be taken in formulating a System labor-management policy. Infor-
mation was set forth regarding the qualifications of various persons 
who had been suggested for consideration in selecting a consultant 
°n labor-management relations. 
During discussion at today's meeting several names were 
dropped from the list of persons who might be considered for 
\ 

1/29/69 
-27-
various reasons, and one addition was made. The principal discussion, 
however, related to the question whether the Board should use as a 
general framework for a System policy the terms of Executive Order 10988 
whether it would be preferable to adopt a different approach. 
Questions were raised whether this decision should be reached first, 
and the consultant selected according to his expertise in whichever 
approach was chosen, or whether the consultant should be engaged first 
and his services used to facilitate the decision. 
Governor Sherrill expressed the view that the consultant should 
advise on three principal questions: (1) whether a System policy 
should or should not be stated formally; (2) whether the Reserve Banks 
should or should not permit union elections; and (3) whether the 
System policy should be geared to Executive Order 10988 or some other 
aPProach. 
Various views were presented on how the questions mentioned by 
ernor Sherrill might best be approached, and on how the services of 
c°nsultant might most effectively be utilized. However, there was 
general agreement that the formulation of a uniform System policy was 
°rder and that there was need for expert advice on the formulation of 
Uch a policy. Accordingly, after further discussion it was understood 
that Governor Sherrill would explore the availability of the several 
rsons included on the revised list of possible consultant appointees. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

of Gov • •. 
B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
1/29/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 29, 1969. 
Wells Fargo Bank 
International Corporation, 
40 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen: 
^ i l L 
T 
j 
, - _ 
(^g 
i n accordance with the request contained in your letter 
. 
January 7, 1969, the Board of Governors grants its consent for 
y°ur Corporation to continue to hold the stock of Western American 
ank (Europe) Limited ("WAB"), London, England, after WAB issues 
,000,000 of dollar-denominated subordinated notes maturing in 
rive years. 
of d 
W i t h r e s p e c t t o W A B ' S issuance of medium-term certificates 
^ 
eposits, the Board does not construe Section 211.4 of Regulation K 
r e c
a? p l y i? 8 t o t h e issuance of obligations which evidence deposits 
ceived in the ordinary course of a banking business. 
1- -vsp-m 
r , . 
T h e Board still has under consideration your request 
d e n t ^ 8 
W A B ' S accIuisition of conversion rights or warrants inci-
a 
al to its medium-term extensions of credit, and you may expect 
response in due course. 
°f th 
I n c o n c l u s i o n > your attention is called to the last sentence 
that 
s e c o n d paragraph of your January 7 letter. Please be advised 
1968 t h e B° a r d d i d 
waive any statutory limitations in its December 4 
letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
1/29/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 29, 1969. 
National Bank of Detroit, 
Detroit, Michigan. 48232 
yti.l j 
. .. ' | •,• 
t V-'''. 
Gentlemen: 
Clan!; 1 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
January 14, 1969, the Board of Governors grants its consent for 
your bank to continue to hold the stock of Western American Bank 
(Europe) Limited ("WAB"), London, England, after WAB issues $20,000,000 
°f dollar-denominated subordinated notes maturing in five years. 
With respect to WAB's issuance of medium-term certificates 
o f deposits, the Board does not construe Section 211.4 of Regula-
tion K as applying to the issuance of obligations which evidence 
Posits received in the ordinary course of a banking business. 
• 1 ^ 
£ • ' 
, . 
I • • • 
. 
' , . 
The Board still has under consideration your request 
plating to WAB's acquisition of conversion rights or warrants in-
mental to its medium-term extensions of credit, and you may expect 
response in due course. 
In conclusion, your attention is called to the last sentence 
seconcl paragraph of your January 14 letter. Please be advised 
a t the Board did not waive any statutory limitations in its 
Member 4, 1968, letter. 
Very truly yours, 
>;' -
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 3 
OVCOW'.. 
• F T H E 
1/29/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
• 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R D 
y^-Ki.^.-' 
January 29, 1969. 
Security First International Corporation, 
p« 0. Box 2097, Terminal Annex, 
Los Angeles, California. 90054 
Gentl emenj 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
o f January 13, 1969, the Board of Governors grants its consent for 
your Corporation to continue to hold the stock of Western American 
Bank (Europe) Limited ("WAB"), London, England, after WAB issues 
^ 0 , 0 0 0 , 0 0 0 of d ollar-denominated subordinated notes maturing in 
five years. 
. -"'.it':s i 
»."••* 
v. 
With respect to WAB1s issuance of medium-term certificates 
deposits, the Board does not construe Section 21184 of Regula-
tion K as applying to the issuance of obligations which evidence 
ePosits received in the ordinary course of a banking business. 
The Board still has under consideration your request 
relating to WAB1s acquisition of conversion rights or warrants in-
ental to its medium-term extensions of credit, and you may expect 
a response in due course. 
• i- •!-!, \ I • 
In conclusion, your attention is called to the last 
®entence of the second paragraph of your January 13 letter. Please 
e advised that the Board did not waive any statutory limitations 
l n its December 4, 1968, letter. 
u : - • 
,, ,. • 
. 
» . 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B C D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
327 
Item No. 4 
1/29/69 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D . T H E 
B O A R D 
January 29, 1969. 
Allied Bank International, 
Post Office Box 3076, 
Church Street Station, 
New York, New York. 10008 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of January 8, 1969, 
requesting the Board's approval, if necessary, for the establishment 
an office at 63 Wall Street. You advise that the functions of 
the Wall Street facility will consist of certain routine operational 
activities, whereas all direct contact with the public will be 
a t your head office in mid town Manhattan. 
In the particular circumstances of this case, the Board 
grants its approval under § 211.6(a) of Regulation K for your Bank 
t° establish an agency at 63 Wall Street, New York, New York, 
subject to the following conditions: (a) That the activities 
Performed at the agency be limited to the types specified in your 
etter of January 8, 1969; (b) that the agency have no contact 
^rth customers or the public, with the exception of messengers; 
that no cash transactions take place at the agency; (d) that no 
officers with loan authority be located there; and (e) that after 
G notice the agency v/ill be discontinued whenever the Board may 
S o require. 
-..ft.-,". 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

328 
Item No. 5 
1/29/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Itl the Matter of the Application of 
1 
AFRICAN BANCORPORATION, INC., 
1 
Columbus, Ohio, 
1 
j-0* approval of action to become a 
1 
ank holding company through the 
1 
acquisition of 95 per cent or more 
1 
the voting shares of The Harpster 
' 
Bank, Harpster, Ohio. 
1 
* -
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
8ection 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(l2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Re8ulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by American Bancorporation, 
*nc., Columbus, Ohio, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
Applicant, which presently owns a majority of the voting shares of 
Adelphi National Bank, Adelphi, Ohio, would become a bank holding 
ConiPany through the acquisition of 95 per cent or more of the voting 
Sh 
ares of The Harpster Bank, Harpster, Ohio. 
The application, originally filed in September 1967, was 
Placed in suspense at Applicant's request in order to permit amendment 
o f the proposal, and was reactivated in November 1968. As required by 
8eetl°n 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of receipt of 
th 
6 application and subsequently filed amendments to the Superintendent 

329 
-11-
Banks for the State of Ohio, and requested his views and 
recommendation thereon. The Superintendent indicated that he could 
n o t recommend either approval ct disapproval of the application based 
uP°n his limited experience with Applicant. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
federal Register on October 3, 1967 (32 Federal Register 13790), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction, A copy of the 
aPplication and subsequently filed amendments was forwarded to the 
^ited States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for 
filing comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
St 
atement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) later 
tllan three month3 after the date of the Order, unless such period is 
e*tended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
^eyeland pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 29th day of January, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
%% 
APPLICATION BY 
AMERICAN BANCORPORATION, INC., COLUMBUS, OHIO, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
American Bancorporation, Inc., Columbus, Ohio ("Applicant"), 
hi 
108 filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
, i 'Sj -l\ 
•.»• 
Hol A n3 Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to 
IjfjCGm 
e a bank holdins company. Applicant, which presently owns a 
^'•^V-^V,;:: 
£•'.•' 
t ^ ;•» & • ?.": 
ov..c 
V « : 
J°rity of the voting shares of The Adelphi National Bank, Adelphi, 
i o ("Adelphi Bank"), would become a bank holding company through 
the 
acquisition of 95 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
The Harpster Bank, Harpster, Ohio ("Harpster Bank"). 
. Adelphi Bank and Harpster Bank, each of which has only one 
of£tce 
c> are located 120 miles apart and have deposits of $2.3 million 
and 
o 
1 / 
million, respectively. x / 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
^ u l*ed by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the appli-
_ atio^ was given to, and views and recommendation requested of, the 
hanking data are as of June 99, 1968, unless otherwise noted. 

331 
-11-
Superintendent of Banks for the State of Ohio. The Superintendent 
indicated that, based upon his limited experience with Applicant and 
its management, he could not recommend favorable action on the appli-
cation, but that he did not recoarnend its disapproval. 
Statutory considerations - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a m°nopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acc*uisit:ion the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
°r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
fche Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
e^fect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
oromunity to be served. In each case the Board is required to take 
l n t o c°nsideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Pr°spects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and 
the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Consummation 
^PPlicant's proposal would have virtually no effect on concentration 
of k anting resources in the State of Ohio. Applicant, whose two banking 

subsidiaries would have a total of two offices and hold aggregate 
deposits of about $6 million, would control about .03 per cent of 
the total deposits in the State, and would rank, by size, among the 
lower half of the State's banking organizations. 
Adelphi Bank is the only bank in Adelphi, Ohio (population 450), 
which is located about 60 miles southeast of Columbus. It is the 
•Bailer of two banks located in the area which it serves, the smallest 
13 banks which compete to some extent for business originating in 
fche area, and the sixth largest of seven banks in Ross County. 
Harpster Bank is the only bank in Harpster, Ohio (population 
which is located about 55 miles northwest of Columbus. It is 
the smallest of three banks located in the area which it serves, the 
ighth largest of nine banks which compete to some extent for business 
°rl-3inating in the area, and the fifth largest of six banks in Wyandot 
County. 
Adelphi Bank and Harpster Bank do not presently compete with 
each ot-ii 
°tners and their size, the distance between them, and State law, 
restricts branching to a bank's home office county, preclude any 
Furth( 
aaonable likelihood of such competition developing in the future. 
er, any increase in the competitive ability of either of the 
kject banks which might result from consummation of Applicant's 
Propos 
can reasonably be anticipated to improve customer alternatives 
°ut undue adverse effects on competing banks. 

4 
333 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that the 
fiction proposed will not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance 
o f any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the business 
o f banking in any relevant area, and will not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any 
8ection of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Th 
e financial condition and prospects of Applicant, as well as Adelphi 
R i 
and Harpster Bank, are regarded as satisfactory. Management of 
Applicant is headed by its President, who also serves as Vice President 
of Adelphi Bank and as President and Chief Executive Officer of Harpster 
» cne stock of which is presently owned by directors of Applicant. 
Ihi 
8 individual, an attorney, appears competent despite limited banking 
*Pe*ience, and the overall management of Applicant and the two subject 
banks 4 
is regarded as reasonably satisfactory. 
Considerations under the banking factors are regarded as 
c°nsiatent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
bankin 
ng needs of the rural areas served by Adelphi Bank and Harpster 
Bank 
appear to be presently served in an adequate manner. Applicant 
v*-sions a holding company which, in the future, will be composed of 
rtlerous small rural banks, and anticipates building a staff of experts 
assist such banks in their common problems and to provide capability 
f°r o Bering services which otherwise would be unavailable to the 

334 
-11-
communities which they serve. The developments envisioned by Applicant 
could be beneficial to the Adelphi and Harpster communities, but the 
immediate effects of the present proposal, while consistent with 
approval of the application, provide no significant weight in favor 
hereof. 
W.&JVjjr r ;; 
, 
" . . . 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
8ection 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
8h<>uld be approved. 
January 29, 1969. 
h : • i 
• " s v ..: , 

Item No 
1/29/69 
p r release in morning papers, 
February 7, 1969. 
Monday, February 10, 1969. 
" * * 
_ 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
m a d e PufaUc the final regulation the nation's creditors must follow 
in carrying out provisions of the Truth in Lending Act adopted by 
c°ngress last year. Regulation Z, as it is formally designated, will 
tequire disclosure of credit terms on virtually all types of consumer 
Cre<Ut beginning July 1, 1969, the date specified in the law. 
The regulation spells out not only the disclosures--including 
finance charge and annual percentage rate--that must be made by 
reditors but also the manner in which they must be made. It covers 
the 
right of a customer to cancel some types of consumer credit arrange-
n t S w i t hin three business days if his residence is used as collateral, 
c s standards for advertising credit terms. 
V - V ' 4 f In approving the Truth in Lending Act, Congress said the 
inf 
0r®ed use of credit stems from awareness of its cost. Truth in 
8 fixes no maximum or minimum charges for credit. Purposes of 
the law 
and the regulation implementing it are to make customers aware 
of the c cost of credit and to permit them to compare the terms available 
^otn a variety of credit sources. 
Regulation Z applies to banks, savings and loan associations, 
^ePart 
ment stores, credit card issuers, credit unions, automobile 
i* >.4 . 

336 
-11-
dealers, consumer finance companies, residential mortgage brokers, 
craftsmen such as plumbers and electricians, doctors, dentists, 
hospitals and any other individuals or groups which extend or arrange 
for consumer credit. 
The final regulation parallels the proposed regula-
tion published by the Board for comment on October 16, 1968. Some 
Editions and language changes were made in the proposed regulation on 
the basis of comments received by the Board. The basic disclosures, 
w^lch are required by the law itself remain intact in the final 
r®gulation. 
A Federal Reserve task force drafted the regulation aided 
L 
/ outside consultants and the 20 men and women who are members of 
the Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending provided for in the law. 
As part of an informational campaign to acquaint creditors 
w*th the regulation they must follow beginning July 1, printed copies 
the regulation and statute together with an explanatory question-
ed- answer series on Truth in Lending, will be sent to creditors soon 
through the agencies enforcing the law. Inquiries from creditors 
®hould be addressed to the agency charged by Congress with enforce-
m e n t f o r that particular group of creditors. 
• 
' ••• • 
• 
• 
• — 
-
Although Congress assigned the job of writing the regulation 
t o the Board, enforcement will be spread throughout nine different 
e*al agencies as follows: The Federal Reserve Board for State banks 

which are members of the Federal Reserve System; the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation for other insured State banks which are not 
members of the Federal Reserve System; the Comptroller of the Currency 
for national banks; the Federal Home Loan Bank Board for federally 
insured savings and loan associations; the Bureau of Federal Credit 
Unions; the Interstate Commerce Commission for industries it regulates; 
the Civil Aeronautics Board for airlines, and the Agriculture Depart-
ment for creditors under the Packers and Stockyards Act. Congress 
assigned enforcement for all other creditors, including department 
stores and other retailers, to the Federal Trade Commission. 
A creditor who willfully and knowingly violates the Truth in 
Lending law or the regulation faces a maximum criminal penalty, upon 
conviction, of a $5,000 fine, a year in jail, or both. At the same 
time, the customer could sue for civil penalties of twice the amount 
o f the finance charge (but not less than $100 or more than $1,000), 
c°urt costs, and a reasonable attorney's fee. 
Truth in Lending is a key portion of the Consumer Credit 
Protection Act which was signed into law on May 29, 1968. Other parts 
that Act--for which the Federal Reserve was not assigned responsi-
kility--crack down on extortionate credit transactions, restrict the 
gQrnishment or attachment of a person's wages by a creditor beginning 
° n July 1, 1970, and set up a National Commission on Consumer Finance. 
In redrafting its proposed regulation, the Board transferred 
i n t 0 a supplement the complex and highly technical formulas and 

-4-
338 
computations which are not needed by moat creditors. These formulas 
and computations are available without charge upon written request to 
the Board. 
'' U 
• 
. . ,, 
. . •
. 
-
At the same time, the Board prepared sets of tables which 
®ay be used by creditors to determine the annual percentage rate for 
• j . 
a transaction. Table FRB--100-M covers up to 60 monthly payments; 
table FRB--200-M covers 61 to 120 monthly payments; table FRB--300-M 
covers 121 to 480 monthly payments and table FRB--100-W covers up to 
104 weekly payments. These four tables, bound in one volume, will be 
5 1 ( f , , 
, ... 
available for $1.00 from the Board or any of the 12 Federal Reserve 
Banks. Another volume of tables with instructions on their usage, also 
available for $1.00, can be used in conjunction with the first volume 
i 
to compute annual percentage rates for transactions with irregular pay-
ments or those involving multiple advances. (Each volume of tables 
w U l be available for 85 cents per copy in orders of 10 or more). 
^2nsumer__Credi_t 
Consumer credit is defined in the regulation as credit 
°ffered or extended to a person primarily for personal, family, house-
hold °r agricultural purposes and for which a finance charge is or 
be imposed or which is repayable in more than four instalments. 
Th 
n e regulation divides all transactions into two types--open end credit, 
which includes the revolving charge accounts offered by many department 
8t°res and transactions through credit cards; and credit other than 
°Pen end, which is primarily the instalment type used by consumers to 
b u y big ticket items such as automobiles, refrigerators, washing machines 
Qnd television sets. 

-11-
339 
Not all credit is covered by Truth in Lending, however. 
Business and commercial credit, other than for agricultural purposes, 
Is exempt, as are credit transactions of more than $25,000 (other than 
• 
C" 
' 
• ... • 
real property transactions which are covered regardless of amount). 
Other exemptions include transactions in securities or commodities 
with a broker-dealer registered with the Securities and Exchange 
y i»» j « v . V 
Commission and some types of transactions under regulated public 
utility 
tariffs. This latter provision was broadened in the final 
regulation to exempt transactions with any company or cooperative 
which files its tariffs with any State or with agencies of the Federal 
government, including the Rural Electrification Administration. 
State Di fir 1 ngiirpg 
— — — — — — 
' 
- . ' ' ' V j 
The law says that the Board shall exempt from Federal dis-
closure requirements classes of transactions within a State if it 
determines that State law imposes substantially similar requirements, 
and adequate enforcement is provided. The Board will soon publish a 
• u 
Proposed set of guidelines to be used in ruling on State applications 
exemption from Federal disclosure. When adopted in final form, 
P°8sibly in the spring, the guidelines will become "Supplement II" 
to the regulation. 
Regulation Z itself, however, details the procedures a 
Creditor must use if he decides to comply with any provision of State 
l a w which is inconsistent with Federal disclosure requirements. In 

310 
-11-
such a case, the inconsistent State disclosures must be separated 
from the Federal disclosures. This may be done on a separate state* 
went or on the same statement if the Federal disclosures are listed 
first and the State disclosures are identified as inconsistent with 
Federal law and are listed below a conspicuous dividing line. 
F i n a n c e Charge and Annual Percentage Rate 
The finance charge and annual percentage rate are the two 
most important concepts embodied in Regulation Z. They are designed 
to tell the consumer at a glance how much he is paying for credit and 
the relative cost of that credit in percentage terms. 
In general, the finance charge is the total of all costs 
imposed by the creditor and paid either directly or indirectly by 
the consumer or another party as an incident to the extension of 
credit. It includes such costs as interest, time price differential, 
and amounts paid as a discount; service, transaction, activity or 
carrying charges; loan fees, points, finder's fees or similar charges; 
le®8 for an appraisal, investigation or credit reports (except in 
teal property transactions), and premiums for credit life insurance 
that are required by the creditor as a condition to obtaining credit. 
Any charges of the following type may be excluded from the 
finance charge if they are itemized and disclosed separately to the 
Customer: taxes not included in the cash price of an article; license, 

-11-
341 
certificate of title and registration fees imposed by law; the premium 
paid for insurance in lieu of allowing the creditor a security interest 
In the customer's property if the premium does not exceed the amount of 
the recording fee that would have been applicable if the security 
interest had been given, and fees and charges paid to public officials 
under law for such things as title and mortgage searches. 
Some charges paid in connection with real property trans-
itions need not be included in the finance charge if they are bona 
fide, reasonable in amount and don't destroy the purpose of Truth in 
Lending. These include fees for title examination, title insurance, 
surveys, preparation of deeds, settlement statements, escrow payments 
to cover future taxes and insurance and utility costs; notary fees, 
appraisal fees and credit reports. 
The annual percentage rate represents the relationship of 
the total finance charge to the total amount financed. It must be 
computed to the nearest one quarter of one per cent. The method of 
computation depends on whether the credit is open end or the instal-
ment type. 
In the case of open end credit--the department store re-
viving charge account, for example--the annual percentage rate is 
computed by multiplying the periodic service charge by the number of 
Periods in a year. In the case of a typical charge of 1-1/2 per cent 
the unpaid balance with bills represented monthly, the annual 

percentage rate would be 18 per cent. In cases where two or more 
periodic rates are used, the annual percentage rate may be computed 
at the creditor's option by (1) dividing the total finance charge 
n 
for the month by the sum of the unpaid balances and (2) multiplying 
the result by the number of billing cycles in a year. 
The regulation also spells out the methods to be used in 
°pen end credit for computing the annual percentage rate when brackets 
o r a range of balances are used and when the finance charge includes a 
minimum or fixed fee. 
For credit other than open end, the annual percentage rate 
'Iv 
I , , 
must be computed by the actuarial method. Here are examples of how 
the actuarial method would work: 
For a bank loan of $100 for one year at a 6 per cent add-on 
charge, the annual percentage rate would be 11 per cent. This is 
because the $100 would be available to the customer only for the first 
®onth of the loan. When he makes his first repayment, he actually 
repays part of the principal and has less money at his disposal. 
Using the same set of circumstances but this time with a 
6 per cent charge discounted in advance, the annual percentage rate 
w°uld be 11-1/2 per cent. That's because the customer in this case 
would receive $94 and must repay $100. 
Charts and tables made by private companies may be used to 
figure the annual percentage rate so long as they are prepared in line 
with provisions spelled out in Regulation Z. 

-9-
343 
General Disclosure Requirements 
Truth in Lending disclosures must be made clearly, con-
spicuously, in meaningful sequence, and at the time and in termi-
nology spelled out in the regulation. The terms "finance charge" and 
"annual percentage rate" must be printed more conspicuously than other 
terminology. All numbers and percentages must be in figures and shown 
in at least 10 point printer's type, .075 inch computer type, elite 
size typewriter characters, or in legible handwriting. 
Evidence of compliance with Truth in Lending, other than 
advertising disclosures, must be preserved by a creditor for at least 
two years after the disclosures are made. These records are subject 
to inspection by the enforcing agency. 
Before January 1, 1971, the annual percentage rate may be 
expressed as dollars per $100 instead of as a percentage. For example, 
an 11 p e r c e n t r a t e m a y be expressed at the option of the creditor as 
finance charge per year per $100 of unpaid balance. 
As a temporary measure, creditors may use existing supplies 
°f Printed forms, properly modified, for their disclosures until new 
Truth in Lending forms can be obtained. In no case, however, may the 
. 
• 
existing modified forms be used beyond next December 31. 
I f ,,. 
^£££jfic Disclosures 
Regulation Z spells out in detail the specific disclosures 
a creditor must make depending on whether the credit is open end or 

-10-
of the instalment type. For example, a creditor must make these 
disclosures to a customer before opening a new open end account: 
The conditions under which a finance charge may be im-
posed and the period when payment may be made without incurring a 
finance charge. 
--The method of determining the balance upon which a finance 
charge may be imposed. 
--The method of determining the finance charge. 
--The periodic rate or rates used, the range of balances to 
which they apply and the corresponding annual percentage rate. 
--The conditions under which additional charges may be im-
hiv 
Posed and the method for determining them. 
--The conditions under which a creditor may acquire any 
security interest in any property owned by the customer and a descrip-
tion of the interest which may be acquired. 
--The minimum periodic payment required. 
Similar disclosures must be sent to the customer who already 
has an open end account--by July 31 if the account had an unpaid 
balance on July 1 and by the next billing following use of the account 
if no balance was outstanding on July 1. 
Similar sets of disclosures are detailed in the regulation 
for credit other than open end, including a credit sale and a loan. 

-11-
345 
Cancellation Rights 
The Truth in Lending law and Regulation Z give a customer 
the right to cancel a credit transaction within three business days 
when the creditor acquires or retains a security interest in the 
customer's principal residence. No such cancellation right is 
MM ' 
afforded for first mortgages to finance purchase of a residence itself. 
But the right of rescission does apply when a residence is otherwise 
used as collateral for a consumer loan. The regulation specifies the 
notice the creditor must give a customer when the right of rescission 
can be exercised. 
The regulation also spells out a customer's right to waive 
his cancellation right in emergencies. For the purpose of counting 
the "three business days" allowed for cancellation, the regulation 
defines a business day as any day except Sunday, New Year's Day, 
Washington's Birthday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, 
Veterans' Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas. 
Mvertlsinp; 
In general, no advertising offering credit may state that a 
®Pecific amount of credit or instalment can be arranged unless the 
creditor customarily arranges such types of credit. No one specific 
credit term--that is, the downpayment, finance charge, etc.--can be 
advertised unless all the terms are stated clearly and conspicuously. 

-12-
Advertising refers not only to newspaper, radio and television 
advertising but also commercial messages in magazines, leaflets, flyers, 
catalogs, public address system announcements, direct mail literature, 
window displays, billboards or other media. 
Attachments 
Attached is a copy of Regulation Z, a sample page from the 
annual percentage rate tables, and a copy of the Truth in Lending law. 

347 
= 
CO 
1 
• i 
U 
O n3 
(X <M 
*J <A • 
*J fN 
c • 
(a 
D 
V n 
c O 
£ >4 
„ "1 
O <N 
r. & ? « * 
<r if' u - < 
* e 
" " x 
2 O .w " 
" ^ o » 
r 
S « 
" « 
c 
b m" 
ffjs 
I -c K 
I *•' ° 
1 c . 
o 
41 n -« v. 2 
V 
'-<0 1) 
UJ 
-T- I, 
• 
i t ? 
§ * 
3 
H 
° r ^ c x 
2 § * ? ? 
^ o £ ,9 
« c 
r» 
II 
</J 
<r -a -z *• -t — 
-o 
~ Sli'fN- Til 
„ . 
- • , .. 
r . / i - x j - ^ r ^ * - 
-IT 
. » « . . d • 
— " - ^ x ^ l i M - f a f M a - ' O O ^ . i-ro'-;. »•-»*.-« — • 
-- - - — - - - ------- 
j 
i 
I
M
I 
a]£ 
' it iv: x — 
; in XJ ^ ~ 
J- c c ^ •f J" ^ ^r 
1 
I 
• 
' 
-> ^x^ff'iA-if-Ma.ro-O'M^ o -c<\ix) -i -j-csiT-.j^ — r-c o-x? -rt-i-x. 
• 
I I I 
. • i 
• 
^ 
— —-Sir. rsj'\.iN'\4'VJ'"M <\|'sirs.'M Nil" J(\ 
" T 
O -O IN 30-T O "ICM/I^Crt vj- »>M-aCfC' XIXX Cc O —l!Ni»>.ri*" 7 —V 
— 
c-rc-c^nj-roir— 
'x jcorjTv- —r- <• 
^ ^ rr,, ^ « ,1-- m r^ ^ 
I 
f- r 
jt o—'-m j ^ x - - n T T f i--— 
CTi" 
— MflC O M u" -<— -J-O J f T' OlvCOlM'JO 
^CVJC 
OIO c -^jo 
I 
| 
, 
| 
I 
: 
; 
f ^ P ' r 
_ ,..v . „ o J—r- -il -TCI J — 
^ -n— 
-T a CS 
O 0.1 
_ 
I 
1 
i 1 
I i : ! i I ! I 1 I I 
M ^ ^ f - o w i f - c " ! cf'NO r j'tM.i-'C-
o >n -j iTi o ^ —< — ^ iv fv. x ^ ry 
w"> cj £ * 
I I • I i ! ! J 1 I 1 1 
, 
nti-IJ^ 
rtn^-o •ONf^: ^ 
, . . , i 
J J r O ^ m ^ ^ ^ /JiTsdo^^WOPfl^O-o-J —rCri -^-"^-J-iT J. £ 
x X TT3 0 -i — J - «r.r. ^ 
xix 7 --'T 
i i 
I ! 1 1 
I 
1 1 
i i • 1 1 j i L 
I 
t 
i 
-j ! 
j -rs.r^r^.Nyv-sri^. ^ 
. p 
I 
' I I 
J ' 
I
I
, 
' J^ 
.j. ^ - 
-rr- -j-c- -r rjj-c-ri 
a — i v — ^UJ.-OX r c-u-^^o 
—^ <-~i-t 
o ^ 
T-
£ Tfi-.TI" 
r ~r -r »r<r x-"-
C c> n ^ as "i x ^ en m <n n x xi 
x 
o - j — o ^ ' - ^ c i 3- (?• a n —• —
n 
-i -o -o 
^ui-o -o 
1
1
1 
I 
j I J 
! | ! i ; 1 
• 
1 
i 
-t 
j ti- r nr i J r T ' t "iT-u-CJ 
) 
1 
i 
' 
I
.
J
; 
IX- -oo. 
J-S 
' 
"-paq T. c ^ ' ; -
I J 
H 
n Pg X ^ Q M IP r j • . 
^ «r" «r 
i ! 
x ^ 
o 
Ji -t 
O-l-'IVI'N 
C) fs| —' J-" C1 -r 
O —t in <S f 
V u-
(••> ui f- o H •*> "T"-
-o a^f- n c s c n . -
Mvjfl-Cjjlf'.-Ifn'. 
1 a ^ M i w 
> 1 o 
• 1 • • 1 > • 
C^-fiCr-^HO^^iiNKC 
M J3—U' 
1 
Jiff 1 X IM —tuM-n * XH 
o 
f"i 03 CO 7) 71 ' 
, 
0 X 
j^o o iti o 
r -J C- 
cr -T j- o
r 
-r -r j-jno-r 
-o 
— IM 
J 
. 
C O ~ --i —• rg ' 
1 ^ ^ rx 
(M " 
I I 
£ Tij- oiqo j- > -t 7 r ^ sf 
T 
oj-r 
< 
^ in r 4 -M c ^ ^ N' ^ ^ 
I 
i J^ 
-jy- Tioori — — N" r 
•r s J 
••rta- <0 > 
•vj NiN r-•VJIN N 
o-»CT. fcn-nr-isi' 
r m -r -J i-O-X 
NI'1- fNr-iNir-.rvi 
^ . . . . . J 
t . < • • < • • 1 » 
I J 1 I ! 
-gr.tNi^KWf^u" £ £ 
'C X. ~0c C^ 
tt Sl-
uj u 1 
F
" 
rvj r^ «N 
J I ' 
i-M —. ji 3 Jl 3 t 
• 
' ' I ' 
(N^P-i 
. - - — -
J 
! J ! L 
^i-gm^^v-or o
<
7
I
'
l
l
'
, 
.w J ^ f-r^,-* 

Any inquiry relating to this regulation should be addressed ^ 
^ 
to the appropriate office of the enforcing agencies as listed belcw. 
National Banks. 
Comptroller of the Currency, 
United States Treasury Department, 
Washington, D. C. 20220 
St ate Member Banks. 
Federal Reserve Bank serving the area in which the State 
member bank is located. 
Ncnmereber Insured Banks. 
F.D.I.C. Supervising Examiner for the District in 
which the nonmember insured bank is located. 
Federally Insured Savings and Loan Associations. 
The FIILBB's Supervisory Agent in the Federal Home Loan 
Bank District in which the association is located. 
.Federal Credit Unions. 
Regional Office of the Bureau of Federal Credit Unions, serving 
the area in which the Federal Credit Union is located. 
.Creditors Subject to Civil Aeronautics Board. 
Director, Bureau, of Enforcement, 
Civil Aeronautics Board, 
1825 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., 
Washington, D. C. 20423 
Creditors Subject to Interntatc Centre? Ccnmisslon. 
Office of Proceedings, 
Interstate Commerce Cotraission, 
Washington, D. C. 20523 
Creditors Subject to Packers and Stockyards Act. 
Office cf Administration, 
Packers and Stockyards Administration, 
3048 South Building, 
United States Department of Agriculture, 
Washington, D. C. 20250 
All Other Creditors Except as Directed Above, 
Truth in Lending, 
Federal Trade Cctnuission, 
Washington, D. C. 20580 
Sptyr - ... .. 
^^^^^^^HfeBfeMte^-^^ 

' it 
( 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
of the 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
TRUTH IN LENDING 
REGULATION 
(12 C F R 226) 
Effective July 1,1969 

CONTENTS 
350 
Page 
SEC. 226.1—AUTHORITY, SCOPE, PURPOSE, ETC. . . . 
3 
(a) Authority, scope, and purpose 
3 
(b) Administrative enforcement 
3 
(c) Penalties and liabilities 
4 
SEC. 226.2—DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF CONSTRUC-
TION 
4 
(a) Act 
; 
4 
(b) Advertisement 
4 
(c) Agricultural purpose.' 
4 
(d) Amount 
financed 
4 
(e) Annual percentage rate 
4 
(f) Arrange for the extension of credit 
4 
(g) Billine; cycle 
4 
(h) Board 
4 
(i) Cash price 
4 
(j) Comparative Index of Credit Co^t 
4 
0<) Consumer credit or consumer loan 
4 
0) Credit... 
4 
(m) Creditor 
4 
(n) Credit sale 
5 
(o) Customer..- 
5 
(p) Dwelling 
5 
(q) Financc charge 
5 
(r) Open end credit 
5 
(s) Organization 
5 
(t) Period..- 
5 
(u) Periodic rate 
5 
(v) Person 
5 
(w) Real property 
5 
(>:) Pv.eal prooertv transaction 
5 
(y) Residence.. 
5 
(z) Security inurest and security 
5 
(ai) State 
: 
5 
(bb) Omission of word "consumer" 
5 
(cc) Consummation of transaction 
5 
(dd) Captions and catchlines. 
5 
SEC. 226.3—EXEMPTED TRANSACTIONS 
5 
(a) Business or governmental credit 
5 
(b) Certain transactions in security or com-
modities accounts 
6 
(c) Non-real property credit over S25.000... 
6 
(d) Certain public utility bills 
6 
Sec. 226.4—DETERMINATION o r FINANCE C H A R G E . 
6 
(a) General rule 
6 
(b) Itemized charges excludable... 
6 
(c) Late payment, delinquency, default, and 
reinstatement charges 
7 
(d) Overdraft charges 
7 
(e) Excludable^charges, real property trans-
actions.." 
7 
( 0 Prohibited offsets 
7 
(g) Demand obligations 
7 
(h) Compulsion of insurance premiums..., 
7 
SFC. 226.5—DETERMINATION o r A N N U A L PERCENT-
AGE RATE 
7 
(a) General rule—open end crcdit accounts 
7 
(b) General rule—other credit 
8 
(c) Charts and tables 
8 
(d) Minor irregularities 
9 
(e) Approximation 
of 
annual 
percentage 
rate—other crcdit 
9 
SEC. 2 2 6 . 6 — G E N E R A L DISCLOSURE RE^UIKEMENTS. 
9 
(a) Disclosures; general rule 
9 
(b) inconsistent State requirements 
10 
Page 
(c) Additional information 
10 
(d) Multiple creditors; joint disclosure 
10 
(e) Multiple customers; disclosure to one... 
10 
(f) Unknown information estimate 
10 
(g) Effect of subsequent occurrence 
10 
(h) Overstatement 
11 
(i)-Preservation and inspection of evidence 
. of compliance 
11 
(j) Percentage rate as dollars per hundred... 
11 
(k) Transition period 
11 
SEC. 2 2 6 . 7 — O P E N E N D CREDIT ACCOUNTS—SPE-
CIFIC DISCLOSURES 
11 
(a) Opening new account 
11 
(b) Periodic statements required 
11 
(c) Location of disclosures 
12 
(d) Financc charge imposed at time of trans-
action 
' 
13 
(e) Change in terms 
13 
(f) Open end credit accounts existing on 
July 1, 1969 
13 
SEC. 2 2 6 . 8 — C R E D I T 
OTHER T H A N O P E N 
E N D -
SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES 
13 
(a) General rule 
13 
(b) Disclosures in sale and nonsale credit... 
13 
(c) Credit sales 
14 
(d) Loans and other nonsale crcdit 
14 
(e) Finance charge payable separately or 
withheld; required deposit balances... 
15 
(f) First lien to finance construction 
of 
dwelling 
15 
(g> Orders by mail or telephone 
15 
(hj Scries of sales 
15 
(i) Advances under loan commitments 
16 
(j) Refinancing, consolidating or increasing. 
16 
(k) Assumption of an obligation 
16 
(1) Deferrals or extensions 
16 
(m) Series of single payment obligations 
16 
(n) Permissible periodic statements 
16 
(o) Discount for prompt payment 
.17 
SEC. 2 2 6 . 9 — R I G H T T O RESCIND CERTAIN TRANS-
ACTIONS 
17 
(a) General rule 
. . . 
17 
(b) Notice, opportunity to rescind 
17 
(c) Delay of performance 
•. 
IS 
(d) Effect of rescission 
IS 
(c) Waiver of right of rescission 
18 
( 0 Joint ownership 
18 
(g) Exceptions to general ruic 
18 
SEC. 226.10—ADVERTISING CREDIT TERMS 
19 
(a) General rule 
19 
(b) Catalogs and multi-page advertisements. 
19 
(c) Advertising of open end credit 
19 
(d) Advertising of credit outer than open end 
19 
SEC. 226.11—COMPARATIVE INDEX OF CREDIT COST 
FCR O P F N E N D CREDIT 
20 
(a) General rule 
20 
(b) Computation of Comparative Index of 
Credit Cost 
20 
(c) Form of disclosure 
20 
SFC. 226.12—EXEMPTION OF CERTAIN STATE REGU-
LATED TRANSACTIONS 
2 0 
(a) Exemptions for State regulated trans-
actions 
20 
(b) Procedure-- and criteria 
21 

REGULATION 
(12 C F R 226) 
Effective July 1,1969 
TRUTH IN LENDING 
R E G U L A T I O N * 
S E C T I O N 2 2 6 . 1 — A U T H O R I T Y ; S C O P E , 
P U R P O S E , E T C . 
fa) Authority, scope, and purpose. (1) This Part 
comprises the regulations issued by the Board of 
t 
^ ° . r n o r s o f t h c Federal Reserve System pursuant 
£ 
Title I (Truth in Lending Act) and Title 
V 
G e n e r a l Provisions) of the Consumer Credi; Pro-
lection Act (Public Law 90-321; 82 Stat. 146 et 
>cl-) Except as otherwise provided herein, this 
't applies to all persons who in the ordinary 
. Ur«c of business regularly extend, or otter to 
extend, or arranges, cr oiler to arrange, for the 
p e n s i o n of consumer credit as defined in para-
£ r aPH ( k ) of § 226.2. 
P ) This Part implements the Act, the purpose 
^ h i c h is to assure that every customer who has 
tor consumer credit is given meaningful in-
with respect to the cost of that credit 
,ch> in mo^t cases, must be expressed in the 
0 
amount of finance charge, and as an a n . 
ba'l 
Percentage /ate computed 
on 
the 
unpaid 
c
 
J
)
U C c of thc an ount 
financed. 
Other relevant 
th^ 0 1 t i n f o r n v a t i o n 
1 i u s t 
n l s o 
disclosed so that 
C r * C U s l o m , - r 
n i a J ' readily compare the various 
a 
i U l e . n m available to h i m from di:Terent sources 
^ J a v o i d the uninformed use of credit. This Part 
* 1L. 
l « , w V . e x t correspond:: to the Code of Federal Ke«u-
226 T' 
, e 
Chapter IT, Tart 2:6, ci'.rd as 12 C F R 
laUon J C V' o r , J l " l h ! s r a r l"» 115 U i c J herein, mean Regu-
also implements the provision of the Act under 
which a customer has a right in certain circum-
stances to cancel a credit transaction which in-
volves a lien on his residence. Advertising 
of 
consumer credit terms must comply with specific 
requirements, and certain credit terms may not 
be advertised unless the creditor usually and cus-
tomarily extends such terms. Neither the Act nor 
this Part is intended to control charges for con-
sumer credit, or interfere with trade practices ex-
cept to thc extent that such practices m a y be in-
consistent with the purpose of the Act. 
(b) Administrative enforcement. (1) As set forth 
more fully in section 108 of the Act, administra-
tive enforcement of the A c t and! this part with 
respect 
to certain creditors is assigned 
to 
the 
Comptroller of the Currency, Board of Directors 
of 
the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, 
Federal H o m e Loan Bank Board (acting directly 
or through the Federal Savings r.nd Loan Insur-
ance Corporation), Director of the Bureau of Fed-
eral Credit Unions, Interstate Commerce Commis-
sion, Civil Aeronautics Board. Secretary of Agri-
culture, and Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System. 
(2) Except to thc extent that administrative en-
forcemeat is specifically committed to other author-
ities, compliance with the requirements imposed 
under the Act and this part will be enforced 
by 
the Federal Trade Commission. 
V ' 
•
• -"vrrvT ^ * '''fT.^ ^v^**'- * 

R E G U L A T I O N 
Z 
§ 226.2 
(c) Penalties and liabilities. Section 112 of the 
Act provides for criminal liability for willful and 
knowing failure to comply with any requirement 
(imposed under the Act and this Part, and section 
I 130 of the A c t provides for civil liability on the 
• Pr<rt of any creditor who faiis to disclose any in-
formation required under Chapter 2 of the Act 
and under the corresponding provisions of this 
Part. Pursuant to section 108 of the Act, viola-
I'ons of the Act or this Part constitute violations 
of other Federal laws which may provide further 
Penalties. 
S E C T I O N 2 2 6 . 2 — D E F I N I T I O N S A N D 
R U L E S O F 
C O N S T R U C T I O N 
t For the purposes of this Port, unless the context 
indicates otherwise, the following definitions and 
rules of construction apply: 
00 " A c t " refers to the Truth in Lending Act 
(Title I of the Consumer Credit Protection Act). 
(b) "Advertisement" 
means 
any 
commercial 
message in any newspaper, magazine, leaflet, flyer 
catalog, on radio, television or public address 
s>stcm, in direct mail literature or other printed 
^tcrial, on any interior or exterior sign or dis-
P' ay, in any window display, in any point-of-trans-
a ction literature or price tag which is delivered or 
j^ade available to a customer or prospective cus-
° m e r 
i n any manner whatsoever. 
(c) "Agricultural purpose" means a purpose re-
to the production, harvest, exhibition, mar-
0 f 
t r a">Portation, processing, or manufacture 
agricultural products by a natural person w h o 
1 t'vatcs. plants, propagates, or nurtures those 
fincultural 
products. "Agricultural products- in-
cudes agricultural, horticultural, viiicultural, and 
l l r y products, livestock, wildlife, poultry, bees, 
the651 P r C >. d u c t s' 
a n d s hcllflsh, and any products 
r e°f, 
including 
processed 
arc! 
manufactured 
ooucts, and any and all products raised or pro-
a on farms and any processed or manufac-
u , f e d product; thereof. 
W) " A m o u n t 
financed" 
means the amount 
of 
^ e d u of which the customer will have the actual 
( 5 
t* ,- t c r r nined 
in 
accordance with 
paragraphs 
' " A n n u a l percentage rate" means the annual 
entagc rate, of finance charge determined in 
accordance with § 226.5. 
to ^ 
W ^ t r a n S c for the extension of credit" means 
Provide or offer to provide consumer 
credit 
which is or will be extended by another person 
under a business cr other relationship pursuant to 
which the person arranging such credit receives 
or will receive a fee, compensation, or other con-
sideration for such service or has knowledge of 
the credit terms and participates in the preparation 
of the contract documents required in connection 
with the extension of credit. It does not include 
honoring a credit card or similar device where 
no finance charge is imposed at the time of that 
transaction. 
(g) "Billing cycleM means the time interval be-
tween regular periodic 
billing 
statement 
dates. 
Such intervals may be considered equal intervals 
of time unless a billing date varies more 
than 
4 days from the regular date. 
(h) " B o a r d " refers to the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
(i) "Cash price" means the price at which the 
creditor offers, in the ordinary course of business, 
to sell for cash the property or services which are 
the subject of a consumer credit transaction. It 
may include the cash price of accessories or serv-
ices related to the sale such as delivery, installa-
tion, alterations, modifications, and improvements, 
and may include taxes to the extent imposed on 
the cash sale, but shail not include any other 
charges of the types described in § 226.4.. 
(j) "Comparative Index of Credit Cost" means 
the relative measure of the cort of credit under 
an open end credit account, computed in accord-
ance with § 226.11, and is the expression of the 
"average effective annual percentage rate of re-
turn" and the "projected rate of return" which 
appear in section I27fa)(5) of the Act. 
(k) "Consumer credit1' means credit offered or 
extended to a natural person, in which the money, 
property, or servicc which is the subject of the 
transaction is primarily for personal, family, house-
hold, 
or agricultural 
purposes 
and 
for 
which 
either a finance charge is or may be imposed or 
which, pursuant to sn agreement, is or may be 
payable in more then 4 instalments. "Consumer 
loan-' is one type of "consumer crcdit." 
(1) "Credit" 
means 
the 
right 
granted 
by 
a 
creditor to a customer to defer payment of debt; 
incur debt and defer its payment, or purchase 
property or services and defer payment therefor. 
(See also paragraph (bb) of this section ) 
(m) "Creditor" means a person w h o in the or-, 
dinary course of business regularly extends 
or 

226.3 • 
R E G U L A T ^ 
arranges for the extension of consumer credit, or 
offers to extend or arrange for the extension of 
such credit. 
(n) "Credit sale'' means any sale with respect 
to which consumer credit is extended or arranged 
by the seller. The term includes any contract in 
the form of a bailment or lease if the bailee or 
lessee contracts to pay as compensation for use a 
sum substantially equivalent to or in excess of 
the aggregate value of the property and services 
involved and it is agreed that the bailee or lessee 
Will become, or for no other or for a nominal 
consideration has the option to become, the owner 
°f the property upon full compliance with his 
obligations under the contract. 
(o) "Customer" 
means a 
natural 
person 
to 
whom consumer credit is offered or to whom it 
*s or will he extended, and includes a comaker, 
endorser, guarantor, or surety for such 
natural 
Person who is or may be obligated to repay the 
extension of consumer credit. 
(p) "Dwelling" means a residential-type struc-
ture which is real property and contains one or 
more family housing units, or a residential con-
dominium unit wherever situated. 
(q) "Finance charge" means the cost of credit 
determined in accordance with $ 226.4. 
(r) "Open cud credit" means consumer crer'it 
extended on an account pursuant to a plan under 
Which (1) iho creditor may permit the customer to 
make purchases or obtain loans, from time to time, 
directly from the creditor or indirectly by use of 
* credit card, check, or other device, as the plan 
K l a y Provide; (2) the customer has the privilege of 
Paying the balance in full or in instalments; and 
I ) a finance charge may he computed by the 
creditor from time to time on an 
outstanding 
jjnpaUi balance. The term does not include nego-
t'ated advances under an open end real estate 
mortgage or a letter of credit. 
(s) ''Organization" means a corporation, trust, 
estate, partnership, cooperative, association, gov-
ernment, or governmental subdivision, agency, or 
mstrumentalily. 
(0 ''Period" means a day, week, month, or 
" e r subdivision of a year. " 
(u) "Periodic rate" means a percentage rate of 
' n a " c c charge which, under an open end credit 
J an. is or may be imposed by a creditor against 
Y 
, C c f o r u Period. (See also § 226.5(a)(3).) 
' Person" means a natural person or an or-
ganization. 
(w) "Real property" means property which is 
real property under the law of the Stale in which 
it is located. 
(x) "Real property transaction" means an ex-
tension uf credit in connection with which a secur-
ity interest in real property is or will be retained 
or acquired. 
(y) "Residence", means any real property 
in 
which the customer resides or expects to reside. 
The term includes a parcel of land on which the 
customer resides or expects to reside. 
(7.) "Security interest" and "security" mean any 
interest in property which secures payment 
or 
performance of an obligation. The terms include, 
but arc not limited to, security interests under the 
Uniform Commercial Code, real property mort-
gages, deeds of trust, and other consensual or con-
fessed liens whether or not recorded, mechanic's, 
materialmen's, artisan's, and other similar liens, 
vendor's liens in both real and personal property, 
the interest of a seller in a contract for the sale 
of real property, any lien on property arising by 
operation of law, and any interest in a lease when 
used to secure payment or performance of an 
obligation. 
(aa) "State" means any State, the District of 
Columbia, the Commonwealth of P'icrto Rico, and 
any territory or possession of the United Slates. 
(bb) Unless the context indicates 
otherwise, 
"credit" shall be construed to mean "consumer 
credit," "loan" to mean "consumer loan," and 
"transaction" to mean "consumer credit trans-
action." 
(cc) A transaction shall be considered consum-
mated at the time a contractual relationship is 
created between a creditor and a customer ir-
respective of the time of performance of either 
party. 
(dd) Captions and catchlines are intended solely 
as aids to convenient reference, and no inference 
as to the intent of any provision of this part may 
be drawn from them. 
S E C T I O N 2 2 6 . 3 — E X E M P T E D 
T R A N S A C T I O N S 
This* Part does r.ot apply to the following: 
(a) EBusiness or governmental credit. Extensions 
of credit to organizations, including governments, 
or for business or commercial purposes, other 
than agricultural purposes. 

RATION Z 
§ 226*4 
5*1 
>• C t t u i n transactions in security or commodi-
t y 
Transactions in securities or com-
»>. 
accounts with a broker-dealer registered 
* 
:' <r Securities and Exchange Commission. 
. > Non-real 
property 
credit 
over 
$25,000. 
i 
t transactions, other than real property trans-
t ..-e.y, in which the amount financed 1 excecds 
»:••«*», or in which the transaction is pursuant 
»* *••> express written commitment by the creditor 
v» n u m d credit in excess of $25,000. 
IJJ Certain 
public 
utility 
bills. 
Transactions 
• •=.'cr public utility tariffs involving services pro-
*Oc\l through pipe, wire, or other connected fa-
tics, if the charges for such public utility serv-
the charges for delayed payment, and 
any 
v'wuunt allowed for early payment are filed with, 
'viewed l*y» or regulated by an agency of the 
I floral Government, a State, or a political sub-
J"iu'on thereof. 
MICTION 226.4—DETERMINATION OF 
FINANCE CHARGE 
. fa) General rule. Except as otherwise provided 
! n ! l , l s section, the amount of the finance chargc 
c o nnection with any transaction shall be de-
groined as the sum of all charges, payable di-
^ 
or indirectly by the customer, and imposed 
"cctly or indirectly by the creditor as an inci-
n . t o or as u condition of the extension 
of 
^ . w h e t h e r 
paid or payable by the customer, 
sc'Icr, or any other person on behalf of the 
c i u i ° I n e r 
1 0 
l ' l c 
c r c t I i t o r 
c r 
t 0 
a 
t } l i n J r a r ty» 
i n-
n n y of the following types of charges: 
Interest, time 
price differential, 
and 
any 
l|nt payable under a discount or other system 
^'ditional charges. 
chnr 
, v , C c > 
transaction, 
activity, 
or 
carrying 
charg 
P°' n < s» 
s f°c> 
o r 
similar 
J\} * c c 
for 
an 
appraisal, 
investigation, 
or 
CfCdi< report. 
charge< 
J^alth, or loss of income insurance, written 
/<-. 
1 
• 
(|Cnt 
Charges or premiums for credit life, acci 
I 
H i c ^ i . ^ ' 5 Purpose, the iimcuint financed is the amount 
(<])(,* Squired to be d i t t o e d under § 1-:6.S (c)(7), or 
if the 
'HiUaci': n S 
a^PI'"cablc, or would be so required if 
lT) 
n v' c r c s u bi- c t t o 
t h i s 
trcdll0V • c , i a rP i S include any charges imposed by the 
Hi"1 c o n i l 0 c , ' o n ^iih a checking account to the 
rcttuir^i S U c f l charges exceed any charges the customer 
*>hcn 
1 0 Pay in connection with such an account 
H is r.ot being used to extend credit. 
in connection W i t h 3 any ciedit transaction unless 
(i) the insurance coverage is not required by 
the creditor and this fact is clearly and con-
spicuously disclosed in writing to the customer; 
and 
(ii) any customer desiring such insurance cov-
erage gives specific dated and separately signed 
affirmative written 
indication 
of 
such 
desire 
after receiving written disclosure to h i m of the 
cost of such insurance. 
(6) Charges or premiums for insurance, written 
in connection with 4 any credit transaction, against 
loss of or damage to property or against liability 
arising out of the ownership or use of property, 
unless a clear, conspicuous, and specific statement 
in writing is furnished by the creditor to the cus-
tomer setting forth the cost of the insurance if 
obtained from or through the creditor and stating 
that the customer m a y choose the person through 
which the insurance is to be obtained. 5 
(7) Premium 
or other chargc for any 
other 
guarantee 
or insurance 
protecting 
the 
creditor 
against the customer's default or other credit loss.. 
(8) A n y charge imposed by a creditor 
upon 
another creditor for purchasing or accepting an 
obligation of a customer if the customer is re-
quired to pay any part of that charge in cash, as. 
an addition to the obligation, or as a deduction 
from the proceeds of the obligation. 
(b) Itemized charges excludable. If itemized and 
disclosed to the customer, any charges cf the fol-
lowing types need not be included in the 
finance 
charge: 
(1) Fees and charges prescribed by law which 
actually arc or will be paid to public officials for 
determining the existence of or for perfecting or 
releasing or satisfying any security related to the 
credit transaction. 
3 A policy of insurance owned by the customer, which 
is assigned to the creditor or otherwise made payable to 
the creditor to satisfy a requirement imposed by the 
creditor, is not insurance "written in connection with" 
a credit transaction if the policy was not purchased by the 
customer for the purpose of being used in connection with 
that extension of crcdil. 
4 A policy of insurance owned by the customer, which 
is assifjied to the creditor or otherwise made payable to 
the creditor to satisfy a requirement imposed 
by the 
creditor, is not insurance "written in connection wiih" a 
crcdit transaction if the policy was not purchased by the 
customer for the purpose of beirg used in connection 
with that extension of credit. 
•'•A creditor's reservation or excrcise of the right to 
refuse to accept an insurer offered by the customer, for 
reasonable cause, docs not require inclusioa of the ?;e« 
miur.i in the finance charge. 
V 
r 

§ 226.5 
355 
REGULATION Z 
(2) The premium payable for any insurance in 
lieu of perfecting any security interest otherwise 
required by the creditor in connection with the 
transaction, if the premium does not exceed the 
fees and charges described in subparagraph (1) 
°f this paragraph which would otherwise be pay-
able. 
1 
J 
(3) Taxes not included in the cash price. 
(4) License, certificate of title, and registration 
fees imposed by law. 
(c) Late payment, delinquency, default, 
and 
fcinstafcnieut 
charges. A 
late payment, 
delin-
quency. 
default, 
reinstatement, 
or 
other 
such 
charge is not a finance charge if imposed for actual 
Unanticipated late payment, delinquency, default 
o r other such occurrence. 
(d) Overdraft charges. A charge imposed by a 
ank for paying checks which overdraw or in-
crease an overdraft in a chocking account is not 
n c e 
charge unless the payment of 
such 
ecKs and the imposition of such finance charge 
W e r c Previously agreed upon in writing. 
(e) Includable 
charges, real property 
trans-
i t i o n s . I he following charges in connection with 
a n ) real property transaction, provided they are 
°na fide, reasonable in amount, and not lor the 
sh n° S C ° f c ," r c univcntion or evasion of this Part, 
<lI» not be included in the finance charge with 
respect to that transaction: 
0 ) l ees or premiums for title examination, ab-
a n d f 
t l t I c ' R s u r a n c e « o r similar purposes 
for required ielated property surveys. 
I ) l ees for preparation of deeds, settlement 
'tatcnicnts, or other documents. 
• a n 
' Amounts required to be placed or paid into 
of C s c r o N v . c r trustee account for future payments 
rentsXCS' " m i r a n c c ' 
a n d 
w a t e r > sewer, and land 
mems r ° C S 
f ° l 
n o i a r h l n S deeds and other docu-
Appraisal fees. 
<c) Credit rcpoits. 
othlr r r ° h ! b 5 l t ( I 
Interest, 
dividends, 
or 
custon'? 0 0'" 0 
r c c o l v c d °4' t o 
b o received by the 
or D
 m e r ° n 
c i e ? o s l t s 
c r 
o n investments in ieal 
Property in which a creditor holds a 
anioui t m ! ? r C S t 
s h a U 
n o t 
b c deducted from the 
si<Jcraf ° f *lllC f i n a n c e 
c h a r g e or taken into con-
rate ' ° n 
m 
C 0 , n P u l ' n i J 
the annual 
percentage 
(g) Demand obligations. Obligations other than 
those debited to an open end credit account which 
are payable on demand shall be considered to have 
a maturity of one-half year for the purpose of 
computing the amount of the finance chargc and 
the annual percentage rate, except that where 
such an obligation is alternatively payable upon 
a stated maturity, the stated maturity shall be 
used for the purpose of such computations. 
(h) Computation of insurance premiums. If any 
insurance premium is required to be included as 
a part of the finance charge, the amount to be 
included shall be the premium for coverage ex-
tending over the period of time the creditor will 
require the customer to maintain such insurance. 
For this purpose, rates and classifications appli-
cable at the time the credit is extended shall be 
applied over the full time during which coverage 
is required, unless the creditor knows o: has reason 
to know that other rates or classifications will be 
applicable, in which case such other rates cr classi-
fications shall be used to the extent appropriate. 
SECTION 2 2 6 . 5 — D E T E R M I N A T I O N O F 
A N N U A L P E R C E N T A G E 
R A T E 
(a) General rule—open 
end credit 
accounts. 
The annual percentage rates for open end credit 
accounts shall be computed so as to permit dis-
closure with an accuracy at least to the nearest 
quarter of 1 per cent. Such rate or rates shall be 
determined in accordance with § 226.7(a)(4) for 
purposes of disclosure before opening an account, 
§ 226.10(c)(4) for purposes of advertising, and in 
the following manner for purposes of disclosure 
on periodic statements: 
(1) Where the finance charge is exclusively the 
product of the application of 0112 or more periodic 
rates 
(i) by multiplying each periodic rate by the 
number of periods in a year; or 
(ii) at the creditor's option, if the 
finance 
chargc is the result of the application of two 
or ir.ore periodic rates, by dividing the total 
finance charge for the billing cycle by the sum 
of the balances to which the periodic rates were 
applied and multiplying the quotient (expressed 
as a percentage) by the number of billing cycles 
in a year. 
(2) Where the creditor imposes all periodic fi-
nance chaiges in amounts based 
on 
specified 
ranges or brackets of balances, the periodic rate 

REGULATION 
Z 
356 
§ 226.5 
shall be determined by dividing the amount of the 
finance charge for the period by the amount of 
h e median balance within the range or bracket 
balances to which it is applicable, and the an-
nual percentage rate shall bc determined by multi-
plying that periodic rate (expressed as a percent-
age) by the number of periods in a year. Sdch 
ranges or brackets of balances shall be subject 
t o the limitations prescribed in subdivision (iv) of 
Paragraph ( c ) ( 2 ) of this section. 
0 ) Where the finance charge is or includes a 
Minimum, fixed, or other charge not due to the 
W i c a t i o n of a periodic rate, and 
0) exceeds 50 cents for a monthly or longer 
billing cycle, or the pro rata part of 50 cents 
a billing cycle shorter than monthly, by 
dividing the total finance charge for the billing 
cycle by the amount of the balance to which 
applicable and multiplying the quotient (ex-
Passed as a percentage) by the number 
of 
billing cycles in a year; or 
00 does not exceed 50 cents for a monthly 
or longer billing cycle, or the pro rata part of 50 
cents for a billing cycle shorter than monthly, 
y multiplying each applicable periodic rate by 
, c mnnber of periods in a year, irrespective of 
,lc 'mposition of such minimum, fixed, or other 
charge. 
^ 
Cencra! rnl<?—otlirr credit. Fxcept as other-
t * 
P r o vidcd in this section, the annual perccnt-
olh 
r a t ° 
a P P l i c a b l e 
t o 
a n. v extension of credit, 
, J C r l' 1 an open end credit, shall be that nominal 
annual percentage rate determined as follows: 
eo 
I n . a c c o r d a n c c with the actuarial method of 
accu P U t a t i 0 a S ° t h , H 
i l m a y 
b c disclosed with an 
c 
" ^ y 
a t least to the nearest quarter of 1 per 
in 
' 
. 0 mathematical equation and 
technical 
rate • 
0 n s * o r determining the annual percentage 
p a
 
m accordance "with thc requirements of this 
lion y a p ' \ a r c s o t f c r t ' 1 in Supplement 1 to Regula-
C n 
' u'liieh is incorporated in this Part by refer-
t a i r ° ' |
S u p p , C m c n l 
1 l o R e l a t i o n Z; may be ob-
the 
f l ' 0 m 
a n y 
F c d e r a l Reserve Bank or from 
\vri<i 
i n 
Washington 
D.C., 
20551. 
upon 
request. 
t j 0 n
 
A t 
t h c option of the creditor, by applica-
disel° r
 t h c U n i t c ' J 
S l n l c s 
R u I c 
s o that it may be 
q u 
° S c d Nvi,n an accuracy at least to thc nearest 
char ° r ° f 1 P C r C C n t' U n J e r 
, h i s r u I ?> l h e ^nance 
the ^ 
1S C O m P u l c t l on thc unpaid balance for 
actual time thc balance remains unpaid and 
if the amount of a payment is insufficient to pay 
the accumulated finance charge, the unpaid ac-
cumulated finance charge continues to accumulate 
to be paid from the proceeds of subsequent pay-
ments and is not added to thc amount financed. 
(c) Charts and tables. (1) The Regulation 
Z 
Annual Percentage Rate Tables produced by thc 
Board may bc used to determine the annual per-
centage rate, and any such rate determined from 
these tables in accordance with instructions con-
tained therein will comply with the requirements of 
this section. Volume I contains table FRB—100-M 
covering 1 to CO monthly payments, table F R B — 
200-M covering 61 to 120 monthly payments, 
table F R B — 3 0 0 - M covering 121 to 4S0 monthly 
payments, and table FRB—100-W covering 1 to 
104 weekly payments. Volume I also contains 
instructions for use of thc tables in regular trans-
actions and most irregular transactions vvhich in-
volve only odd first and final payments and odd 
first payment periods. Volume H contains factor 
tables and instructions for their use in connection 
with thc tables in Volume I in thc computation of 
annual pcrcentagc rates in any type of irregular 
payment or payment period transaction and in 
transactions involving multiple 
advances. 
Fach 
volume is available from thc Hoard in Washing-
ton, D.C., 20551, and the Federal Reserve Bank:;. 
(2) Any chart or table other than the Board's 
Regulation Z Annual Percentage Rate Tables also 
may be utilized for the purpose of determining thc 
annual pcrcentagc rate provided: 
(i) It is prepared in accordance with thc 
general rule set forth in paragraph ( b ) ( 1 ) or (2) 
of this section; 
(ii) It bears the name and address of thc per-
son responsible for its production, an identifica-
tion number assigned to it by that person which 
shall bc thc same for each chart or table so 
produced with like numerical content antl con-
figuration and, if prepared for use in connection 
with irregular transactions, an identification of 
thc method of computation 
("Actuarial" 
or 
"U.S. Rule"); 
(iii) Except as provided in subdivision (iv) of 
this subparagraph, it permits determination of 
thc annual percentage rate to the nearest one-
quarter of 1 per cent for thc range of rates 
covered by thc chart or table; and 
(iv) If applicable to ranges or brackets cf 
balances, it discloses the amount of the finance 
k 

357 
REGULATION 2 
charge and the annual percentage rate on the 
median balance within each range or bracket 
of balances where a creditor imposes the same 
finance charge for all balances within a speci-
fied range or bracket of balances, and provided 
further that if the annual percentage rate deter-
mined on the median balance understates the 
annual percentage rate determined on the lowest 
balance in that range or bracket by more than 
$ per cent cf the rate on the lowest balance, 
then the annual percentage rate for that range 
or bracket shall be computed upon any balance 
lower than the median balance within that range 
so that any understatement will not exceed 
S per cent of the rate on the lowest balance 
within that range or bracket cf balances. 
0 ) In the event an error in disclosure of the 
amount of a finance charge or an annual per-
centage rate occurs because of a corresponding 
error in a chart or table acquired or produced in 
8ood faith by the creditor, that error in disclosure 
shall not, in itself, be considered a violation of 
mis Part provided that upon discovery of the 
^rror, that creditor makes no further disclosure 
based on that chart or table and promptly notifies 
t he Board or a Federal Reserve Bank in writing 
01 the error and identifies the inaccurate chart or 
by giving the name and address of the person 
responsible for its production and its identification 
number. 
(d) Minor irregularities. In determining the an-
nual percentage rate a creditor may, at his option, 
consider the payment irregularities set forth in 
us paragraph as it' thev were regular in amount 
0 r time, as applicable, provided that the trans-
i t i o n to which they relate is otherwise payable in 
c1l'al instalments scheduled at equal intervals. 
0 ) If the period from the date on which the 
'nance charge begins to accrue and the date the 
jnal payment is due is not less than 3 months in 
c case of weekly payments, 6 months in the case 
? 
biweekly or semimonthly payments, or 1 year 
n the case of monthly payments, cither or both 
o t the following: 
(0 The amount of I payment other than any 
downpaymcnt is not more than 50 per cent 
greater nor 50 per cent less than the. amount of a 
regu|ar payment; cr 
(ii) The interval between the date on which 
me finance chargc begins to accrue and the date 
c flr;>t payment is due is not less th?n 5 days for 
an obligation otherwise payable in weekly in-
stalments, not less than 10 days for an obliga-
tion otherwise payable In biweekly or semi-
monthly instalments, or not less than 20 days 
for an obligation otherwise payable in monthly 
instalments. 
(2) If the period from the date on which the 
finance chargc begins to accrue and the date the 
final payment is due is less than 3 months in the 
case of weekly payments, 6 months in the case of 
biweekly or semimonthly payments, or 1 year in 
the case of monthly payments, cither or both of 
the following: 
(i) The amount of 1 payment other than any 
downpaymcnt is not more than 25 per cent 
greater nor 25 per cent less than the amount of 
a regular payment; or 
(ii) The interval between the date on which 
the finance chargc begins to accrue and the 
date the first payment is due is not less than 
6 days for an obligation otherwise payable in 
weekly instalments, not less than 12 days for 
an. obligation otherwise payable in biweekly or 
semimonthly instalments, or not less than 25 
days for an obligation otherwise payable in 
monthly instalments. 
(e) Approximation cf annua! pcrcenfn^c rate--' 
other credit. In an exceptional instance when cir-
cumstances may leave a creditor with no- alterna-
tive but to determine an annual percentage rate 
applicable to an extension of credit other than 
open end credit by a method other than those 
prescribed in paragraphs (b) or (c) cf this section', 
the creditor may utilize the constant ratio method 
of computation provided such use is limited to the 
exceptional instance and is not for the purpose of 
circumvention or evasion of the requirements of 
this Part. Any provision of State law authorizing or 
requiring the use of the constant ratio method or 
any method of computing a percentage late other 
than those prescribed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of 
this section does not justify failure of the creditor 
to comply with the provisions of those paragraphs, 
as applicable. 
S E C T I O N 2 2 6 . 6 — G E N E R A L D I S C L O S U R E 
R E Q U I R E M E N T S 
(a) Disclosures; general rule. The disclosures re-
quired to be given by this Part shall be made 
clearly, conspicuously, in meaningful sequence, in 
accordance with the further requirements of this 
section, and at the time and in the terminology 
i 

REGULATION Z 
358 
§ 226.6 
prescribed in applicable sections. "Where the terms 
'finance charge" and "annual percentage rate" are 
required to be used, they shall be printed more 
conspicuously than other terminology required by 
this Part. Except with respect to the requirements 
of § 226.10, all numerical amounts and percent-
ages shall be stated in figures and shall be printed 
Jn not less than the equivalent of 10 point type, 
•075 inch computer type,'or elite si7_e typewritten 
numerals, or shall be legibly handwritten. 
(b) Inconsistent State requirements. With re-
spect to disclosures required by this Part, State 
law is inconsistent with the requirements of the 
Act and this Part, within the meaning of section 
111(a) of the Act, to the extent that it 
(1) Rcqu ires a creditor to make 
disclosures 
different from the requirement of this Part with 
respect to form, content, terminology, or time of 
delivery; 
(2) Requires disclosure of the amount of the 
finance charge determined in any manner other 
than that prescribed in § 226.4; or 
(3) Requires disclosure of the annual percent-
age rat? of the finance charge determined in any 
manner other than that prescribed in § 226.5. 
(c) Additional information. At 
the creditor's 
option, additional information or explanations may 
supplied with any disclosure required by this 
Part, but none shall be stated, utilized, or placed 
so as to mislead or confuse the customer or con-
tradict, obscure, or detract attention from the 
information required by this Part to be disclosed. 
Any creditor who elccts to make disclosures spec-
ified in any provision of State law which, under 
Paragraph (b) of this section, is inconsistent with 
*he requirements of. the Act and this Part may 
(1) Make such inconsistent .disclosures on a 
Separate paper apart from the disclosures made 
Pursuant to this Part, or. 
(2) Make such inconsistent disclosures on the 
sanio statement on which disclosures required by 
this Part avc made; provided: 
(i) All disclosures required by this Part ap-
pear separately and above any other disclosures, 
00 Disclosures required by this Part arc 
Identified by a clear and conspicuous heading 
indicating that they arc made in compliance 
V/ith Federal law, and 
(in) All inconsistent disclosures appear sepa-
rately and below a conspicuous 
demarcation 
1'fic, and are identified by 
clcar and con-
spicuous heading indicating ihat the statements 
made thereafter are inconsistent with, the dis-
closure requirements of the Federal Tr^th in 
Lending Act. 
(d) Multiple creditors: joint disclosure. ]f there 
is more than one creditor in a transaction, each 
creditor shall be clearly identified and shall be 
responsible for making only those disclosures re-
quired by this Part which arc within h's knowledge 
and the purview of his relationship with the cus-
tomer. If two or more creditors make a joint dis-
closure, each creditor shall be clearly identified. 
The disclosures required under paragraphs (b) and 
(c) of § 226.8 shall be made by the seller if he 
extends or arranges for the extension of credit. 
Otherwise disclosures shall be made as required 
under paragraphs (b) and (d) of § 226.S. 
(e) Multiple customers; disclosure to one: Tn 
any transaction other than a transaction which 
may be rescinded under the provisions of § 226.9, 
if there is more than one customer, the creditor 
need furnish a statement of disclosures required 
by this Part to only one of them other than an 
endorser, comaker, guarantor, or a similar party. 
(f) Unknown information estimate. If at the 
time disclosures must be made, an amount cr 
other item of information required to be disclosed, 
or needed to determine a required disclosure, is 
unknown or not available to the creditor, and the 
creditor has made a reasonable effort to ascertain 
it, the creditor may use an estimated amount or 
an approximation of the' information, provided 
the estimate or approximation is clearly identified 
as such, is reasonable, is based on the best in-
formation available to the creditor, and is not 
used for the purpose of circumventing or evading 
the disclosure requirements of this Part. 
(g) Eftcet of subsequent occurrence. If informa-
tion disclosed in accordance with this Part is sub-
sequently rendered inaccurate as the result of any 
act, occurrence, or agreement subsequent to the 
delivery of the required disclosures, the inaccuracy 
resulting therefrom docs not constitute a violation 
of this Part.0 
•Such 
acts,- occurrence, or jtgreerrenfs include 
the 
failure of the customer to perform his obligations under 
the contract and such actions by the creditor as may bo 
proper to protect his interests .'n such circumstances. Such 
failure may result in the liability of the customer TO pay 
delinquency charges, collection costs, or expenses of the 
creditor for perfection or acquisition of any security in-
terest or amounts advanced by the creditor on behalf o f 
the customer in connection with insurance, repairs to 0*' 
preservation o£ collateral. 

§ 226.12 
359 
REGULATION Z 
(h) Overstatement. Tiie disclosure of the amount 
of the finance charge or a percentage which is 
greater than the amount of the finance charge or 
percentage required to be disclosed under this 
Part does not in itself constitute a violation of this 
Part: 
Provided, 
That the overstatement is not for 
the purpose of circumvention or evasion of dis-
closure requirements. 
0) Preservation and inspection oC evidence of 
compliance. Evidence of compliance with the re-
quirements imposed under this Part, other than 
advertising requirements under § 226.10, shall be 
preserved by the creditor for a period, of not less 
than 2 years after the date each disclosure is re-
quired to be made. Each creditor shall, when 
directed by the appropriate administrative enforce-
ment authority designated in section 108 of the 
•Act, permit that authority or its duly authorized 
representative to inspect its relevant records and 
evidence of compliance with this Part. 
(j) Percentage rate as dollars 
p ° r 
hundred. 
r ' 0 r ^ January 1, 1971, any rate required under 
this Part to be disclosed as a percentage rate may, 
the option, of the creditor, be expressed in the 
n i 
the corresponding ratio of dollars per 
hundred dollars using the term "dollars 
financc 
rS° P'-t year per $100 of unpaid balance." (For 
example, an add-on finance charge of 4 per cent 
l,er year on an obligation payable in 36 equal 
monthly instalments is equivalent to an annual 
Percentage rate, rounded to the nearest quarter 
0<t 
1 Per cent, of 7.50 per cent which may be 
P 
a s "$7.50 finance charge per year per $100 
o f unpaid balance.") 
00 liansition period. A n y creditor who can 
demonstrate that he has taken bona fide steps, prior 
0 
u'y 1, 1969, to obtain printed forms which are 
^ecessary to comply with requirements of this 
rt may, until s.-.ch forms arc received but in no 
fvent later than December 31, 1969, utilize cxist-
J n8 supplier of pV nted forms for the purpose of 
complying with the disclosure requirements of this 
f 
°-' l c r than the requirements of paragraph 
' ' of 3 226.9: Provided, 
That such forms arc 
aj. C r C ( 1 ° r suPPlernented as necessary to assure that 
of the items of information the creditor is re-
' U h e d 
t 0 disclose to the customer are set forth 
C I * r l y and conspicuously. 
S E C T I O N 226.7—OPEN E N D 
C R E D I T 
A C C O U N T S — S P E C I F I C D I S C L O S U R E S 
(a) Opening new account. Before the first trans-
action is made on any epen end credit account, the 
creditor shall disclose to the custohier in a single 
written statement, which the customer may retain, 
in terminology consistent with the requirements of 
paragraph (b) of this section, each of the follow-
ing items, to the extent applicable: 
(1) The conditions under which a finance charge 
may be imposed, including an explanation of the 
time period, if any, within which any credit extended 
may be paid without incurring a finance charge. 
(2) H i e method of determining 
the balance 
upon which a finance charge may be imposed. 
(3) The method of determining the amount of 
of the finance charge, including the method of 
determining any minimum, fixed, check service, 
transaction, activity, or similar charge, which may 
be imposed as a finance charge. 
(4) Where one or more periodic rates may be 
used to compute the finance charge, each such 
rate, the range of balances to which it is applica-
ble, and the corresponding annual percentage rate 
determined by multiplying the periodic rate by 
the number of periods in a year. 
(5) If the creditor so elects, the Comparative 
Index of Credit Cost in accordance with § 226.11. 
(6) The 
conditions 
under 
which 
any 
other 
charges may be imposed, and the method by which 
they will be determined. 
(7) The conditions under which the creditor 
may retain or acquire any security interest in tiny 
property to secure the payment of any credit ex-
tended on the account, and a description or identi-
fication 
of the type of the interest or interests 
which may be so retained or acquired. 
(8) The minimum periodic payment required. 
(b) Periodic statements required. Except in the 
ease of an account which the creditor deems to 
be uncollectable or with- respect to which delin-
quency collection procedures have been instituted, 
the creditor of any open end crcdit account shall 
mail or deliver to the customer, for each billing 
cycle at the end of which there is an outstanding 
debit balance in excess of $1 in that account cr 
with respect to which a finance charge is imposed, 
a statement or statements which the customer may 
retain, setting forth in accordance with paragraph 
(c) of this section each of the following items to 
the extent applicable: 
21 

R E G U L A T I O N 
Z 
§ 226.7 
(1) The outstanding balancc in the account at 
the beginning of thc billing cycle, using the term 
'previous balance." 
(2) The amount and date of each extension of 
credit or thc date such extension of credit is 
debited to the account during thc billing cyclc and, 
Unless previously furnished, a brief identification 7 
of any goods or services purchased or other ex-
tension of credit. 
(3) The amounts credited to thc account during 
billing cycle for payments, 
using the 
term 
Payments," and for other credits including returns, 
rebates of finance charges, and adjustments, using 
the term "credits," and unless previously furnished, 
a brief identification s of cach of thc items included 
, n such other credits. 
n, 
a m o u n t 
a n>' 
finance 
charge, using 
ne term "finance charge," debited to the account 
auring the billing cycle, itemized and identified to 
s.-ovv the amounts, if any, due to the application 
°f periodic rates and the amount of any other 
charge included in thc finance charge, such as a 
j^nim'um, 
fixed, 
check service, transaction, ac-
v,ty> or similar charge,0 using appropriate de-
scriptive terminology. 
(•5) Each periodic rate, using thc term "periodic 
fate 
(or "rates"), that may be used to compute 
tu C f l ? a n c c charge (whether or not applied during 
7 
billing cycle), and thc range of balances to 
W h , c h it is applicable. 
(6) The annual percentage rate or rates dcter-
j*>>ncd under § 226.5(a). using thc term "annual 
Percentage rate" (oi "rates"), and, where there is 
than one rate, the amount of the balance to 
Jhic), cach rate is applicable. Where the creditor 
the open end credit account imposes 
finance 
lair,cs with respect to specific transactions dur-
bif 
t h C 
b ' 1 ! i n g 
c > c , e ' 
s l l c h 
c h r ,rgcs shall bo com-
n°d 
v/ith 
all 
other 
finance 
charges 
imposed 
the billing cycle, and thc annual percent-
2 c rate to be disclosed shall be determined by: 
or b
r d c , u l f' c a |ioii m y be made on an scccmpar.yins slip 
th« f. S y ! n h o ' relatln 
to i 
identification list printed oil 
^ atcrncnt. 
or hv n i'^ l c a t' o n r.iay be made on an accompanying slip 
th.* . s > , n l > n l relating to an identification Jut printed on 
lc statement 
v Th » 
credit
 C*e. cnnrr,es include any charges imposed by the 
f 0 r
 
0 r l o r die issuance, payment, or handling of chccks, 
*Uch f l.° l l n t ,r,-'int< nance or otherwise, to the extent. that 
r*qui C, , r g e s cxceed any similar charges the customer ii 
fcxiend 
v ' , c n 
,ini account is not being used to 
(i) Dividing 
thc sum 
of 
all 
of 
thc 
finance 
charges imposed during thc billing cycle by 
the sum of the balances to which the periodic 
rates apply (or by the average of daily bal-
ances if a daily periodic rate is used), plus 
the sum of thc amounts 
financed 
to which 
the specific transaction charges apply, and 
(ii) Multiplying 
thc 
quotient 
(expressed 
as 
a 
percentage) by the number of billing cycles 
in a year. 
(7) If the creditor so elects, the Comparative 
Index of Credit Cost in accordance with § 226.1 1. 
(8) The balancc on w"hich thc 
finance 
charge 
was computed, and a statement of how that bal-
ance was determined. If thc balancc is determined 
without first deducting ail credits during the billing 
cycle, that fact and thc amount of such credits 
shall also be disclosed. 
(9) Thc closing date of the billing cyclc and 
thc outstanding balance in thc account on that 
date, using the term "new balance," accompanied 
by thc statement of thc date by which, or thc 
period, if any, within which, payment must be 
made tc avoid additional finance charges. 
(c) Location of disclosures. The disclosures re-
quired by paragraph (b) of this section shall bo 
made on the face of the periodic statement, on it? 
reverse side, or on the periodic statement supple-
mented by separate statement forms provided they 
arc cnclor.cd together and delivered to the cus-
tomer at the same time, and further provided that 
(1) The disclosure required by paragraph (b)(1) 
of this section, thc amounts or respective totals of 
the amounts required to be disclosed under para-
graph (b)(2), (3)? and (4) of this section, and the 
disclosure required under paragraph (b)(6) and (9) 
of this section shall appear on thc face of thc 
periodic statement. If the amounts and dates of 
thc charges and credits required to be disclosed 
under paragraph (b)(2) and (3) of this section are 
not itemized on thc face or reverse side of thc 
periodic statement, they shall be disclosed on a 
separate statement or separate slips which shall 
accompany 
the periodic statement and 
identify 
cach charge and crcdit and show the date and 
amount thereof. If the disclosures required under 
paragraph (b)(4) are not itemized on thc face or 
reverse side of the periodic statement, they shall 
be disclosed on a separate statement which shall 
accompany thc periodic statement. 
(2) Thc disclosures required by paragraph (b)(5) 

§ 226.8 
REGULATION 
2 
and (6) of this section and a reference to the 
amounts required to he disclosed under paragraph 
(b)(4) and (8) of this section, if not disclosed to-
gether on the face or the reverse side of the peri-
odic statement, shall appear together on the face of 
a single supplemental statement which shall accom-
pany the periodic statement. 
(3) The face of the periodic statement shall 
contain one of the following notices, as applicable: 
NOTICE: See reverse side for important informa-
tion" or " N O T I C E : See accompanying statements) 
for important information" or " N O T I C E : Sec re-
verse side and 
accompanying 
statcment(s) 
for 
important information;" and 
(4) The disclosures shall not be separated so as 
to confuse or mislead the customer or obscure or 
detract attention from the information required 
to be disclosed. 
(d) 1 •inance chargc imposed at lime of (ran-;-
action. Any creditor, other than the creditor of 
the open end credit account, who imposes a fi-
nance chargc at the time of honoring a customer's 
credit card, any other device, or form of identifi-
cation for a purchase of property or services or 
for a cash advance to be debited to the customer's 
open end credit account shall make the disclosures 
required under paragraphs (b)(2) and (d) of S 226.S, 
Cr«fo 
other than open c;u!—specific disclosures, at 
the time of that transaction, and the annual per-
centage rate to be disclosed shall be determined 
b y d»viding the amount of the finance charge by the 
amount financed and multiplying the quotient (ex-
Pressed as a percentage) by 12. If disclosure is 
m a d e under this paragraph, the creditor of the 
Pen end credit account need make no further 
lsclosure with respect to the finance charge on 
l a t transaction. 
(e) Change in terms. If any change is to be 
made in terms of an open end credit account plan 
Previously disclosed to the customer, the creditor 
mail or deliver to the customer written dis-
closure Of sucl proposed change not less than 30 
a y s P r i°r to ihe effective date of such change 
° r 
3 0 days pric r to the beginning of the biliing 
cycle within which such change will become effee-
whichever is the earlier date. 
(0 Open end ercdit accounts existing on July 1, 
• • In the case of any open end credit account 
existence and in which a balance remains un-
|>a,d on July l, 1969, and which balance is deemed 
0 be collectible and not subject to delinquency 
collection procedures, the items described in para-
graph (a) of this section, to the extent applicable, 
shall be disclosed in a notice mailed or delivered 
to the customer not later than July 31, 1969. If 
a customer subsequently utilizes such an account 
in existence on July 1, 1969, in which no balance 
remained unpaid on that date, and a notice re-
quired bv paragraph (a) of this section has not 
previously been furnished that customer, then such 
notice shall be mailed or delivered to that customer 
before or with the next biliing on that account. 
SECTION 226.8—CREDIT O T H E R T H A N 
O P E N E N D — S P E C I F I C D I S C L O S U R E S 
(a) Genera! rule. Any creditor when extending 
credit other than open end credit shall, in accord-
ance with § 226.6 and to the extent applicable, 
make the disclosures required by this section with 
respect to any transaction consummated on cr 
after July I, 1969. Except as provided in para-
graphs (g) and (h) of this section, such disclosures 
shall be made before the transaction is consum-
mated. At the time disclosures ore made, the 
creditor shall furnish the customer with a dupli-
cate of the instrument or a statement by which 
the required disclosures are made and on which 
the creditor is identified. All of the disclosures 
shall be made together on either 
(1) The note or other instrument evidencing the 
obligation on the same side of the page and above 
or adjacent to the place for the customer's signa-
ture; or 
(2) One side of a separate statement which 
identifies the transaction. 
(b) Disclosures in sale and lionsale credit. In 
any transaction subject to 'his section, the follow-
ing items, as applicable, shall be disclosed: 
(1) The date o:i which the finance charge begins 
to accrue if different from the date of the trans-
action. 
(2) The finance charge expressed as an annual 
percentage rate, using the term "annual percent-
age rate," except in the case of a finance charge 
(i) which does not exceed $5 and is applicable 
to an amount financed not exceeding $75, or 
(ii) which does not exceed $7.50 and is ap-
plicable to an amount financed exceeding $75. 
A creditor may not divide an extension of credit 
into two or more transactions to avoid ilie dis-
closure of an annual percentage rate, nor may 
any other percentage rate be disclosed if none 

362 
R E G U L A T I O N 
Z 
§ 
2 2 6 . 8 
-is stated in xcliance upon subdivisions (i) or (ii) 
o f this subparagraph. 
(3) The number, 
amount, 
and due 
dates 
or 
periods of payments scheduled to repay the in-
debtedness and, except in the case of a loan se-
cured by a first lien or equivalent security interest 
0 , 1 a dwelling m a d e to finance the purchase of 
that dwelling and cxcept in the case of a sale of 
a dwelling, the sum of such payments using the 
term, "total- oi payments." 10 If any payment is 
more than twice the amount of an otherwise regu-
larly scheduled equal payment, the creditor shall 
identify the a m o u n t of such payment by the term 
-.Walloon p a y m e n t " and shall stale the conditions, 
any, under which 
that payment m a y 
he re-
financed 
if not paid when due. 
(4) The amount, or method of computing the 
amount, of any default, delinquency, or similar 
charges payable in the event of late payments. 
(5) A description or identification of the type 
any security interest held or to be retained or 
acquired by the creditor in connection with the 
extension of credit, and a clear identification of 
" c property to which the security interest relates 
°.r' ft such property is not identifiable, an explana-
° a 
the manner in which the creditor retains 
0 r may acquire a security interest in such property 
mch the creditor is unable to identify. In any 
s uch case where a clear identification of such prop-
erty 
l> cannot properly be made on the disclosure 
^atcrnent due to the length of such identification, 
note; other instrument evidencing the obliga-
n> or separate disclosure statement shall contain 
ercnce to a separate pledge agreement, or a fi-
nancing statement, mortgage, deed of trust, or simi-
a r document evidencing the security interest, a 
, 0 p y 
which shall be furnished to the customer 
> the creditor as promptly as practicable. It" aftcr-
jCcluired property will he subject to the security 
rt>st, or if other or future indebtedness is or 
tib f 
s c c u r c ^ 
by any such property, this fact 
• 
be clearly set forth in conjunction with the 
C s c r»ption or identification of the type of security 
p ^ t held, retained or acquired. 
W 
A description of any penalty charge that 
f o » 
be imposed by the creditor or his assignee 
• 
P r ePayment of the principal of the obligation 
30 Th • •• 
I,A 
. disclosures required by this sentence need not 
Plirsu 
C 
XSil'; 
r e sP° r t 
t 0 interim student loans made 
Und« 
t o 
federally insured student lo;>n programs 
tdnV\- 
l i c I~ v v £9-329. riiic IV Part U of the Higher 
Act of 1965, as amended. 
(such as a real estate mortgage) with an explana-
tion of the method of computation of such penalty 
and the conditions under which it may be imposed. 
(7) Identification of the method of computing 
any unearned portion of the finance chargc in the 
event of prepayment of the obligation and a state-
ment of the amount or method cf computation of 
any charge that may be deducted from the a m o u n t 
of any rebate of such unearned finance charge that 
will be credited to the obligation or refunded to 
the customer. 
(c) Credit sales. In the case of a credit sale, in 
addition to the items required 
to be disclosed 
under paragraph (b) of this section, the following 
items, as applicable, shall be disclosed: 
(1) The cash price of the property or service 
purchased, using the term "cash price." 
(2) The amount, of the downpayment itemized, 
as applicable, as downpayment in money, using 
the term "cash downpayment." downpayment in 
property, using the term "trade-in" and the sum, 
using the term "total downpayment." 
(3) The difference 
between the 
amounts 
de-
scribed in subparagraphs CI) and (2) of this para-
graph. using the term "unpaid balance of cash 
price." 
(4) All 
other 
charges, 
individually 
itemized, 
which are included in the amount 
financed 
but 
which arc not part of the finance charge. 
(5) 'The sum of the amounts determined under 
subparagraphs (3) and (4) of this paragraph, using 
the term "unpaid balance." 
(6) A n y amounts required to be deducted under 
paragraph (e) of this section using, as applicable, 
the terms "prepaid finance charge" and "required 
deposit balance," and, if both arc applicable, the 
total of such items using the term "total prepaid 
finance charge and required deposit balance." 
(7) The difference between the amounts deter-
mined under subparagraphs (5) and (6) of this 
paragraph, using the term " a m o u n t financed." 
(S) Except in the case of a sale of a dwelling: 
(i) The total amount of the 
finance 
chargc, 
with description of each amount included, using 
the term "finance charge," and 
(ii) The 
sum 
of 
the 
amounts 
determined 
under subparagraphs (1), (4), and (8)(i) of this 
paragraph, using the term "deferred 
payment 
price." 
(d) Loans and other nonsale credit. In the case 
of a loan or extension of crcdit which is not a 

§ 226.8 
credit sale, in addition to .the items required to 
be disclosed under paragraph (b) of this section, 
the following items, as applicable, shall bc dis-
closed: 
(1) The amount of credit, excluding items set 
forth in paragraph (e) of this section, which will 
be paid to the customer or for his account or 
to another person on his behalf, including all 
charges, individually itemized, which arc included 
m the amount of credit extended but which are 
not part of the finar.ee charge, using the term 
"amount financed." 
(2) Any amount referred to in paragraph (e) 
°f this section, required to be excluded front the 
amount in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph, 
u,»'ng, as applicable, the terms "prepaid finance 
charge" and "required deposit balance," and. if 
both are applicable, the total of such items using 
the term, "total prepaid finance charge and re-
quired deposit balance." 
(3) Fxcept in the case of a loan secured by a 
first lien ot equivalent security interest on a dwcil-
l ng and made to finance the purchase of that 
dwelling, the total amount of the finance charge,11 
w'th description of each amount included, using 
term "finance charge.1" 
(e) Finance chare,o payable separately or with-
held; required deposit balances. The 
following 
amounts shall be disclosed and deducted in a 
credit sale in accordance with paragraph (c)(6) of 
this section, and in other extensions of credit shall 
ke excluded from the amount disclosed under 
Paragraph, (d)(1) of this section, and shall be dis-
closed in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this 
section: 
(1) Any finance charge paid separately, in cash 
0 r otherwise, directly or indirectly to the creditor 
°rvvith the creditor's knowledge to another person, 
0 r withheld by the creditor from the proceeds of 
the credit extended.'2 
(2) Any 
deposit 
balance or any 
investment 
^'hich the creditor requires the customer to make, 
maintain, or increase in a specified amount or 
Proportion as a condition to the extension of credit 
except: 
, 11 The disclosure required by this subparagraph need not 
'' made with respect to interim student loans madi 
Pursuant to federally insured student loan programs under 
public- Law 
Title IV Part B of the Higher I-duca-
Act of 1965, as amended. 
. ^ Finance charges deducted or excluded as provided 
1' this paiagraph shall, ncvei'hcless, be included 
deter-
fining the fu,.ulC0 char-; under § 226.4. 
363 
REGULATION 
Z 
(i) An escrow account under paragraph fc)(3) 
of § 226.4, 
(ii) A deposit balance which will be wholly 
applied toward satisfaction of the customer's 
obligation in the transaction, 
(iii) A deposit balance or investment which 
was in existence prior to the extension of credit 
and which is offered by the customer as secur-
ity for that extension of credit, and 
(iv) A deposit balance or investment which 
was acquired or established from the proceeds 
of an extension of credit made for that purpose 
upon written request of the customer. 
(f) First Hen to finance construction of dwelling. 
Jn any case where a first lien or equivalent security 
interest in real property is retained or acquired by 
a creditor in connection with the financing of the 
initial construction of a dwelling, or in connection 
with a loan to satisfy that construction loan and 
provide permanent financing of that 
dwelling, 
whether or not the customer previously owned the 
land on which that dwelling is to be constructed, 
such security interest shall be considered a first 
lien against that dwelling to finance thc purchase 
of that dw elling. 
(g) Orders by mail or telephone. If a creditor 
receives a purchase order or a request for an ex-
tension of credit by mail, telephone, cr written 
communication without personal solicitation, thc 
disclosures required under this section may bc 
made any time not later than the date the first 
payment is due. provided: 
(1) Jn the case of credit sales, the cash price, 
the downpayment, thc 
finance 
charge, the de-
ferred payment price, the annual percentage rate, 
and thc number, frequency, and amount of pay-
ments are set forth in or are determinable from 
the creditor's catalog or other printed material 
distributed to the public; or 
(2) In the case of loans or other extensions of 
credit, the amount of the loan, the finance charge, 
thc total scheduled payments, the number, fre-
quency, and amount of payments, and the an-
nual percentage rate for representative amounts or 
ranges of credit arc set forth in or are determin-
able from the creditor's printed material distrib-
uted to the public, in the contract of loan, or in 
other printed material delivered or made avail-
able to the customer. 
(h) Scries of sales. If a credit sale is one of a 
series of transactions made pursuant to an agrec-
15 
Iter*, 

REGULATION Z 
3€4 
§ 226.8 
mcnt providing for the addition of the amount 
financed plus the finance chargc for the current 
sale to an existing outstanding balance, then the 
disclosures required under 
this section for 
the 
current sale may be made at any time not later 
than the date the first payment for that sale is 
due, provided: 
(1) The customer has approved in writing both 
the annual percentage rate or rates and the method 
of treating any unearned financc charge on 
an 
existing outstanding balance in computing the fi-
nance charge or charges; and 
(2) The creditor retains no security interest in 
any property ;>s to which he has received pay-
ments aggregating the amount of the sale pricc 
including any finance charges attributable thereto. 
For the purposes of this subparagraph, in the ease 
of items purchased on different dates, the 
first 
Purchased shal' be deemed first paid for, and in 
the case of items purchased on the same date, 
the lowest priced shall be deemed first paid for. 
(i) Advances under loan commitments. If a loan 
is one of a scries of advances made pursuant to 
a written agreement under which a creditor is or 
n'iay be committed to extend credit to a customer 
l,P to a specified amount, and the customer has 
approved in writing the annual percentage rate or 
ratcs, the method of computing the finance charge 
0 r charges, and any other terms, the agreement 
ihall be considered a single transaction, and the 
disclosures required under this section at the credi-
tor's option need be made only at the time the 
°8rcenient is executed. 
0) 
ttofinancmg, 
consolidating, or increasing. If 
t , ny existing extension of credit is refinanced, or 
°r more existing extensions of credit arc con-
solidated, or an existing obligation is increased, 
SUcH transaction shall be considered a new trans-
i t i o n subject to the disclosure requirements of 
h l s Part. For the purpose of such disclosure, any 
, n carned portion of the finance charge which is 
, l o t credited to the existing obligation 
shall 
be 
®ddcd to the new finance chargc and shall not. be 
! ncluded in the new amount financed. A n y increase 
n r,n existing obligation to reimburse the creditor 
1 Undertaking the customer's obligation in per-
c l l n 2 , protecting or preserving the security shall 
jjot be considered a new transaction subject to 
Part. A n y advance for agricultural purposes 
^•'de under an open end real estate mortgage or 
•'Hilar lien shall not be considered a new trans-
action subject to the disclosure requirements of 
this section, provided: 
(1) The maturity of the advance docs not cxcecd 
2 years; 
(2) N o increase is made in the annual percent-
age rate previously disclosed; and 
(3) All disclosures required by this Part were 
made at the time the security interest was acquired 
by the creditor or at any time prior to the first 
advance made on or following the effective date 
of this part. 
(k) Assumption of an obligation. A n y creditor 
who accepts a subsequent customer as an obligor 
under an existing obligation shall make the dis-
closures required by this part to that customer 
before he becomes so obligated. If the obligation 
so assumed is secured by a first lien or equivalent 
security interest on a dwelling, and the assumption 
is mad.: for the subsequent customer to acquire 
that dwelling, that obligation shall be considered 
a loan made to financc the purchase of that dwell-
ing. 
(1) Deferrals or extensions. Tn the case of an 
obligation other than an obligation upon 
which 
the amount of the finance charge is determined 
by the application of a percentage rate to the un-
paid balance, if the creditor imposes a chargc or 
fee for deferral or extension, the creditor shall 
disclose to the customer 
(1) The amount deferred or extended; 
(2) The date to which, or the time period for 
which payment is deferred or extended; and 
(3) The amount of the chargc or fee for the 
deferral or extension. 
(m) Series of single payment obligations. A n y 
extension of credit involving a series of single pay-
ment obligations shall be considered a single trans-
action subject to the disclosure requirements of 
this Part. 
(n) Permissible periodic statements. Jf a creditor 
transmits a periodic billing statement 1 3 other than 
a delinquency notice, payment coupon book, or 
payment 
passbook, 
or 
a statement, 
billing, 
or 
advice relating exclusively to amounts to be paid 
by the customer as escrows for payment of taxes, 
insurance, and water, sewer, and land rents, it 
shall be in a form which the customer may re-
tain and shall set forth 
" A n y statement, notice, or reminder of payment due 
on any transaction payable in instalments which is mailed 
or delivered periodically to the customer in advance of the 
due date of ihe instalment shall be a periodic billing 
statement for the purpose of this paragraph. 

§ 226.9 
o i 
R E G U L A T I O N 
7. 
(1) The annual pcrccntagc rate or rates; and 
(2) The date by which, or the period, if any, 
within which payment must be made in order 
to avoid late payment or delinquency chargcs. 
(o) Discount for prompt payment. Except as 
provided under § 226.3(d). the amount of any 
discount allowed for payment of a single pay-
ment obligation on or before a specified date, or 
charge for delaying payment after a specified date, 
shall be disclosed on the billing statement as a 
finance charge imposed on the least amount pay-
able in satisfaction 
of the obligation 
(amount 
financed) for the period of time between the speci-
fied date and the due date of the obligation, or 
the absence of a designated due date, the date 
the billing cycle ends. Except as provided in para-
graph (b)(2) of this section, each such billing state-
ment shall, in addition to stating the amount of 
that "finance charge," using thai term, state the 
annual percentage rate," using that term, com-
puted so that it may be disclosed with an accuracy 
to the nearest quarter of 1 per cent and determined 
oy (1) dividing the amount of the finance charge 
by the amount financed; (2) dividing the quotient 
s ° obtained by the number of days between the 
Specified date and the due date of the obligation, 
0 r in the absence of a designated due date, the 
"ate the billing cycle ends; and (3) multiplying 
the quotient so obtained (expressed as a percent-
age) by 365. (For example, a $1,000 purchase of 
grain, subject to terms of 29c/10 days, net 30 
d ays, results in a "finance charge" of $20 and an 
amount financed 5980 for a period of 20 days. 
The "annual percentage rate" is 37.24To which 
may be rounded to 37.25% or 3714%.) 
S E C T I O N 2 2 6 . 9 — R I G H T TO R E S C I N D 
C E R T A I N T R A N S A C T I O N S 
(a) General rule. Except as otherwise provided 
m this section, in the case of any credit transaction 
111 which a security interest is or will be retained 
0 r acquired in any real property which is used 
0 r is cxpected to be used as the principal residence 
°f the customer, the customer shall have ihc right 
to rescind that transaction until midnight of the 
third business day 1 4 following the date of con-
" l or the purposes of this section, a business day is any 
f a'tndar day except Sunday, or the following business 
^olidays: 
New 
Year's 
Day, 
Washington's 
nivthdoy, 
^crr.orial Day, Independence'Day, Labor Day, Veterans' 
Ua>'» Thanks^iiing, and Christmas. 
summation of that transaction or the date of de-
livery of the disclosures required under this sec-
tion and,all other material disclosures required 
under this Part, whichever is later, by notifying 
the creditor by mail, telegram, or other writing 
of his intention to do so. Notification by mail shall 
be considered given at the time mailed; notifica-
tion by telegram shall be considered given at the 
time filed for transmission; and notification by 
other writing shall be considered given at the 
time delivered to the creditor's designated place 
of business. 
(b) Notice of opportunity to rescind. Whenever 
a customer has the right to rescind a transaction 
under paragraph (a) of this section, the creditor 
shall give notice of that fact to the customer by 
furnishing the customer with two copies of the 
notice set out below, one of which may be used 
by the customer to cancel the transaction. Such 
notice shall be printed in capital and lower case 
letters of not less than 12 point bold-faced type 
on one side of a separate statement which identi-
fies the transaction to which it relates. Such state-
ment shall also set forth the entire paragraph (d) 
of this section, "Effect of rescission." If such 
paragraph appears on the reverse side of the state-
ment, the face of the statement shall state: "See 
reverse side for important information about your 
right of rescission." Before furnishing copies of the 
notice to the customer, the creditor shall complete 
both copies with the name of the creditor, the 
address of the creditor's place of business, the 
date of consummation of the transaction, and the 
date, not earlier than the third business day fol-
lowing the date of the transaction, by which the 
customer may give notice of cancellation. 
Notice to customer required by Federal law: 
You have entered into 
a transaction cu 
. 
(datQ 
which may result m a lien, mortgage, or other 
security interest on your home. You ha"ke a legal 
right tnider Federal Jaw to cancel this transaction, 
if you desire to do so, without any penalty or ob-
ligation within three business days from the above 
date or any later date on which all material dis-
closures required under the Truth in Lending Act 
have been given to you. If you so cancel (he trans-
action, any lien, mortgage, or other sccuriiy in-
terest on your home arising from this transaction 

REGULATION Z 
366 
§ 
2 2 6 . 9 
Is automatically void. You arc also entitled to re-
ceive n refund of any dovvnpayment or other con-
sideration if you cancel. If you decide to cancel 
this transaction, you may do so by notifying 
(Name of creditor) 
at (Address of creditor's place of business) by 
Wail or telegram sent not later than midnight of 
(date) 
You may also use any 
other form of written notice identifying the trans-
action if if; is delivered to ihc ubove address not 
later than that time. This notice may he used *or 
that purpose by dating and signing below. 
I hereby cancel this transaction. 
(date) 
(customer's signature) 
(c) Delay of performance. Except as provided 
paragraph (e) of this section, the creditor in any 
transaction subject to this section shall not per-
form, or cause or permit the performance of, 
any of the following actions until after the rescis-
sion period has expired and he has reasonably 
satisfied himself that the customer has not exer-
cised his right ot rescission: 
0 ) Disburse any money other than in escrow; 
(2) Make any physical changes in the property 
of thc customer; 
(3) Perform any work or scrvice for the cus-
tomer; or 
(4) Make any deliveries to thc residence of the 
Customer if the creditor has retained or will ac-
quire a security interest other than one arising by 
operation of law. 
% ((D Effect of rescission. When a customer excr-
etes Iiis right to rescind under paragraph fa) of 
this scciion, he is not liable for any finance or 
other charge, and any security interest becomes 
v0id upon such a jescission. Within 10 days after 
r c c c'Pt of a notice of rescission, the creditor shall 
return to the customer any money or property 
fi'ven as earnest money, downpayinent, or oiher-
^''•c. and shall take any action necessary or ap-
propriate to reflect the termination of any security 
lr'!erest created under the transaction. If trie crcdi-
l ° r has delivered any property to the customer, the 
cu*torner may retain possession of it. Upon the 
Performance of the creditor's obligations under 
this section, the customer shall tender the property 
to the creditor, except that if return of the prop-
erty in kind would be impracticable or inequi-
table, the customer shall tender its reasonable 
value. Tender shall be made at thc location of thc 
property or at thc residence of the customer, at 
the option of the customer. If the creditor does 
not take possession of the property within 10 days 
after tender by the customer, ownership of the 
property vests in the customer without obligation 
on his part to pay for it. 
(c) Waiver of right of rescission. A customer 
may modify or waive his right to rescind a trans-
action subject to thc provisions of this scction 
provided: 
(1) Thc extension of credit is needed in order 
to meet a bona fide immediate personal financial 
emergency of the customer; 
(2) The customer has determined that a delay 
of 3 business days in performance of the creditor's 
obligation under the transaction will jeopardize 
the welfare, health or safety of natural persons 
or endanger property which the customer owns or 
for which he is responsible; and 
(3) The customer furnishes die creditor with 
a separate dated and signed personal statement de-
scribing the situation requiring immediate remedy 
and modifying or waiving his right OL rescission. 
'Hie use of printed forms for this purpose is pro-
hibited. 
(f) Joint ownership. For tiic purpose of this 
section, "customer" shall include two or more cus-
tomers where joint ownership is involved, and 
thc following shall apply: 
(1) The right of rescission of the transaction may 
be exercised by any one of them, in which case 
the cfi'ect of rescission in accordance with para-
graph (d) of this section applies to ail of them; and 
(2) Any waiver of the right of rescis?>ion pro-
vided in paragraph (f) of this section is invalid 
unless signed by all of them. 
(g) Exceptions to general rule. This section docs 
not apply to: 
(1) Thc creation, retention, or assumption of 
a first lien or equivalent security interest to finance 
the acquisition of a dwelling in which the customer 
resides or expects to reside. 
(2) A security interest which is a first lien re-
tained or acquired by a creditor in connection with 
18 

§ 226.12 
367 
REGULATION Z 
the 
financing 
of the initial construction of the 
residence of the customer, or in connection with a 
loan committed prior to completion of the con-
d u c t i o n of that residence to satisfy that construc-
hon loan and provide permanent 
financing 
of 
that residence, whether or not the customer previ-
ously owned the land on which that residence is 
to be constructed. 
(3) A n y lien by reason of its subordination at 
a n y time subsequent to its creation, if that lien 
W a s exempt from the provisions of this section 
^'hen it was originally creatcd. 
(4) A n y advance for agricultural purposes made 
Pursuant to paragraph (j) ol § 226.8 under an open 
C n d real estate mortgage or similar lien, provided 
the. disclosure required under paragraph (b) 
of 
.his section 
was made at the time the security 
^terest was acquired by the creditor or at any 
/'lie prior to the first advance made on or follow-
, nE the cficctivc date of this Part. 
S E C T I O N 226.10 — A D V E R T I S I N G 
C R E D I T 
T E R M S 
(a) General rule. N o advertisement to aid, pro-
mote, or assist directly or indirectly any extension 
0 t credit may state 
(1) that a specific amount of credit or instal-
ment amount can be arranged unless the creditor 
any and customarily arranges or will arrange 
. r c < J l t amounts or instalments for that period and 
m that amount; or 
(2) J h n t 
n 0 
downpaymcnt or that a spccificd 
V npayment will be accepted in connection with 
c xtension of credit, unless the creditor usually 
customarily accepts or will accept downpay-
that amount. 
' b ) Catalogs and multi-page advertisements. I f 
^ cat ai 0g or other mullipic-page advertisement sets 
r \ or gives information in sufficient detail to 
L 
n i l f determination of die disclosures required 
> Uus section in a t.ible or schedule of crcdit 
si ii'' S U C ^ c a t a l ° 8 o r tuuitiple-page advertisement 
yide I 
c o n s ' < J o r c t l 
a ^ n 2 l e advertisement 
pro-
I he table or schedule and the disclosures 
v therein arc set forth clearly and conspicu-
0 U s ]y, and 
ft ^ 
|
VvnV statement of credit terms appearing in 
Crcd P l a C C ° t h c r t h a n 
i l 1 t h a l 
t r- b , e 0 1 schedule of 
the ' 
t c n n s e'early and conspicuously refers to 
Page or pages on which that table or schedule 
appears, unless that statement discloses all of the 
credit terms required to be stated under this sec-
tion. For the purpose of this subparagraph, cash 
price is not a crcdit term. 
(c) Advertising of open end crcdit. N o adver-
tisement to aid, promote, or assist directly or in-
directly the extension of open end credit may set 
forth any of the terms described in paragraph (a) 
of § 226.7, the Comparative Index of Credit Cost, 
or that no downpaymcnt, a specified 
downpay-
mcnt, or a specified periodic payment is required 
or any of the following items unless it also clearly 
and 
conspicuously 
sets forth 
all the 
following 
items in terminology proscribed under paragraph 
(b) of § 226.7: 
(1) A n explanation of the time period, if any, 
within which any crcdit extended m a y be paid 
without incurring a finance charge. 
(2) The method 
of determining 
the 
balance 
upon which a finance charge m a y be imposed. 
(3) The method of determining the amount of 
the finance charge, including the determination of 
any m i n i m u m , 
fixed, 
check service, transaction, 
activity, or similar charge, which m a y be imposed 
as a financc clnrge. 
(4) Where one or more periodic rates may be 
used to compute the 
finance 
charge, each 
such 
rate, the range of balances to which it is applica-
ble, and the corresponding annual percentage rate 
determined 
by multiplying 
the periodic rate by 
the number of periods in a year. 
(5) The 
conditions 
under 
which 
any 
other 
charges may be imposed, and the method by which -
they will be determined. 
(6) The m i n i m u m periodic payment required. 
(d) Advertising of ciedit other than open end. 
N o advertisement to aid, promote, or assist di-
rectly or indirectly any credit sale including the 
sale of residential real estate, loan, or other ex-
tension of credit, other than 
open 
end 
credit, 
subject to the provisions of this Part, shall state 
(1) The rate of a finance charge unless it states 
the rate of that charge expressed as an "annual 
percentage rate," using that term; 
(2) The amount of the downpaymcnt required 
or that no downpaymcnt is required, the a m o u n t 
of any instalment payment, the dollar amount of 
any finance charge, the number of instalments or 
the period of repayment, or that there is no charge 
for credit, unless it states all of the 
following 
items in terminology prescribed under § 226.S: 
21 

REGULATION 
Z 
§§ 226.11-226.12 3t;s 
(i) the cash price or the amount of the loan, 
— 
«ts applicable. 
(ii) the amount of the downpaymcnt required 
or that no downpaymcnt is required, as ap-
plicable. 
(iii) the number, amount, and due dates or 
period of payments scheduled to repay the in-
debtedness if the credit is extended. 
(iv) 
the amount of trie finance charge ex-
pressed as an annual percentage rate. The ex-
emptions from disclosure of an annual percent-
age rate permitted in paragraph (b)(2) of 
226.S 
shall not apply to this subdivision. 
(v) Except in the case of the ?ale of a dwell-
mg or a loan secured by a fust lion on a dwell-
ing to purchase that dwelling, the deferred pay-
ment price or the sum of the payments, as 
applicable. 
SECTION 2 2 6 . 1 1 — C O M P A R A T I V E 
I N D E X 
0 F C R E D I T COST I O R O P E N E N D C R E D I T 
(a) General rule. Any creditor who elects to 
disclose the Comparative Index of Credit Cost on 
open end credit accounts 
(1) Shall compute the Comparative Index of 
Credit Cost in accordance with paragraph (b) of 
^ i s section. 
(2) Shall recompute the Comparative Index of 
Credit Cost in accordance with paragraph (b) of 
this section based upon any new open end credit 
account terms to be adopted and shall disclose 
the new Comparative Index of Credit Cost in 
accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section 
concurrently with the notice required under para-
graph (c) of § 226.7. 
(3) Shall, when making such disclosure under 
c Provisions of subparagraphs (a)(5) and (h)(7) 
§ 226.7, make the disclosure to all open end 
credit account customers; and 
(4) Shall not utilize such disclosure so as to 
nj>slead, or confuse the customer or contradict, 
pscure, or detract attention from the required 
.disclosures 
Cb) 
Computation 
of 
Comparative 
Index 
of 
£;re<lit Cost. The Comparative Index of Credit 
st for each open end credit plan shall be com-
puted by applying the creditor's terms of that 
P a n to the following hypothetical factors: 
. (1) A single transaction in the amount of $100 
, s debited on the first day of a billing cycle to 
open end credit account having no previous 
Glance. 
(2) The creditor imposes all 
finance 
charges 
including 
periodic, 
fixed, 
minimum 
or 
other 
charges applicable to such account in amounts 
and on dates consistent with his policy of impos-
ing such charges upon open end credit accounts. 
(3) The exact amount of the required minimum 
periodic payment is paid on the last day of each 
subsequent and successive biliing cycle until the 
amount of the single transaction, together with 
applicable finance charges, is paid in full. 
(4) The Comparative Index of Credit Cost shall 
be expressed and disclosed as a percentage ac-
curate to the nearest quarter of 1 per cent and 
shall be determined by dividing the total amount 
of the finance charges imposed by the sum of the 
daily balances and multiplying the quotient so 
obtained (expressed as a percentage) by 365. 
(c) Form of disclosure. Any creditor who elects 
to disclose the Comparative Index of Credit Cost 
shall: 
(1) Make the disclosure in the form of the fol-
lowing statement: "Our 
Comparative 
Index 
of 
Credit Cost under the terms of our open end 
credit cccount plan is 
c/o per year, computed 
on the basis of a single transaction of $100 debited 
on the first day of a billing cycle to an account 
having no previous balance, and paid in required 
minimum consecutive instalments on the last day 
of each succeeding billing cycle until the trans-
action and all finance charges are paid in full. 
The actual percentage cost of credit on your ac-
count may be higher or lower depending on the 
dates and amounts of charges and payments." 
(2) Disclose any newly computed Comparative 
Index of Credit Cost in the form of the state-
ment prescribed in subparagraph (1) of this para-
graph, except that the statement shall be preceded 
by the words "Effective as of 
(date) 
and the words "will be" shall be substituted for 
the word "is" in the second line of the statement. 
SECTION 2 2 6 . 1 2 — E X E M P T I O N O F C E R T A I N 
STATE R E G U L A T E D T R A N S A C T I O N S 
(a) Exemption for State regulated transactions. 
In accordance with the provisions of Supplement 
II to Regulation Z (§ 226.12—Supplement), any 
State may make application to the lioard for ex-
emption of any class of transactions within that 
State from the requirements of Chapter 2 of the 
Act and the corresponding provisions of this Parti 
Provided, 
That 
20 

§ 226.12 
3 6 9 
REGULATION Z 
(1) Under the law of that State, that class of 
transactions is subjcct to requirements substantially 
similar to those imposed under Chapter 2 of the 
Act and the corresponding provisions of this Part; 
and 
(2) There is adequate provision for enforce-
ment. 
(b) Procedures and criteria. On or before July 
1969, the Board will promulgate and publish 
Supplement II to Regulation Z (§ 226.12—Sup-
plement) in which will be set forth, as established 
by the Board, the procedures and criteria under 
which any State may apply for the determination 
provided for in paragraph (a) of this section. Upon 
publication of Supplement II of Regulation Z ap-
plication may be made to the Board for such 
determination. 
I 
'.i. - Or 
\ 
21 

370 
•Gc. 
AAJ 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
of the 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
^U-i.-. ; 
t h a t . 
U 
^ i-
c <•"';. 
SUPPLEMENT I to REGULATION Z 
•U.Vm 
t i ' c . n 
V 
c i»: •„ r. 
TRUTH IN LENDING 

371 
SUPPLEMENT I TO RE GUI AT ION 2 
•ttr 
v'-- 
• 
- -'-"A ! 
• ' 
TRUTH IN LENDING 
(Section 226.5 - Supplement) 
y C, i !• 
; 
General rule and equations for determining the annual percentage 
rate pursuant to paragraph (b) of § 226.5 
• f f \ 
<a) General rule—other credit. The annual percentage rate shall be 
that nominal annual percentage rate determined by multiplying the unit-
Period rate by the number of unit-periods in a year and shall be computed 
RMei.: 
~ —. • 
so that it may be disclosed with an accuracy at least to the nearest 
quarter of 1 per cent. The unit-period rate shall be determined as that 
Percentage rate which will yield a sum equal to the amount of the finance 
charge when it is applied in accordance with the actuarial method under 
v'hi.ch payments made on a debt are allocated between the amount of the 
finance charge and the amount financed, so that each payment is applied 
first to the accumulated finance charge and any remainder is subtracted 
or any deficiency Is added to, the unpaid balance of the amount 
f i n a n c e d . 
tyt 
r c, 
,.. 
(b) 
Unit-period. 
For the purposes cf determining the unit-period, all 
calendar months may be considered as equal periods and the following shall 
, .. . ..; 
, . . t .. .. . 
... 
. . 
b c applicable: 
(1) The term of the transaction commences on the date of its 
•• VH' • (j. ^ 
£ 
. 
, 
.. > ...... 
. 
: 
... 
J, 
t „ . „ v f , ,',„ 
Consummation, except that if the finance charge begins to accrue on 
any other date, the term of the transaction shall be considered as 
bcginning on the date the finance charge begins to accrue and ending 
the date the last payment is due. 

- 
2 - 
• 
O 
i 
(2) Periods arc the intervals of time between advances or between 
Payments and include the interval of time between the date the finance 
charge begins to accrue and the date of the first advance thereafter or 
the date of the first payment thereafter, as applicable. 
(3) A common period shall be any period which occurs more than once 
i n a transaction. 
(4) The unit-period shall be that common period, not to exceed 1 year, 
vhich occurs most frequently in the transaction; except that 
(i) If two or more common periods occur with equal frequency, the 
s,Qaller of such common periods shall be the unit-period; or 
(ii) If there is no common period in the transaction, the unit-period 
8 h a U be that period which is the average of all periods rounded to the 
barest whole standard interval of time. If the average is equally near 
t w o standard intervals of time, the lower shall be the unit-period. For 
the Purpose of this subparagraph, a standard interval of time shall be a 
da 
week, biweck, semimonth, month, or a multiple of a month up to, but 
n o t to exceed 1 year. 
<5) The unit-period in a single advance single payment transaction 
s h a l l 
L be the term of the transaction, but not to exceed 1 year. 
^ 
fSLLcg.qtcifle , rate f o r a fraction of a unit-period.' The percentage 
to 
e of finance charge for a fraction (less than 1) of a unit-period 
shall 
, 
at the option of the creditor, be either 

373 
- 3 -
(1) The correspondIng fraction of the percentage rate of finance 
charge jjer unit-period, or 
(2) 
The corresponding actuarially equivalent fraction of the percentage 
r a t e of financed charge per unit-period. 
(d) Symbols. The symbols used to express the terms of a transaction in 
equations set forth in paragraph (e) are defined as follows: 
U^ - The amount of crcdit advanced directly or indirectly 
at the end of the kth period. 
J
• 
r 
; 
- 
" 
1 
.« 
, 
' 
q. = The number of unit-periods from the date of consummation 
K 
or the date the finance charge begins to accrue, as 
applicable, to the kth advance. 
ni 
« The number of advances to be made by the creditor. 
' r>' * 
P. =» The amount of the payment to be made at the end of the 
jth period. 
tj a The number of unit-periods from the date the finance 
charge begins to accrue to the jth payrrent. 
n 
= The number of payments. 
r* 
* c' >" 
'•'< 
w 
= The number of unit-periods in a year. 
i 
« The percentage rate of finance charge per unit-period. 
R 
83 The nominal annual percentage rate expressed as a 
decimal number which shall be converted 
into a percentage 
rate by moving the decimal point two places to the right. 
General equations. (1) The following equation sets forth the 
r°^tionship among the terms of a transaction: 
\ 

374 
11, 
.. 
t, 
• P 
T, 
P 
+ 
2 
+ ... + 
m 
= 
_ 
+ 
'2 
+ ... + 
J 3 _ 
^ 
c
m
/
2 
( u i ) q m 
(
m
/
1 
c
m
/
2 
c
m
/
" 
• - \ j l p 0 M K ) 
J t 
: ii'i 
•„> t 
«, •
r
c
'
,
. 
S 
. 
: • « 
o l 
j .•..•;•.>• 
^ (2) 
The following equation applies in converting the percentage rate 
finance charge per unit-period to a nominal annual percentage r?„te: 
[< = wi 
(f) Adaptation of general cnuat ions, The general equations set forth 
! 
ln Paragraph (e) of this section shall he adapted as follows: 
Transactions involving a single advance. 
(i) Payments at equal 
periods in equal amounts: 
Assume creditor advances $1,000, and customer is to make 24 equal monthly 
Payments of $47.50 starting 1 month from date of consummation. 
Unit>period is 1 month. 
U. 
= $ 1 , 0 0 0 
q , 
= 
0 
1 
nl 
P1 = $47.50 
tL = 1 
= $47.50 
t 2 = 2 
1). 
. - . v 
• 
• 
• 
P 2 4= $47.50 
t2A» 24 
The 
10 equations are adapted as follows: 
•i " 
-
1,C00 = + 47.50 
+ 
47.50 
+ ... + 
47.50 
v 
d+i) 1 
(i+i)2 
(i+i)2A 
w « 1 2 < 
1 a 0.01076. 
a 8 wi « 12 x 0.01076 = 0.1291 or 12.91%. 

- 5 -
375 
d o 
Payments at equal periods in unequal amounts: 
Assume creditor advances $1,000, and customer is to make 3 payments 
of $200 
each at the end of the third, sixth, and ninth months and a $600 
Payment at the end of 1 year from the date of consummation. 
Unit-period is 3 months. 
s O v 
U 1 
= $ 1 , 0 0 0 
= 
0 
P j 
» 
$ 2 0 0 
t 
= 
1 
P 2 
« 
$ 2 0 0 
t 2 
« 
2 
P 3 « $200 
t3 « 3 
= $600 
t = 4 
^ 
-
4 
equations are adapted as follov/s: 
i i O O O 
= 
2 0 0 
+ 
2 0 0 
+ 
; 2 0 0 
+ 
6 0 0 
(l-!-i)1 
(1-^i)2 
(1+i)3 
(1+i)4 
w - 
4 . 
» «= .06351. 
^ 
- 
, 
•• 
V 
•': 
: . 
••-". 
* = wi = 4 X 0.06357 = 0.2543 or 25.43%. 
(iii) Payments at unequal periods in equal amounts: 
Assume creditor advances $1,000, customer is to make 4 payments of 
$ 2 9 n 
u each at Che end of second, sixth, eighth and twelfth months after 
c°nsummation. 
**nit~period is two months. 

- 6 -
U j 
« 
$ 1 , 0 0 0 
= 
0 
P - $290 
tx = 1 
P 2 = $290 
t2 = 3 
P 3 = $290 
t3 = 4 
P^ = $290 
t^ = 6 
The Equations are adapted as follows: 
1.000 3 
290 
+ 
290 
+ 
290 
+ 
290 
( l + i ) 1 
( H i ) 3 
( 1 + i ) 4 
( l + i ) 6 
W 58 6 ' 
1 " 0.04422. 
It » wi = 6 x 0.04422. = 0.2653 or 26.537.. 
( i v ) 
Payments at unequal periods in unequal amounts: 
Assume creditor advances $1,000. and customer is to make payments 
&s f°Uows: $200 at end of second month, $300 at end of fifth month, 
at end of eighth month and $300 at end of twelfth month. 
Unlt>period is 3 months. 
<4 
= 
0 
t = 2/3 
t2 = 1-2/3 
t3 = 2-2/3 
t = 4 
4 
Th 
Equations are adapted as follows: 
1,000 = 
200 
+ 
300 
+ 
350 
+ 
300 
( 1 « ) V
3 
( l + i ) l " 2 / 3 
( l + i ) 2 " 2 / 3 * 
( l + i ) ' 
. 
$1,000 
$200 
:; " p2 -
$300 
$350 
t 
4 
$j00 
* 
C°*'Puted as (l+i)2 x (1+2/31) in accordance with subparagraph (c)(1) 

- 7 -
W » 
4 . 
H » 0.06064. 
R = wl = 4 x 0.06064 = 0.2426 or 24.26%. 
,< (v) Payment periods greater than 1 year: 
Assume creditor advances $1,000, and customer is to make 2 payments 
O*;$550 each at the end of the eighteenth and thirty-sixth months from 
the date of consummation. 
Unit-period is 1 year. 
r_U, 
$1,000 
P1 = $550 
P 2 = $550 
« i 
= 
0 
t 
= 
1 - 1 / 2 
3 
The equations are adapted as follows: 
Q , 1 , 0 0 0 =-
550 
w 1 
(1+i) 1 - 1 / 2 
550 
(1+i) 
t v 
IsIP M 
1 - 0.04335. 
• A " wt « 1 x 0.04335 - 0.04335 or 4.34%, 
(vi) Single payment with maturity of 12 months or less: 
Assume creditor advances $1^000, and customer agrees to make a 
payment of $1,100 eight months from the date of consummation. 
^ n i t - period ii 3 months. 
U - $1,000 
1 
p = $1,100 
Th e Equations are adapted as follows: 
• * U < i 
J 
1,000 
<1 
1100 
(1+i) 
; 

378 
4 
v = 1-1/2 
i = 0.10000 
R s wi = 1-1/2 x 0.10000 = 0.1500 or 15.00%. 
(vli) Single payment with maturity of more than 12 months. 
Assume creditor advances $1,000, and customer is to make 1 payment 
of $ 1 
,212.42 seventeen months from date of consummation. 
Unit-period is 1 year. 
U = $1,000 
P = $1,212.42 
Thc equations are adapted as follows: 
1,000 = 
1,212.42 
1-5/12 
(1+i) 
1-5/12 
1 * 0.14386. 
* 13 wi *= 1 x 0.14386 « 0.14386 or 14.39%. 
(2) Transaction involving multiple advances. 
Assume a college loan in which a creditor is to make 8 advances to 
customer: $1,800 each September 1 for 4 years and $ 1 , 0 0 0 each 
^nuary 1 f o r 4 years. The customer is to make 50 regular equal monthly 
payments of $240 beginning July 1, prior to the first advance in September 
*lnit>period is 1 month. 
U 
= $1,800 
t»2 = $1,000 
U 
= $1,800 

(r 
U4 
a $1,000 
"4 s 18 
U5 -
$1,800 
"s 
s 26 
U6 c $1,000 
q6 
s 30 
U7 
B $1,800 
q7 
s 38 
U8 8 $1,000 
"8 
s 42 
P1 
XL $240 
C1 
s 0 
P2 
S 
$240 
<2 s 1 
P3 
SI $240 
S 
a 2 
The 
P50= $240 
t 5 0 - 49 
equations are adapted as follows: 
1,000 
+ 
1,800 
+ 
1,000 
+ 
1,800 
(1+i) 6 
(1+i) 1 4 
< l + i ) 1 3 
(1+i) 2 6 
1,800 
+ 
1,000 
= 
240 
+ 
240 
(1+i) 3 8 
(1+i) 4 2 
(1+i) 1 
240 
+ . . . + 
240 
- i . 0 0 0 
(1+i) 2 
(1 + i)^ 9 
w • 12. 
1 a 0.02522. 
R * wi » 12 x 0.02522 » 0.3026 
or 30.267.. 

- 
10 
-
3 SO 
case multiple real values of R are obtained, use that value of .1 which 
nearest to the value of R obtained by assuming that the number of unit-
Periods from the date of consummation or the date the finance charge begins 
to accrue, as applicable, to each advance is: 
U 1 
" l 
+ 
u 2 
+ 
+ 
u. + u . + . . . + u 
1
2 
m 
(3) Transactions 
involving required deposit balances. 
(i) Required 
1 
c°nstant deposit balance. 
Ci 
Assume creditor advances $1,000 and requires that the customer 
^Intain a deposit balance of $200 during the 12-month loan. The 
Custotner is to make 12 equal monthly payments of $90 starting 1 month 
fr 
date of consummation. The deposit balance will be released to the 
Custom.er upon final payment of the advance. 
Unlt"Pcriod is 1 month. 
U. = $300 
q = 0 
i 
l 
U 2 
= $ 2 0 0 
q 2 
= 
1 2 
P. = $90 
t = 1 
* 
. 
» 
1. 
.1 
. 
P 2 " 
' 
<2 " 
2 
P = $i>0 
t 
= 1 2 
12 
12 
equations are adapted as follows: 

331 
8 0 0 
+ 
200 
= 
90 
+ 
9 0 
+ . . . 
+ 
9 0 
(1+i)12 
(i+i)1 
(i+i)2 
(1+i)12 
•/Jf 
• V 
A. 
• 
• -
1 
v 
: ' 
. - 
: 
.* 
• V 
W = 
1 2 . 
i = 0.01852. 
R « wt - 12 x 0.01852 = 0.2222 or 22.22%. 
(ii) 
Required variable deposit balance. 
Assume creditor advances $ 5 , 0 0 0 and requires a $ 1 , 0 0 0 deposit balance 
% v 
which is to be released in amounts of $500 per quarter beginning at Che 
end of the first quarter immediately following consumption. Customer 
V 
y i 
8 to make 6 equal monthly payments of $900 beginning 1 month following 
c o n s u m m a t i o n . 
uoit-period is 1 month. 
U 
= $ 4 , 0 0 0 
q 
= 0 
* 
1 
U 2 » 
$ 5 0 0 
q 2 = 
3 
= 
$ 5 0 0 
q 3 = 
6 
P, 
s 
$ 9 0 0 
t l 
= 
1 
P 2 - $ 9 0 0 
t 
= 2 
• 
• 
« 
• 
• 
• 
Th, 
P, « $900 
t = 6 
o 
6 
/ 
e equations arc adapted as follows: 
4,000 + 
500 
+ 
500 
= 
900 
+ 
900 
+ ... + 
900 
(1+i)3 
(1+i)6 
(1+i)1 
(1+i)2 
(1+i)6 
w => 12. 
1 51 0.02993. 
P v t ! w i = 12 x 0.02993 = 0.3592 or 35.927.. 

... 382 
* 12 -
( i i i ) 
transaction where customer is required to make periodic 
depcsits into a restricted account. 
Assume creditor advances $1,000, and customer is to make 12 equal 
tt°Rthly payments of $110, $90 of which is to be applied to repayment of 
the 
e advance and the finance charge and $20 of which is to be deposited 
n t o an account. The account will be released to the customer upon final 
Pay*ent of the advance. 
Unit>period is 1 month. 
= $1,000 
q 
o 
U 2 - $240 
q 2 = 12 
PjL " 
$ 1 1 0 
t x 
= 
1 
P 2
 
a 
$ U 0 
t 9 
= 
2 
P 1 2- $ H 0 
t n = 12 
'e Equations are adapted as follows: 
1 » 0 0 0 
+ 
240 
= 
n o 
+ 
n o 
+ . . . + 
n o 
(i+i)12 
(l+i)1 
(i+i)2 
d + i ) 1 2 
v 
1 5
 1 2 
' 
• • • ^ 
^ , 
1 15 0.01482. 
U 
v'i » 12 x 0.01482 = 0.1778 or 17.78% 
