MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 28, 1969 

7 5 0 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, February 28, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 2/ 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting at this point in 
order to attend a meeting at the Treasury. All members of the staff 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes to 
attend a meeting at the Treasury. 
2/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

t o 
2/28/69 
-2-
who had been present except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, and Axilrod 
also withdrew and Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration, entered the room. 
Appointment of Mr. Trueblood as Consultant. Pursuant to the 
recommendation in a memorandum from the Division of Research and 
Statistics dated February 19, 1969, Lorman C. Trueblood, Senior 
Economist in that Division who had elected to retire from active 
service on February 28, 1969, was appointed as a Consultant effective 
March 3, 1969, through December 31, 1969, with compensation at the 
rate of $55 per day worked for the Board and with the understanding 
that after Mr. Trueblood had moved to Massachusetts this summer, 
travel expenses in connection with any trips that he might be requested 
to make to Washington, D. C., would be paid in accordance with the 
Board's travel regulations. In connection with the appointment of 
Mr. Trueblood, the Board approved any resulting overexpenditure in 
the pertinent account or accounts of the 1969 budget of the Division 
of Research and Statistics. 
(Note: The daily consultant fee represented the difference 
between Mr. Trueblood's daily rate of pay on active service and the 
daily rate of his retirement annuity. On March 10, 1969, with the 
approval of Governor Sherrill, his daily fee as consultant was fixed 
at $75, effective March 3, 1969.) 

758 
2/28/69 
-3-
Appointment of Mr. Sherman as Consultant; policy on 
determination of consultant fees. Consideration of the terms under 
which Merritt Sherman, Assistant to the Board, might be retained as 
Consultant following his retirement from active service at the end of 
the current month broadened into a discussion of the general principles 
that should be applied to retention of retired Board employees as 
consultants, including their compensation. It was noted that in 
Mr. Sherman's case application of the formula customarily used in 
determining the daily consultant fee, i.e., the difference between his 
salary at time of retirement and his retirement annuity, would result 
in a daily consultant fee that would be inappropriately low in relation 
to the services that he would be expected to perform. On the other 
hand, the use of a daily fee of $100, judged to be a reasonably 
satisfactory rate for a consultant who would perform such services, 
would result, if Mr. Sherman worked a substantial number of days, in 
total payments over the course of a year well in excess of his current 
annual salary if the consultant fees and his retirement annuity were 
added together. 
The discussion concluded with agreement on a policy, which it 
was understood would be applied generally in cases where retired Board 
employees were retained as consultants, under which the total annual 
fees paid to such persons, when combined with their annual retirement 

758 
2/28/69 
-4-
annuity, would not exceed the annual salary received by them from the 
Board at the time of retirement. 
The Board then appointed Mr. Sherman as Consultant effective 
March 1, 1969, with compensation at the rate of $100 per day worked 
for the Board and with the understanding that any travel expenses would 
be paid in accordance with the Board's travel regulations. This action 
was taken with the further understanding that the total annual payment 
to Mr. Sherman as Consultant, when combined with his annuity received 
through the Board Plan of the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve 
Banks, would not be greater than the annual salary received by him from 
the Board at the time of his retirement. 
The Board's discussion included an understanding that Governor 
Sherrill would review all cases of retired Board employees retained as 
consultants in order to assure that the terms of the general policy 
adopted by the Board would be observed. 
(Note: Under date of March 6, 
1969, Governor Sherrill sent to the Office of the Controller a memorandum 
setting forth the limitations that should be placed on the number of 
days worked in 1969 by retired Board employees serving as consultants 
in order to adhere to the terms of the general policy.) 
At the conclusion of today's discussion Chairman Martin made 
the comment that in his view a minimum number of persons should be 
retained by the Board as consultants following their retirement from 

2/28/69 
-5-
active service with the Board. No different view was indicated by 
other members of the Board. 
Messrs. Forrestal, Coyne, Nichols, and Leavitt returned to 
the room at this point and the following also joined the meeting: 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Ormsby of the Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Doyle of the Legal Division 
Mr. Lawrence of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Rowe of the Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Olin of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on February 24 and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, 
and Kansas City on February 27, 1969, of the rates on discounts and 

* 55 
2/28/69 
-6-
advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Visual material on truth in lending. In a memorandum of 
February 27, 1969, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
development of a film strip that would be helpful in enabling creditors 
to understand the requirements that would be placed upon them when 
Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, became effective on July 1, 1969. The 
cost of the project, including development of the film strip and 
purchase of 200 copies, was estimated at not to exceed $10,200. 
The staff recommendation was approved unanimously, along with 
the estimated expenditure. 
Governor Robertson stated that he also wished to move forward 
with the development of similar material that would be helpful to 
consumers. He indicated that a proposal would be brought before the 
Board for consideration in the near future. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The First Jersey National 
Bank, Jersey City, New Jersey, with Second Jersey National Bank, also 
of Jersey City, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller 
of the Currency, the conclusion stating that consummation of the proposed 
merger (which was merely a transaction to facilitate acquisition of The 
First Jersey National Bank by First Jersey National Corporation, a 
newly-formed holding company) would have no adverse competitive effects. 

758 
2/28/69 
-7-
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Miners National Bank of Wilkes-Barre, Wilkes-Barre, 
Pennsylvania, with United Penn Bank, also of Wilkes-Barre, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpo-
ration, the conclusion stating that consummation of the proposed merger 
(which was merely a transaction to facilitate acquisition of Miners 
National Bank of Wilkes-Barre by United Penn Corporation, a newly-formed 
holding company) would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The First National Bank and Trust Company of Tulsa, Tulsa, 
Oklahoma, with The First Bank and Trust Company of Tulsa, National 
Association, also of Tulsa, was approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion stating that 
consummation of the proposed merger (which was merely a transaction to 
facilitate acquisition of The First National Bank and Trust Company of 
Tulsa by First Tulsa Bancorporation, Inc., a newly-formed holding company) 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Legislative recommendations. Pursuant to the understanding at 
the meeting on February 24, 1969, the Legal Division had submitted with 
a memorandum of February 27 a statement on bank holding companies 
proposed for inclusion in the section of the Board's Annual Report for 
1968 dealing with legislative recommendations. 

2/28/69 
-8-
It was decided that the language of one paragraph of the 
draft material should be changed to conform more closely to language 
contained in the statement of principles on bank holding company 
legislation recently adopted by the Board. Subject to such modifi-
cation, the material was approved for inclusion in the Annual Report. 
With its memorandum the Legal Division also submitted a revised 
draft of material with respect to reserve requirements, again proposed 
for inclusion in the Annual Report's section on legislative recommen-
dations. That statement was approved for inclusion in the Report. 
In the foregoing connection, the Legal Division had submitted 
a draft of letters that would be sent to the Chairmen of the Senate 
and House Committees on Banking and Currency. With each letter there 
would be transmitted draft bills (1) to establish a graduated system 
of reserve requirements for all Federally-insured commercial banks or 
alternatively, (2) to establish a graduated system of reserve requirements 
for member banks only. 
Transmittal of the letters and draft bills at an appropriate 
time was approved unanimously. (Note: The letters were transmitted 
to the Chairmen of the respective Committees on March 4, 1969. Copies 
are attached as Items 1 and 2, respectively.) 
One-bank holding company legislation. In a memorandum of 
February 27, 1969, the Legal Division summarized the provisions of the 
latest (February 26, 1969) version of the Treasury's draft of a bill 

758 
2/28/69 
-9-
to amend the Bank Holding Company Act. One substantive change in 
the proposed legislation was that the bank supervisory agencies now 
would be required to adopt guidelines governing all acquisitions by 
a holding company of nonbanking assets pursuant to section 4(c)(8) 
of the Act; under the previous (February 20) version of the bill the 
guideline concept was applicable only to acquisitions "in a local 
community or area." 
Since, as the Chairman observed, no action appeared to be 
required, the summary provided by the Legal Division was simply noted. 
In another memorandum of February 27, 1969, Governor Maisel 
proposed sending to the Treasury for consideration certain suggested 
modifications in the draft bill, principally to incorporate into the 
statute concepts included in the Board's statement of principles on 
bank holding company legislation. Also suggested would be an amendment 
to section 11 of the Bank Holding Company Act designed to require a 
court, in a proceeding brought by the Justice Department attacking a 
nonbank acquisition by a holding company, to apply the same considerations 
that the bank supervisory agencies were required to apply in acting on 
applications under section 4(c)(8). 
It was agreed that there would be no objection to the sending 
of such a letter by Governor Maisel in his capacity as an individual 
member of the Board, although several suggestions for possible modifi-
cation of the text of the letter at certain points were made for 
Governor Maisel's consideration. 

2/28/69 
-10-
Governor Robertson expressed the view that regardless of 
developments in connection with the bank holding company legislation 
the Board should lend its active support to a proposed bill that had 
been drafted with respect to the authority of banks and bank holding 
companies to participate in community development. Chairman Martin 
responded that he would personally be reluctant to go forward with 
submission of the proposed bill without full discussion with the 
Administration, to which he added that steps had been taken informally 
to bring the proposed bill to the attention of the Bureau of the Budget. 
Proposed Regulation D amendments. On February 19, 1969, the 
Board had given tentative approval to the publication for comment, at 
such time as the staff of the Board and the management of the System 
Open Market Account deemed appropriate, of proposed amendments to 
Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, designed to meet the problem of 
reductions in reserve requirements being achieved by some banks through 
the handling of Eurodollar transactions. 
In a memorandum of February 27, 1969, the Office of the Secretary 
(Mr. Holland) reported that the staff had now concluded that it would 
be best to suspend all action on the matter pending further study of 
various implications and side issues that appeared to be involved. 
However, if prompt action on the Eurodollar issue should be considered 
imperative, the proposed amendments could be narrowed to concentrate 
more directly on that issue. 

7 GO 
2/28/69 
-11-
As brought out in the memorandum, the amendments tentatively 
authorized for publication had been designed primarily to preclude 
member banks, in computing reserves, from deducting from their gross 
demand deposits checks reflecting receipt of Eurodollar deposits in 
their foreign branches during the period required for collection of 
such checks, since the liability acquired by the receiving bank was 
not subject to reserve requirements. While the proposed amendments 
were considered to be aimed primarily at that issue, it had since 
become apparent that the transactions toward which the amendments 
were intended to be directed might represent only the tip of an iceberg. 
Various transactions that affected only the asset side of the receiving 
bank's ledger did not increase that bank's deposits subject to reserve 
requirements but nonetheless created cash items the bank could deduct 
from its gross demand deposits. Broadening of the proposed amendments 
to preclude the deduction of any items the amounts of which were 
credited to any account other than a deposit account subject to reserve 
requirements would appear to cover all of the eventualities, but that 
could conceivably also affect items for which there was no public or 
System interest in preventing deductibility. Total cash items in 
process of collection were currently running in the neighborhood of 
$30 billion, but the portion of that total figure that might represent 
"unwarranted" deductions was unknown, and individual staff estimates 
differed markedly. Additionally, the sorting out of cash items that 

2/28/69 
-12-
the broader amendments would cover could involve a fairly substantial 
administrative burden. 
Since the amendments previously authorized for publication 
would attack only a part of the problem, the Board might be placed 
in the awkward position of seeming not to have appreciated the total 
situation. Mr. Holland therefore recommended that the Board request 
the staff, in conjunction with the Federal Reserve Banks, to examine 
carefully the components of "cash items in process of collection," the 
rationale underlying their deductibility from deposits for reserve 
requirement purposes, and possible actions in that area. The recommended 
study was felt to be important, but the urgency that might have seemed 
to attach to the initial recommendations by the staff appeared to have 
lessened somewhat. 
Should some action on the Eurodollar issue be deemed necessary, 
the staff felt that narrower amendments concentrating more directly on 
that issue could be adequately defended. Reasons for such action 
could be a need to bring about some moderate but prompt policy impact 
domestically and/or a desire to make some token gesture toward the 
Eurodollar market. Nevertheless, the staff recommended against such 
amendments, at least at this time. 
In discussion some Board members expressed the view that tne 
Board should move forward without undue delay to the publication for 
comment of proposed amendments directed at the narrower issue. They 

2/28/69 
-13-
felt that it would be quite clear that a technical question was 
primarily involved, and the practice that would be eliminated by 
the proposed amendments apparently was engaged in by a relatively 
few member banks. If there were points that should be clarified before 
the amendments were published for comment, they suggested that it 
should be possible for the staff to obtain clarification within a 
relatively short time. 
Other Board members were apprehensive about moving forward, 
even on the narrower basis, in the absence of a better understanding 
of the situation than in their opinion presently existed. They pointed 
out, among other things, that in the present sensitive state of the 
market interpretations going beyond the Board's intent might be placed 
on the proposed amendments. Further, it was noted that parties within 
the New York Reserve Bank appeared to have vacillated in their views. 
At the Chairman's suggestion, the matter was held over for 
for further consideration at another meeting. 
Reserve requirements. After a brief discussion it was agreed 
to defer further consideration of a memorandum from Messrs. Farrell 
and Ring dated December 31, 1968, on guidelines that might be established 
for permitting member banks in reserve cities to carry reduced reserves. 
Also held over for consideration at a later time was a memorandum from 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated February 10, 1969, 
on the request of Southern California First National Bank, San Diego, 
California, for permission to continue to carry reduced reserves. 

2/28/69 
-14-
Cost-of-living adjustment. By action on September 30, 1965, 
the Board had incorporated into the Board Plan of the Retirement System 
of the Federal Reserve Banks the provisions of Public Law 89-205, which 
amended the Civil Service Retirement Act to provide for automatic cost-
of-living increases in annuities whenever the consumer price index 
increased by at least 3 per cent over the base month and remained up by 
at least 3 per cent for three consecutive months. 
As reported in a memorandum from the Division of Personnel 
Administration dated February 25, 1969, a cost-of-living increase of 
3.9 per cent for Civil Service retirees was to become effective March 1, 
1969. It was recommended that the cost of providing a similar increase, 
effective on the same date, for Board Plan annuitants and survivor-
annuitants be handled on a terminal funding basis, i.e., a single payment 
of approximately $412,000. Approval of the related overexpenditure in 
the pertinent account or accounts of the Board's 1969 budget also was 
requested. 
The recommendation was approved unanimously, together with the 
resulting budget overexpenditure. Copies of the letters sent to the 
Secretary of the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks and to 
the President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond are attached as 
Items 3 and 4, respectively. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

m 
Item No. 1 
BOARD OF GOVERNDR5 
2 / 2 8 / 6 9 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 S 5 I 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 4, 1969. 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
The Board of Governors recommends legislation establishing a 
graduated system of reserve requirements against the demand deposits 
of all federally insured commercial banks and, in conjunction therewith, 
authorizing the Federal Reserve Banks to extend credit to nonmember in-
sured commercial banks to the same extent such credit is made available 
to member banks. 
Under the provisions of section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
the Board could establish a graduated system of reserve requirements for 
member banks. However, the Board's ability to establish the most appro-
priate graduated system is limited by the outmoded statutory differentia-
tion, for reserve purposes, between reserve city and "country" banks. 
The Board believes that the classification of member banks into 
reserve city and country banks has become increasingly arbitrary and in-
equitable, as differences in both size and function between country and 
city banks have lessened. Required reserves should depend on the amount 
of a bank's deposits rather than its location. 
The Board also considers that, rationally and equitably, non-
member insured banks should be required to maintain reserves in the same 
amount and form that are applicable to member banks. Deposits in non-
member banks are part of the country's money supply just as are those m 
member banks, and accordingly their exemption from federally-imposed re-
serve requirements cannot be justified. In making Federal Reserve require-
ments applicable to nonmember banks - one of the major "burdens of Federal 
Reserve membership - the law should grant such banks access to Federal 
Reserve discount facilities - one of the major benefits of such membership. 
The enclosed draft bill is based upon the foregoing considerations. 
In the event that extension of the coverage of reserve require-
ments to nonmember banks is impractical at this time, the Board urges 
introduction and enactment of a bill to remove the statutory differentiation 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
- 2 -
765 
between reserve city and "country" member banks. In doing so, the Congress 
might wish to establish by statute the basic structure of a graduated system 
of reserve requirements. A smoothly graduated system would permit each bank 
to maintain a relatively low reserve against a specified dollar amount of 
its net demand deposits, a higher reserve against its deposits above such a 
minimum and up to a substantial figure, and a still higher reserve against 
its demand deposits, if any, above the latter amount. Under such a structure 
all banks of the same size in terms of deposits would carry equal reserves. 
As a bank grows in size and passes into a higher reserve bracket, its reserve 
requirement percentage would rise smoothly and gradually, because the higher 
requirement would apply only to its marginal demand deposits. 
A draft bill solely to establish such a graduated system of reserve 
requirements for member banks is also enclosed. 
Sincerely yours, 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Vj 
Enclosures 

766 
D R A F T 
A 
B I L L 
To establish a graduated system of reserve requirements for federally 
insured commercial banks and to authorize Federal Reserve banks 
to extend credit to nonmember insured banks subject to such 
requirements. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That section 19 of the 
Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 374, 461, 464, and 465) is amended in the 
following respects: 
(a) by adding at the end of subsection (a): "For the purposes 
of this section, the terms 'insured bank1 and 'noninsured bank1 
shall have the meanings given those terms by section 3(h) of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Act." 
(b) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows: 
"(b) Every insured bank that accepts demand deposits shall 
maintain reserves against its deposits in such ratios and accord-
ing to such reasonable basis or bases as shall be determined by 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System within the 
following limitations: 
(1) the required reserve ratio or ratios for deposits 
other than demand deposits shall be not less than 3 per 
centum nor more than 10 per centum; 
(2) the required reserve ratio or ratios for demand 
deposits not exceeding $5,000,000 shall be not less than 
7 per centum nor more than 14 per centum; 
(3) the required reserve ratio or ratios for demand 
deposits exceeding $5,000,000 and not exceeding $100,000,000 

- 2 - 
767 
shall be not less than 8 per centum nor more than 20 per 
centum; 
(4) the required reserve ratio or ratios for demand 
deposits exceeding $100,000,000 shall be not less than 10 
per centum nor more than 22 per centum; and 
(5) the $5,000,000 figure may be increased by the 
Board to not more than $10,000,000 or decreased to not 
less than $2,500,000, and the $100,000,000 figure may be 
increased to not more than $500,000,000 or decreased to 
not less than $50,000,000. 
Every insured bank shall make reports concerning its required 
reserves to the Board of Governors at such time and in such 
form as the Board may require. In the event that the Board of 
Governors determines that an insured bank has violated any pro-
vision of this section applicable to it, in addition to the 
penalties that may be authorized by other provisions of law, 
such bank shall be subject to a penalty not exceeding $1,000 
per day for each day during which such violation continues. 
Such penalty may be assessed by the Board of Governors, in its 
discretion, and, when so assessed, may be collected by suit or 
otherwise by the Federal Reserve bank of the district in which 
such insured bank is located. Whenever it shall appear to the 
Board of Governors that an insured bank has willfully violated 
the provisions of this section regarding required reserves 
or reports with respect thereto, the Board, after having 

-3-
768 
warned the bank to discontinue such violations, may report 
such facts to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
which shall immediately commence proceedings to terminate 
the status of the bank as an insured bank in accordance with 
the provisions of section 8(a) of the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Act." 
(c) in subsection (c) by changing (1) "member bank" to read 
"insured bank" and (2) "of which it is a member" to read "of the 
Federal Reserve district in which it is located". 
(d) in subsection (e) by changing (1) "member bank" to read 
"insured bank" and (2) "nonmember bank" to read "noninsured bank". 
(e) in subsections (f) and (g) by changing wherever they 
appear therein (1) "member bank" to read "insured bank" and 
(2) "member banks" to read "insured banks". 
SEC. 2. Section 11(e) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(e)) 
is repealed. 
SEC 3. Section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act is amended by adding 
at the end thereof the following paragraph: 
"Each Federal Reserve bank may discount paper for, and make 
advances to, any nonmember bank in its district whose deposits are 
insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and that is 
subject to the provisions of this Act regarding reserves, to the 
same extent and subject to the same limitations as such Federal 
Reserve bank may discount paper for, and make advances to, member 
banks under the provisions of this Act." 

21 
D R A F T 
A 
B I L L 
To establish a graduated system of reserve requirements for member banks 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That section 19(b) of the 
Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461) is amended to read as follows: 
"(b) Every member bank shall maintain reserves against its 
deposits in such ratios and according to such reasonable basis 
or bases as shall be determined by the Board within the follow-
ing limitations: 
"(1) the required reserve ratio or ratios for deposits 
other than demand deposits shall be not less than 3 per centum 
nor more than 10 per centum; 
"(2) the required reserve ratio or ratios for demand 
deposits not exceeding $5,000,000 shall be not less than 
7 per centum nor more than 14 per centum; 
"(3) the required reserve ratio or ratios for demand 
deposits exceeding $5,000,000 and not exceeding $100,000,000 
shall be not less than 8 per centum nor more than 20 per 
centum; 
"(4) the required reserve ratio or ratios for demand 
deposits exceeding $100,000,000 shall be not less than 
10 per centum nor more than 22 per centum; and 

"(5) the $5,000,000 figure may be increased by the 
Board to not more than $10,000,000 or decreased to not 
less than $2,500,000, and the $100,000,000 figure may be 
increased to not more than $500,000,000 or decreased to 
not less than $50,000,000." 
SEC. 2. Section 11(e) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 
is repealed. 

BOARD OF GOVERNOR5 
Q F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 2 
2/28/69 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 4, 1969. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
The Board of Governors recommends legislation establishing a 
graduated system of reserve requirements against the demand deposits 
of all federally insured commercial banks and, in conjunction therewith, 
authorizing the Federal Reserve Banks to extend credit to nonmember in-
sured commercial banks to the same extent such credit is made available 
to member banks. 
Under the provisions of section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
the Board could establish a graduated system of reserve requirements for 
member banks. However, the Board's ability to establish the most appro-
priate graduated system is limited by the outmoded statutory differentia-
tion, for reserve purposes, between reserve city and "country" banks. 
The Board believes that the classification of member banks into 
reserve city and country banks has become increasingly arbitrary and in-
equitable, as differences in both size and function between country and 
city banks have lessened. Required reserves should depend on the amount 
of a bank's deposits rather than its location. 
The Board also considers that, rationally and equitably, non-
member insured banks should be required to maintain reserves in the same 
amount and form that are applicable to member banks. Deposits in non-
member banks are part of the country's money supply just as are those in 
member banks, and accordingly their exemption from federally-imposed re-
serve requirements cannot be justified. In making Federal 
ments applicable to nonmember banks - one of the major "burdens of Federal 
Reserve membership - the law should grant such banks access to Federal 
Reserve discount facilities - one of the major benefits of such membership. 
The enclosed draft bill is based upon the foregoing considerations. 
In the event that extension of the coverage of reserve require-
ments to nonmember banks is impractical at this time, the B o ^ d J f S e s 
introduction and enactment of a bill to remove the statutory differentiation 

nnv 
4 St<J 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
between reserve city and "country" member banks. In doing so, the Congress 
m i g ^ wish to establish by statute the basic structure of a graduated system 
of reserve requirements. A smoothly graduated system would permit each bank 
to maintain a relatively low reserve against a specified do liar ™
t 
of 
its net demand deposits, a higher reserve against its deposits above such a 
minimum and up J a substantial figure, and a still higher - e r v e aga 
its demand deposits, if any, above the latter amount 
Under such a "ructure, 
all banks of the same size in terms of deposits would carry equal 
As a bank grows in size and passes into a higher reserve bracket, its reserve 
requirement percentage would'rise smoothly and gradually, because the higher 
requirement would apply only to its marginal demand deposits. 
A draft bill solely to establish such a graduated system of reserve 
requirements for member banks is also enclosed. 
Sincerely yours, 
^
^ 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
V I 
Enclosures 

B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
2/28/69 
• F T H E 
• f W Rts^r** 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B D A R D 
February 28, 1969 
Mr. Martin W. Bergin, 
Secretary, Retirement System 
of the Federal Reserve Banks, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Bergin: 
By means of a letter dated September 30, 1965, the Retire-
ment System was advised that the Board of Governors interposed no 
objection to increasing the benefits under the Board Plan of the 
Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks to conform to the 
increased benefits provided by Public Law 89-205 to retirees and 
survivor-annuitants of the Civil Service Retirement System. 
The U. S. Civil Service Commission recently announced 
that, as a result of a further rise in the Consumer Price Index of 
3 per cent or more over the base month of February 1968, an addi-
tional cost-of-living increase of 3.9 per cent effective March 1, 
1969, will be granted to those annuitants and survivor-annuitants 
on the retirement rolls as of March 1, 1969. This increase is 
also applicable to the future annuity of each designated survivor 
of a retiree on the rolls as of March 1, 1969. 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment of the 
cost of providing these latest increases on a "terminal-funding" 
basis, as was done in the case of the cost-of-living increases 
effective January 1, 1966, January 1, 1967 and May 1, 1968. 
Therefore, it will be appreciated if the Retirement System would 
bill the Board for the amount the Actuary determines is necessary 
to fund the 3.9 per cent increase over the life-expectancy of the 
annuitants and survivor-annuitants on the rolls as of March 1, 1969, 
plus the designated survivor-annuitants of those retirees on the 
rolls as of that date. 

Mr. Martin W. Bergin 
- 2 -
774 
There is enclosed a copy of a letter addressed to Mr. Aubrey 
N. Heflin, President, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, authorizing 
the Bank to pay to the Retirement System the sum which the Actuary 
determines necessary to fund a similar increase in the annuity of 
Mrs. Maurice P. Flagg. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

Item No. 
2 
2/28/69 
B O A R D C3F G D V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 28, 1969. 
Mr. Aubrey N. Heflin, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Heflin: 
Following the Civil Service Commission Retirement System's 
recent announcement of an increase of 3.9 per cent in the annuities 
of its retired employees and survivors, effective March 1, 1969, a 
similar increase is being made in the annuities of the retired em-
ployees and survivors of the Board Plan of the Retirement System of 
the Federal Reserve Banks. 
In order that the widow of Mr. Maurice P. Flagg may con-
tinue to receive the same benefits as those payable under the Board 
Plan, as outlined in Mr. Leach's letter of September 9, 1955, the 
Board of Governors authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
to pay to the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks the 
amount determined necessary to fund an increase of 3.9 per cent in 
her annuity for the period of her remaining life. 
It is understood that the Retirement System will bill the 
Bank for the cost of funding this benefit as soon as this cost has 
been determined by the Actuary. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
