R 609 
Rev. 5-67) 
Minutes for November 2, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 

Y2ZH 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, November 2, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Doyle, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant to the Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Messrs. Goodfellow and Poundstone and Miss 
Bradley of the Division of Examinations 
Acquisition by Citizens and Southern International Corporation 
(Item No. 1). There had been distributed a memorandum dated October 26, 
1967, from the Division of Examinations relating to the acquisition by 
Citizens arid Southern International Corporation, Atlanta, Georgia, of 
shares of Banco Popular de Puerto Rico, San Juan, Puerto Rico, under 

4 2 2 9 
11/2/67 
-2-
the general consent provisions of Regulation K (Corporations Engaged 
in Foreign Banking and Financing under the Federal Reserve Act). The 
acquisition came to the attention of the Board through Citizens and 
Southern's quarterly report for the period ending June 30, 1967. 
As stated in the memorandum the Division of Examinations con-
cluded that the acquisition was inappropriate in view of restrictions 
on equity investments contained in section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter that would 
request the corporation to dispose of the stock in the Puerto Rican 
bank as soon as practicable. 
Mr. Dahl noted that an alternative approach would be to request 
Citizens and Southern to advise the Board whether there was any reason 
why it should not be required to dispose of the stock in question. 
Messrs. Shay and Solomon indicated their preference for such an 
approach. 
Governor Maisel then suggested language, with which there was 
general agreement, requesting that Citizens and Southern dispose of the 
stock as promptly as practicable unless it had additional information 
that it desired to submit to the Board. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
Citizens and Southern in the form attached as Item No. 1. 
Application of First National City Overseas Investment Corpora-
tion (Item No. 2). At the Board meeting on October 19, 1967, preliminary 

4230 
11/2/67 
-3-
consideration was given to the request of First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, New York, New York, for permission to acquire 
up to 90 per cent of the capital stock of Laurentide Financial Trust 
Ltd., London, England, a British holding company with three subsidiaries 
whose principal activities were in the consumer financing field. Ques-
tions were raised as to the appropriateness of (1) investments of this 
type where no direct or obvious benefit would accrue to U. S. foreign 
commerce, and (2) equity investments of Edge and agreement corporations 
in view of the balance of payments situation and the Government's pro-
gram to limit outflows of capital from the United States. The staff 
was instructed to analyze those questions and develop a suggested 
rationale for the Board's consideration. 
Pursuant to this understanding there had now been distributed 
a memorandum dated October 25, 1967, from the Division of Examinations 
commenting on the issues involved. On the first question of policy the 
memorandum argued in summary that since national banks were first autho-
rized many years ago to engage in international banking operations it 
had been believed that such operations would assist in the development 
of U. S. foreign commerce, in the broad sense of creating an organiza-
tion through which the financing needs of that commerce might be met. 
With U. S. industrial and commercial concerns now operating in vir-
tually every corner of the world, those considerations appeared at 
least as valid as they did 50 years ago. 

4231 
11/2/67 
-4-
On the question whether the Board should, as a matter of policy, 
differentiate among applications on grounds of benefits accruing to the 
balance of payments, the memorandum presented several arguments against 
such a policy: 
(1) Commercial banks as a group had cooperated well with 
the voluntary foreign credit restraint program. 
(2) Equity investments of Edge and agreement corporations 
amounted to only a small portion of the outstanding 
claims on foreigners of U. S. banks, and any benefits 
to the balance of payments stemming from a cutback in 
new investments were likely to be of minor importance. 
(3) There appeared to be no reason for differentiating 
among equity investments of Edge and agreement corpora-
tions on balance of payments grounds without similarly 
differentiating among the loans and other credits of 
banks and Edge corporations. 
(4) No reason was apparent for discriminating against 
equity investments by banks and Edge corporations on 
balance of payments grounds in the absence of a sim-
ilar program aimed at equity investments abroad of 
U. S. businesses. 
(5) A review of investments made in the past 2-1/2 years 
indicated that few could be said not to have afforded 
some assistance, direct or indirect, to the overseas 
financing of U. S. corporations or to U. S. exports. 
(6) Rejection of applications on general balance of pay-
ments grounds might provoke legal attack. 
The memorandum indicated that the Division of International 
Finance concurred generally in the arguments presented. 
After comments by Mr. Dahl summarizing and supplementing in 
some respects the information presented in the memorandum, Governor 
Mitchell said he found the memorandum useful and agreed generally with 

4 2 3 2 
11/2/67 
-5-
many of the statements irl it. However, he felt there were some hazards 
inherent in expansion abroad by American banks to which the Board 
should be alert. For example, the entry of a bank into an environment 
where it was not wanted lessened the likelihood of its making a valu-
able contribution. Another item of concern related to efforts by U. S. 
banks to become involved in nonfinancial businesses abroad. Thus far, 
investments had been confined principally to financial-type institu-
tions, and according to the memorandum there was no clear trend away 
from that. He was satisfied that it was appropriate to approve the 
proposed investment in this particular instance. As indicated, how-
ever, he thought there were factors to which the Board should remain 
alert in considering applications, and he would not be prepared to go 
quite as far as the tone of the memorandum suggested. 
Governor Daane expressed himself as generally sympathetic to 
the philosophy expressed in the memorandum, which in his opinion would 
be in the longer-run interests of the United States. 
After Governor Maisel indicated that he had no comment, Governor 
Brimmer recalled that he had raised the question at the October 19 meet-
ing with respect to whether proposed investments should not be consid-
ered more explicitly in terms of the contribution that they might make 
from a balance of payments standpoint. He was hopeful that the volun-
tary programs of the Board and the Commerce Department for 1968 would 
be much more restrictive in terms of loans and investments to continental 

vzi 
11/2/61 
- 6 -
Western Europe, and he felt that it would be inappropriate to allow 
Edge and agreement corporations to make investments in a manner incon-
sistent with such guidelines. His concern was with the general thrust 
of the memorandum rather than the particular application currently 
before the Board. 
There followed a discussion during which Governor Daane pointed 
out that proposed investments by Edge and agreement corporations were 
approved by the Board subject to the understanding that they would be 
made within the constraints of the guidelines established under the 
voluntary foreign credit restraint effort, with due consideration to 
the priorities contained therein. This meant that if harsher guide-
lines were adopted for 1968, consents to proposed investments presum-
ably would be given only with the understanding that such investments 
would be made in conformity with those guidelines. He inquired whether 
that would not meet the point raised by Governor Brimmer. 
Governor Brimmer reiterated that his concern centered on the 
conditions under which investments in the developed countries of 
continental Western Europe should be permitted. He understood that 
the 1968 program of the Commerce Department would be particularly 
restrictive in that regard, and it was his view that the Board's guide-
lines should be of comparable restrictiveness. His disappointment with 
the memorandum stemmed from the fact that it did not address itself to 
the question of consistency in considering proposed investments by Edge 

1235 
11/2/67 
-7-
and agreement corporations in that area. He saw no reason to defer 
action on the particular application now before the Board, which 
involved a proposed investment in England rather than continental West-
ern Europe. But he was concerned about the criteria that should be fol-
lowed in the period ahead in dealing with extensions of credit to con-
tinental Western Europe by American banks and their subsidiaries, both 
in terms of the voluntary program and the approval of investments by 
Edge and agreement corporations. 
Subject to the understanding that the policy questions raised 
would be kept under review, unanimous approval then was given to a 
letter to First National City Overseas Investment Corporation granting 
consent to the proposed acquisition of shares of Laurentide Financial 
Trust Ltd., London, England. A copy of the letter is attached as Item 
No. 2. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Sherman then withdrew from 
the meeting. 
Arrangements in regard to Mr. Sternlight. Chairman Martin 
referred to the resignation of Peter D. Sternlight as Deputy Under 
Secretary of the Treasury for Monetary Affairs. He said that the 
directors of the New York Reserve Bank at their meeting today were 
expected to reappoint Mr. Sternlight as an officer of the Bank and 
that the Treasury would like to borrow Mr. Sternlight's services for 
a temporary period from about November 13 to December 22 under an 

1235 
11/2/67 
-8-
arrangement whereby the Reserve Bank would pay Mr. Sternlight's salary 
and the Treasury would reimburse the Reserve Bank for transportation 
and living expenses in Washington. President Hayes had indicated that 
if the Board of Governors agreed, he anticipated that the Reserve Bank's 
directors would approve such an arrangement. 
After discussion the Board members agreed that there would be 
no objection to the proposed arrangement. 
Management succession at Dallas Bank. There was a discussion 
of management succession at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas in light 
of the forthcoming retirement of President Irons. The views understood 
to be held by the Reserve Bank's Board of Directors on filling the top 
management posts at the Bank were reported, and members of the Board 
expressed certain opinions as to steps that they felt might usefully 
be taken by the directors in exploring the matter further. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Judith Ann Sanders as Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,936, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increase 
Glenda A. Beatty, Statistical Clerk, Division of Bank Operations, 
from $4,557 to $4,936 per annum, effective November 5, 1967. 

1235 
11/2/67 
-9-
Leave without pay 
Elizabeth P. Hodges, Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative 
Services, for the period October 22 through November 19, 1967. 
On November 2, 1967, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
3 
approving the appointment of Thomas F. Maguire as 
assistant examiner. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letters to First National City Bank, New York, 
4-5 
New York, granting extensions of time within 
which to establish branches in Hong Kong and 
Lima, Peru. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Letter to The Richland Trust Company, Mansfield, 
6 
Ohio, approving the establishment of a branch in 
the Village of Lexington, Richland County. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
Letter to Deer Lodge Bank and Trust Company, 
7 
Deer Lodge, Montana, waiving the requirement 
of six months' notice of withdrawal from mem-
bership in the Federal Reserve System. 
» 

4237 
. <*>/ 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 1 
11/2/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS DFriCIAL CORRCSPONOENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
November 2, 1967. 
Citizens and Southern 
International Corporation, 
Marietta at Broad, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30302 
Gentlemen: 
IQfiT 
lr t h e q u a r t e r l y "port for the period ending June 30, 
Ban™ y 0 " . 0 0 ^ 0 " ' r o n reported the acquisition of 4,382 shares of 
Banco Popular de Puerto Rico, San Juan, Puerto Rico at a cost of 
T i Z T t T i " r i ' 0 0 0 i a c q u i r e d U n d e r t h e 8 e n eral consent pro-
visions of Regulation K, Section 211.8(a). 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act in part restricts 
equity investments by Edge Act Corporations to concerns "not tr 
-
acting any business in the United States except such as in the 
m a v 8 ^ ' ° < V f ?° a r d ° f G ° V e r n o r s o f ^ e Federal Reserve System 
may be incidental to its international or foreign business." 
wMnh 
B r C ° f? p u l a r °P e r a t es four branches in New York City 
credit 
Tf 
^ 
™
r
c
l
a
l 
b a ^ i n g services, including consumer 
" 
1 8 * h e pinion of the Board that the New York opera-
far J J k n
P
U
l
a
r 
a r e n 0 t " i n c i d e ^ a l to its international or 
foreign business" and, therefore, the above acquisition is an in-
appropriate investment under Section 25(a). 
Unless your Corporation has additional information re-
garding the appropriateness of the acquisition which you desire to 
submit to the Board, the Board, according to the provisions of 
Section 211 8(c) of Regulation K, requests that you dispose of the 
subject stock as promptly as practicable. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1239 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
11/2/67 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
November 2, 1967. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 19, 1967, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC"), 
to purchase and hold up to 90 per cent of the capital stock of 
Laurentide Financial Trust Ltd. ("LFT"), London, England, at a cost 
of approximately US$2,400,000, provided that approximately 82 per 
cent of the stock is acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. In this connection, the Board also approves the purchase 
and holding of the above-mentioned shares in excess of 10 per cent 
of your Corporation's capital and surplus and in excess of the 
limitations on the liabilities of one borrower as set forth in 
Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of LFT by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in LFT if LFT at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if LFT establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
England or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That FNCOIC shall not carry on its books the shares 
acquired of LFT at a net amount in excess of its pro-
portionate share of the book capital accounts of LFT, 
after giving effect to the elimination of all known 
losses; 

4 2 : 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(3) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
FNCOIC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of LFT as it may require 
from time to time; and, 
(4) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by LFT 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if LFT were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
The Board understands that one of the subsidiaries of LFT, 
Yeoman Assurance Co. Ltd., provides life insurance facilities in 
connection with the extension of mortgage loans by that company. 
The above consent is granted subject to the further condition that 
no material change will be made in the nature of the insurance 
operation of that company. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved, combined vith other foreign 
loans and investments of your Corporation, First National City Bank, 
International Banking Corporation, and First National City Bank 
(International), will not cause the total of such loans and invest-
ments to exceed the guidelines established under the voluntary 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect and that due considera-
tion is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4210 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
item No. 3 
.^OVGO;;.. 
OF THE 
11/2/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D N I I I 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R f l C I P D N O C N C C 
T O T H E 
l O A R D 
November 3, 1967 
Mr. Joseph R. Campbell, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear Mr. Campbell: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of October 30, 1967, the Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointment of Thomas F. Maguire as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. 
Upon advice of the effective date of his appointment, 
Mr. Maguire's name will be deleted from the list of 
special assistant examiners. 
• 
Very truly yours, 
M'ty ? > 1 
, tii? •• 
r» Ya ' 
: I S, i ) • 7 > ' 
(Signed) Elizabeth L.. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

C O P Y 
4 * 2 4 1 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
11/2/67 
New York, New York 10045 
November 1, 1967 
Mr. W. J. Riether 
Vice President 
First National City Bank 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Dear Mr. Riether: 
This refers to your letter of October 25, 1967 (received 
by us October 30, 1967), and its enclosure, in duplicate, con-
cerning your notice to the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System dated April 12, 1966, which advised, pursuant to 
Regulation M, of your bank's intention to establish an additional 
branch in Hong Kong, to be located in the Kwun Tong District. In 
its reply of April 19, 1966, the Board informed your bank that 
unless the branch was established and opened for business on or 
before May 1, 1967, It would be deemed that plans for the establish-
ment of the branch had been abandoned. Subsequently, you informed 
us that unforeseen delays prevented your opening this branch within 
the specified time. Therefore, the Board, in its letter of 
April 18, 1967, extended this time to November 1, 1967. 
You now indicate that additional delays have been 
encountered which will postpone the opening of this branch until 
early in 1968. Accordingly, on behalf of the Board, the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, acting under delegated authority, 
extends to May 1, 1968, the date specified in the Board's letter 
of April 18, 1967. 
We would ask that, when the branch is opened for busi-
ness, you inform our Bank Examinations Department of the effec-
tive date of opening and the address of the branch. 
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter by signing 
and returning the enclosed copy. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) 
Thomas M. Timlen, Jr. 
Vice President 
Enclosure 
PEP/st 

COPY 
l\Z\Z 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
No- 5 
11/2/67 
New York, New York 10045 
November 1, 1967 
Mr. W. J. Riether 
Vice President 
First National City Bank 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Dear Mr Riether: 
This refers to your letter of October 25, 1967 (received 
by us October 30, 1967), and its enclosure, in duplicate, con-
cerning your notice to the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System dated April 6, 1966, which advised, pursuant to 
Regulation M, of your bank's intention to establish an additional 
branch in Peru, to be located in the Miraflores area of Lima. 
In its reply of April 18, 1966, the Board informed your bank 
that unless the branch was established and opened for business 
on or before May 1, 1967, it would be deemed that plans for the 
establishment of the branch had been abandoned. 
Subsequently, 
you informed us that unforeseen delays prevented your opening 
this branch within the specified time. Therefore, the Board, in 
its letter of April 18, 1967, extended this time to November 1, 
1967. 
You now indicate that additional delays have been 
encountered which will postpone the opening of this branch until 
early in 1968. Accordingly, on behalf of the Board, the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, acting under delegated authority, 
extends to May 1, 1968, the date specified in the Board's letter 
of April 18, 1967. 
We would ask that, when the branch is opened for busi-
ness, you inform our Bank Examinations Department of the effec-
tive date of opening and the address of the branch. 
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter by signing 
and returning the enclosed copy. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) 
Thomas M. Timlen, Jr. 
Vice President 
Enclosure 
PEP/st 

4213 
F e x > i : h
a
l 
R
e
s
e
r
v
e 
B
a
n
k 
O F 
C L E V E L A N D 
Item No. 6 
P. O 
B O X 
6 3 8 7 
C L E V E L A N D, O H I O -4-4IOI 
11/2/67 
November 2, 
1967 
Mr. J. H. Beasore, 
President 
The Richland Trust Company-
Mansfield, Ohio 
Dear Mr. 
Beasore: 
T h i s refers to your application to establish a branch at Route 
South, in the vicinity of Route 97 intersection, Village of Lexington, 
^chland County, Ohio. 
U P ° n investigation, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
inds the capital of the bank is adequate, the management is satisfactory, 
e proposed branch will serve the convenience and needs of the community, 
it will not tend to create an undesirable situation. 
Accordingly on 
e alf of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Systerr^ acting 
under delegated authority, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland hereby 
pproves the establishment of a branch at Route 42, South, in the vicinity 
Route 97 intersection, Village of Lexington, Richland County, Ohio, 
Provided the branch is established within one year from the date of this 
l etter. 
On the day operations are started, will you please wire us 
nSeating that the branch has been formally opened for business. 
Very truly yours, 
/ 
' 
H. W. Huning 
/ 
Vice President 

4244 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F 
M I N N E A P O L I S 
M I N N E A P O L I S , 
M I N N E S O T A 
55440 
AREA CODE 0t2 333-0301 
November 2, 1967 
Item No. 7 
11/2/67 
Board of Directors 
Deer Lodge Bank and Trust Company 
Deer Lodge, Montana 
Gentlemen: 
Chairman of the Board Polish's letter dated October 27, 1967, 
together with the accompanying October 26, 1967 resolution, signifying 
your intention to withdraw from membership in the Federal Reserve System 
and requesting waiver of the six months' notice of such withdrawal, has 
been received. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
authority, this bank waives the requirement of six months' notice of 
withdrawal. Under the provisions of Section 208.10(c) of the Board's 
Regulation H, your bank may accomplish termination of its membership at 
any time within eight months from the date that notice of intention to 
withdraw from membership was given. 
When arrangements have been completed for continuation of 
deposit insurance by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the 
decision is reached on the date you wish to terminate membership, please 
write us of that date and enclose: (1) your Federal Reserve Bank stock 
certificate for cancellation, and (2) your certificate of membership. 
Upon surrender of your Federal Reserve stock, you will receive payment 
for thai: stock plus accrued dividends to date. 
Please also provide us with instructions for transferring 
elsewhere the proceeds from your Federal Reserve Bank stock and other 
assets of your bank held here. 
Very truly yours, 
L. G. Gable 
Vice President 
LGG:B 
1 
