Minutes for 
-July 16, 1968 
tac , 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial b elow. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
°nly that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
o if 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

/O 720 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, July 16, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 2:00 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Appointment of President of Boston Bank. Chairman Martin 
referred to a telegram from Chairman Johnson of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston stating that the Board of Directors had acted, subject 
t o the approval of the Board of Governors, to appoint Frank E. Morris 
a s President of the Bank to succeed Mr. Ellis, effective the date on 
which Mr. Morris assumed his duties, for the unexpired portion of 
the five-year term ending February 28, 1971. The directors also 
requested approval of the payment of salary to Mr. Morris at a rate 
o f $45,000 per annum. 
Members of the Board expressed themselves favorably with 
respect to the appointment of Mr. Morris. The discussion therefore 
Recused on the proposed salary, which presented problems in terms of 
the salaries of Reserve Bank Presidents generally, including Presi-
j 
ts who had recently assumed office with salary at a substantially 

."J < / 
7/16/68 
-2-
lower level. The problem of salary relationships also extended to 
certain other Presidents who had been serving in that capacity for 
some time. 
It was generally agreed that the difficulty would be 
overcome if the entrance salary for Mr. Morris were fixed at $40,000. 
Some members of the Board indicated that, if necessary in order to 
obtain the services of Mr. Morris, they might be willing to go as 
high as $42,500. However, if that salary was approved — and certainly 
if a figure of $45,000 was approved—equity would call for immediate 
adjustment of the salaries of several incumbent Presidents. 
This led to discussion of the study being made by the Board's 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans of the 
salary ranges applicable to Presidents and First Vice Presidents, and 
in 
turn to comments about the current study of the salaries of high-
level Government officials, including whether it would be advisable 
to alter the salary structure for Reserve Bank Presidents in advance 
of a decision on the Government study. 
During the discussion Chairman Martin left the meeting to try 
to talk with Chairman Johnson by telephone. On returning he stated 
that he had 
been unable to reach Mr. Johnson, and it was understood 
that the Board would consider the matter further after Chairman 
Martin had talked with Mr. Johnson. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened at 5:00 p.m. 
Chairman Martin, who had now been in touch with Chairman 
Johnson, said that the latter apparently had negotiated with Mr. Morris 

t Aw/W 
7/16/68 
-3-
on the basis of the salary paid to former President Ellis at the 
time the latter resigned. 
Chairman Johnson felt that it would be 
difficult to go back to Mr. Morris with a proposed salary of $40,000, 
but he had reacted more favorably to the possibility of negotiating 
a rate of $42,500. Mr. Johnson also had pointed out that in either 
event it would be necessary to convene another meeting of the Boston 
Bank's Board of Directors. 
The salaries of incumbent Reserve Bank Presidents were then 
reviewed by Governor Mitchell, who expressed the view that in some 
c a s e s immediate adjustments would be indicated if the salary of 
President Morris was fixed higher than $40,000. Question was raised 
whether it might not be possible to effect such adjustments at the 
beginning of 1969, but that alternative was not regarded as suitable 
by several Board members. 
Chairman Martin referred to difficulties normally encountered 
w h e n it was necessary to go outside to secure a man to head up an 
0 rganization. 
He noted that there may have been some lack of communi-
cation and that the approach followed by Chairman Johnson in negoti-
ating with Mr. Morris was one typically followed in such circumstances. 
Ne indicated that he would personally be inclined to approve a rate of 
$42,500, with such immediate adjustments as might be considered neces-
S a r y for certain incumbent Reserve Bank Presidents, in anticipation of 
a generally revised salary structure. He added, however, that he would 

ry 
* A w u 
7/16/68 
-4-
be willing to abide by the decision of a majority of the Board if it 
was felt that intra-System relationships would be so badly distorted 
by payment of a salary in excess of $40,000 as to create severe prob-
lems . 
There followed further discussion of the consequences in terms 
of relationships within the System, from which it developed to be the 
consensus that, all things considered, the Board should take a posi-
tion that a salary rate of $40,000 for Mr. Morris would be appropriate. 
Accordingly, it was understood that Chairman Martin would discuss the 
matter further with Chairman Johnson on that basis. 
The following staff members entered at this point: 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Via of the Legal Division 
Mr. Cleaver of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Maguire and Sanford and Miss McShane 
of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Doylestown merger cases. There had been distributed several 
memoranda from the Division of Supervision and Regulation and from 
the Banking Markets Section concerning the applications of (1) Girard 
Trust Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to merge The Doylestown National 

f Aj « 
7/16/68 
-5-
Bank & Trust Company, Doylestown, Pennsylvania; and (2) The Fidelity 
Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to merge Doylestown Trust Company, 
Doylestown, Pennsylvania. The Division of Supervision and Regulation 
and the Banking Markets Section recommended denial of both applica-
tions, as did one member of the Research Department of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. Another member of the Bank's research 
staff, however, recommended that the applications be approved, as 
did the Examinations Department. 
The competitive factor reports issued to the Board by the 
Comptroller of the Currency concluded that neither proposed merger 
would have an adverse effect on competition. The reports from the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation concluded that the Fidelity 
merger would not significantly affect competition in the overall 
service area and that, although the Girard merger would eliminate 
some existing competition, the extent of such competition was not 
substantial. The reports from the FDIC noted, however, that both 
mergers would eliminate well-operated banks providing effective 
competition in the Doylestown area. The Department of Justice's 
reports concluded that the effect of both mergers on competition 
Would be significantly adverse. 
In supplementation of the record in these cases, public oral 
Presentation on the applications had been held before the Board in 
the Board's building on the afternoon of June 26, 1968, which proceed-
l n 8 had been attended by representatives of the subject banks. 

<0 i 
7/16/68 
-6-
Following a review by Messrs. Egertson and Shull of the 
material contained in the various memoranda, Governor Brimmer asked 
if the Legal Division perceived any difficulty in the Board's consid-
ering both of these cases together. M r . Via replied that, on the 
contrary, it would seem beneficial to have the applications considered 
simultaneously. M r . Solomon said he supposed that in one way or 
another both cases were prejudiced by the fact that they came up 
together; this fact probably contrived to put each in a less favorable 
light than if it had stood alone. However, there was nothing the 
Board could do about it. Governor Sherrill observed that the appli-
cations could hardly be considered separately, for the total situation 
was involved. 
In reply to a question by Governor Daane as to the factors 
that argued for approval, M r . Solomon stated that the future of the 
two banks proposed to be merged was uncertain. 
Therefore, while 
neither was a failing institution, it could be argued that competition 
would not be so significantly lessened by consummation of the proposed 
mergers as might appear initially. With respect to the possibility of 
de novo entry by the two Philadelphia banks into the Doylestown area, 
Mr. Solomon observed that there was a fundamental question involved 
the ability of that area to absorb two large additional banks at 
this time. M r . Solomon noted further that the Doylestown institutions 
Were rather specialized because of their extensive involvement in real 
estate lending activities. 

/O * 
7/16/68 
-7-
Mr. O'Connell recalled that at the oral presentation the 
participants from the Doylestown banks had stressed the efforts that 
those banks had made to survive as independent institutions, but 
indicated that they had been unable to find reasonable alternatives 
to the merger proposals now before the Board. They had emphasized, 
Mr. O'Connell added, that the future of their institutions, as inde-
pendent banks, would be quite uncertain. 
Governor Mitchell said that he would vote to approve both 
aPplications. 
In considering the competitive issue, he regarded the 
Doylestown area as relevant rather than the four-county area. 
The 
Proposal was to substitute in Doylestown offices of two Philadelphia 
°anks for two local independent banks, and he thought no one would 
a r g u e that the local banks were as competitively oriented as the two 
Philadelphia banks. He recognized that some people preferred to deal 
with a local institution, and in the past some weight had been attached 
t o that factor on the bas is that the public was entitled to have the 
kinds of service it preferred. 
The question was whether such service 
could be provided, on a profitable basis, by the two local banks that 
admittedly wanted to get out of business. 
If the applications were 
denied, those banks could survive for a while, but most of their 
C apital value might thereby be destroyed as they became less and less 
Profitable. He did not think it was advisable to destroy capital 
V a l u e s in an industry by refusing to permit people to get out of 
business, particularly if the sacrifices involved in terms of the 

<* 4 
7/16/68 
-8-
public interest were as limited as he believed they were in this 
particular case. There would be no lack of competition in the area 
concerned, and in some ways the quality of available services would 
be improved. 
Governor Daane said that he found Governor Mitchell's arguments 
Persuasive. 
The net result might well be to improve the competitive 
situation in the Doylestown area, and he sympathized with the point 
that had been made regarding capital values. 
Governor Maisel said he regarded the cases as very close. 
In 
the beginning, if there had been only the one application, he would 
have voted against it. However, the situation had changed in the 
interim more or less along the lines Governor Mitchell had described. 
Several large Philadelphia banks now had offices in Doylestown, so 
it could be assumed that there would be sufficient competition. 
In 
the circumstances, consummation of the proposed mergers would not have 
a substantially adverse competitive effect, and probably not really an 
adverse effect. 
Governor Brimmer recalled that during the oral presentation he 
h
ad asked whether Girard would go into the Doylestown area if its 
application were denied, and the answer given was in the affirmative. 
F ici l * 
eiity had indicated that it would have to reassess the situation. 
tic 
W e n t on to say that the applications had been pending so long that 
°
ne might lose sight of the fact that when they were filed the Doyles-
town situation was quite different. 
Significant changes had occurred 

/O i fQCy 
7/16/68 
-9-
in the environment; the record, which in his opinion focused on the 
oral presentation, indicated that the competitive situation today was 
quite different than at the time the applications were filed because 
of the decisions of other large banks to enter Doylestown. 
Accord-
ingly, the anticompetitive consequences of the proposed mergers would 
be less than might 
seem on the surface. He was bothered, however, by 
the fact that strong affirmative arguments were lacking, and this 
raised the question of the extent to which the Board should look at 
the corporate interests. 
In these cases the premiums to be paid were 
quite high, from which he concluded that there was an element of mar-
ket power for which the applicant banks were willing to pay. 
On 
balance, and given the fact that the applications had been pending so 
long, he would accept the fact that the environment had changed appre-
ciably and would approve both applications, although reluctantly. 
Governor Sherrill said he thought there was no question but 
that the Philadelphia banks would be more competitive than the existing 
local banks. The only question was whether the local banks should be 
left in existence, and he noted that at least one additional outside 
bank apparently was going to enter the area anyway. He concluded that 
there would be no useful purpose in denying the local banks the right 
to go out of existence and that the outlook for them would probably 
be about as had been 
projected at the oral presentation. 
In the 
circumstances, he doubted that their continued existence would be 
particularly useful to the community. 

O W O f L 
/O 4 (Cl) 
7/16/68 
-10-
Governor Robertson agreed that the cases were close but said 
that he could find little evidence in support of the applications. 
He did not believe that a statement that there would be no adverse 
competitive effect could be justified. Even if the effect were only 
slightly adverse, something had to be found in favor of an applica-
tion, and he could not find that in these cases. 
Chairman Martin said he thought Governor Brimmer had made a 
good point with regard to the changing environment during the long 
time the applications had been pending. 
Accordingly, the applications of Girard Trust Bank and The 
Fidelity Bank were approved, Governor Robertson dissenting, with the 
understanding that orders and statements would be drafted for the 
Board's consideration. 
Members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Kenyon then 
withdrew. 
Appointment of President of Boston Bank. Chairman Martin 
said he had talked further with Chairman Johnson of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston and had told Mr. Johnson that he could expect a tele-
gram to be sent this evening stating that the Board approved the 
appointment of Mr. Morris as President with salary at the rate of 
$40,000. Mr. Johnson had indicated that he would do the best he 
could in the circumstances. 
Chairman Martin had suggested that Gov-
ernor Daane might call Mr. Morris and explain the problem to him. 

730 
7/16/68 
-11-
He had also told Mr. Johnson that the Board realized his difficulty 
and understood the circumstances in which it had arisen. If Mr. 
Morris accepted the post as President, Chairman Martin added, he 
probably would assume office around the middle of August. 
Accordingly, the Board approved unanimously the appointment 
of Frank E. Morris as President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
effective the date on which he assumed his duties, for the unexpired 
portion of the five-year term ending February 28, 1971. The Board 
also approved the payment of salary to Mr. Morris as President at 
the rate of $40,000 per annum from the date he assumed his duties 
through December 31, 1968, if such rate was established by the Board 
of Directors of the Reserve Bank. 
Secretary's Note: 
A telegram reflecting 
the Board's action was sent to Chairman 
Johnson later in the evening. The Reserve 
Bank subsequently advised that its direc-
tors had established a salary rate of 
$40,000 for Mr. Morris. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
Governor Sherrill 
today authorized on behalf of the Board 
travel by Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to 
the Board and Director of the Division 
of Research and Statistics, to attend 
a meeting of the OECD in Paris on Octo-
ber 9-11, 1968, to attend a meeting of 
Common Market officials in Brussels on 
October 13-15, and to meet with officials 
of the British Treasury and the Bank of 
England in London on October 16-20. 
It 
was understood that Mr. Brill's travel 
would be on an actual expense basis. 

m 
O ^ O 1 
i O i 
4 V 
| / 
lit 
7/16/68 
-12-
'i ij 
-' • V 
V.-vv 
..-••S 'Mi 
: r-'i 
' !V' > 
:: '.'VV 
•fKI" 
•v•• i ' 
: }f 
I ® 
X 
•AW!' 
jtv I, 
Governor Sherrill also approved today 
on behalf of the Board memoranda recom-
mending the following actions relating 
to the Board's staff: 
Maternity leave 
Carol A. Poplin, Secretary, Legal Division, beginning the close 
of business July 26, 1968. 
Jennie G. Drew, Cafeteria Helper (part-time), Division of Admin-
istrative Services, beginning the close of business July 31, 1968. 
On July 16, 1968, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under dele-
gated authority as reflected in the 
following letter, a copy of which is 
attached as indicated: 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to Bamerical International Financial 
Corporation, San Francisco, California, 
granting an extension of time within which 
to pay the balance of its investment in 
Ameribas Holding S.A., Luxembourg. 
Item No 
A 
Secretary 

f-y M H O O 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF KJAN F R A N C I S C O 
SAN V R A N C I S C O . CALIFORNIA 94IAO 
Item No. 1 
7/16/68 
July 16, 1968 
Mr. Garrefctcori Dilin, Jr., 
Vies Presideut s 
Bamerieal International Financial Corporation, 
300 Montgonv-cy 3 tree 
8an Francisn^>s California 94104. 
Dear Mr. Dsl n 
Oi b-2hnlf of the BoajwJT of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve system, accirie under delegated authority, 
this Rank ha: approved an extension to TVLY 7 
1969, of 
the time within which Burnerical\lnterjartionnA Financial 
Corporation may j>«y^OT«rNjft500,000\halance of its $1,250,000 
equity invesauc*
4 t in A m e r c e H o l i n g S.A., Luxembourg. 
oxLiraaxoix is \ granted 'in counnction with 
the request cm tain-id in ymjr letter drttrd July 12 
Very truly youre, 
'feigned V Trwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
