PR 609 
( R E V . 
3 / 7 0 ) 
• 
Minutes for 
May 12, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
xhe last two sentences on P. 4 and the first complete sentence on 
• J have been amended at the request of Governor Maisel. Otherwise, there 
a r £ no changes from the draft minutes. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, May 12, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
i c 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Messrs. Shay, Sanders, and Noble, Assistant 
General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
One-bank holding companies. A memorandum dated May 11, 1970, 
from Mr. Cardon submitted a draft of statement to be presented by 
Chairman Burns on May 14 during hearings before the Senate Banking and 

1456 
5/12/70 
-6-
Currency Committee regarding proposed one-bank holding company legis-
lation. The memorandum noted differences between the draft statement 
and the one presented in 1969 by Chairman Martin, and an attached 
summary chart showed how the various bills before the Committee would 
deal with the principal issues. 
A considerable part of today's discussion dealt with a passage 
°f the draft statement indicating that a majority of the members of the 
Board recommended the use of a grandfather clause, June 30, 1968, being 
suggested specifically, which would differentiate between the older, 
and generally smaller, companies and the newer companies formed by the 
country's largest banks. The draft then noted that another possible 
solution, aimed specifically at avoiding forced sales of small banks, 
would be to exempt from section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act one-
bank holding companies with banking assets of, say, less than $30 
million and nonbanking assets of less than $10 million. 
Question was raised whether or not the statement should indicate 
that the size limitation was advocated by one member of the Board, that 
member being Governor Robertson, who was opposed to the use of a grand-
father clause as being wrong in principle and practice, a source of 
inequities, and difficult to administer. Some support developed for the 
U s e of a size limitation, on the part of Governor Brimmer as an alterna-
tive to the grandfather clause and on the part of Governor Sherrill as 
a n addition to it. However, a distinction was drawn between the use of 

1457 
5/12/70 
-6-
a grandfather clause, which would exempt companies that had been in 
existence on a certain past date, and a size limitation that would 
permit an exemption even for companies formed in the future so long 
as they remained small. 
Chairman Burns observed that the basic philosophical position 
was the desirability of keeping industry and banking separate. 
The 
grandfather clause offered a way to minimize undue severity with respect 
to companies formed in the past, but to say that a combination of bank-
ing and industry would be permitted to be formed in the future so long 
as it remained on small scale he believed would constitute relinquish-
ment of much of the basic principle, and to that he was opposed. 
He 
believed that the size limitation would confuse the issue and weaken 
the legislation. 
The continuing discussion included comments that the majority 
°f the Board was not in favor of a size limitation looking either to 
the past or the future, that it would be well for the Chairman's state-
ment to reflect a Board position, and that if during the hearings a 
request was made for minority views, they could then be expressed in 
full. There was therefore agreement that the possibility of a size 
limitation would not be mentioned in the statement. 
Another principal suggestion, by Governor Maisel, was the 
inclusion of a paragraph to make clear that under the proposed revision 
section 4(c)(8) and related section 4(e) of the Bank Holding Company 

1458 
5/12/70 
-6-
Act, under which the Board would determine whether a bank holding company 
might be permitted to engage in any particular activity, it was contem-
plated that questions presented would be judged primarily on the basis 
j {.j 
of the effect on competition, without any commitment that management, 
assets, and other aspects of the internal operations of the bank holding 
company would be investigated in every case. There should be flexibility, 
(•?, 
.
 : ... r: 
-ct O.i 
of course, but the guidelines that the Board would establish could pro-
r 
; 
; i. <j ; 
vide for taking account of management in a general way. The Board had 
authority under other statutory provisions to investigate the internal 
conduct of a holding company. The authority was not used, which he 
thought was proper. 
If the investigation were imposed as a part of the 
determination, in Governor Maisel's opinion the effect would be to make 
the Board regulate the internal operations and condition of bank holding 
U 
,, ; . .. • - 
v 
u.: / . ,» * 
:iu . 
. e it: c; 
;a 
companies, in much the same way that it examined and supervised the 
operations of banks, which he believed would go beyond the intent of 
the proposed legislation. 
He cited the history of section 3(c), which 
°
riginally had paralleled language of the Clayton Act directly but which, 
• t U'.'Vf I. J; 
w 
; 
rh.: * 
-v oi 
»
 : 
nv 
':A> 
a s a result of the Board's suggestion in order to allow factors "adverse" 
to the public interest but not "substantially adverse" in Clayton Act 
terms to be taken into account, had been amended by Congress to retain 
the words "In every case, the Board shall take into consideration the 
^ j <.,, 
, 
. 
. . . . 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the companies 
and banks concerned, . . . ." 
It was Governor Maisel's view that this 
Phrase should not be deemed as requiring investigation of the internal 

1459 
5/12/70 
-6-
operations in each case but should be recognized as having been included 
merely to make possible a broader view of competitive problems. 
Several members expressed the view that questions of management 
and condition of the holding company necessarily entered into decisions 
whether an activity should be permitted, and it was noted that in this 
respect the draft statement was in accord with the Administration bill 
(S. 1664), which contained the existing language of section 3(c). 
Men-
tion was made of a recent situation in which the Board, being aware of 
the unsatisfactory condition of a certain bank, presumably would have 
denied a request by that bank to establish a one-bank holding company if 
the legislation now proposed were in effect. While the Board need not 
undertake an obligation to make an exhaustive search of such questions 
in all cases, neither should it be indicated that no consideration would 
be given to them. The predominant view was that in any event the state-
went to be presented by the Chairman should be concerned with princi-
ples rather than administrative matters. The question Governor Maisel 
had raised could properly be resolved through the guidelines to be estab-
lished, which, according to the tenor of testimony, were to tend toward 
the permissive side. 
It was agreed, however, that the record of today's 
discussion might indicate that the Board looked upon implementation of 
the proposed sections 4(c)(8) and 4(e) as bearing primarily upon competi-
tion rather than regulation. 
Discussion of activities that should be permissible for authorized 
subsidiaries led to the question whether the powers of banks should be 
equal to those of bank holding companies. Governor Robertson expressed 
the view that it would be a grave mistake to force banks into holding 

1460 
5/12/70 
-6-
companies to enable them to perform functions they could not undertake 
as banks. Chairman Burns suggested that the Board might stand on the 
statement that the powers should be the same but leave open the question 
of what those powers should be. Governor Sherrill suggested that there 
was merit in having some activities performed by a holding company in 
order to avoid exposing a bank's depositors to additional risk. 
Gover-
nor Daane advocated subscribing to the principle of equating powers of 
banks and holding companies, with recognition that for legal reasons 
the Board would not seek to implement the principle. There was general 
agreement that it would be well to avoid taking a firm position on the 
principle pending further study. 
Comments were made also regarding the lack of specification in 
the draft statement of permissible locations for authorized subsidiaries. 
Governor Robertson commented that the absence of a geographical limita-
tion made nationwide branch banking at least theoretically permissible. 
Governor Maisel, however, observed that in the past the Board's view had 
been that State laws on branching should not control the establishment 
and expansion of bank holding companies. Expressions by other members 
cited instances in which bank holding companies now had subsidiaries 
across State lines. It was also noted that the same effect, in essence, 
resulted from the travel by bank officers to negotiate with national 
account customers. 

1UH 
5/12/70 
-7-
Among other facets of the discussion were the question whether 
any mention should be made of prohibitions against tie-ins, which had 
been omitted because it was understood that effective prohibitions 
were now on the statute books; the adequacy of the provisions in various 
bills to permit establishment of presumptive control when a relatively 
small percentage of stock was held; and the problems presented by mul-
tiple partnerships. A series of inquiries by Governor Brimmer estab-
lished that the positions proposed to be taken in the statement, except 
for the shifts in emphasis that had been pointed out, were basically 
the same as had been taken earlier. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
t k 
statement, after revisions to reflect the tenor of views expressed, 
would be presented in a form satisfactory to Chairman Burns. 
(A copy 
°f the statement, as presented, has been placed in the Board's files.) 
Hi i„ ' . 
•
1 ; , 
; . • . A' ! >•. i . 
v
 1 
• ' • 
Quarterly economic report. With a memorandum dated May 4, 1970, 
j. 
' -si, !,, ; J
j 
' 
1 
i i •" 
'. • ' 
• ' . • " . . ' 
• t 
: • > 
Mr. Partee had submitted a draft of a review of financial developments 
in the first quarter of 1970 to be transmitted to the Joint Economic 
Committee pursuant to the practice followed during the past year. 
After a discussion dealing principally with the sequence in 
which various elements of the review were presented, the report was 
iLgproyed unanimously for transmittal to the Committee after Chairman Burns 
had an opportunity to study it further. 

146*! 
5/12/70 
-8-
Attached under Item No. 1 are copies of the letter and report 
subsequently transmitted to the Committee. 
Messrs. Partee, Solomon (Adviser), and Axilrod then withdrew 
and the following entered: 
I 
y .. 
- ; 
Mr. Shull, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Messrs. Mcintosh and Walcutt, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Messrs. Egertson and Lyon and Miss Hart, Assistant 
Directors, Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Kakalec, Controller, and Halley, Assistant 
Controller 
Additional staff members of the Legal and other Divisions 
interested in one or more of the following topics also entered at this 
time. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on May 4, by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, 
Phi lad 
elphia, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and 
Dallas on May 7, and by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on May 8, 
1970, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules 
w a s approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
m o u s l y after consideration of background information that had been made 
M a i l a b l e . 
Copies are attached under the item numbers indicated. 

14 63 
5/12/70 
-9-
Item No. 
Letter to First National City Overseas 
2 
Investment Corporation, New York, New York, 
granting consent to continue to hold shares 
of Nacional Financiera and Promotora General, 
S•A., both of Santiago, Chile, after each 
issues debentures. 
Letter to Counsel for American Option Fund 
3 
Management Corporation denying its request 
for a ruling exempting from margin requirements 
stock option credit extended by a closed-end 
investment company. 
Interlocking relationships. 
Pursuant to the recommendation 
Presented by the Legal Division in a memorandum dated April 30, 1970, 
the Board unanimously approved the issuance of an interpretation regard-
ing the applicability of section 8 of the Clayton Act and the Board's 
Regulation L, Interlocking Bank Relationships under the Clayton Act, to 
service by an individual (a) as a director of a holding company the 
Principal activity of which is the ownership and control of a bank, or 
banks, and as director of a member bank, and (b) as a director of two 
such holding companies. 
A copy of the interpretation, in the form in which it was sent 
t o the Federal Register, is attached as Item No. 4; a copy of a letter 
sent to Congressman Patman is attached as Item No. 5. 
Reports on competitive factors. Reports on the competitive 
factors involved in the following proposed mergers were approved unan-
imously, the first two for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency 

I4fi4 
5/12/70 
-10-
and the third for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpo-
ration. The conclusion of each report is indicated below. 
The Citizens' Bank of Wind Gap, Wind Gap, Pennsylvania, and 
Easton National Bank and Trust Company, Easton, Pennsylvania 
There is some competition existing between The Citizens' 
Bank of Wind Gap and Easton National Bank and Trust Company. 
Easton National serves the Easton, Pennsylvania-Phillipsburg, 
New Jersey, market and holds about 25 per cent of the deposits 
m this market; upon consummation of this proposal, it would 
hold about 27 per cent of the market deposits. The overall 
effect of the instant proposal on competition would be adverse. 
Suburban National Bank of Virginia, McLean, Virginia, into First 
&_Merchants National Bank, Richmond, Virginia 
With exception of the somewhat specialized situation exist-
l n g in the Pentagon where First & Merchants National Bank, Richmond, 
and Suburban National Bank of Virginia, McLean, operate the only 
hanking offices, there is little effective competition between the 
two banks and limited potential for increased competition between 
them. Consummation of the proposed merger would not significantly 
alter the concentration of banking deposits in the State, nor in 
the Northern Virginia portion of the Washington, D. C.-Maryland-
Virginia Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area. The overall 
effect of the proposed merger on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
The St. Lawrence County Savings Bank, Ogdensburg, New York, into 
fetertown 
Savings Bank, Watertown, New York 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Watertown Savings 
Bank and The St. Lawrence County Savings Bank, Ogdensburg, would 
eliminate some existing competition between the two banks, while 
there is little potential for increased competition due to State 
law regarding de novo branching. The overall effect would be 
slightly adverse. 
Southeast Bancorporation. 
The Board authorized the issuance of 
a n order reflecting approval, on April 29, 1970, of the application of 

IltiS 
5/12/70 
-11-
Southeast Baricorporation, Inc., Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of 
Southeast National Bank of Orlando, Orlando, Florida, a proposed new 
bank. A copy of the document, as issued, is attached as Item No. 6. 
Merger and holding company applications. The following appli-
cations were approved unanimously after consideration of pertinent 
information that had been made available: 
Isabella County State Bank, Mount Pleasant, Michigan, 
to consolidate with Weidman State Bank, Weidman, Michigan; 
•n\
 1 
-
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, Columbus, Ohio, to 
acquire shares of The Lucas County State Bank, Toledo, Ohio. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order regarding the Huntington 
Bancshares decision in the form attached as Item No. 7, and it was under-
stood that an order and statement regarding the Isabella County State 
Bank decision would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Section 23A question. 
The Legal Division, in a memorandum dated 
April 30, 1970, discussed whether an extension of credit by Summit & 
Elizabeth Trust Company, Summit, New Jersey, to its credit card operations 
subsidiary would be exempt from the limitations of section 23A of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act. The subsidiary would act as principal lender and not 
a s agent for the bank. The bank would supply to the subsidiary the funds 
necessary to cover the difference between sales slips discounted and 
those for which payment had been received from the purchaser. The bank 
W a s not affiliated with a holding company. 

5/12/70 
-12-
The Legal Division noted that a ruling that the transactions 
would be exempt would be logically consistent with the Board's position 
on operations subsidiary and might be otherwise desirable from the 
standpoint of policy considerations. 
The Comptroller of the Currency 
and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation had already taken an 
affirmative position. However, the Division felt the better legal 
view was that such a ruling would be inconsistent with the language 
and history of section 23A, and that the preferable course would be 
to rule in the negative and to request that Congress amend the statute. 
Several alternative courses of action were discussed in the 
memorandum; attached were drafts of an interpretation that would take 
a negative view and of a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
that would rule that the transactions were exempt. 
Governor Maisel suggested that it was unnecessary to go into 
the complexities of the operations subsidiary question; he believed 
that the subsidiary in this situation was clearly a "servicing company" 
that came within the exemption in section 4(c)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, and he suggested that the draft letter be used, with lan-
guage changes to identify the subsidiary as a servicing company. 
He 
did not subscribe to the Legal Division's conclusion. The language of 
vthe section had been drafted by the Board, and the Board's recommenda-
tion to Congress provided a record of what the language was intended 
mean. As he read it, the Board intended the exemption to apply to 

14 (i7 
5/12/70 
-13-
banks as well as to bank holding companies, and the Board should not 
now go against its own position. 
Governors Sherrill and Daane also expressed the view that the 
exemption in section 4(c)(1) was applicable. 
Governor Brimmer commented that it would not be well to adopt 
that view if the staff believed that the Comptroller's ruling was in 
error. However, the fact that he found persuasive was that the credit 
card operation was a function that the bank could perform directly, and 
therefore the structural form chosen was not material. 
There ensued a discussion of the question whether any distinc-
tion must be made in the circumstances presented because the bank was 
n°t in a bank holding company system. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that all of the arguments 
that had been cited in support of an affirmative position were unsound, 
because, as the Legal Division had suggested, the letter of the law 
seemed to provide better ground for a negative ruling. 
The Legal Division expressed a preference for not including in 
the letter the language Governor Maisel had suggested, inasmuch as a 
C r e d i t card subsidiary lending money on its own behalf did not seem to 
It to fall within the scope of what the Board had previously determined 
to be a servicing company. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the affirmative position 
W a s approved, Governor Robertson dissenting. A copy of the letter sent 

14 68 
5/12/70 
-14-
to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to this action is 
attached as Item No. 8. 
Report on examining procedures. A memorandum from the Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated April 10, 1970, transmitted 
and commented upon the report submitted by Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Mont-
gomery on their 1969 review of procedures followed by the Board's 
examiners in examinations of the Federal Reserve Banks, including the 
recommendations therein, which either had been or soon would be put 
into effect. 
After discussion, the report of the accounting firm was accepted. 
It was understood that the firm would be asked to make a similar 
review in 1970, on the same terms as for 1969. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Kakalec, and Halley. 
Program Planning and Budgeting system. Governor Sherrill 
explained the objectives underlying the proposal in his memorandum of 
April 27, 1970, regarding the next step in the evolution of the Board's 
P rogram Planning and Budgeting system. He indicated that if the Board 
agreed as to the value of the review of issues such as therein proposed, 
he would work with the staff in developing an appropriate submission 
for Board discussion. 
Some concern was expressed that review of issues and selection 
priorities might proceed in ways that disregarded the judgments of 

1 • 
; 
ty/m/m 
-15-
the various Division Directors, who were in a position to be keenly 
aware of developing study needs and study interests on the part of 
their staffs. Governor Sherrill pointed out that the proposed issue 
review would serve simply to bring suggested issues before the Board 
•••ui 
and the Board could be as considerate as it wished of the judgments of 
the Directors of its various Divisions as to the appropriate priority 
to be assigned to any suggested issue. 
In response to a question, Governor Sherrill indicated that the 
review now being proposed would focus essentially on new issues for 
study; a later stage, which would be desirable when time and resources 
permitted, would be to conduct a similar review of all present programs, 
1 , e « , in effect, zero-base program budgeting. 
J 
j . 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was agreed that it 
would be helpful to have the proposed issue review undertaken, with 
Judgment reserved by members of the Board as to the appropriate steps 
fchat might follow such a review. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
tary 
- J 

1470 
Item No. 1 
5/12/70 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
4L RtS 
May 15, 1970. 
,«0V. r; 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Joint Economic Committee, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In accordance with the arrangements previously made 
with your committee, I am transmitting herewith a staff report 
on financial developments in the first quarter of 1970. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

1471 
FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENTS IN THE FIRST QUARTER OF 1970 
Pressures in financial markets moderated during the first 
quarter of 1970 as interest rates declined and most monetary aggregates 
expanded faster than in the previous quarter. The money stock grew 
a t a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 3.8 per cent, up from the very 
slow rate of growth of the second half of 1969. Time deposits of 
commercial banks also rose in the first quarter, after having declined 
i n the second half of last }'ear, but growth for the quarter as a whole 
W c l s ^uite slow. Late in the quarter, however, banks began to add to 
h-ir outstanding tine deposits at a relatively rapid pace, as banks were 
® b 1 
e to offer higher rates after the Board of Governors-
1 liberalization of 
Regulation Q ceilings and the decline of market interest rates. 
As time deposit performance improved, bank reliance on 
n°udeposit sourccs of funds declined. Euro-dollar borrowings from 
c 
o r e i g n branches fell by $1.6 billion from December to March—with most of 
the (11 i , 
LC*-Xne in the last mongh of the quarter—and sales of commercial 
Paper by bank affiliates moderated late in the period. 
This substitution among various types of liabilities helped 
t o limit the growth in banks' assets. Total loans and investments 
a dvanced only slightly faster than in the fourth quarter of 1969--
a f i-"
G r including the outright sale of loans to bank affiliates. All 
^ the growth in bank credit was attributable to an increase in loans; 
hold i n r r 
i n B s of securities were practically unchanged, following sharp 
actions throughout 1969. In January, banks ran off 
C u r i t i e s in volume when time deposits were declining, but "> 
u^
stantial acquisition of investments in March offset the earlier 
d ecline. 

rv, ,5 
1472 
- 2 -
At nonbanlc thrift institutions net inflows of deposits increased 
moderately during the first quarter as a whole. 
Such institutions used 
some of their deposit flows to rebuild liquidity and repay borrowings, 
and mortgage commitments remained under constraint. The rate of expansion 
in 
total mortgage debt continued to decline. In other long-term 
markets, corporate borrowers issued an increased volume of securities 
Qw J 
•
a so did State and local governmental units. 
The increased supply of longer-term securities tended to 
limit the decline in interest rates in such markets from the peak 
rates reached in December 1969. Interest rates in short-term markets. 
how 
bor 
e v e r , declined substantially during the first quarter as some 
rowers apparently shifted their credit demands to longer-term 
t s * In late March, banks followed the pattern of lower rates 
y Educing the prime rate on business loans. 
^ ^ t a r y Aggregates 
rose 
The money stock--currency and privately held demand deposits--
a t an annual rate of 3,8 per cent in the first quarter, at a 
when interest rates were declining. This rate of increase compares 
With n„ 
expansion rate of little more than 1 per cent during the preceding 
Quit* G r > the bulk of the pick-up in growth occurred in private demand 
do 
P°sits, which showed their first quarterly increase since the second 
0 1 of 1969. Meanwhile, the currency component of money holdings 
<hued to grow at a relatively rapid pace. U.S. Government demand 
de S&l&fe! > seasonally adjusted, rose further. Although nonborrowed 
t eserv 0 5 evidenced sizable swings within the quarter in reflection of 

1473 
deposit: movements and other factors, such reserves declined slightly 
on balance. 
(Reserves Chart) 
Time and savings deposits at all commercial banks showed 
a sharp run-off during January following year-end interest crediting, 
a s investors shifted funds to higher-yielding market instruments. 
B u t banks were able to maintain and attract interest-bearing deposits 
a s the quarter progressed, and in March the rapid net expansion of 
s uch deposits offset the earlier decline. 
In large part, this pattern 
W a s 
a c ccunted for by the combination of reduced market rates of interest 
and higher rates offered on time and savings deposits; most banks raised 
th •» 
fl r offering rates quickly after interest rate ceilings under 
R e8ulation Q were raised effective January 21, 1970. 
All types of time and savings deposits evidenced significant 
Sfowth in the latter part of the quarter. In particular, large-
domination certificates of deposit 
(CD's) showed their first 
Quarterly increase since the fourth quarter of 1968, as banks were 
abi e h 
co sell such claims to State and local governments, t o foreign 
^ institutions, and--to a degree--to corporations. As funds 
kecanm 
,G more readily available, major banks showed less interest 
i n issuing CD's to foreign official institutions at premium rates, 
'•fheso institutions had been a major source of funds from September 
t o Marci 
Oil . 

-4-
•FLOWS OF SELECTED MONETARY AGGREGATES 
Percentage -annual rates of change, 
seasonally adjusted 
1474 
Ite m 
1969 
1970 
,1 
II 
III 
~'Tv" 
_ i'7 
M o n e y « t o c k 
\ 
4 a 
4.5 
.0 
1.2 
3.8 
and savings deposits 
a t all commercial banks 
-5.1 
-3.0 
-13.3 
.0 
0.4 
M°
n ey stock plus time and 
s avings deposits at all 
commercial banks 
-0.6 
0.7 
-6.7 • 
0.7 
2.0 
T o t a l member bank deposits 
P ^ s Euro-dollars plus 
other nondeposit funds 1/ 
n.a. 
n.a, 
-4.3 
2.0 
.Q 5 , 
MEMO: 
e r a g e money stock 2/ 
6.0 
4.5 
1.2 
0.6 
2 .6 
/ * * • •/ . .. 
^ginning on May 28, the following data were collected weekly: Euro-
p i l a r s borrowed directly from foreign banks or through brokers and 
eolers, bank liabilities to own branches in U.S. territories and 
Possessions, commercial paper issued by bank holding companies or 
sold*
 b a n k 
a f f i l i a t e s >
 
a n d loans or participation in pools of loans 
under repurchase agreement to other than banks and other than 
2/ 
T u
n k s '
 o w n affiliates or subsidiaries. 
Q 
P
G rcentage change in the average level of the money stock during 
quarter from the average level during the preceding quarter, at 
< nual rates. This measure is included because it is used by many 
aiysts and in various econometric models in relating money stock 
a t a to quarterly figures for economic activity, such as the gross 
n < a
 
n ational product. 
N o t e . " 
N o t 
a
v
a
i
l
a
b
)
e -
With the exception of the memo item changes arc calculated from 
the average amounts outstanding in the last month of each quarter. 
V 

-4-
1475 
the 
This sharp turnaround in growth in time deposits late in 
quarter encouraged substitution of these funds for higher-cost 
n°ndeposit sources of funds. Outstanding Euro-dollars borrowed 
f rcm foreign branches of U.S. banks averaged $12.7 billion in March, 
a declines Q f $1.6 billion from the December monthly average. While 
issuance of commercial paper by bank holding companies and affiliates 
by nearly $2.2 billion in the first quarter, or at a pace 
$ 0 6 
billion larger than in the previous quarter, most of this 
^crease occurred early in the quarter when total time and savings 
d ePcsits were running off. Commercial paper sales moderated 
ficantly as deposit growth resumed. The adjusted bank credit 
P*oxy~-.{-ota 1 member bank deposits plus Euro-dollars plus other 
flonde 
i f 
P°sit sources of funds--increased at an annual rate of 0.5 per 
°
nt in the first quarter, somewhat less than in the fourth quarter 
e n there had been a relatively more rapid increase in nondeposit 
w h 
Sour 
c e s of funds. 
^ S l Uges of Funds 
for 
Total security investments at banks were about unchanged 
t 1 0 first quarter, in sharp contrast to the sizable declines 
fchat h->ri 
"act occurred throughout 1969. Holdings of U.S. Government 
C u r >ities declined by a total of $2.0 billion. Banks reduced their 
Govern™ 
iment portfolio substantially during January when time deposits 
^Ccli G a 
r a P i d l y . x n March, however, banks acquired a modest volume 
of T r 
«sury securities as pressures on available funds lessened„ 
Over m 
-no. quarter, banks increased their holdings of Federal agency 

and municipal securities, with by far the largest increase occurring 
in March. To some degree, the acquisition of municipal and Federal 
agency issues late in the quarter represented the activities of 
dealer banks, which were building up their inventories of securities 
for resale, but there are also indications that banks in general were 
buying short-term and some long-term securities for investment purposes 
(Margin Chart —Bank Credit-Components) 
Total loans in bank portfolios were essentially unchanged 
in the first quarter of 1970, a sharp contrast to the $5 billion 
increase in the quarter earlier. Even after adjusting for loans sold, 
the net change in credit supplied through bank loans was well below 
the rate registered in any quarter of 1969. This reduced growth was 
attributable principally to the large repayment oi' loans by nonbank 
financial institutions, which had borrowed heavily during the fourth 
quarter of 1969. While business loans held in bank portfolios declined 
if loans sold to affiliates or subsidiaries are taken into account, 
the rate of business loan growth was about the same as during the 
second half of 1969. But in March alone the rate of business loan 
growth was relatively weak, probably reflecting the slower pace of 
economic activity as well as an enlarged volume of loan repayments 
frbm proceeds of capital market borrowing. 
Real estate loans 
continued to advance at the limited fourth-quarter rate, which was 
associated with the sluggish behavior of new construction and other rea 
estate activity. The advance in consumer loans moderated as consumer 

-1477- 
11 
S3 
purchases of durable goods--particularly autos—were noticably below 
the level of the fourth quarter of 1969. 
(Margin Chart--Bank Loans-Major Components) 
The sluggish performance of total loans in the first 
quarter appears to have represented a combination of reduced demands 
and the effects of tighter lending standards adopted earlier by banks, 
in additi .on, banks appear to have evidenced concern to rebuild liquidity 
Positions with the funds chat became available through deposit 
inflows. While the prime rate of business loans was reduced 
one-half percentage point to 8 per cent, other loan terms and 
conditions do not appear to have been altered significantly, 
jjonfank Intermediaries and the Mortgage Market 
Net deposit inflows to savings and loan associations and 
mutual savings banks increased at a modest rate from the fourth quarter 
of 1969 to the first quarter of 1970. Outflows were heavy in January, 
but deposits expanded during the next 2 months; growth was particularly 
sizable in March. Declines in yields on money market instruments 
and the increases in the rate ceilings on savings deposits—announced 
in late January—were contributing factors, as they were for 
commercial banks. Intermediaries utilized new funds mainly to improve 
portfolio liquidity and to repay borrowings 
New mortgage comoitmenta 
at thrift institutions continued to decline. 
(Margin Chart--Nonbank Savings Accounts) 
Net mortgage debt formation continued downward early this 
year for the fourth consecutive quarter. While support from the 

• 8 -
1478 
Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Banks 
remained exceptionally strong, there was a marked slowing in expansion 
of residential mortgage debt. The seasonally adjusted quarterly rate 
of about $3.6 billion was the lowest since the second quarter of 1967. 
Expansion of total mortgage holdings by savings and loan associations, 
the major lenders on homes, was the smallest for any first quarter since 
1967. Net expansion by commercial banks and mutual savings banks was 
also quite small, although net mortgage lending by life insurance 
companies apparently improved somewhat from the very reduced levels in 
the comparable period of other recent years. 
NET CHANGE IN MORTGAGE DEBT OUTSTANDING 
In billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted 
Item 
1969 
,1970 
Item 
I 
II . 
III 
IV 
Total 
7.6 
7.1 
6.6 
6.1 
5.2 
Residential 
5.5 
5.3 
4.9 
4.4 
3.6 
Other 1/ 
2.1 
1.8 
1.6 
1.7 
1.6 
e - Partly estimated. 
1/ Includes commercial, farm, and other nonresidential properties. 
jCunds Raised in the Open Market 
A substantial rise in new corporate bond offerings, which 
accelerated in March, brought the first-quarter volume to a record 
high, A number of large companies in the manufacturing industry, 
a group noticeably absent from the capital markets in 1969, 

1479 
issued bonds in the first quarter. Many corporations turned to 
long-term debt instruments to rebuild their depleted liquidity 
Positions and to repay short-term debt. Long-term borrowing by 
public utilities and communications firms continued to rise, reflecting 
the long-range capital outlay programs needed to meet the steadily 
expanding demand for utility services. In addition, many corporations 
were under pressure frcm the widening margin between capital spending 
and the volume of funds generated internally through earnings and 
depreciation. Equity issues remained relatively high in the first 
quarter in spite of pronounced weakness in the stock market. 
Long-term bond issues by State and local governments reached 
the highest level in a year and in fact were considerably above the 
year-earlier quarter. A sharp decline in yields, especially in 
the shorter maturities, made possible the sale of issues that had 
been deferred because of market conditions in 1969. Interest rate 
ceilings had depressed the volume of long-term borrowing 
by municipal-
ities, especially in the latter half of 1969; however, moves in late 
1969 and early 1970 by legislative authorities to lift these ceilings, 
combined with falling market rates during the first quarter, permitted 
municipal offerings to move back toward the long-run trend. Expecta-
tions of easing monetary policy and declines in interest rates, as well 
as a pick-up in bank purchases of municipals, buoyed prices of such 
securities. A heavy backlog of State and local borrowing needs still 
overhung the market, however. 

-10-
1480 
OFFERINGS OF NEW SECURITY ISSUES 
Monthly average in billions of dollars, not seasonally adjusted 
Item 
1969 
1970 
Item 
I 
II 
III 
IV 
I
e 
Corporate securities - total 
2.1 
2.5 
2.1 
2.3 
2.6 
Bonds 
1.4 
1.7 
1.5 
1.5 
1.9 
Stocks 
.7 
.8 
.6 
.8 
.7 
State and local government bonds 
.9 
1.2 
.8 
1.0 
1.3 
e - Estimated. 
Net cash borrowing by the Federal Government declined about 
seasonally during the first quarter, although the budget deficit 
shrank by somewhat less than usual in the first 3 months of the year, 
Corporate tax payments and the nonwithheld portions of individuals 
tax payments were both lower than in the corresponding period of 
1969--reflecting the slower pace of economic activity and the reduction 
of the surtax in 1970—while budget expenditures rose above the year-
earlier level. Borrowings by Federal agencies climbed to a new peak 
of $3.8 billion in the first quarter, with a variety of agencies 
entering the market to raise new money. The Federal Home Loan Bank 
Hoard, as part of its effort to support the mortgage markets, advanced 
funds to savings institutions in the early part of the quarter and 
huilt up its own liquidity position in preparation to supply additional 
funds that might later be needed. 

-11" 
14 yl 
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT 
Quarterly totals in billions 
BORROWING 
of dollars 
AND CASH BALANCE 
, not seasonally adjus ted 
Item 
1969 
1970 
Item 
I 
_II 
III 
IV 
I 
Budget surplus or deficit. 
-2.0 
15.5 
-2.5 
•5.7 
-3.5 
Net cash borrowings or 
repayment (-) 1/ 
.2 
-12.6 
3 . 2 ^ 
5.1 
2.0 
Other means of financing 3/ 
1.9 
- 1.8 
.0 
• .8 
3.1 
Change in cash balance 
.1 
1.1 
.7 
1.3 
1.6 
MEMO: 
Federal agency borrowing 4/ 
1.1 
2.3 
2.7 
2.9 
3.8e 
1/ Excludes effect on agency debt outstanding of transfer s of certain 
agencies to private ownership. 
2/ Adjusted to remove effects of reclassification of $1.6 billion in 
Commodity Credit Corporation certificates of interest from Budget 
transactions to agency securities (borrowing from the public) . 
3/ Checks issued less checks paid and other accrued items, 
i./ Includes debt of FHLBB, Federal Land Banks, FNMA, Federal Inter-
mediate Credit Banks, and Banks for Cooperatives. 
e ~ Estimated. 
The outstanding volume of commercial paper issued by firms 
other than banks continued to rise during the first quarter, but the 
rate of increase tapered off in March. The reduced rate of borrowing 
in this market may have reflected, in part, an attempt by corporations 
to improve their balance sheet structure by using part of the proceeds 
from long-term security offerings to pay down short-term debt, 
jlonev Market Conditions and Interest Rates 
Expectations of easing credit conditions were a major factor 
in the first-quarter decline in interest rates, especially in the 

tii* 
1 4 8 2 
short-term markets. In addition, short-term rates were driven down 
as borrowing demands were focused in long-term markets, and as banks 
and other financial institutions invested in short-term securities 
in an effort to rebuild liquidity positions. 
The average yield for 3-month Treasury bills in March was 
6.63 per cent, more than a full percentage point below the average 
in December. 
The Federal funds rate registered a similar decline late 
in the quarter 
when a rise in nonborrowed reserves provided through 
open market operations reduced the pressure ori bank reserve 
poaitionpa 
As mcney market conditions eased, banks reduced 
their borrowing at the Federal Reserve discount window. The decline 
in commercial and finance company paper rates was less pronounced 
than it was for other short-term rates, as banks and others issued 
sizable amounts of paper. 
Surges in demand for long-term funds by the private sector 
late in the quarter and continued apathy towards long-term fixed -
income securities on the part of institutional investors kept long-
term yields from falling as much as short-term yieIds . Yields on 
corporate Aaa new Issues in March were only 25 basis points below 
the December 1969 highs, even though there had been a dramatic slide 
in rates during January and February. This trend was reversed by a 
rapid build-up in new-issue volume in March and by the prospect of 
sustained capital market borrowing through the first half of 1970. 

-13- 
11 S3 
, jt «• * • . . 
'mi'i Y 
• 
••• 
:: •• 
By early March State and local government bond yields 
had fallen 95 basis points from their 1969 record high, as signs 
of easier credit market conditions began to appear and bank purchases 
Of municipal bonds picked up. Long-term U.S. Government bond yields 
also showed a sharp drop--30-basis points from the beginning-of-1970 
high—but then edged back up in late March. 
Yields on FHA mortgages rose to a new high in the first 
quarter, partly in response to the increases in government-insured mortgage 
ceiling rates. The spread between yields on new corporate bonds and 
FHA mortgages widened substantially over the quarter as a whole, 
particularly in comparison with the last 2 months of 1969; but the 
yield advantage of mortgages was reduced somewhat in March as corporate 
rates began to rise again and FHA-mortgage yields turned down. 
(Interest Rate Chart) 

atrmi.iM»ii 
i i M M L i i a w i i w — i i a w M T w M M a w w a i m m r r a r s r a n R a ^ r s . x x w o a a s a s s i s r c j t f c z i s s a ^ 
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS, SEASONALLY ADJUSTED 
R E S E R V E S : 
TOTAL 
Monthly averages of daily figures for member banks. Total and non-
korrowed reserves are adjusted to exclude the effects of changes in reserve 
requirement percentages. Nonborrowed reserves are total reserves-adjusted 
minus member bank borrowings from the Federal Reserve. Excess reserves 
a r e total reserves less required reserves. Latest figures, March. 
1 9 5 7 
1 9 6 8 
1 9 6 9 
1 9 7 0 
NOT SEASONALLY ADJUSTED 
BORROWINGS FROM 
FEDERAL RESERVE 

1485 
RANK 
C R E D I T 
COMPONENTS 
U.S. GOVT. SECURITIES 
CHANGE,J>ILLIOJiS OF DOLLARS 
2 
X
J 1 
-1 
- O T H E R SECURITIES 
m
. 
- T O T A L LOANS 
j 
G1 
0.4 
Seasonally adjusted 
02 
03 
1969 
samarwmtwnmmaxsaa^i 
wtraH 
01 
1970 
B A N K 
L O A N S 
MAJOR 
COMPONENTS 
•nMexaaauaMaMMMcaHDeaMm*^^ 
CHANGE. BILLIONS OF 
HOLLARS 
BUSINESS 
O
J
Z
I 
"jwwi 
REAL ESTATE 
O
e
l
Q 
.CONSUMER 
r 
i i 
i i 
i r~ i 
SECURITY 
12 
01 
02 
03 
04 
Q1 
_____ 
1969 
1970 
maMBBnaanirfMiini 'wnwnwwmiMyinj n HW.IHIIHJ IHHII 
Seasonally adjusted. 
N O N B A N K S A V I N G S 
A C C O U N T S 
Mimmmsaumataan 
A N N U A L RATE OF CHANGE, PER 
CENT 
MBBBaMamRV.t stacMMSKmcH 
Seasonally adjusted. 

1486 
RATES 
FER CENT PFR ANNUM 
" 
1 0 
LONG-TERM 
FEDERAL FUNDS 
COMMERCIAL PAPER 
4-6 MONTHS 
FHA MORTGAGES 
TREASURY BILLS 
3 - M O N T H 
CORPORATE Aaa 
NEW ISSUES 
F.R. DISCOUNT RATE 
STATE AND LOCAL GOVT 
•Jk.TM> 
Monthly averages except FHA (based on quotations for one day each month), 
ds: U.S. Treasury bills, market yields on 3-month issues; prime commercial 
r> dealer offering rates; FHA, weighted averages of private secondary market 
e s of new-home 30-year mortgages converted to annual yield (dashed line 
cates period of adjustment to change in contractual interest race); corpo-
bonds, weighted averages of new publicly offered bonds rated Aaa, Aa, and 
Moody's Investors Service and adjusted to an Aaa basis; U.S. Govt, bonds, 
yields adjusted to 20-vear constant maturity by U.S. Treasury; State 
local govt, bonds (20 issues, mixed quality), Bond Buyer. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
1487 
F - L D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
• F T H E : 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C C 
T O T H E 
O D A R D 
Item No. 2 
5/12/70 
May 12, 1970. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of April 9, 1970, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corpora-
tion to continue to hold the shares of Nacional Financiera 
("FINANSA") and Promotora General, S.A. ("PR0GRESSA") 
both of Santiago, Chile, after FINANSA and PR0GRESSA each 
issue debentures with five-year maturities up to the equiva-
lent of $5,000,000, during two years from the date of this 
letter. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary. 

1488 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
• F 
T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
Item No. 3 
5/12/70 
May 14, 1970 
Louis 0. Kelso, Esq., 
Kelso, Cotton, Seligman, 
and Ray, 
One Maritime Plaza, 
San Francisco, California. 
Dear Mr. Kelso: 
This is in response to your letter of July 16, 1969, enclosing 
an application of the American Option Fund Management Corporation, and 
subsequent correspondence, requesting that the Board adopt an exemption 
from its margin regulations with respect to stock option credit to be 
extended by American Option Fund ("Fund"). You also request an opportunity 
to make an oral presentation to the Board. 
The application states that the Fund would be organized as a 
closed-end investment c o m p a n y under the Investment Company Act of 1940 
and would make loans to corporate officers and employees for the pur-
pose of financing the exercise of their stock options with capital to 
be raised through a public offering of the Fund's shares. The loans 
would be secured by a pledge of the optioned stock. 
Section 207.4(a) of Regulation G, ("Securities Credit by 
Persons other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers") is the only provision 
of the Board's margin regulations which provides s p e c i a l treatment of 
credit for the purpose of exercising stock options or stock purchase 
rights. That section permits a corporation or its plan-lender to 
exLend credit to its employees for such purpose without regard to the 
initial margin limitations of the regulation if the plan or agreement 
under which the credit is extended complies with certain requirements. 
A principal requirement for availability of the exemption is 
that the "stock option and purchase plan credit" be extended by the 
issuer corporation or by a lender wholly controlled and wholly owned by 
such corporation. This provision serves to clarify the Board's intent 
that to qualify for special treatment under § 207.4(a) 

Louis 0. Kelso, Esq. 
- 2 -
1483 
" . . . the lender must stand in a special 
employer-employee relationship with the 
borrower, and a special relationship of 
issuer with regard to the collateral. 
The 
fact that the Board, for convenience and 
practical reasons permitted the employing 
corporation to act through a subsidiary 
or other entity should not be interpreted 
to mean the Board intended the lender to 
be other than an entity whose overriding 
interests were co-extensive with the issuer. 
An independent corporation with independent 
interests was never intended regardless of 
form to be at the base of exempt stock-plan 
lending." 
(1969 Federal Reserve Bulletin 891; 
Published Interpretations of the Board of 
Governors % 6820; 12 CFR 207.105(e), October 30, 
1969) 
[Emphasis added] 
Since Fund would constitute such an independent plan-lender, the safe-
guards considered by the Board to be a necessary prerequisite to the 
extension of stock option credit on an exempt or low margin basis 
would not be present and accordingly, Fund could not qualify for 
special treatment under § 207.4(a). 
As the Board has stated on previous occasions, it believes 
that the financing of stock options relates primarily to executive 
compensation. 
(1960 Federal Reserve Bulletin 631; Published Interpretation 
°f the Board of Governors ^ 6470). A review of the materials submitted 
with your application does not lead to a different conclusion. 
Accordingly, if Fund extends or arranges for the extension of 
credit, on collateral consisting of margin securities, in the amount 
°f $50,000 or more in any calendar quarter, or has such credit outstand-
ing 
any calendar quarter in the amount of$100,000 or more, Fund would be 
a "person subject to Regulation G" and would be required to register 
and comply with all other applicable provisions of the regulation. 
Such a person may not extend or arrange for the extension of credit 
secured directly or indirectly by margin securities in amounts 
Exceeding the maximum loan value of the collateral, as prescribed 
" 5 
(the Supplement to Regulation G), if the credit is for 
the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin securities. 
Finally, since you have indicated that you would have no 
new material to present, it does not appear that an oral presentation 
x n this connection would serve any useful purpose. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Normand Bernard 
Normarid R. V . Bernard, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1490 
Item No. 4 
5/12/70 
TITLE 12--BANKS /ND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg 
L] 
PART 212--INTERLOCKING BANK RELATIONSHIPS 
UNDER THE CLAYTON ACT 
Applicability of Section 3 of the Clayton 
Act to Bank Holding Companies 
§ 212.102. Applicability of Section 8 of the Clayton Act to bank 
holding companies 
(a) The Board recently was asked whether section 8 of the 
Clayton Act (15 U.S.C. 19) and Federal Reserve Regulation L 
'Interlocking 
Sank Relationships Under The Clayton Act,
1' (12 CFR 212) prohibit an 
officer, director, or employee of a member bank from serving at the same 
time in any such capacity with a holding company the principal activity 
which is the ownership and control of banks, where such interlocking 
service between the member bank and a bank in the holding company system 
Would be prohibited. 
(b) Section 8 and the Board's Regulation L, with certain 
GXceptions, prohibit any 
person who is a director, officer, or employee o 
any member bank' from serving in any such position with "any other bank, 
banking association, savings bank, or trust company'
1 where the two banks 
a r e located in the same, contiguous, or adjacent cit-es, towns, or village 
(c) In a similar situation involving section 32 of the Banking 
A c t of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 78)--which prohibits interlocking personnel 
Relationships between member banks and securities companies--the Board 

1491 
- 2 -
expressed the view that where the principal activity of a holding 
company is the ownership and control of a ban!; or banks, the holding 
company and each member bank subsidiary should be considered as constituting 
t o,ether a single entity for the purpose of that statutory 
provision. 
Accordingly } the Board concluded that section 32 prohibits a person who is 
Primarily engaged in section 32 business, or associated as specified in 
that section, with an organization so engaged, from serving also as an 
°£f icer, director, or employee of such a holding company (1969 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 52; 12 CFR 218.114). 
In that interpretation, the Board 
stated: 
. . the affairs of the member bank anc
: the holding company 
V7ould be so closely identified and functionally related that the same 
Possibilities of abuse which section 32 was designee to guard against would 
present in the case of a director of the holding company as in the case 
of 
i • 
a director of the member bank. To give cognizance to the separate 
corporate entities in such a situation, would . . . partially frustrate 
C o ngressional purpose in enacting the statute." 
Likewise, the Board 
Recently determined that concurrent service by an individual as a director 
o f 
a wholly-owned credit carc" subsidiary of a national bank and as director 
another member bank in a contiguous municipality was prohibited by 
S ection 3 of the Clayton Act, since, in the Board's opinion, the credit card 
Subsi.diary was essentially a department or division of its parent bank (1370 
federal Reserve Bulletin 344; 12 CFR 212.101). Furthermore, in enforcing 
Of-i ner provisions of section 0 relating to non-bank corporations, the courts 

1492 
- 2 -
have gone heyonc* the specific language of that section in order to 
effectuate Congressional purpose. U.S. v. Sears Roebuck and Co., 165 F. 
SUPP. 356 (1958). 
(d) With respect to the instant ouestion, the Board was of the 
vtew that considerations similar to those just discussed were persuasive 
atld that, therefore, a holding company whose principal activity is the 
earnership and control of banks, and each of its bank subsidiaries, should be 
°nsic'ered as constituting together a single entity for the purposes of 
S ection 8. Accordingly, the Board concluded that, if an interlocking 
relationship between two banks is prohibited by section 0 (none of the 
exceptions specifier
1 in the statute or Regulation L being applicable), such 
a relationship is also prohibited between a parent holding company of 
°ne of the banks and a bank not a member of the holding company group. 
1 G Board concluded also that interlocking service between parent holding 
companies is prohibited by section '6 if it is prohibited between any of 
th 
respective bank subsidiaries. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 19.) 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 12, 1970. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1193 
Item No. 5 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
5/12/70 
May 18, 1970 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
With your letter of April 2, 1970, you enclosed a copy of a 
letter of March 30 to you from Mr. Stuart H. Johnson, Jr., 
concerning the applicability of section 8 of the Clayton Act 
to an interlocking relationship involving Marine Midland Banks, 
Inc., a registered bank holding company, and First National 
City Bank, New York City. 
I am enclosing a copy of an interpretation, adopted by the 
Board of Governors on May 12, 1970, that has been submitted 
for publication in the Federal Register. Mr. J. Peter Grace 
will be advised to terminate his interlocking relationship 
with these institutions as soon as practicable. 
Sincerely yours 
(signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

1494 
Item No. 6 
5/12/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
the Matter of the Application of 
SOUTHEAST BANCORPORATION, INC., 
Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 
u per cent or more of the voting 
Q
hares of Southeast National Bank of 
rlatido, Orlando, Florida, a proposed 
bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
( 1 2 U.s.c. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
^gulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Southeast 
B t 
Corporation, Inc., Miami, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered 
holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
of o n 
per cent or more of the voting shares of Southeast National Bank 
^ °rlando, Orlando, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
flOM _ 
ce of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 

- 2 -
1495 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller offered no 
objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 25, 1970 (35 Federal Register 5058), 
providing 
a n opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for 
filing comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
fche proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such 
c°nsideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant is the second largest banking organization in Florida, 
c°ntrolling five subsidiary banks which hold 6.6 per cent of total bank 
d ePosits in the State of Florida. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 
adjusted to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions 
aPproved by the Board to date.) Since Bank is a proposed new bank, 
C Qnsummation of the proposal would not increase concentration in any 
m*rket. 
Applicant's closest subsidiary is located 90 miles from Orange 
bounty, where Bank would be located. Banking in Orange County is highly 

-3 
1496 
concentrated, with 42 per cent of area deposits held by one large 
banking organization. Applicant's entry should help to stimulate 
additional competition and lead to some deconcentration in the area. 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition would neither eliminate existing 
competition, foreclose potential competition, nor have adverse effects 
°n the viability or competitive effectiveness of any competing bank. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect on competition 
in any relevant area, and would have a procompetitive effect in Orange 
County. The banking factors, as applied to the facts of record, are 
consistent with approval of the application, and considerations relating 
t o the convenience and needs of the communities to be served lend additional 
W eight in support of approval. It is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that the 
aPPlication should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
t l l e thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time be 

1497 
- 4 -
e*tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 12, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell and Daane. 
(Signed) Normand Bernard 
Normand Bernard, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1498 
Item No. 7 
5/12/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED, 
Columbus, Ohio, 
for approval of acquisition of 
per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Lucas County State 
Bank, Toledo, Ohio. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, 
Columbus, Ohio ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of The Lucas County State Bank, Toledo, Ohio ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Ohio Superintendent of Banks 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Superintendent recommended 
aPproval of the application. 

1499 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 31, 1970 (35 Federal Register 5375), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing comments 
and views has expired and all those received have been considered by the 
Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of the 
Proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial resources 
a n a future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant controls six banks (34 offices) with total deposits 
°f $588 million, representing 3 per cent of the total bank deposits in 
t h e State of Ohio. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, adjusted 
t o reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the 
B°ard to date.) Upon acquisition of Bank ($50 million deposits), 
applicant
1 s share of State deposits would increase to 3.2 per cent, 
^he headquarters of Bank and of The Bank of Wood County Company, whose 
a cquisition by Applicant was recently approved by the Board, are located 
about 24 miles apart. The nearest offices of these banks are located 
lightly over 4 miles from each other and consummation of both acquisitions 
w°uld eliminate a small amount of existing competition between them. 

1500 
-10-
This is offset by the enhancement of Bank's competitive capability in 
relation to its much larger competitors in its service area which its 
Proposed acquisition by Applicant may be expected to bring about, 
development of further competition between the two banks is unlikely 
t o take place in view of the relatively overbanked condition of the 
0 nly two communities where, under Ohio law, both banks may establish 
branches* 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition therefore would not 
e U m i n a t e significant existing competition or foreclose significant 
Potential competition, and would not have undue adverse effects on the 
lability or competitive effectiveness of any competing bank. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that con-
summation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect 
or* competition in any relevant area. The banking factors, as applied 
t o the facts of record, are consistent with approval of the application, 
a n d considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
t o be served lend some weight in support of approval. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, 
a n d that the application should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth above, that 
aid appl ication be and hereby is approved, provided that the action so 
approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
d a y following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months 

: f'V'^" 
1501 
-10-
after the date of this Order, unless such time be extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 12,1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and 
Sherrill. 
(Signed) Normand Bernard 
Normand Bernard, 
Assistant Secretary, 
(SEAL) 

D D A R D • F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• r 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
1502 
Item No. 8 
5/12/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C H R R E S P O N O C N C t 
T O 
T H E 
S D A R D 
May 13, 1970 
Mr. Fred W . Piderit, Jr. 
Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 
'10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
This refers to your letter dated January 30, 1970, asking 
whether extensions of credit by Summit & Elizabeth Trust Company, 
Summit, New Jersey, to Eastern Financial Services Corporation, are 
exempt from the limitations of § 23A of the Federal Reserve Act 
(12 U.S.C. 371c). 
It is understood that the bank is the sole stockholder of 
Eastern Financial, which the bank organized, with the approval of 
the New Jersey Banking Commissioner, to carry on the bank's BankAmeri-
card operations. In the proposed operations, the subsidiary will act 
as principal lender and not merely an agent for the bank. It will be 
located in the bank's premises and otherwise conduct its operations 
subject to the rules applicable to the parent bank. 
Section 23A imposes limitations (in terms of security and 
amount) on a member bank's loans to and investments in its affiliates. 
The principal purpose of § 23A is to safeguard the resources of banks 
against misuse for the benefit of organizations under common control 
with the bank. It was designed to prevent a bank from risking too 
large an amount in affiliated enterprises and to assure that exten-
sions of credit to affiliates will be repaid - out of marketable 
collateral, if necessary. 
Since 1968 the Board has permitted member banks to establish 
and own operations subsidiaries - that is, organizations designed to 
serve, in effect, as separately incorporated departments of the bank, 
performing at locations at which the bank is authorized to engage in 
business functions that the bank is empowered to perform directly 
(Published Interpretations V 4215). Since an operations subsidiary 
is in effect a part of, and subject to the same restrictions as, its 
parent bank, there appears to be no reason to limit transactions 
between the bank and such subsidiary any more than transactions 
between departments of a bank. 

1503 
Mr. Fred W . Piderit, Jr. 
-2-
The Board is of the view that a credit transaction by a 
member bank with a subsidiary the authority for which is based on 
that ruling is not a "loan or . . . extension of credit" of the 
kind intended to be restricted and regulated by § 23A. It appears 
that Eastern Financial is such a subsidiary of Summit & Elizabeth 
Trust Company. Accordingly, the proposed loans by the bank to it 
are outside the purview of § 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
