Minutes for January 10 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the tninutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, January 10, 1968. The Board met in the 
Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Craig, Noble, and Shuter of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Shull, Cleaver, Eisenbeis, Lawrence, and 
Wiles of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Lyon, and Maguire of the Division 
of Examinations 
Reports on competitive factors. Pursuant to the understanding 
at the meeting on January 5, 1968, there had been distributed a revised 
draft of report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The First 

1/10/68 
-2-
National Bank of Fort Fairfield, Fort Fairfield, Maine, with Aroostook 
Trust Company, Caribou, Maine. 
The report was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Corporation, the conclusion being stated as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The First 
National Bank of Fort Fairfield and Aroostook Trust 
Company, Caribou, would eliminate a small amount of 
existing and potential competition. While the Fort 
Fairfield Bank serves primarily its own community, 
it does represent a reasonably convenient banking 
alternative to the two other banks which now serve 
the relevant market area. The overall effect of 
the proposal on competition would be adverse. 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of First National Bank of 
Harford County, Bel Air, Maryland, into The First National Bank of 
Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion read as follows: 
Some competition exists between First National 
Bank of Harford County, Bel Air, and The First Na-
tional Bank of Maryland, Baltimore, and there is 
potential for increased competition between them. 
The overall effect of the proposal on competition 
would be adverse. 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Bellflower National Bank, 
Bellflower, California, into Southern California First National Bank, 
San Diego, California, was approved for transmittal to the Comptroller. 
The conclusion read as follows: 

1/10/68 
-3-
There is little, if any, competition existing 
between Bellflower National Bank and Southern Cali-
fornia First National Bank, San Diego. However, in 
view of the branch banking laws in California, there 
is potential for competition among these banks, and 
the overall competitive effect of the merger would 
be slightly adverse. 
Governor Mitchell expressed doubt that consummation of the 
proposed merger would have any adverse competitive effect. 
Application for System membership. There had been distributed 
a memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated January 4, 1968, 
regarding the application of First Citizens Bank, Covington, Georgia, 
for admission to membership in the Federal Reserve System. For reasons 
set forth in the memorandum, principally management factors, the Divi-
sion recommended that the application not be approved. The Division 
also recommended, however, that the applicant be given an opportunity 
to withdraw the application. 
Following a review by Mr. Egertson of the reasons for the 
adverse recommendation, comments by members of the Board indicated 
general agreement that, on the basis of the available record, granting 
of System membership would not be warranted. Several points of view 
were then expressed with respect to whether the applicant should be 
allowed to withdraw the application. One line of reasoning was to the 
effect that the main purpose for allowing an institution to withdraw 
an application was to keep its record clear. However, if an applica-
tion was turned down for cause it did not follow that the applicant 

77 
1/10/68 
-4-
should be allowed to maintain a clear record. This gave rise to the 
question whether in this particular case certain allegations reflected 
in the record, particularly with respect to management practices, would 
be substantiated upon further investigation. 
In this connection the 
view was expressed that, given a degree of uncertainty, the applicant 
should be granted an opportunity to supplement the record. 
In further discussion members of the staff noted that if the 
Board acted to deny the application, under the law of administrative 
procedure the reasons for such action should be given. Further, under 
the Public Information Act the public presumably would be entitled to 
ascertain those reasons. 
In addition, it was suggested if the Board did not allow appli-
cations to be withdrawn once they had reached the Board, that might 
discourage the Reserve Banks from forwarding questionable cases for 
the Board's consideration. 
Several Board members then commented to the effect that they 
believed a formal denial of the application would be inadvisable in 
the absence of a more fully documented record. On the other hand, 
they saw no objection to advising the applicant of the problems 
involved in the application. That would afford the applicant an oppor-
tunity either to supplement the record or withdraw the application. 
Following further discussion it was agreed to ascertain through 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta whether the applicant would want to 

1 fimt 
1/10/68 
-5-
submit a letter withdrawing the membership application or whether the 
bank preferred to submit additional evidence that might refute unfavor-
able allegations now contained in the record. 
Application of Northwest Bancorporation. In connection with 
the application of Northwest Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 
to acquire 85 per cent or more of the voting shares of The First Na-
tional Bank of Ely, Ely, Minnesota, there had been distributed a memo-
randum dated November 3, 1967, from the Division of Examinations, along 
with other pertinent papers. The Division recommended approval, as did 
the Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. 
However, as discussed in a memorandum from Mr. O'Connell dated 
November 17, 1967, Counsel for the Independent Bankers of Minnesota had 
petitioned that the Board order a formal hearing on the application. 
The Legal Division counseled against acceding to that request, but it 
recommended that an oral presentation be conducted before the avail-
able members of the Board. 
That recommendation having been accepted by the Board at its 
meeting on November 20, 1967, an oral presentation was held on 
December 6, 1967. There had now been distributed memoranda from the 
Division of Examinations and the Banking Markets Section dated Decem-
ber 29, 1967, and January 2, 1968, respectively, presenting further 
analyses and reaffirming the original recommendations for approval. 
The Legal Division, in a memorandum of January 5, concurred in the 
•

1/10/68 
-6-
recommendation for approval and expressed the view that such action by 
the Board would be sustained by a reviewing court. 
At the Board's request Mr. Lyon summarized the application, 
following which Chairman Martin called for the views of the members of 
the Board. 
Governor Mitchell stated that he concurred in the staff 
recommendation. 
Governor Maisel said that he had found the oral presentation 
useful. It indicated that there were alternatives to the acquisition 
of the bank by the holding company whereby the needs and convenience 
of the community could be met. They contemplated acquisition of only 
52 per cent of the bank's outstanding stock, and at the oral presenta-
tion the point had been made that there were important reasons for 
wanting to acquire only that much of the stock. The reasons related 
partly to the investment that would be involved, but they also related 
to a desire to maintain close relationships with the community by hav-
ing local merchants and others maintain an interest in the bank. 
On the other hand, Governor Maisel continued, in a recent 
Florida case he had argued that it was important that an equal offer 
be made to minority shareholders. Since he was on record to that 
effect, he would support the recommendation that the application of 
Northwest Bancorporation be approved. In the Florida case, however, 
the legal staff did not agree with him. In this case he gathered that 

1/10/68 
-7-
the legal staff felt it was a reasonable policy to demand that an equal 
offer be made to minority shareholders. He did not believe that in 
the circumstances such reasoning was logical, and he thought it should 
be disregarded by those who did not agree with him at the time the 
Florida case was under consideration. 
Governor Brimmer said that he would support the staff recom-
mendation because, unless he was mistaken, the oral presentation dis-
closed no firm offer from independent interests to buy the bank, even 
52 per cent of the stock. 
Mr. O'Connell said he believed the transcript of the oral 
presentation supported Governor Brimmer's understanding, and Governor 
Brimmer then said that in view of that he would support the staff 
recommendation. 
Governor Sherrill, Governor Robertson, and Chairman Martin 
stated that they would approve the application. 
The application of Northwest Bancorporation to acquire 85 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of The First National Bank of Ely, 
Ely, Minnesota, was thereupon approved by unanimous vote. It was under-
stood that the Legal Division would prepare an order and statement for 
the Board's consideration reflecting this decision. 
Governor Brimmer commented that, as he understood it, the Board 
agreed to hold the oral presentation principally because it wanted to 
give the Independent Bankers of Minnesota an opportunity to be heard. 

77 
1/10/68 
-8-
In his opinion, that should not constitute a precedent for granting an 
oral presentation on each holding company application that might come 
up in the area. The Independent Bankers of Minnesota had stated an 
intent to oppose all proposed holding company acquisitions as a matter 
of policy. 
Mr. O'Connell suggested that there could be situations where 
an oral presentation would be justified. Therefore, it would appear 
advisable to look at each request on its merits. However, in consider-
ing a request from the Independent Bankers of Minnesota that a hearing 
be held, the Board could take into account whether the request simply 
reflected the stated intent to oppose all holding company applications. 
Governor Brimmer agreed. 
Regulations regarding employee responsibilities and conduct 
(Item No. 1). At its meeting on December 14, 1967, the Board considered 
proposed amendments to its regulations regarding employee responsibil-
ities and conduct along the lines of changes made recently by the Civil 
Service Commission in its corresponding regulations, it being under-
stood that the revised Board regulations would be submitted to the 
Civil Service Commission for approval prior to their publication in 
the Federal Register. 
In addition the staff proposed an amendment to the Board's 
regulations that would permit exceptions to the prohibition against 
holding of bank stock by Board employees if "after full disclosure in 

. 
! 
"76 
1/10/68 
- 9 -
writing, the Board approves continued holding of such securities." 
A 
decision on this proposal was deferred until additional members of the 
Board could be present. 
In a distributed memorandum dated January 4, 1968, the Divi-
sion of Personnel Administration summarized some of the points made 
during the discussion on December 14, 1967. It noted, among other 
things, that the amendment, if adopted, might suggest a more lenient 
policy with respect to Board employees than for Reserve Bank employees, 
because the Board's letter to the Banks dated February 10, 1964, stated 
in part that "officers and employees occupying responsible positions 
and holding or acquiring stock of banks or affiliates should dispose 
of it as promptly as is practicable without causing undue hardship." 
On the other hand, the proposed amendment contemplated that all Board 
employees would be required to disclose ownership of bank stock--which 
was not now the case--and continued holding of such stock would not be 
permissible except with the express consent of the Board. 
Governor Brimmer said that, as he had indicated at the 
December 14 meeting, he felt that it would be inappropriate for the 
Board to permit members of its staff to hold bank stock. In his opin-
ion a proper amendment to the Board's regulations would require that 
all employees report any holdings of bank stock and that they dispose 
of such stock as soon as practicable. The latter requirement would be 
comparable to the requirement stated in the Board's letter to the 
Federal Reserve Banks of February 10, 1964. 

77 
1/10/68 
-10-
Governor Mitchell said it was his general feeling that no 
employee of the Federal Reserve System should own bank stock. He would 
like to accomplish that result, but a flat prohibition would run the 
risk of imposing a severe hardship in certain circumstances. He agreed 
with Governor Brimmer's objective, but it was his impression that the 
proposed amendment to the Board's regulations would be sufficient to 
achieve the desired result. 
Governor Maisel said he thought the proposed language was 
satisfactory. It meant that in the future the Board would be able to 
decide whether the holding of bank stock would be permitted in individ-
ual cases. There would be a record in writing, and an employee would 
be permitted to hold bank stock only if the Board decided that the 
hardship involved in disposing of it was strong enough. 
Governor Sherrill also commented that he thought the proposed 
amendment would accomplish the purpose. Holdings of bank stock should 
be revealed, but there might be cases where the circumstances were such 
that it would be appropriate to allow an employee to retain the stock. 
However, case-by-case judgments would be necessary. 
Governor Robertson agreed. All employees would be required to 
reveal ownership of bank stock, a procedure that he considered proper, 
and the continued holding of such stock would require affirmative action 
by the Board on the basis of all the facts of the particular case. 
In reply to a question by Chairman Martin, Governor Brimmer 
said he did not believe that the proposed amendment was sufficient. 

1/10/68 
-11-
Apparently, however, the other members of the Board did. He suggested 
that the position taken in the proposed amendment be made known to the 
Federal Reserve Banks, with a request that the Reserve Banks bring 
their own regulations into conformity. 
Governor Mitchell observed that reports by Reserve Bank offi-
cers and employees on the ownership of bank stock were reviewed regu-
larly by the Board's examiners, and he inquired whether any cases had 
been commented on by the examiners recently. Mr. Solomon replied that 
he knew of no recent cases. Mr. Solomon added that the Board presum-
ably would want to have the terms of its outstanding letter to the 
Reserve Banks compatible with the Board's regulations, and Governor 
Mitchell agreed. Governor Robertson noted that it would be contem-
plated that copies of the Board's regulations would be sent to each 
Reserve Bank, with a request that the Bank's regulations be brought 
into conformity. 
Question was raised whether the Board would want to delegate 
the authority to rule upon any cases of ownership of bank stock by 
Board employees that might come up, and Board members indicated that 
they would not want to make such a delegation. Mr. Solomon commented 
that any cases involving Federal Reserve Bank officers or employees 
presumably should be passed upon by the Board of Directors of the 
Reserve Bank concerned, and general agreement with that statement was 
indicated. 

1/10/68 
-12-
Accordingly, Governor Brimmer's reservations being noted, it 
was agreed that the Civil Service Commission would be advised that the 
Board had approved, in addition to the proposed amendments to the 
Board's regulations of which the Commission had been advised in Decem-
ber, the amendment that would permit employees to continue to hold bank 
stock if, after full disclosure in writing, the Board approved. 
It 
was understood that if the Civil Service Commission approved the pro-
posed amended regulations, they would be published in the Federal 
Register. A copy of the letter subsequently sent to the Commission 
is attached as Item No. 1. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On January 9, 1968, 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administration dated 
January 5, 1968, (copy attached as Item No. 2), regarding reappoint-
ment of consultants for the year 1968. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Vincent Thomas Bongiorno as Computer Operator, Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,734, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Mildred Williams as Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative 
Services, with annual salary at the rate of $2,014 (4-hour day), effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 

1/10/68 
-13-
Transfers 
Vickie M. Hulteen, from the position of Stenographer to the posi-
tion of Secretary, Division of Administrative Services, with an increase 
in basic annual salary from $5,161 to $5,565, effective January 14, 1968 
upprn.>/'in'i £!jor'"'*' u'.'.-'Ci;
: u 
.. 
" 
• ' «. 
John M. Pope, from the position of Guard to the position of Acting 
Captain of the Guard, Division of Administrative Services, with an in-
crease in basic annual salary from $5,807 to $6,137, effective Janu-
ary 8, 1968. 
Nancy L. White, Secretary, Division of Administrative Services, 
from the Procurement Section to the Administration Section, with no 
change in basic annual salary at the rate of $5,565, effective January 1 
1968. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board memoranda recom-
mending the following actions relating 
to the Board's staff: 
Salary increases 
Robert C. Burton, Review Examiner, Division of Examinations, from 
$15,757 to $16,897 per annum, effective January 14, 1968. 
James K. Sanford, Review Examiner, Division of Examinations, from 
$15,307 to $16,369 per annum, effective January 14, 1968. 
Permission to engage in outside activity 
Robert M. Dunn, Jr., Economist, Division of International Finance, 
to teach an undergraduate course in international trade at George Wash-
ington University. 
On January 9 and 10, 1968, actions were 
taken on behalf of the Board under dele-
gated authority as indicated by the fol-
lowing letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item num-
bers indicated: 

81 
1/10/68 
-14-
On January 9, 1968 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
3 
approving the appointment of Bernard M. Wennemer as 
assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
4 
approving the designation of six employees as 
special assistant examiners. 
On January 10, 1968 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to Pendleton Banking Company, Pendleton, 
5 
Indiana, approving the establishment of a branch 
in Markleville. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Letter to Citizens-Farmers & Merchants Bank, 
6 
Brewton, Alabama, granting an extension of 
time within which to establish a branch on 
Halsey Street. 

B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
O F 
T H E 
1/10/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 10, 1968. 
Mr. Thomas S. Templeton, 
Offi ce of the General Counsel, 
United States Civil Service Commission, 
Washington, D. C. 
20415 
Dear Mr. Templeton: 
This refers to the Board's letter of December 14, 
1967 transmitting two copies of proposed amended regulations 
in regard to responsibilities and conduct of employees of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
In 
that letter it was indicated that the Board had approved 
the proposed amendments, with the exception of Section 
264.735-6(d)(iv), upon which no decision had been reached. 
The Board has now approved that amendment also. 
Upon 
receipt of approval from your office, the amended regulations 
will be published in the Federal Register. 
i . 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

'on
; 
Office 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
ar T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
To. 
Correspondence 
Board of Governors 
_ Attention: 
Governor Robertson „ , 
p 
via Office of the Controller 
r o n*—Division of Personnel AdministratiJn 
83 
Item No. 2 
1/10/68 
Date 
January 5, 1968. 
Subject; 
Reappointment of 
Consultants - 1968, 
Attached are the recommendations of seven Divisions for the 
reappointment of 23 Consultants for the calendar year beginning January 1, 
1968, as listed below (Mr. Shepardson's name has been included in this list 
on advice from the Board Member in charge of internal affairs): 
Division/ 
Office 
Board Members' 
Research and 
Statistics 
Consultant 
Charles N. Shepardson 
George L. Bach 
Recommended 
Consultant Fee 
$22,000 per annum 
Consultants selected: 
95 per day 1/ 
Dorothy S. Brady 
95 per day (1) 
Lester V. Chandler 
Consultants selected: 
95 per day 1/ 
Franklin M . Fisher 
95 per day (1) 
Zvi Griliches 
95 per day (1) 
Lester S. Kellogg 
95 per day (1) 
A. Richard Krachenberg 
75 per day (1) 
Irving Kravis 
95 per day (1) 
Robert E. Lipsey 
95 per day (1) 
Francis R. Pawley 
75 per day (1) 
Armarin Phillips 
95 per day (1) 
Charles F. Phillips 
75 per day (1) 
James A. Stephenson 
60 per day (1) 
Elizabeth A. P. Ulrey 
75 per day (1) 
Gertrude Weiss 
80 per day (1) 
Legal 
George F. McEvoy 
80 per day (1) 
International 
Finance 
Patric H. Hendershott 
60 per day (1) 
Examinations 
Robert G. Black 
90 per day 
Bank Operations 
Eugene E. Witherell 
88 per day (1) 
Defense Planning 
James W . Allison 
Actual expenses only 
Frank J. Keeler 
Actual travel expense: 
only 
Charles F . 0. Raikes 
50 per day (1) 

To: Board of Governors 
- 
2 
-
Division/ 
Office 
a L : i. 
• 
, ' 
Data Processing 
Consultant 
Ronald W . Sterkel 
Recommended 
Consultant Fee 
$75 per day (1) 
(1) Plus actual necessary transportation expenses in accordance with 
the Board's gravel regulations and a per diem in lieu of subsis-
tence not to exceed $8 plus actual cost of a room for that period 
of time spent in a travel status. 
With respect to the consultant fees recommended see the note 
appended to this memorandum. 
v 
' v. » " V- -> , « 
i/ 
~~ See attached supplementary recommendation, 
ft* 
Attachments 
t V-

NOTE 
ab 
Section 15 of the Administrative Expenses Act of 1946 (5 u. S. C 
55a), as amended, gives agencies the discretion in fixing rates of pay for" 
experts and consultants appointed under its provisions. The only limitation 
in the law is that rates fixed by agencies subject to the Classification Act 
snail not exceed the per diem equivalent of the highest rate payable under 
che Act unless other maximum rates are specified by other statutes. 
The Comptroller General has ruled (29 Comp. Gen. 276) that, for 
Purposes of the limitation prescribed in Section 15, the highest rate pay-
able under the Classification Act means the top rate of GS-15, now $23 921 
Per annum or $92 per day. Statutes specifically authorizing other maximums 
ror certain agencies frequently prescribe $50 or $75 a day, but a maximum 
?100 a day is also specified in some statutes. 
The highest paid Board consultants receive $75 per day. Under the 
current salary structure, approved by the Board on December 18, $75 falls 
between the per diem equivalent of the-2nd (73.12) and 3rd ($75.52) steps of 
rade 15. Therefore, all recommended rates are well within the maximum pre-
scribed in the Administrative Expenses Act of 1946. 
However, at the time the Board reviewed the fees of Federal Reserve 
Sank Directors, it was noticed that agencies in some instances were paying 
he then maximum rates of $88 a day to certain consultants. It seems reason-
able to assume that these agencies will now pay $92 (the daily rate for Grade 
5, Step 10 under the recently revised Government salary structure) to those 
consultants. Therefore, it seems appropriate that the Board consider 
revising present consultants' rates, effective January 1, 1968. 
Accordingly, the Divisions originally recommending reappointment 
consultants have been asked to align consultants' rates based upon the 
relative level of consulting performed for the Board, with $95 a day as the 
maximum ($92, rounded to nearest $5 above). The recommendations made in this 
Memorandum are the result of these discussions with the Divisions concerned. 

SUPPLEMENTARY TO RECOMMENDATIONS FOR REAPPOINTMENTS OF CONSULTANTS 
During 1967 there was an arrangement with George L. Bach 
and Lester V. Chandler to arrange for panels of consultants to 
meet with the Board. A retainer fee of $2,400 each was provided, 
to be paid monthly at the rate of $200. 
The Division of Research and Statistics has requested 
that the Board consider increasing these amounts to $3,000 each. 
As the consultants selected under these contracts have had their 
fees increased from $75 to $95 per day, that Division believes 
that an appropriate revision in the contractual amount should also 
be provided. 

87 
^fGOw'. 
BOARD OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
1/10/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 10, 1968 
Mr. Joseph R. Campbell, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
r . '' Si; . . • ' •.'..' "••.•• 
"' ! 
Dear Mr. Campbell: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of January 5, 1968, the Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointment of Bernard M. Wennemer as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
item No. 4 
• f t h e 
1 / 1 0 / 6 8 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 10, 1968 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of January 4, 1968, the Director of the Division of 
Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the designations of the 
following employees as special assistant examiners for the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond: 
Reuben W . Samuel, Jr. 
R. Dale Kitts 
Samuel G. Smith 
Charles S. Gray 
Charles G. Kramer, Jr. 
C. Kenny Newman, Jr. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

of GOvA". 
BOARD D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
1/10/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 10, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Pendleton Banking Company, 
Pendleton, Indiana. 
Gentlemen: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, on behalf 
of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
establishment of a branch by Pendleton Banking Company, Pendleton, 
Indiana, at the intersection of State Highway 38 and County Road 300 
East in Markleville, Indiana, provided the branch is established 
within six months from the date of this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that your bank's capital position is satisfactory, that the pro-
posed branch would serve the convenience and needs of the community, 
and that establishment of the branch would not tend to create an 
undesirable competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K 
OF A T L A N T A 
item No 
A T L A N T A , GEORGIA 3 0 3 0 3 
1/10/68 
J*auary 10, 19(1* 
Mr. X. J. Kurphy, Fracldaat 
C l t l t r a i - r i m r i * Merchanta leak 
Brewton» Alabaaa 
36476 
Dear Mr. Murphy: 
Thia It la reference to your letter of January 6, 
1966, la vhlch you advlaad that, bacauct of additional delaya la 
construction, your ruartera to houe« a branch oa ttalaey Street la 
Brewtan will aot b« completed before Hay 1, 196a. 
• 
. 
, 
...v .....ii. j , 
tba eatabllahabeat of this branch wae approved by 
the Board of Governora on Decenber 6, 1966, provided tha branch 
would be eatabllahed by June 6, 1967. On May 23, 1967, tba Board 
of Governora extended the tin* within vhlch tha btanch night ba 
opened to Decee&er 6, 1967. Due to delaya la conatructlon of your 
building, on Bovenber 8, 1967, you recreated and wort granted 
another eafcenalou mt tjam until February 1, i96d. 
Oa behalf of tha Board of C o w m a n , act lag undar 
delegated authority, thla Bank baa approval tha extanelen of tine 
within vhlch tha Cltisans*7ana»ra 6 Merchanta Bank nay eetakllah a 
branch at 103-107 Halaey ftreat, Brevtoa, to May 1, 1966, 
Vary truly youra, 
Monroe Klnbrel 
Tlrat flea Prealdeat 
SECRETARY'S DELEGATION DOCKET COPY 
