Minutes for 
May 16, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 1/ 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
17" Meeting with the Federal Advisory Council. 

1922 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room 
of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D. C., at 10:30 a.m. 
on Tuesday, May 16, 1967. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Messrs. Simmen, Still, Mayer, Wilkinson, Fleming, 
Brinkley, Moorhead, Knight, Stewart, and 
Larkin, Members of the Federal Advisory 
Council from the First, Third, Fourth, Fifth, 
Sixth, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, Eleventh, and 
Twelfth Federal Reserve Districts, respec-
tively. 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of the Council 
Vice Chairman Robertson conveyed to the Council Chairman Martin's 
regrets at being unable to attend today's meeting, noting that the 
Chairman's absence was occasioned by his acceptance of an invitation 
°f long standing to make an address in connection with the 175th 
a
nniversary celebration of the New York Stock Exchange. 
Governor Brimmer noted that he would unfortunately have to 
leave today's meeting within a few minutes in order to keep another 
e n
gagement, as he had explained to members of the Council. 

1 
5/16/67 
-2-
Governor Daane said that he would have to withdraw before the 
conclusion of the meeting because his role as a U.S. participant in 
the discussions relating to international monetary reform required 
him to leave for a delegation meeting preparatory to this week's 
meetings in Paris. 
President Moorhead commented that in the absence of Mr. Bodman, 
member of the Council from the Seventh District, who was unable to 
attend this meeting of the Council, the District was being repre-
sented by Mr. Prochnow. He also noted that Mr. McNeill, member of 
the Council from the Second District, had found it necessary to return 
to New York following yesterday's meeting of the Council. 
1. Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the general 
economic outlook through the end of 1967? 
Despite some evidence of uncertainty on the part of 
consumers and businessmen, the Council expects that general 
business and economic activity will continue to rise moderately 
through the end of 1967. This will reflect in large measure 
the anticipated increase in Government expenditures, partic-
ularly as a result of military operations in Vietnam. Most 
members of the Council believe that the inventory adjustment 
is not completed, and that an important expansion in capital 
spending is somewhat in doubt. These, developments, however, 
are likely to be obscured by the continued rise in Government 
expenditures and in consumer outlays, especially for services. 
President Moorhead said the general feeling of the Council 
members was that the second half, and fourth quarter, of 1967 might be 
l e
ss exuberant than many were predicting. Nevertheless, the Council 
foresaw a continuing moderate rise in business and economic activity, 
Particularly in view of prospective. Government expenditures. In all the 

1924 
5/16/67 
-3-
circumstances, the Council members did not see how the economy could 
do other than move upward, although perhaps not as rapidly as pre-
dicted by the Council of Economic Advisers and others. 
Governor Mitchell asked whether the Council's forecast might 
imply a fourth-quarter GNP increase in the neighborhood of $12 billion, 
and President Moorhead replied that the Council had not tried to 
attach any numbers to its forecast. He added that there was some 
variation in the views of the members. He felt personally that the 
economic outlook through the end of 1967 was stronger than indicated 
b
y the Council's statement, which reflected the consensus of the 
group. 
Governor Maisel inquired about the Council's views with 
respect to expenditures for plant and equipment, and President Moorhead 
r e
plied that the Council,as its statement suggested, foresaw quite a 
moderate increase, realizing that that would mean moving upward from 
a
 rather high base,, 
Mr. Mayer noted that some, sectors should be stimulated by the 
r
estoration of the investment tax credit. For example, the railroads 
should step up their purchases of freight cars. Where less sophis-
ticated items were involved, the reaction to the restoration of the 
C r
e d i t was likely to be quite prompt. 
Governor Sherrill asked why the Council, as indicated in 
r e
sponse to a subsequent question, foresaw a continued large volume 
new corporate bond issues, and President Moorhead observed that 

1925 
5/16/67 
., 
-4-
to some extent the proceeds of the issues were being used to repay 
bank loans and to replenish corporate liquidity. Also, it was 
felt that there was a good deal of anticipatory borrowing. Corpora-
tions were coming to market now when they knew they could get the 
money. While rates were fairly high, the corporations had gotten 
more or less accustomed to them. For such reasons the Council felt 
that the calendar of new issues would continue strong, although not 
as large as in the first half of this year. The Council did not 
believe that the issues would necessarily be offered primarily to 
finance new plant and equipment expenditures. 
Mr. Mayer commented that in many cases, as in the steel 
industry, corporations were paying now for expansion programs 
already put in process. 
Mr. Larkin noted that a year ago, with bond yields rising, 
many corporations relied on the banks more than normally, in the 
hope that by waiting they would be able to finance at lower rates 
in the capital market. However, the situation turned in the other 
direction. Corporations became overextended, and they were now 
just catching up. This suggested to him that the pace of corporate 
o f
ferings might slow down a bit later this year. 
Governor Brimmer commented that the Board's staff had been 
trying to pin down the uses of the proceeds of corporate issues. 
From available evidence, the bulk of the proceeds seemed to have 
been used basically to restore liquidity, to pay taxes, and to pay 

1926 
5/16/67 
., 
-5-
for the continuing high level of plant and equipment expenditures. 
Until very recently there was little evidence of a substantial use 
of the proceeds of such issues to repay bank loans. 
The staff, Governor Brimmer said, also had been endeavoring 
to keep up to date on the relationships between plant, equipment, 
and inventory expenditures and internally generated funds. In 1965 
nonfinancial corporations had an excess of such expenditures over 
internally generated funds of around $8 billion, but in the final 
three quarters of 1966 the excess was around $16 billion, seasonally 
adjusted annual rate. Estimates for the first quarter of 1967 sug-
gested that total investment exceeded internally generated funds by 
about $13 billion, seasonally adjusted annual rate. 
President Moorhead commented that it was rather perplexing 
that, despite all the borrowing that had been done through the 
capit al market, business loans had not been declining. Another 
Council member suggested that as the year went on bank loans might 
b
e
 repaid to a greater extent out of corporate issues. 
Governor Brimmer withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Governor Daane inquired whether the Council foresaw a 
tapering off in the volume of corporate issues or a real cut-back, 
and President Moorhead replied that the Council members had tossed 
a r
ound some figures yesterday, one guess being a volume of perhaps 
billion in the second half as compared with $12 billion in the 
f i
*st half. 

1927 
5/16/67 
., 
-6-
Mr. Larkin noted that one factor would be the rate level. 
Corporate treasurers—and management—had now become accustomed to 
paying somewhat higher rates, but a movement of rates beyond 6 per 
cent might have an adverse psychological impact. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether the Council was suggesting 
that there would not be any appreciable inflationary expansion in 
1967. A quarterly growth of GNP in the area of $10 million probably 
could be accommodated without too much difficulty, and he judged 
that the Council's economic forecast did not call for much more 
than that. He added that it would seem hard to argue for much 
restraint through fiscal policy if that was as far as the forecast 
went. 
President Moorhead said his concern centered on the infla-
tionary possibilities of the projected large Federal deficit. How 
that translated into terms of GNP, he was not sure. 
Governor Mitchell said he had judged from the Council's 
statement that perhaps the Council looked for enough dampening of 
growth in the private sector so that Government expenditures would 
no more than keep the economy moving at a sustainable pace. 
President Moorhead agreed that the statement could be so 
interpreted. As he had said, however, he expected personally that 
the economy would be stronger. 
Mr. Fleming said it was his feeling that the business outlook 
through the end of 1967 and the prospective budget deficit, taken in 
combination, created a base for inflationary tendencies. 

1928 
5/16/67 
., 
-7-
Governor Daane observed that the Council did not foresee as 
much exuberance in the fourth quarter as some forecasters. 
Thus, 
the Council apparently was saying that inflationary pressures were 
more likely to occur after the end of the current year. 
President Moorhead replied that the Council saw such pres-
sures building up but did not look for any explosion until after 
the first of next year. 
B. To what extent has construction activity 
recovered in the Council members' respective 
regions, and what are the prospects for 
construction over the rest of the year? 
Although the recovery in construction activity varies 
somewhat from district to district and by the type of con-
struction, most members anticipate some further increase in 
building activity over the rest of the year. 
President Moorhead noted that there was now an entirely 
different atmosphere in the residential construction industry, with 
ample funds available. Nevertheless, there was bound to be quite a 
lag before major builders got large projects under way. 
Therefore, 
although the Council foresaw some further increase in building 
activity over the rest of the year, the members did not believe 
such activity would be as strong as some forecasters had predicted. 
Governor Maisel commented that he was still looking for reasons 
t o
 change the original forecast of 1.5 million housing starts for the 
year as a whole, but that thus far he had found no strong reasons 
changing one way or the other. 
President Moorhead said no Council member had reported any-
thing phenomenal at yesterday's meeting.^ While building activity 

1 
iilt.J 
5/16/67 
., 
-8-
was gathering momentum, considerable lead time apparently would be 
required. 
Mr. Fleming agreed. He added, however, that many believed 
that toward the end of the year homebuilding activity would be 
r 
pushing forward rapidly. 
Mr. Larkin said his comments on the Twelfth District at the 
previous Board-Council meeting still held true to a large extent. 
Things were on the way in the District, and it was simply a matter 
°f time before actions now being taken resulted in houses that 
needed to be financed for the ultimate purchaser. The movement 
wight be progressing somewhat more slowly than in the country as a 
whole, due to the overbuilding that had occurred earlier. 
Mr. Mayer noted that in his area nonresidential construction 
was up quite a bit, largely by reason of commercial construction. 
President Moorhead added that in nearly all areas nonresidential 
construction seemed quite strong. 
C. What impressions do Council members have 
from their customer contacts of the probable 
volume of new corporate bond issues over 
coming months? 
The members of the Council expect a continued large 
volume of new corporate bond issues over the coming months. 
However, it is doubtful that the unprecedented current 
volume of new corporate bond borrowing will be sustained 
throughout the year. 
Governor Mitchell asked whether banks were still encouraging 
customers to go to the public market, and Mr. Mayer replied in the 
afcpf 

1930 
5/16/67 
., 
-9-
affirmative. The banks, he said, wanted to begin the next round of 
loan expansion from a much lower base than at present. 
Mr. Fleming observed that many business customers still using 
the banks heavily would have to go to the bond market at some point. 
The major question in their minds was whether they could obtain 
money at lower rates at some future date. Mr. Wilkinson commented 
that this was particularly true in the case of utilities. Mr. Fleming 
added that earlier this year banks had told a lot of customers that 
they thought money might be obtained at somewhat cheaper rates later 
on, but now the banks were beginning to doubt whether that was correct. 
Mr. Larkin remarked that the foregoing observations applied 
to smaller as well as larger companies. Numerous defense-oriented 
companies that had been growing consistently and relying on bank 
financing would be forced to go to the public market. Mr. Mayer 
added that they would have to do so for their own sake if for no 
other reason. Mr. Simmen brought out, however, that many small 
companies, in New England at least, were not in a position to go to 
the bond market. Their only recourse was to seek bank financing if 
they wanted to expand. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether Mr. Mayer felt there were 
still quite a few borrowers that should cut down on their use of 
b
ank credit lines, and Mr. Mayer replied that the interpretation was 
a
 bit too narrow. He had simply meant to say that some companies 
w
ere still relying a little too heavily on the banks for their 
financial requirements. 

1931 
5/16/67 
., 
-10-
Governor Mitchell then referred to Mr. Mayer's comment that 
the banks would like to have a lower base from which to operate. He 
asked whether that comment suggested the nature of Mr. Mayer's 
expectations for the remainder of 1967 and for 1968. 
Mr. Mayer replied in the affirmative. His remarks, he said, 
implied that the economy was going to continue to grow and reflected 
his concern as to whether banking facilities would grow fast enough 
to take care of customers whose financing needs were growing at a 
substantial rate. In many industries the addition of facilities 
was now much more expensive than formerly, and this trend was almost 
certain to continue as facilities became more and more sophisticated. 
Mr. Fleming said that the experience of 1966 was still clearly 
in the minds of most bankers. They did not want to take a chance on 
being caught in the same kind of squeeze. Mr. Stewart observed that 
the question of asset mix was also involved. 
Governor Mitchell mentioned that the banks had let the nego-
tiable CD rate get down to around 4 per cent for a while, and members 
°f the Council referred to the recent upward trend in rates offered 
°n such instruments. Governor Mitchell asked whether the banks 
represented would issue 180-day certificates at 4-1/2 per cent 
readily, and several Council members replied in the affirmative. 
President Moorhead noted that, as previously mentioned, it 
W a
s of some interest that although a lot of the proceeds of corporate 
bond issues had been used to pay off bank debt, business loans con-
tinued to rise. 

1932 
5/16/67 
., 
-11-
Governor Daane commented, in this connection, that the reported 
figures did not show that the proceeds of bond issues had been used 
to any major extent to repay bank loans. While one got the impression 
from conversations that a significant portion of the total proceeds 
had been used for such purpose, that did not show up in the figures, 
although perhaps there had been some change very recently. 
Mr. Fleming said that not many bankers wanted to make term 
loans based on CD's, at least to the same degree as formerly. Although 
banks had to take care of the needs of their customers, they were not 
anxious to go out and solicit term loans on that basis. 
Governor Mitchell noted that the savings and loan associations 
were experiencing such a large inflow of funds that they apparently 
did not know what to do with the money, and he observed that the banks 
also had been experiencing a good inflow of time money. 
Mr. Fleming replied that until very recently the banks had 
not been enjoying any appreciable growth in passbook savings. 
Thus, 
President Moorhead pointed out, the principal growth had been in 
consumer-type CD's, about which the banks were still somewhat nervous. 
Mr. Mayer remarked that when other costs were added to a 5 per cent 
rate on CD's there was little margin left for profit. Mr. Prochnow 
Mentioned that many large corporations were at present unwilling to 
give the banks CD money for more than 30 days. President Moorhead 
commented that, as Mr. Mayer had noted earlier, the economy was 
simply growing faster than the ability of the banks to finance it 
despite the inflow of time money. 

1933 
5/16/67 
., 
-12-
Governor Mitchell observed that the banks had improved their 
share of the market in the 1960
f
s. If they were going to hold that 
share, they evidently would have to be more aggressive on the time 
deposit side, for they were not going to hold it on the strength 
of demand deposits. 
Mr. Fleming agreed and pointed out that until recently 
there had been a falling off in passbook savings. In the State of 
Tennessee the situation was particularly acute because, not being 
allowed to pay more than 4 per cent, banks were out of the market 
for CD's, with the result that the banking system was not growing 
very much. Any significant increase in the funds available to the 
banking system had to come through time certificates and CD's, and 
to a lot of bankers those funds represented hot money. 
Therefore, 
the banks could not grow on a secure basis. Bankers would prefer 
to see the growth occur in passbook savings, since they believed 
they would be able to depend on such funds better through the years. 
However, the banks were not now competitive in terms of passbook 
savings. With a 1/2 point spread, they could hold their own with 
the thrift institutions; if the spread became larger, money would 
flow to the mutual savings banks and the savings and loans. 
Mr. Mayer pointed out that the banks had not had a good 
opportunity to judge the loyalty of consumer CD's. If more of those 
CD's had reached maturity during the period of greatest credit 
stringency last year, the banks might not have done as well as they 
did in retaining funds. 

1934 
5/16/67 
., 
-13-
There followed a question about the size distribution of CD's, 
and Governor Sherrill said an FDIC survey last year revealed that 
22 per cent of all CD's were in the amount of $10,000. Mr. Fleming 
noted the situation may have changed since the increase of deposit 
insurance to $15,000. 
Governor Sherrill then referred to the guess, mentioned 
earlier by President Moorhead, that corporate bond offering? in the 
second half of this year might run around $8 billion as compared 
with $12 billion in the first half. He inquired whether that fore-
cast was based principally on views with respect to rates or whether 
it suggested a saturation of demand. 
President Moorhead replied that he thought both factors were 
involved. The Federal Government obviously would be in the market 
for substantial amounts of money, and rates might well rise on that 
account. And, as Mr. Larkin had said, there might be some psychological 
block if rates reached 6 per cent. Also, the unprecedentedly large 
volume of offerings in the first half simply did not appear sustainable 
over a period of time. 
2. Banking developments. 
A. What is the Council's assessment of the 
strength of business loan demand currently 
and over the next few months? 
Business loan demand since the year-end has been 
somewhat uneven, both within districts and institutions. 
Some banks report a relatively comfortable position, com-
pared with last fall, whereas other institutions report 
loans at or near all-time highs. Most bankers are ex-
periencing a fairly strong underlying demand which they 
anticipate will be sustained over the next few months. 

1935 
5/16/67 
., 
-14-
President Moorhead said there were considerable differences 
in the views of the Council members, depending on each member's own 
experience and the situation in his area. However, the general 
feeling was that a good deal of demand would appear if the banks 
were to let down the bars on certain types of loans. 
Asked whether the differences were geographical or whether 
they reflected the policies of individual institutions, President 
Moorhead said he thought the geographical variations probably were 
less pronounced. Mr. Still said he was not sure. In the Philadelphia 
area loans were very high at most banks despite differing management 
philosophies. Mr. Wilkinson reported that although banks in the 
Fifth District were presently much easier than in December, a 
replacement was found each time a customer paid out. President 
Moorhead expressed the view that something depended on the size of 
the bank. In the Ninth District the smaller banks were approaching 
the city banks to purchase loans, while the city banks were experi-
encing a strong demand. 
Mr. Prochnow said his bank's loans were running around 73 per 
cent of deposits and for a time last week it appeared that a situation 
comparable to that of last fall had developed. Loan demand was heavy 
across the board for reasons that were not too well defined. Mr. Still 
remarked that loan demand at his bank had started to pick up again 
last month, while Mr. Simmen commented that some banks in his area 
w
ere now exceeding the peaks reached last July. 

1936 
5/16/67 
., 
-15-
Mr. Still also pointed out that there had been a basic change 
in the composition of loan demand. Not too many short-term seasonal 
loans were made any more; the demand was much more steady and persis-
tent. 
There were no longer the seasonal clean-ups of years past. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether any of the banks repre-
sented on the Council had their officers out seeking loans, and 
Mr. Wilkinson said his bank was doing that on a selective basis. 
It was trying to attract some people of good credit standing who 
were not taken on as customers last year. Mr. Knight said that 
every bank with which he was familiar in the Tenth District was now 
much more comfortable. It seemed that the District tended always 
to be behind the parade, attitudes perhaps being more cautious and 
conservative. 
B. How would Council members appraise recent 
and prospective changes in demand for 
consumer CD's? 
In demand for savings 
deposits? 
In rates paid on time and 
savings deposits? 
The members of the Council find a strong and persis-
tent demand for consumer CD's which they expect to continue. 
The higher rate for consumer CD's has tended to make pass-
book savings somewhat less attractive, although in recent 
weeks passbook savings have shown a tendency to increase. 
The recent decline in short-term interest rates is beginning 
to put some downward pressure on the consumer CD rate struc-
ture. As a consequence, the 5 per cent interest rate on 
consumer CD's is considerably less secure today than it was 
a few months ago. Offsetting this pressure, however, is the 
competitive situation with other local savings institutions. 
President Moorhead commented that, although consumer CD rates 
had been reduced in many instances, the Council believed the vast 

5/16/67 
., 
-16-
majority of banks were still at 5 per cent, due mainly to competitive 
pressures. The banks had experienced what they considered a healthy 
growth in consumer CD's, and they wanted to maintain a competitive 
position. Accordingly, they were reluctant to be the first to pull 
back on rates. If the savings and loan associations initiated such 
a move--and there was some evidence that they would--the banks 
probably would also begin to reduce their rates rather rapidly. His 
own bank had been picking up new customers through the consumer CD 
route that it hoped would stay with the bank. Accordingly, it would 
be rather slow to change the rates offered. 
Governor Maisel inquired of President Moorhead whether the 
latter felt that consumer CD's were worth an extra 1/2 per cent 
compared with negotiable CD's, and the latter replied in the affirma-
tive. saying that he believed the consumer CD's were likely to stay 
with the bank longer. Asked by Governor Mitchell whether the consumer 
c
D's were worth 3/4 per cent more than passbook savings, President 
Moorhead replied in the negative. He pointed out, however, that the 
banks were restricted ratewise in the passbook area. 
Governor Mitchell observed that Chairman H o m e of the Home 
Loan Bank Board had announced that the Bank Board was considering a 
reduction in ceiling rates on share accounts and was preparing to 
n e
gotiate with the Federal Reserve. He asked how the Council members 
Would feel about a move by the Federal Reserve to reduce to 4-3/4 per 
C e
n t the ceiling rate on consumer CD's. 

1938 
5/16/67 
., 
-17-
President Moorhead replied that he would personally be opposed 
to such a move, since he would prefer to let the marketplace determine 
the rate. Mr. Stewart commented to the same effect, and Mr. Wilkinson 
referred to the banks' need for some flexibility. He said that his 
bank had considered lowering the consumer CD rate a month or six 
weeks ago. However, the bank anticipated good loan demand, with 
prospects of an increase in the fall, and decided against making any 
rate reduction on the basis that the amount of interest expense saved 
would not make such a move worth while. 
Mr. Mayer reported that his bank had reduced the rate to 
4-3/4 per cent, that it was followed by one of its competitors, and 
that in the succeeding month the bank had nevertheless experienced 
a
 rather good increase in consumer CD's. The unanswered question, 
°f course, was what increase might have been achieved had the bank 
remained at 5 per cent. Mr. Wilkinson observed that the trend in 
c
D's would no doubt be affected by general rate expectations. 
If 
people concluded that the trend of market rates was downward, they 
were likely to come to the banks and seek CD's of the longest 
available maturities. 
Governor Daane inquired how it was felt that the Government 
securities market might react to a lowering of the ceiling rate on 
c
°nsumer CD's; that is, whether people would consider it a fore-
runner of a further downward rate movement or, on the other hand, 
a
 forerunner of the kind of developments that occurred last year. 

1939 
5/16/67 
., 
-18-
Such action might be interpreted either as a signal from the Federal 
Reserve that an escalation of interest rates was expected or as a 
sign that monetary conditions were going to be easy. 
President Moorhead said he was inclined to feel that the 
market would regard such an action basically as a further effort 
on the part of the Federal Reserve to drive down rates, and 
Mr. Wilkinson agreed. 
President Moorhead also observed that to a certain extent 
offering rates on CD's would depend on whether banks believed they 
could usefully employ the funds. The savings and loans apparently 
now had more money than they knew how to use; at least that was true 
in his area. The question, therefore, was why they should not reduce 
their dividend rates if they did not need the money. 
Governor Mitchell agreed that it would appear that a continua-
tion of the current inflow eventually would compel the savings and 
loans to make some move. 
Mr. Larkin expressed the view that the public would interpret 
a
n action to lower the ceiling rate as a further attempt on the part 
of Government officials to make more money available to the mortgage 
market. He doubted that any more sophisticated interpretation would 
he placed on such a move, at least by the general public, because 
there had been so much talk about the mortgage market over an extended 
Period of time. 

1940 
5/16/67 
., 
-19-
In response to a question, Mr. Larkin expressed the opinion 
that the slowness of the real estate market to respond to the 
greater availability of funds was due in part to a psychological 
barrier: people had been so exposed to the idea that no funds were 
available that they were not trying to obtain them. It would take 
a selling effort by the real estate industry to change that notion, 
and it could not be changed immediately. 
Governor Robertson inquired about the prospective effect 
on consumer CD
f
s of an increase in the savings deposit ceiling rate 
to 4-1/2 per cent. 
President Moorhead expressed the view that such an increase 
would not hurt consumer CD's at 5 per cent very much, while Messrs. 
Mayer and Larkin commented on the potentially serious effect on bank 
earnings. Mr. Stewart indicated that, although he would want to 
give the matter more thorough study, he was inclined to feel that 
banks in Texas might favor such an increase in the savings deposit 
ceiling. 
Governor Mitchell observed that the banking system had about 
$90 billion in passbook accounts and suggested that if the banks 
could maintain such a volume at 4 per cent they might not want to 
change to a higher rate. 
Mr. Larkin commented that in recent weeks an upturn in 
savings accounts had been noted for the first time in a long period. 
There might be many reasons, including the downward trend and 

5/16/67 
., 
-20-
present level of the Treasury bill rate. In his area practically 
all of the banks were now paying 4 per cent "instant interest" on 
passbook savings, and cases could be found where money had been 
shifted from Treasury bills into savings accounts. 
Mr. Mayer said he thought there was a tendency to over-
estimate the degree of sophistication of persons maintaining pass-
book savings accounts. In his opinion, most such account holders 
probably did not make close analyses of competitive rates. At 
times when people felt less secure, they tended to add to their 
passbook accounts and pay off personal loans. That had been hap-
pening recently, in his judgment, and was contributing to the 
upturn in passbook accounts. 
Mr. Fleming noted that a general increase to 4-1/2 per cent 
°n savings deposits would cost the banking system something in the 
area of $450 million a year, which would represent a considerable 
impingement on earnings. 
Mr. Prochnow commented that earlier this year his bank was 
losing passbook accounts steadily while consumer CD's were up 
consistently. Recently, however, the bank's passbook savings had 
been increasing almost day by day, despite the fact that it was 
still paying 5 per cent on consumer CD's and gaining there also. 
He was unable to explain why this change had come about in the 
Past few weeks. 
Governor Mitchell commented that statistics compiled by the 
Chicago Reserve Bank indicated that savings deposits turned over 

1942 
5/16/67 
., 
-21-
on average about once every two years, with some variation by 
regions within the District. Nevertheless, despite the turnover 
rate the aggregate volume remained quite stable. Such accounts 
appeared to offer a convenient facility for persons less sophis-
ticated in financial management. 
Mr. Brinkley said that his bank, which had gone to 5 per 
cent on consumer CD's the first of this year, had found that only 
a limited amount of the funds put into those instruments came out 
of passbook savings accounts. He had substantially the same reaction 
as Mr. Mayer, that is, that savings accounts were not used for 
investment purposes as much as for thrift and systematic saving. 
The investors among his bank's depositors tended to shift their 
money into the 5 per cent CD's. When that development ran its 
course, the passbook savings accounts again started moving upward, 
and the volume was now higher than at the end of last year. In 
the case of his own bank at least, he did not feel that a 4-1/4 per 
cent or even a 4-1/2 per cent rate would be likely to generate 
enough new passbook savings to justify the cost. On the other 
hand, he doubted that the same principle held true in the case of 
consumer CD's. 
Mr. Knight said he would be opposed to any reduction of the 
Maximum rate on consumer CD's because in his area most of the banks 
w
ere not in the market for corporate CD's and their growth had to 
come through savings deposits and consumer CD's. Further, the 

1943 
5/16/67 
., 
-22-
banks were operating in a very competitive savings and loan market. 
The savings and loans were paying the top rate and were not only 
gaining funds rapidly but asking the banks to sell them real estate 
loans. For the banks, therefore, it would be a serious proposition 
to widen the spread between rates that could be paid by the banks 
and the savings and loans. 
Governor Robertson said he wanted to make it clear that 
no place within the Government was there any thought of widening 
the spread. On the contrary, the thought was that, if anything, 
the spread should be narrowed to provide a realistic relationship. 
At the same time, he knew of no one who felt that there should be 
no spread at all. 
President Moorhead expressed the view that the savings and 
loans could manage without the benefit of a spread. Most of them 
were large, well-managed institutions, and he doubted whether they 
needed that protection. It was not clear to him why the banks should 
have to operate with one arm tied behind them. 
Governor Robertson expressed doubt that the savings and loans 
could stand the pressure of complete rate equality. He agreed with 
a comment by Mr. Fleming that whenever the spread was more than 
1/2 per cent the savings and loans were at a tremendous advantage. 
However, he did not think they could compete against the banks on 
an absolutely even basis at this juncture. 
Mr. Fleming commented on the loyalty of customers of the 
savings and loan associations, and President Moorhead referred to 

1944 
5/16/67 
., 
-23-
the amounts of money spent by the savings and loans on advertising. 
C. Do Council members expect any significant 
changes in bank lending policies in the 
near future? 
The members of the Council do not expect any significant 
change in bank lending policies in the near future. However, 
many bankers are selectively more receptive to loan requests 
than they were a short time ago. 
President Moorhead said that the Council had had a good deal 
of difficulty in framing an answer to this question. There was quite 
a difference of opinion among the members on the extent to which banks 
were now making loans of the kinds that they had been turning down 
in the period of tightness last year. The majority of the members 
thought that the banks were considerably more receptive to loan 
requests, on a selective basis, and that there probably would be no 
significant change in bank lending practices in the near future 
unless the situation tightened rapidly. 
D. What are the present attitudes of banks 
with respect to the adequacy of their 
liquidity positions? 
Some bankers would like to rebuild further their 
liquidity positions, which were substantially reduced 
during the period of stringent credit last summer. 
President Moorhead noted that, while bank liquidity positions 
had improved, the banks were so heavily dependent on corporate CD's 
that their positions were not regarded as particularly comfortable. 
Governor Mitchell observed that outstanding negotiable CD's 
amounted to about $19 billion, out of total bank deposits of some 
$370 billion. Passbook accounts had gone through the whole recent 

1945 . 
5/16/67 
., 
-24-
episode without much change from the $90 billion level. Accordingly, 
he found it rather strange that bankers attached so much importance 
to the corporate CD's,which constituted a relatively small part of 
the total resources available to the banks. 
Mr. Mayer replied that Governor Mitchell had been citing 
figures for the banking system as a whole, whereas only a relatively 
few banks issued negotiable CD's. For those banks the CD's repre-
sented a considerably larger proportion of their total deposits, and 
the money was quite volatile. 
Mr. Wilkinson commented that a bank was understandingly 
more concerned when its loan-deposit ratio neared 70 per cent than 
when it was running in the 55-60 per cent area with the same volume 
of CD's outstanding. 
In response to a question, Mr. Mayer said that most banks had 
tried to deal with corporate CD's on an arms-length basis. When 
due, the CD's were paid without question, and they did not figure 
in as compensating balances. A wall was built between the CD 
business and the rest of the bank's business. 
Governor Mitchell inquired about the possibility of developing 
some other kind of instrument that would give the banks more reassur-
ance in terms of liquidity, and President Moorhead observed that 
there would be considerable flexibility in CD's if it were not for 
the existence of a rate ceiling. 
Mr. Mayer then raised the question whether granting flexi-
bility to the banks in terms of CD's over $1 million would have any 

1946 
5/16/67 
., 
-25-
particular effect on other financial intermediaries. The latter 
should not be in that kind of business because of the nature of 
their assets; if they wanted to engage in it, they should become 
banks. 
Governor Sherrill agreed, saying he felt confident that 
rate flexibility for the banks in terms of CD's over $1 million--
perhaps even over $100,000—would have little or no effect on other 
financial intermediaries. 
Governor Robertson inquired whether the Council felt that 
this was the time to remove interest rate ceilings, and President 
Moorhead said he would think so, at least for CD's over $100,000. 
He would personally favor removing all interest rate ceilings, but 
as a practical matter he supposed that that could not be done out 
°f deference to the savings and loan associations. 
Mr. Mayer pointed out that the question of renewing the 
interest rate control authority provided by the Act of September 21, 
1966, would have to be resolved within the next few months, which 
raised the question whether political considerations would make it 
feasible to remove rate ceilings at this juncture. 
Governor Robertson agreed, adding that the result might be 
9
 fixing of ceiling rates by statute. He inquired, however, whether 
the Council members would feel, purely on economic grounds and dis-
c a r d i n g political considerations, that this was a time when the 
int erest rate ceiling authority should be placed on a stand-by 

1947 
5/16/67 
., 
-26-
basis. Several members of the Council replied in the affirmative, 
although some reservations were expressed with respect to passbook 
savings. 
There followed discussion of the prospective effects of a 
removal of the interest rate ceilings. In the course of the dis-
cussion Mr. Mayer commented that, for reasons mentioned, the fixing 
of ceiling rates for smaller deposits probably could not be dis-
continued. He asked, however, whether the same considerations 
prevailed with respect to large-denomination CD's. 
Governor Maisel inquired whether Mr. Mayer's question implied 
that even in periods of credit restraint the banks should be allowed 
to pay as much as they wanted to on large-denomination CD's, and 
Mr. Mayer replied in the affirmative. Governor Maisel then remarked 
that this raised a fundamental question in terms of the theory of 
monetary restraint. For example, if monetary policy dictated no 
growth in total bank credit over a certain period of time, the 
question was whether it would be feasible to permit the hundred 
largest banks to expand their deposits through large-denomination 
CD's. The share of the other banks would have to decrease, and all 
the growth would be concentrated in a small number of money market 
banks. He doubted whether such a situation would be any more viable 
fc
han one in which an unstable rate relationship existed between banks 
a
nd savings and loan associations. The same arguments would be likely 
t o
 arise within the banking system as were heard last year from the 
S a
vings and loans. 

—
^ 
1948 
5/16/67 
-27-
Mr. Prochnow noted that the smaller banks would not be 
able to bid for CD's over $1 million in any event, but Governor 
Maisel suggested that the large banks might be able to sweep 
accumulations of money market funds into the CD's while, at the 
same time, the deposits of the smaller banks were decreasing. 
Mr. Mayer then said that, although he would want to think the 
matter through more carefully before reaching a conclusion, he 
felt that Governor Maisel probably was making a real point. 
E. What are the present attitudes of banks 
with respect to the adequacy of their 
capital positions? 
With respect to the 
relative usefulness of (1) increased 
capital, and (2) realignment of assets, 
as means of improving capital positions? 
With respect to the probable market 
reception of flotations of bank capital? 
The members of the Council believe that many bankers 
are not satisfied with respect to the adequacy of their 
capital positions. 
The Council is of the opinion that bankers would pre-
fer to increase their capital rather than attempt to realign 
assets as a means of improving capital positions. The bor-
rowing requirements of their customers seriously limit the 
ability of banks freely to realign their assets, which thus 
lessens the usefulness of this technique as a method for 
improving capital positions. The absence currently of new 
bank capital flotations in the market suggests that bankers 
are doubtful of the market reception of such issues unless 
they are priced at a level unacceptable to the banks. 
President Moorhead said the Council members were not com-
pletely certain what was meant by the Board in referring to 
r e
alignment of assets. Presumably that would mean lower total loans 
a
nd more funds held in cash or very liquid assets such as short-
t
erm Governments. The Council members felt that it would be 

1949 
5/16/67 
., 
-28-
difficult to change the asset mix significantly. 
Asked how it was felt that bank capital could best be 
augmented, President Moorhead replied that a distinction must be 
made between the positions of small and large banks. For large 
banks the debenture route was quite attractive, perhaps even at 
current rates. Small banks usually could raise capital only by 
selling additional stock to their shareholders and through reten-
tion of earnings. 
F. What are the views of banks as to the 
recent expansions of bank credit cards 
and the methods followed in those 
expansions? 
As to the probable future 
of bank credit cards in the financial 
picture? 
Bank credit cards are a useful technique in that 
over a period of time they should tend to channel into 
banks a growing share of consumer instalment credit now 
provided by many retail establishments. But the initial 
promotion of credit cards by some banks has overempha-
sized the importance of this service in relation to the 
overall activities of the bank. 
The bank credit card is a logical development 
toward the retail marketing of bank services in the 
future. However, it is necessary for banks wishing to 
offer this service to analyze critically markets, costs, 
losses, and every aspect of their procedure. 
Mr. Mayer said he thought there had been much more conversa-
tion about bank credit cards than was warranted by the importance of 
fc
he subject. Banks had talked too much and had wasted money on 
advertising. Bank credit cards were not that important in the total 
scheme of things, and the image of the banking system had not been 
Chanced. 

1950 
5/16/67 
., 
-29-
Mr. Prochnow agreed, saying that the significance of this 
movement was in his opinion greatly overrated. For various reasons, 
an unwise promotion and sale of this particular type of service 
had been precipitated in some areas such as Chicago. Any bank that 
had in mind going into the credit card business should analyze the 
situation with great care, for there were many pitfalls. In any 
event the significance of the credit card business to the banks 
tended to be vastly overrated, particularly in terms of the relation-
ship to total bank earnings. 
Governor Sherrill inquired whether these remarks were 
addressed to the relatively short run or to a period of, say, 15 years 
a
head, and Mr. Mayer replied that he was not certain about the long 
run. He hoped that the expansion of bank credit card systems would 
come to some good, but that was not a sure bet by any means. Mr. Prochnow 
observed that unless organizations such as Sears and Montgomery Ward, 
which conducted their own profitable operations, came into the bank 
\ 
credit card picture the volume of available business would appear 
to be limited even over the longer run. 
Governor Maisel inquired whether the movement could develop 
more toward the selling of an accounting than a loan service, and 
Mayer replied that participation in a bank credit card system 
Permitted small merchants to operate on a more equal footing with 
large merchandisers having sophisticated credit departments. To 
that extent the bank credit card systems might be said to provide 

1951 
5/16/67 
., 
-30-
a social service. However, there was the question whether such a 
social service should be rendered at the expense of bank share-
holders. 
Mr. Simmen said that his bank had given up its charge-
credit plan about five years ago because it could not work up a 
sufficient volume through the large department stores. Also, it 
found that the small tradesman was billing his good customers and 
discounting the accounts of his less credit-worthy customers. 
Mr. Brinkley noted that the Federal Reserve had announced 
a study of bank credit card plans. He inquired whether the initia-
tion of the study reflected any particular concern, or to put it 
another way, what areas were being studied and why. Governor 
Robertson replied that the study had been undertaken simply because 
the Board felt that it should know more about the problem. 
President Moorhead expressed the view that there were not 
too many markets throughout the country large enough to support a 
credit card system. In his area, for example, if certain large 
retailers and others were not brought into the plan, participation 
in a credit card system would come down to units such as the small 
hardware merchants. A large volume of business could hardly be 
Worked up on that basis. Banks should not rush into credit card 
s
ystems without exploring the market potential, and in most cases 
t
^ey might find that potential surprisingly small. 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting at this point. 

1952 
5/16/67 
., 
-31-
3, Balance of payments. 
A. Do Council members expect foreign demands 
for term loans, short-term loans, and 
acceptance credits from U.S. banks to 
change significantly in the months ahead? 
The Council members expect that foreign demands for 
term loans may increase because of the substantial need 
for longer term credit. The demand for short-term loans 
and acceptance credits from U.S. banks will remain about 
the same in the months ahead because of the somewhat slower 
pace of economic activity that marks the economies of many 
of the major trading nations of the world. 
j \ 
_ 
B. Would the Council expect U.S. bank indebted-
ness to the Euro-dollar market to increase, 
decline, or remain about unchanged in the 
next few months? 
The Council expects that the volume of U.S. bank 
indebtedness to the Euro-dollar market will be largely 
determined by the availability of funds in our markets 
and the competitiveness of interest rates here and abroad. 
President Moorhead said the Council was aware that its state-
..
1 
Nent on the second question might not seem particularly responsive. 
However, it felt that the volume of U.S. bank indebtedness to the 
Euro-dollar market was a day-to-day proposition, with the trend 
largely dependent on the relationship of interest rates here and 
abroad. 
Governor Maisel commented that this was a very important 
answer, and President Moorhead said that right at the moment the 
r
ate relationship was not particularly attractive. Therefore, the 
v
°lume of indebtedness was trending downward, but the situation could 
c h
a n g e quickly. 

1953 
5/16/67 
., 
-32-
Mr. Fleming noted that the availability of funds in U.S. 
markets was also a factor, and President Moorhead explained that 
some banks, in anticipation of a pinch next fall, were taking 
steps to assure themselves of funds even though the rates might 
not be especially attractive. Mr. Prochnow said that at least 
one large bank was moving actively in that direction. It foresaw 
a serious shortage of funds and was willing to pay a slight 
premium to be sure of having funds available that would not come 
due until next year. 
In response to a question, Mr. Prochnow said that banks 
would not pay as much as 1/2 per cent above the CD rate, although 
they might be willing to pay 1/4 per cent more. It was, of course, 
necessary to make a computation that took into account the absence 
insurance and reserve requirements against indebtedness to the 
Euro-dollar market. 
4. What are the Council's views on monetary 
and credit policy under current circumstances? 
The Council is aware of the difficult dilemma facing 
the Board as it attempts to formulate an appropriate credit 
policy in view of the uncertainty of the outlook of business 
and the following conflicting objectives: 
(1) providing the reserves required to insure 
the financing of the Federal budget deficit, 
while at the same time 
(2) combating the inflationary pressures a large 
deficit may precipitate. 
In general, the Council reaffirms its views on this 
subject as expressed as follows in the Confidential Memorandum 
to the Board at the February meeting. 

1954 
5/16/67 
., 
-33-
The Council in general approves of the easing 
that characterizes current monetary and credit 
policy. Moreover, the Council is hopeful of 
favorable consideration by the Congress of a more 
restrictive fiscal policy—a reduction in nondefense 
expenditures, or failing that, an increase in taxes. 
This will permit a more balanced mix of fiscal and 
monetary policy rather than the undue reliance on 
credit restriction which marked much of 1966. 
Because of the balance of payments and infla-
tionary problems, any further significant easing 
of monetary policy should be contingent upon a 
more balanced mix of fiscal and monetary policy or 
a further slowing in over-all business activity. 
Governor Maisel said it was not clear what the Council meant 
by an easing of monetary and credit policy. For example, if one 
assumed a 6 per cent growth rate for the economy, the financing 
°f the Federal budget deficit might require an additional 2 per cent 
rate of growth of reserves. Even so, however, short-term interest 
rates might rise. The question was whether that would represent an 
easing of monetary and credit policy or not. 
President Moorhead replied that he could foresee a situation 
w
here more reserves would have to be injected into the banking system 
reasons such as Governor Maisel had mentioned, yet free reserves 
m
ight be maintained at about an even level. 
Governor Mitchell referred back to the first topic on today's 
agenda and said he understood, in light of the Council's response 
that topic, that it would favor more or less a continuation of 
current monetary and credit policy for the next two quarters, although 
Efficient reserves should be provided to finance the budget deficit. 

1955 
5/16/67 
-34-
The Council appeared to be proposing an increase in taxes in the 
absence of a curtailment of nondefense expenditures, and he asked 
whether that implied an increase in taxes in the fall. 
President Moorhead said the Council believed that in the 
absence of an increase in taxes or a reduction in nondefense 
expenditures the situation could again revert to a large measure 
°f dependence on monetary policy. 
Governor Maisel noted that the Council also appeared to be 
saying that if an increase in taxes was assured effective at the 
beginning of next year there need not be so much worry from the 
standpoint of monetary policy. President Moorhead replied that the 
Council was looking forward to a fairly moderate business upturn 
in the second half of this year but believed that an overheating 
°f the economy might come later. If so, a tax increase effective 
at the beginning of next year would be timed about right. 
However, 
if Congress adjourned without having enacted a tax increase, it 
would be well into 1968 before any such action could be taken. 
The 
W a
r in Vietnam had to be financed, and in that the Council saw 
strong inflationary implications. It would not want to see full 
dependence placed on monetary policy. 
Governor Mitchell commented that a 4 per cent over-all 
8*owth of GNP would hardly suggest the kind of loan demand appar-
ently foreseen by the Council, and President Moorhead agreed. As 
had been brought out earlier, however, the trend of bank growth 

1956 
5/16/67 
., 
-35-
was consistently smaller than the growth of the economy as a whole. 
Mr. Fleming said he foresaw a heavy loan demand superimposed on a 
high base. For that reason, many people were trying to get as 
liquid as possible in preparation for what might lie ahead. 
Mr. Fleming also commented that the banks would feel better 
if they had more assurance in terms of access to the discount window. 
Governor Mitchell replied that most of the studies undertaken 
in connection with the current reappraisal of the discount mechanism 
were in hand or nearing completion and that by summer the documenta-
tion should be about complete. He could not predict, of course, 
what actions might be taken. However, the studies tended to suggest 
that some innovations in discount window administration might be in 
order. 
Mr. Fleming said that if the banks could be informed a little 
more definitively in terms of the prospects for discount policy, that 
should have quite an effect on their plans. 
Governor Maisel pointed out, however, that if it were decided, 
as a monetary policy decision, that the growth of bank credit should 
be held to a certain rate, use of the discount facility would have 
to be reconciled with the total picture. Any design of the discount 
window mechanism would have to take that factor into account. The 
discount window could not be opened on an unlimited basis while at 
the same time there was a basic decision to hold down the growth 
°f credit. 

1957 
5/16/67 
., 
-36-
Governor Mitchell inquired whether bank attitudes would 
be changed if in some way the Administration could give assurance 
that restraint in the fall of this year or in 1968 would come about, 
at least in part, through fiscal measures. 
President Moorhead said he thought that would have some 
effect on the planning of the banks, but Mr. Fleming expressed the 
view that it would not have much relevance to the liquidity problem. 
Governor Mitchell observed that it might suggest that there would 
not be a sufficiently buoyant economy to justify higher interest 
rates. Mr. Fleming noted that escalation of the war effort made it 
difficult to predict economic trends, and Governor Mitchell replied 
that nevertheless everyone had to make some predictions. The Council 
was, in effect, expressing its apprehensiveness about a return to 
credit restraint in the fall. Therefore, the banks wanted more 
liquidity to be ready to deal with the situation if it came. 
Mr. Fleming noted that, although the timing could not be pinpointed, 
he did feel that a situation such as described by Governor Mitchell 
was apt to occur within the next 12 months. 
President Moorhead commented that if it seemed clear that 
restraint was not going to be exercised through fiscal measures, 
that would certainly have a bearing on one's planning. 
Mr. Brinkley remarked that at one time a bank could chart 
a predictable pattern of loans and deposits. Now, however, there 
were no such patterns, and that tended to keep the banks uncertain. 

1958 
5/16/67 
., 
-37-
Mr. Fleming inquired whether it appeared that the "eligible 
paper" bill recommended by the Board might be passed by the Congress, 
and Governor Mitchell said he was inclined to feel that it would. 
Mr. Fleming noted that that would be helpful. 
Governor Robertson brought out that in today's discussion 
no indication of bearish sentiment regarding business prospects had 
been heard. Apparently, therefore, none of the Council members 
considered it likely that the economy would not move upward. 
President Moorhead said he thought that was correct. When 
a war effort was superimposed on a vigorous domestic economy, it 
was hard to see that the economy could move in any direction except 
upward. Mr. Fleming observed, however, that there was some bearish-
ness in terms of the prospects for profits. 
Delegation of Board functions. In reply to a question raised 
by a member of the Council, it was stated that after careful study 
the Board had compiled a tentative list of functions that it felt 
might appropriately be delegated either to officers of the Board's 
staff or to the Federal Reserve Banks, together with a list of 
functions that it believed warranted continued consideration by the 
Board. Certain implementing procedures, as required by law, had 
also been developed. The list of functions proposed to be delegated, 
which was substantial, had now been submitted to the Reserve Banks 
for comment, and it was anticipated that in the relatively near 
future the Board would be in a position to take action. 

1959 
5/16/67 
., 
-
3
8
-
Balance of payments. In response to a question regarding 
prospects for the U.S. balance of payments, Governor Robertson said 
it appeared that the deficit figures were running somewhat higher 
this year, although not to such an extent as to create undue alarm. 
For various reasons, the trend was not unexpected. The bank portion 
of the voluntary foreign credit restraint program seemed to be 
moving along well, and some improvement was indicated in the area 
of corporate direct investments. However, there had not been as 
favorable a trend in the trade balance as would have been desired. 
Asked whether it seemed likely that the Congress would pass 
legis lation to remove the 25 per cent gold cover against Federal 
Reserve notes, Governor Robertson said that was anyone's guess. 
He thought personally that such legislation might be enacted. In 
his opinion, the attitude throughout the country toward the question 
°f the gold cover was quite different today from a few years ago. 
Asked whether there was any alternative to such legislation, 
Governor Robertson said that on the basis of the best estimates it 
m i
8ht be possible to get through until about 1969, but that would 
be running too close for comfort. The question with respect to 
enactment of legislation to eliminate the gold cover seemed only to 
b e
 one of timing. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Federal Advisory 
Council would be held on September 18-19, 1967. 
