MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 21, 1970 

- * J • > 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, January 21, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions 
First National City. The Board approved unanimously a 
letter to First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New 
York, New York, approving its application for permission to purchase 
shares of Almacenadora Grancolombiana, S.A., Bogota, Colombia. 
A 
copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
Reports on competitive factors. 
The Board approved unan-
imously the transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 

1 3 
1/21/70 
-2-
of a report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of State Bank of Rainier, Rainier, Oregon, into The Oregon 
Bank, Portland, Oregon. The conclusion stated that consummation of 
the merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
The Board approved unanimously the transmittal to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of American Anson Bank, 
Monroe, North Carolina, and American Bank and Trust Company, also 
of Monroe. 
The merger would be a transaction to facilitate the 
acquisition of American Bank and Trust Company by The Waccamaw 
Corporation, Whiteville, North Carolina, presently a one-bank holding 
company, and the conclusion of the report stated that its consummation 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
The Board approved unanimously the transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency of a report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of The Atlantic National Bank, 
Stamford, Connecticut, into The Connecticut National Bank, 
Bridgeport, Connecticut. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
Competition existing between The Connecticut National 
Bank, Bridgeport, and The Atlantic National Bank, Stamford, 
is limited; however, there is some potential for competition 
between them through de novo branching. 
Overall, the effect 
of the proposal on competition would be slightly adverse. 
First National Corporation. 
The Board authorized the 
issuance of an order and statement reflecting the Board's action 

1/21/70 
-3-
on December 17, 1969, approving the application of First National 
Corporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of The 
Clintonville National Bank, Clintonville, Wisconsin. 
Copies of the 
order and statement are attached under Item No. 2. 
First Virginia. The Board authorized the issuance of an 
order and statement reflecting the Board's approval on December 9, 
1969, of the application of First Virginia Bankshares Corporation, 
Arlington, Virginia, to acquire shares of the successor by merger 
to The Bank of Nansemond, Driver, Virginia. 
Copies of the order and 
statement are attached under Item No. 3. 
Interpretation under Regulation Q. After discussion based 
on a memorandum from the Division of International Finance dated 
K. ! ' • 
. ; 
• 
! 
.; 
I 
. r 
j V < 
January 16, 1970, the Board approved unanimously the issuance of an 
interpretation designating a number of foreign, international, 
• - 
: ... 
-V 
_ r.,,r.: , 
: . .y . 
: . - 
- hi] 
or supranational entities as being exempt from interest rate lim-
U c 
i v 
'
•
•
;
!
• 
itations of Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, pursuant to the 
Cri i r 
provisions of section 217.3(g)(3) of that Regulation. 
A copy of 
the interpretation is attached as Item No. 4. 
Nassau branches. 
The Board approved, Governor Robertson 
dissenting and Governor Brimmer abstaining, a letter to Seattle-
First National Bank, Seattle, Washington, approving its application 
. > £ 
for permission to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas. A copy 
i s attached as Item No. 5. 

1/21/70 
-4-
The Board approved, Governor Robertson dissenting and 
Governor Brimmer abstaining, letters to seven banks approving their 
applications for permission to establish branches in Nassau, Bahamas. 
All of the applicant banks were shareholders of Allied Bank Inter-
national, New York, New York. 
Copies of the letters are attached 
a s Items 6-12, inclusive. 
In this connection, the Board requested that the staff 
prepare for the Board's consideration a new memorandum discussing 
I ^ 
the operations of the Nassau branches of U.S. banks, as far as could 
be ascertained from available information, and in particular dealing 
-V.4 v \ t 1 - . •• . 
: 
with the influence of the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program 
tu 
a 
• 
. , 
..... ;• • : • , 
on the Nassau branch situation. Governor Brimmer noted that the 
staff was currently reassessing the VFCR, which would shortly pass 
t »<i l * 
1 i 
C > 
, 
„ - 
. i 
f 
' 
' 
5 
' 
i 
its fifth anniversary, including possible alternatives to a contin-
uation of the present program. 
In view of the relationship that had 
been noted to the Nassau branch question, he said that he would work 
0 £ 
- .: . 
' 
> . 
w 
,) 
i 
t 
with the staff in bringing the two issues together as part of the 
v.; /< • 
assignment given by the Board today. 
Agricultural Credit. The System discount study had rec-
ognized the existence of an agricultural credit problem in a number 
°f chronic capital deficit areas and had recommended the establishment 
r 
°f a special ad hoc System committee to investigate that problem 
further, including its possible solution by improvement in the 

1/21/70 
-5-
marketability of bank agricultural paper. 
In a memorandum of 
January 14, 1970, Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board, recommended 
that such a committee be activated. He suggested the appointment 
of President Galusha, as Chairman, along with Presidents Clay and 
Kimbrel and a member of the Board. 
It was agreed that steps should be taken to establish the 
proposed committee, and Governor Mitchell was designated as the member 
of the Board who would serve on the committee, which would be known 
as the Committee to Study Improvements in the Marketability of Bank 
Agricultural Paper. 
It was also agreed that Mr. Shepardson should 
be asked to work with the committee in the capacity of consultant. 
Directors' fees and allowances. 
In view of a question that 
had been raised by a Federal Reserve Bank regarding whether provi-
sion should be made for the payment of a fee to directors for days 
in which they were in travel to and from directors' meetings, the 
Office of the Secretary had proposed in a memorandum dated January 19, 
1970, that the views of the Reserve Bank Chairmen be solicited. 
After discussion, unanimous approval was given to the 
sending of a letter to the Chairmen of the Federal Reserve Banks in 
the form attached as Item No. 13. Approval also was given to a 
letter to President Hickman in the form attached as Item No. 14. 
Federal Advisory Council. As proposed in a memorandum 
from the Office of the Secretary dated January 21, 1970, it was 

1/21/70 
-6-
agreed that in connection with the meeting of the Federal Advisory 
Council to be held on February 5-6, 1970, the views of the Council 
should be requested on certain regulatory matters. A copy of the 
communication sent to the Secretary of the Council is attached as 
Item No. 15. 
Other matters. Governor Brimmer referred to a story that 
had appeared in the press in which a senior officer of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland was reported as encouraging the use of 
bank credit cards in connection with the payment of income taxes. 
Governor Brimmer felt that the comments of the Reserve Bank officer 
were ill-advised and expressed the hope that the Board would frown 
upon efforts by banks to promote the use of credit cards for the 
purpose in question. 
There followed reports on reactions to the steps taken 
yesterday by the Board in the Regulation Q area, after which 
Governor Robertson requested the Board's views, prior to his partic-
ipation in a meeting of the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation, 
with regard to the sale by banks of short-term capital notes in 
small denominations. 
The staff was requested to prepare a memorandum 
°n this subject, citing arguments for and against courses of regula-
tory action that might be taken, for the Board's consideration in 
advance of the Coordinating Committee meeting. 
There ensued discussion of the clearance of material for use 
in the Board's Annual Report for 1969, the availability to Board 

21.8 
i 
1/21/70 
-7-
members of copies of the Annual Report of the Council of Economic 
Advisers, and the question whether the staff would again this year 
make a presentation of economic projections to the Joint Economic 
Committee. 
It was understood that the last matter would be discussed 
further after the new Chairman of the Board had assumed his duties. 
The Secretary referred to consideration that was being given 
to working out through the Reserve Banks an informal survey of the 
terms, including maturities, of bank-related commercial paper 
currently being issued. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
• \> i 
n i 
•"i sr. 
A ;. , 
"Viv 
• • 0 .? • 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
1/21/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 21, 1970. 
first National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 31, 1969, the Board 
°f Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold 
llP to 100 per cent of the capital stock of Almacenadora Grancolombiana, 
S.A. ("Almabanco"), a warehousing company located in Bogota, Colombia, 
at a cost of approximately ?310,000, provided an investment of approx-
imately §100,0C0 is made within one year from the date of this letter. 
This consent is granted on the condition that Almabanco 
r(-strict its activities to the warehousing of goods in Colombia, and 
that its operations are and remain an integral part of the operations 
°f the branches; of First National City Bank in Colombia, and that the 
8reat majority of goods to be stored in the warehouse will be financed 
in one form or another by those branches. 
Should there be any altera-
tion in the operations of Almabanco from those set forth in your letter, 
the Board should be advised immediately through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Hew York. 
The above consent is granted subject to the further condi-
tion that your Corporation shall not carry on its books the shares of 
mabanco a t a net amount in excess of the book capital accounts of 
imabanco, after giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
G investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
Established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of First 
ctional City Bank and its subsidiaries, and that due consideration 
s being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

> 
Item No. 2 
1/21/70 
UNIXEID S T A T E S OP 
A M E R I C A 
i 
1 m 
i 
' 
BEFORE THE BOAfcD OF GOVEkNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST NATIONAL CORPORATION, 
Appleton, Wisconsin, 
f°r approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
The Clintonville National Bank, 
Clintonville, Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act cf 1956 
( 1 2 U.S.C, 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Re8ulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First National 
rPoration, Appleton, Wisconsin, for the Board's prior approval of 
th 
e acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
C 1mtcnville National Bank, Clintonville, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
ice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
ancJ requested his views and recommendation. 
The Comptroller recommended 
aPproval of the application. 

- 2 -
; 
1 
.. 
.it 
; 
Notice of receipt of thia at>pliciakioh Was published in the 
i, 
Federal Register on October 24, 1969 (34 Federal Register 17314), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded 
to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
keen considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
0 r 0 0 later than three months after the date of this fcrder, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Sank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C t, this 21st day of JanuaVy 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absaat and not voting: Chairman Martin. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

X J 
a 
BOARD OF GdVfeliNbnS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEii 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST NATIONAL CORPORATION, APPLETON, WISCONSIN, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION 07 VOTING SHARES OF 
THE CLINTONVILLE NATIONAL BANK, CLINTONVILLE, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
First National Corporation, Appleton, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), 
registered b ank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.c, 1342(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 
Co 
cent or more of the voting shares of The Clintonville National 
Batlk, Clintonville, Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
Viev/s and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
y section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application v/as given 
tlle Comptroller of the Currency, and his vieus and recommendation rrere 
Rested. 
The Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides that 
the Rfw 
a rd shall not approve an acquisition that uould result in a monopoly 
Of 
;°uld be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize 
or 
attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the 
U n U e d st-
^tates. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, the effect 
° f ^hich < 
l» in any section of the country, may be substantially to lessen 
C°^etitl-l o n ) or to tend to create a monopoly, or uhich in any other manner 

2 3 3 
-I-* 
would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the 
anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the 
transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
In each case, the Board is required to take into 
consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and 
J.L 
ne convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 10 
largest banking organizations in Wisconsin, all of which are bank 
hol<Hng companies, control deposits of $3.3 billion, representing 
39 Per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State.*/ 
1 
Upon 
Applicant controls three banks with aggregate deposits of $88 million. 
acquisition of Bank, which has deposits of $6.7 million (.1 per cent 
the State total), Applicant would be the ninth largest bank holding 
Conipany and banking organization in the State, controlling 1.1 per cent 
0 f State deposits. 
Bank is one of 12 banks, with 13 banking offices and total deposits 
Of 
million, 
in Waupaca County. Applicant has no subsidiary in the 
U n ty. 
Through acquisition of Bank's single office, it would control 
p e r 
cent of the county deposits and would become the second bank 
holdj 
8 company to operate an office in the county. 
Bank-
^ I d i L ^ 8 d a t a a r e a s o f J u n e 3 0> 1 9 6 9> unless otherwise noted, and reflect 
s company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

- 3 -
Baftk's service area, located ih the nortkern corner of Waupaca 
County, covers an area within an eight-mile radius of the City of 
Clintonville. 
Its office in Clintonville is approximately 36 miles 
northwest of Appleton and 43 miles west of Green Bay. There are four 
banks located in the area, which has a population of approximately 
i000. Bank is the second largest in the area; another Clintonville 
bank is the area's largest, holding about $10 million in deposits. 
The 
third largest bank ($5 million deposits) is located in Marion, seven 
m U e s northwest of Clintonville, and the smallest bank ($2 million 
deposits) is located five miles to the northeast in Embarrass. 
The rate 
o f increase in Bank's deposits for five years from December 31, 1963 
through December 31, 1968, has been considerably less than the deposit 
8 r ° W t h exPerienced by the competing banks for this period. 
It appears 
a t affiliation with Applicant would enable Bank to compete more 
effectively with the area banks, without undue adverse effect on any 
C0QlPeting bank. 
The closest subsidiaries of Applicant to Bank are a recently 
aPProved subsidiary, The First National Bank of Seymour, located 27 miles 
a s t and south of Bank, and the Greenville branch of the First National 
Bank of 
o r Appleton, located approximately 31 miles south-southeast of 
Cli ntonville. The service areas of Bank and Applicant's three subsidiaries 
ate °ropletely separate, and there are five banking offices located 
n t he intervening areas. None of the subsidiaries of Applicant competes 
signif. 
ncantly in the Clintonville area, and less than 1 per cent of Bank's 

I 
deposits and only one loan originate iti the ateas served by Applicant's 
subsidiaries. 
It appears that consummation of the proposal would not 
eliminate any significant degree of existing competition, and that, 
because of the distances separating the banks and the restrictions 
Placed on branching by Wisconsin laws, future competition would not 
adversely affected. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f the present proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance 
°f any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize the business of 
banking in any part of the United States, and would not restrain trade, 
Substantially lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly in any 
Section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant received approval in February 1965 to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of voting shares of the First National 
Sank of Appleton and a proposed new bank, Valley National Bank, both 
located in Appleton, Wisconsin. 
On December 9, 1969, the Board approved 
t h e accluisition by Applicant of The First National Bank of Seymour, 
Seymour, Wisconsin. 
The financial condition, management, and prospects of Applicant 
its subsidiary banks are regarded as generally satisfactory. 
The financial condition, management, and prospects of Bank are 
cong-jj 
ered to be fair. 
Its prospects would be improved by Applicant's 

- 5 -
Proposals to expand and improve Bank's lending services, to provide for 
Personnel training, and to assist in the selection and hiring of key 
Personnel. 
The banking factors, as they concern Applicant, are consistent 
with approval, and, as they relate to Bank, lend some weight toward 
approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities to be served. -
Consummation of the proposal would have no significant effect on customers 
served by Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
Clintonville has a population of approximately 5,000. The economy 
o f the city is industrial, but the surrounding area is agriculturally 
°riented and is a leading dairy farming section of the State. Applicant 
Proposes to offer, through Bank, several services not now available in 
tK 
e area, including full trust services, estate planning,investment advice, 
a n d direct leasing services. 
Services presently offered by Bank would be 
itnProved, particularly in the area of credit services. The managerial 
steff would be increased to include a trained individual to head an 
*nstallnient loan department, and consideration would also be given to 
employment by Applicant of a farm representative to serve Bank and 
^PPllcant's other subsidiaries. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
^unity served by Bank provide some weight in favor of approval of the 
^Plication. 

ZZ7 
- 6 -
. i 
Summary and conclusion 1 - Oh fclie basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
January 21,1970. 

Z
2
8 
Item No. 3 
1/21/70 
imilfeD SlfATfeS OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST VIRGINIA BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
Arlington, Virginia, 
for approval of acquisition of 90 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
the successor by merger to The Bank of 
Nansemond, Driver, Virginia. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Re8ulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Virginia 
B^nkshares Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, for the Boardfs prior 
aPproval of acquisition of 90 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of 
a new bank into which The Bank of Nanscmond, Driver, Virginia, 
be merged. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
th e Commissioner of Banking for the State of Virginia of the applica-
ti 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
^commended that the application be approved. 

22J) 
Nbiide o£ receipt of the application Was published in the 
Federal Register on September 24, 1969 (34 Federal Register 14746), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was for-
warded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
° r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 2lst day of January 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and Governors Daane 
and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
<SEAL) 

2 3 0 
BOAkD 
tbVERNCRS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION OF FIRST VIRGINIA BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
ARLINGTON, VIRGINIA, FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF 
VOTING SHARES OF THE SUCCESSOR BY MERGER TO 
THE BANK OF NANSEMOND, DRIVER, VIRGINIA 
STATEMENT 
First Virginia Bankshares Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, 
( Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of a new bank 
i U t 0 w hich it proposes to merge The Bank of Nansemond, Driver, 
Virginla ("Bank"). The new bank has no significance except as a 
Vehicle for acquiring the voting shares of the bank to be merged into 
it* 
» c«e proposal is therefore treated herein as one to acquire shares 
o f Bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
e < 1 U i r e d by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Commissioner 
f Banking for the State of Virginia of receipt of the application and 
tested his views and recommendation thereon. The Commissioner 
A m e n d e d that the application be approved. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that th e Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 

monopoly or would be in furtherance b* any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the bu&iness of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may tkfc Board approve & proposed acquis-
it-f 
ion, the effect of which* in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
° r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds t h a t t h e anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
a*e clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the 
e transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to b 
e served. x n each case, the Board is required to take into consid-
at io 
° n t h e f i n a^cial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
the H 
a n k h o l d i n g company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
needs of the communities to be served. 
£om£etitive effect of proposed transaction. - The nine largest 
t^nki 
8 organizations in Virginia, which include six bank holding 
companies 
, 
1/ 
> control 65.3 per cent 
of the total deposits held by all 
coinnerciai b I 
a 
8 i n t h e State. Applicant has 11 subsidiary banks with 
total d 
ts of $435 million, representing 6.4 per cent of the State 
dePosit8> 
a a d 
an 
is the sixth largest banking organization and the fourth 
ar8est bank 
a i U h o l d i t>g company in the State. Acquisition of Bank, which 
s $2 mi 
° n 0 f dePosits, would have no significant effect on the 
c°ncentrati 
° n 0 f banking resources in Virginia. 
i/ Banking da 
autJeCt a c ^ i s i t i n r e ^ ° f J u n G 3 0 ' 1 9 6 9 > u n l e s s otherwise noted, and 
cn°*ities to dat 
m e r 8 e r s approved by appropriate supervisory 

-22-
Bank, the only office of which 
located in tiid fcotfri of 
Driver, is the only bank headquartered in the area which it setves. 
i 
* 
which consists principally of the northern portion of Nansemond County, 
but which also extends into the northeastern section of Isle of Wight 
County. However, within the area, approximately five miles east of 
driver, there are four branches of much larger Portsmouth and Richmond 
banks (deposits ranging from $20 million to $600 million) which compete 
With Bank and offer complete banking services. Also competing with 
B ank, but to a lesser degree, are two banks, with deposits of $9.8 million 
a n d $7.8 million, respectively, located just outside the service area 
l n t h e t < w n of Smithfield, 12 milas northwest of Driver. Bank is the 
smallest banking institution in Nansemond County and in its service 
a r e a* 
In view of the disparity in the size of Bank and the competing 
banks u J 
> ic does not appear that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
V ° U l d a d versely affect other banking institutions, although Bank's com-
petitive ability would likely be improved thereby. 
The closest subsidiary of Applicant to Bank is Southern Bank 
f Norfolk, the nearest office of which is located 15 miles east of 
Dr iv 
e r ; no other subsidiary bank has an office within 85 miles of Bank. 
n U m b e r o f banking offices in the City of Portsmouth and its environs 
located i n the area between Driver and Norfolk, and there is only 
nlmal competition between the Norfolk subsidiary and Bank. No compe-
titi 
exists between Bank and any of the other subsidiaries. The same 
local* 4 
nal factors which have heretofore prevented significant competition 

233 
- 4 -
between Bank and Applicant's present subsidiaries would likely prevent 
tteahihgful compcititioh between them in fchfe future as well, in view of 
fact that the Subsidiary banks dre prohibited by State laws from 
branching de novo into Nansemond County. 
The Board concludes, on the basis of the record before it, 
that consummation of Applicant's proposal would not result in a monop-
° l y> n o r be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
^levant area. Neither does it appear likely that such consummation 
V O u l d substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or 
restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
TVi 
e financial conditions and managements of Applicant and its subsidiary 
banks are satisfactory, and prospects for the group appear favorable. 
Bank \7as opened for business in 1964. Its financial 
condition and management are satisfactory, and its prospects as an 
ependent organization appear reasonably good. However, affiliation 
v i t h Applicant should enable it to compete more effectively with the 
lar8er area banks, and to that extent its prospects would be improved. 
Considerations under the banking factors are consistent with 
aPProval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
C°nsummation of the proposal would have no effect on customers served 
b y applicant's present subsidiary banks. 

234 
Biitlk setVes the ptddotiiHfahtly dgificiilttttai area of Nansemond 
and Isle of Uight Counties in southeastern Virginia, just west of the 
Tidewater section. A variety of manufacturing industries, which 
include farm implements, hosiery, bricks, fertilizer, and a recently 
established plant manufacturing portable television sets, provide 
diversification to the area's economy, and economic prospects of the 
a rea appear favorable. In the event the application is approved, 
Applicant proposes to make additional mortgage funds available in the 
area and to expand Bank's credit capacity through participations 
arranged with other subsidiary banks. It also proposes, through its 
o t her subsidiary banks, to make trust services available to the area. 
D a t a p r o c essing will be made available to Bank and its customers, and 
c will be assisted in providing various specialized services beyond 
i t s Present capacity. 
It appears that the convenience and needs of the communities 
Solved will be better served as a result of Bank's affiliation with 
APPlicant- 
j 
n c> and this factor is regarded as supporting approval of the 
application. 
Sungnary and conclusion. - Based on all the relevant facts 
°nfcained i n the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
n 
(c) Of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
ransaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
January 2 l > 
1 9 7 0 -

Item No. 25 
1/21/70 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Q] 
PART 217--INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Entitles Exempt from Interest Rate Limitations 
1. Section 217.126 is revised to reed as follows: 
'.'is i :j ,v1 
17.126 
Foreign, international, and supranational entities exempt 
liom..interest rate limitations. 
Pursuant to § 217.3(g)(3), the following entities are 
hereby designated as exempt from § 217.7: 
Europe 
Bank for International Settlement; 
European Atonic Energy Community 
-"ropean Coal and Steel Community 
The European Communities 
European Development Fund 
European Economic Community 
European Free Trade Association 
European Funci 
European Investment Bank 
iatin America 
Andean Development Corporation 
Andean Subregional Group 
Caribbean Development. Bank 
aribbean Free Trade Association 
^arIbbean Regional Development Agency 
^entral American Bank for Economic Integration 
Cent- C e? t r a l A r n e r i c a n Institute for Industrial Research and Technology 
Ea 
A n u 2 r i c a n Monetary Stabilization Fund 
•ast Caribbean Common Market 
0 ^ U n American Free Trade Association 
P e r a n l Z a t i ° n f ° r C e n t r a l American States 
rmanent Secretariat of the Central American General Treaty 
Economic Integration 
V e r Plate Basin Commission 

- 2 -
llty. 
African Development Rank. 
Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique dc l'Ouest 
Banque Centrale des Etats de l'Afrique Equatorial et du Carneroun 
Conseil de I "Entente 
East African Community 
Organisation Commune Africaine et Malagache 
Organization of African Unity 
Union des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale 
Union Douan-.ere et Econcmiquc de l'Afrique Centrale 
union Douaniere des Etats de l'Afrique de 1'Guest 
Asia 
Asia arid Pacific Council 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
Bank of Taiwan 
Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea 
Middle 
Central Treaty Organization 
Regional Cooperation for Development 
2. Sections 217.142 and 217.143 are hereby revoked. 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 371b) 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 21, 1970 
(Signed) Kenneth A, Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kcnycn, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B D A R D O F G D V E R N G R S 
OVCOV;.. 
O F T H E 
Item NO. 5 
1/21/70 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 21, 1970. 
Seattle-First National Bank, 
1001 Fourth Avenue, 
Seattle, Washington. 
9812.4 
Gentl emen; 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to the Seattle-First National Bank," Seattle, 
^ashingtori, pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 5 of the Federal 
andGrV<r ^ C t > t o estat>lish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate 
maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section 
a n d of Regulation M. 
a 
... 
b r
 
I n granting this permission, it is understood that the 
not 
W i l 1 b e U S e d f o r d c v e l o P i n S n e w international business and 
U n i
 a s a n o a n s of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
tact;
e . S t a t e s - 
It: i s a 3 s o understood that there is to be no con-
staffWltl1 t h G I o c a l P u b l i c at the branch, and that its quarters, 
cont ' a n d b o o k , : e e P i n g niay, at least in part, be supplied under 
thi r a C t t y . a n o l h e r party. 
In view of the unusual character of 
tiruj.0Peration, the foregoing permission is granted subject to con-
not;UlnS S p e c i a l observation and review by the Board and after due 
also°G m a y b e 
t h d r a w n o r modified. 
The foregoing permission is 
the , 8 r a n t ^ d o n the condition that adequate information covering 
will 
f operations will be maintained at your head office and 
The R ° a v a i l a b l Q to the Board and its accredited representatives, 
bra m 
shoulc' be promptly informed of any modification in the 
unde^1
 1
S . m e t h o d s of operation, including changes in any contract 
r which services are supplied to the branch. 
bu . 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
s h a l l ^ ° U ° r b e f o r e February 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
g r
 
d eemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
^ 
w i H automatically terminate on that date. 
Reserv 
P l e a s e advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
The R V° B a n k 
san Francisco, when the branch is opened for business. 
loc^t--a 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
n o f the branch in Nassau. 

Seattle-First National Bank 
-2-
Y .V./-
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
le only at a branch of a member bank Located outside of the StatPs 
r the United Spates and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
ny limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
gulatio.i Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
t
u ject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see See-
on 213.7 of Regulation M). 
The general purpose of these exemptions 
win V 
foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
cn toreign banks. 
In these circumstances, it has long been and 
l n u e s t o b e t h e policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
U n i t T d e P ° S i t S b y U n i t e d S t a t e s residents at foreign branches of 
a d f ? t a t e s banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
nat-' 
n X t p ' n e c e s s a r y purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
tional transactions outside the United States. 
fund 
W i t h r e s p e c t 
t o t h e establishment oJ: foreign branches, 
canif ? r 0' 7 i d e d 
h o m e o f fioe (whether in the form of allocated 
for 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
the JJ U r p of o s o f t h e foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of 
ment ° a r d ° C 0 D C e r n w i t h minimizing the impact of foreign invest-
thc S T 1 t h e b a l a n c e o f payments, the above consent is given with 
maxim 
a U d i n g t h a t ± n t h e c o n d u c t : o l t h c branch's operations 
UuiLed n^ r C l : L a n C e 
, 
> P.i'aced on resources obtained outside the 
requir a^i'?- /^.q<?'rdingiy, It' i^uiiderstoocl that any investments 
forei G Q 
1 be'' m a d e w i t h i n t h e guidelines es tablished under the 
forej^ ? r < ! d i t restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
consid- 
? d i n g a n d investment activities of 3 our bank and that due 
eration i» being given to the priorities contained therein. 
j i: 
Uit 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Or" THE 
I t e m N O* 
6 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
1/21/70 
WASHINGTON, 
O. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C a R S E S P . I N D E N C i : 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 21, 1970. 
Hartford National Bank 
and Trust Company, 
777 Main Street, 
Hartford, Connecticut. 
06115 
Gen LI emen: 
The Foard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
l t s Permission to Hartford National Bank and Trust Company, pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to estab-
lish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and maintain such 
tanch subject to the provisions of such Seccion and of Regulation M. 
'if, 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
ranc.h will be used for developing new international business and not 
as a means of shifting loans or deposits frcm offices in the United 
a t c s * 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact with 
" le local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and 
ookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by an-
th l G r 
view of the special character of this operation, 
and 
Permission is granted subject to continuing observation 
n 
review by the Board and after due notice may be withdrawn or 
th 1 
The foregoing permission is also granted on the condition 
a adequate information covering the branch's operations will be 
and n t a i n G : i a t y ° U r l l C a d o f f i c e a n d 
b e available to the Board 
L t s accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly 
ormed of any modification in the brench's methods of operation, 
uding changes in any contract under which services are supplied 
L 0 the branch. 
k u . 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
shall G S S ° n °L" b e f o r c F e b m a r y 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
Will 
c* G G m e d to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Kes 
, please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
erve Bank of Boston, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
should8 i n f o r n v t i o n as to the exact location of the branch. 
The Board 
also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
t h e branch in Nassau. 

210 
Hartford National Bank 
and Trust Company 
-2-
Undei Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
°f the United Slates and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations, on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
egulaticn Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally sub-
ject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Section 213.7 
° 
Regulation II). The general purpose of thase exemptions is to al-
ow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad with 
b a n k s * 
I n t h e s e circumstances, it has long been and continues 
° be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits 
y United States residents at foreign branches of United States bank,: 
n ess such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, necessary 
Purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions 
outside the United States. 
f 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
^•nnds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capi« 
a > advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for 
Boa Pd^ e S ° f th'3 f o r e i 8 n c r e d l t restraint effort. 
In view of the 
0n
aj\ 
s c°ncern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments 
stamT b a J a n c e . a f Payments, the above consent is given with the under-
anc 
l n § t h a t 
t h e c o n d u c t of the branch's operations maximum reli-
Acc6 H^ 1 1 b e p l a c e d o n resources obtained outside the United States. 
mad°r i n § l y ' 
i s u n d e rstood that any investment required will be 
st^i 
h l n t h e § u i d e l i n e s established under the foreign credit re-
anciaUlt e. r f o r t n o w i n effect as they apply to the foreign lending 
is b ^ V e s L m e n t activities of your bank and that due consideration 
e i n 8 given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very tLuly yours, 
•U p > ft .. ,. - . 
(Signed Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 31 
1/21/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E R H O i ' l D f . N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 21, 1970 
American Security and Trust Company, 
l^th and Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W., 
Washington, D. C e 
20013 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
\ s permission to American Security and Trust Company, pursuant to 
he provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the FeJeral Reserve Act, to 
establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and maintain 
, U 
branch subject to the provisions of such Sections and of Regu-
lation M. 
, 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
no]- 
1 
b e u s e d f°r developing new international business and 
Ui
 
a s a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
t , 
Stctes. 
It is also understood that there is to be no con-
' V 7 l t h the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, 
cot ' a n c ! bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under 
tlro r a C t 
a n o t ! l e r party. 
In view of the special character of 
^ ° °per£tion, the foregoing permission is granted subject to con-
be
lUl
T
!!-nS observation and review by the Board and after due notice may 
on ™j ^ h d r a w n o r modified. The foregoing permission is also granted 
o 
e
<condition that adequate information covering the branch's 
abl 3 X° n S 
D e maintained at your head office and will be avail-
ahouid° t h G B o a r d a n d i t s accredited representatives. 
The Board 
method 
. P r° m p l : l y i n f o r m e d 
any modification in the branch's 
serv° S 
0 P e r a c i o n > including changes in any contract under which 
ices are supplied to the branch. 
bu . 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
shall6!!8 ° n ° r b e f o r c February 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
£ra t- a^ d e e m e d to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
n ed will automatically terminate on that date. 
Reserv 
pl e ase advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
furn* ? R i c h m o n d , when the branch is opened for business, 
Boar^ ^ ^ 
i n f o r m a t i o n as to the exact location of the branch. The 
tion 
f ° U 
also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
01" the branch in Nassau. 

American Security and Trust Company 
-2-
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Section 
^ 
o f Regulation M). 
The general purpose of these exemptions is 
to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. 
In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment cf foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated' 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
ior purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of the 
Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on 
balance of payments, the above consent is given with the under-
standing that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum 
reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United 
States. 
Accordingly, it is understood that any investment required 
will be made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restrains effort now in effect a it they apply to the foreign 
lending ar.d investment activities of your bank and that due con-" 
sideratiort is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
212 

243 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• r T H E 
E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 8 
1/21/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
El O A R D 
January 21, 1970. 
First National Bank of Memphis, 
165 Madison Avenue, 
Memphis, Tennessee. 
38101 
Gentl emen; 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
l t s Permission to First National Bank of Memphis, pursuant to the 
Provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a 
ranch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and maintain such branch 
subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
ranch will be used for developing new international business and 
as a ferns of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
nited States. 
It is also understood that there is to be no con-
tact with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, 
staff} ar)Ci bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under 
contract by another party« 
In view of the special character of 
this operation, the foregoing permission is granted subject to con-
inuing observation and review by the Beard and after due notice may 
e withdrawn or modified. The foregoing- permission is also granted 
° n the condition that adequate information covering the branch's 
operations will be maintained at your head office and will be avail-
e to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
The Board 
ould be promptly informed of any modification in the branch's 
nethods of operation, including changes in any contract under which 
s°rvices are supplied to the branch. 
, 
# 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
usiness on or before February 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
^all be d eenied to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
Slanted will automatically terminate on that date. 
^ 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
serve Bank of St. Louis, when the branch is opened for business, 
rnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
card should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
l 0 n of the branch in Nassau. 

first National Bank of Memphis 
-2-
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
a 
e o n I y at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
o f the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Q„ 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Section 
^ 
o £ Regulation M). 
The general purpose of these exemptions is 
to allow foreign branches of United States banks to competeabroad 
with foreign banks. 
In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
nited States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
unds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated' 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
or purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of 
e Board s concern with minimizing the impact of foreign invest-
ments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with 
"ne understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum relianca will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
^nited States. 
Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
equireil will bo made within the guidelines established under the 
oreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
0 reign lending and investment activities of your bank and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
V/ASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 35 
1/21/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
t J Q A R D 
January 21, 1970. 
The First National Bank of St. Paul, 
332 Minnesota Street, 
S t. Paul, Minneapolis. 
55101 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to The First National Bank of St. Paul, pursuant to 
provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish 
s ^ r a n c h i n 
Bahamas, and to operate and maintain such branch 
subject to the provisions of such Section aid of Regulation M. 
t
 
T n granting this permission, it is understood that the 
ranch will be used for developing new international business and 
jj0t; 
a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
" l t e d States. 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact 
*Lth the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
Q 
bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by 
"other party. 
In view of the special character of this operation. 
a ^ foregoi.ng permission is granted subject to continuing observation 
nd review by the Board and after due notice may be withdrawn or 
0 ified. The foregoing permission is also granted on the condition 
""at adequate information covering the branch's operations will be 
maintained at your head office and will be available to the Board and 
^ s accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed 
any modification in the branch's methods of operation, including 
^nges in any contract under which services are supplied to the 
branch. 
b 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
Rainess on or before February 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
11 be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
^ 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
-serve Bank of Minneapolis, when the branch is opened for business, 
^urnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
ard should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
lon of the branch in Nassau. 

The First National Bank of St. Paul 
-2-
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the State-; 
the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Section 
•13.7 of Regulation M). 
The general purpose of these exemptions is 
to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. 
In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
f 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
unds provided by home office (whether in t>.ie form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
or purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort* 
In view of 
he Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign invest-
ments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with 
"he understanding that in the conduct of the. branch's operations 
jjaxunum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
^nited States. 
Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
equired will be made within the guidelines established under the 
_°reign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
^oreign lending and investment activities of your bank and that due 
onsideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Vca*y truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth Ae Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2 4 7 
B D A R D • F G D V H R N D R 5 
• F THE 
Item No. 10 
E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1/21/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R F 5 S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P Q N D K N C E 
T O T H E 
B D A R D 
January 21, 1970. 
Liberty National Bank and Trust 
Company of Oklahoma City, 
p3rk Avenue at Robinson, 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. 
73125 
Gentl omen' 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, grants 
permission to Liberty National Bank and Trust Company of Oklahoma 
lt:y, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve 
cf? to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and 
Maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and 
of Regulation M. 
Tn granting this permission, it is understood that the 
anch will be used for developing new international business and 
°t as a m.*ans of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
States, 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact 
and ^ ^ 
at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
n 
bookkeeping may, at least in part, ba supplied under contract by 
ier party. 
in view of the special character of this operation, 
foregoing permission is granted subject to continuing observa-
^ 
n and review oy the Board and after die notice may be withdrawn 
^ ^uiiied. 
The foregoing permission is also granted on the con-
on that adequate information covering the branch's operations 
K „ 
1,e maintainc.d at your head office and will be available to the 
inf1^ a n d * t S accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly 
in ? r m e c* 
a ny modification in the branch's methods of operation, 
uaing changes in any contract under which services are supplied 
L 0 the branch. 
b 
. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
shallGSS ° n ° r b e f o r e February 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
c 1 be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
"ted will automatically terminate on that date. 
R e s 
' 
Please advise the Board of Governors-, through the Federal 
° r v o ^ank of Kansas City, when the branch is opened for business, 
Board 
i n ^ o r m a t i ° n a s to the exact location of the branch. 
The 
tio 
sk° uld also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
n 
the branch in Nassau. 

Liberty National Bank and Trust 
Company of Oklahoma City 
-2-
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any 
limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regula-
tion Q 0 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to 
the reserve requirements of Regulation B (but see Section 213.7 of 
Regulation M). 
The general purpose of these exemptions is to allow 
foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad with foreig 
banks. 
In these circumstances, it has long been and continues to be 
the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits by 
United States residents at foreign branches oi United States banks 
unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, necessary 
Purpose ir. connection with foreign or international transactions out-
side the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, fund. 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for 
Purposes of the foreign credit restraint efforts 
In view of the 
oard s concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on 
"e balance of payments, the above consent is given with the under-
standing that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum 
Reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United 
°tateg„ 
Accordingly, it is understood that any investment required 
^ill be made within the guidelines establishec under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
ending and investment activities of your bank and that due con-
iaeration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
2 If) 
Item No. 11 
1/21/70 
A D D R E S S 
D F F I D I A L CDRHEFPCIWDENCE 
TO THE OQARO 
January 21, 1970. 
Bank of the Southwest, NeA., 
910 Travis, 
Houston, Texas. 
77002 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
3-ts permission ;;o Bank of the Southwest, N.A., pursuant to the provi-
sions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch 
Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and maintain such branch subject 
° the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that, the 
r«inch will be used for developing new international business and 
j|0t a s a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
nj.ted States. 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact 
a n ^ t h f l 0 c a l f'ublic a t t h e branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by 
^notner party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, 
te foregoing permission is granted subject to continuing observation 
n<l review by the Board and after due notice r^ay be withdrawn or 
° lfied. 
The foregoing permission is also granted on the condition 
^at adequate information covering the branch's operations will be 
^intained at your head office and will be available to the Board 
its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly 
;n-ormed ofc any modification in the branch's methods of operation, 
*ncluding changes in any contract under which services are supplied 
t 0 ^ e branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
usiness on or before February 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
a H be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
Slanted will automatically terminate on that date. 
» 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
eserve Bank of Dallas, when the branch is opened for business, 
Urnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
l Q n of the branch in Nassau. 

Bank of the Southwest, N.AC 
-2-
Undei Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
o f the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branchas are not generally 
subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Section 
1^.7 of Regulation M). 
The general purpose of these exemptions is 
° allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
th foreign banks. 
In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
R*tcd States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a efinito, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
"nds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
apital3 advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign 
assets for purposes of the foreign crec'it restraint effort. 
In 
lew of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
nvestmenijs on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
Jith the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
^aximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
^n ted States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
^equiicd tviil Le made within the guidelines established under the 
^re.ign credit restraint effort now in effect, as they apply to the 
^ 0 reign lending and investment activities of your bank and that due 
°nsiderat:ion is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

of cow: -
KRESS?-'' 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N Q ] R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 12 
1/21/70 
A O D R E S 3 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N D E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 21, 1970. 
Valley National Bank, 
North Central Avenue, 
phoenix, Arizona. 
85001 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
Jts permission to Valley National Bank, pursuant to the provisions of 
^ection 25 oil the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, 
ahamas, e.nd to operate and maintain such branch subject to the pro-
visions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it. is understood that the 
ranch will be m e d for developing new international business and 
as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
nitcd States„ 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact 
With the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
bookkeeping may. at least in part, be supplied under contract 
y another party. 
In view of the special character of this opera-
* 0 nj the foregoing permission is granted subject to continuing 
0 nervation and review by the Board and after due notice may be 
withdrawn or modified. 
The foregoing permission is also granted 
° n the condition that, adequate information covering the branch's 
operations; will be maintained at your head office and will be avail-
Je to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
The Board 
should be promptly informed of any modification in the branch's 
^ethods of operation, including changes in any contract under which 
services are supplied to the branch. 
_ 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
usiness on or before February 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
lall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business, 
finishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The 
eard should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
lon of the branch in Nassau. 

Valley National Bank 
-2-
42 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
o f the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
Subjec.t to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Section 
213.7 of Regulation M). The general puipose of these exemptions is 
to allow f oreigi branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
Wl-th foreign banks c 
In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
nited States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United Statas. 
With 
aspect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
unds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of 
the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign invest-
ments on the balance of payments, the above consent is.given with 
the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United Statesr 
The Board has noted that as of November 30, 1969, foreign 
ans and investments of your bank exceeded the guideline ceiling 
Applicable under the foreign credit restraint program now in effect. 
. 0 foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the open-
ing of the Nassau branch will result in the reduction of those foreig i 
oans and investments to a level consistent with the guidelines; and 
• at due consideration is being given tc the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth AQ Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary,, 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F THE: 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 13 
1/21/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
January 21, 1970. 
'ear S i r : 
° f ^ c Te.rv' 
p a iT r e
i
C C n t l y " « i v e d a request from the President of one 
(S-2037) L< J k 
^ 
I N T E R P R E T 
i t s letter of November 24, 1967 
foi; dtrectri 
! e t f f ° r t h t h e s c h e d u l e 
o f maximum fees and allowances 
° f the F P d ^ i ° f i C ? e F e d e r a l R e s e ™e Banks and branches and for members 
t h a t becau l nr 
? 1 7 
Specifically, tte President was concerned 
0 1 tae long distances they must often travel to and from 
l n ft rtf FJ 
r» 
a. _ 
. • • . . 
^etinpn 
, . 
«.i»«y must oruen travel to and from 
bu^r ! 
n £ £ i c U l System activities, directors may lose one or 
Payment- "V 
c a y s 
f o r w I l i c h the current schedule dc 
llL 
a fee, 
not permit the 
i h e Vievn. of ^ 
b y l e t t e r ° f A u g u s t 
2 8 ' 1 9 5 6 ' t h e B o a i d solicited 
A c t o r s ' f 
1 0 L h a i r m e n o f t h e federal Reserve Banks on the subject of 
P r e s s e d hv n 
^ 
' U l o w a n c e s - 
T h e Passage of time and the concern 
m « t e for ii 
« P r e j i d e n t 
i n 
letter indicate that it would be appro-
nie Board again to seek advice. 
talfied by I!'0 ! 3° a r d V J O u l d therefore appreciate your comments on the issue 
dPsirJ i^SerV,'S R a n k P r e s i d e n t or any other changes that might 
V 0 u tnay vi«h * 
y° U* 
l t w o u l d a U ' ° appreciate whatever suggestions 
S e n s e s . ° 
G r eS p- r d i n8 the existing schedule of allowances for 
Bank. 
A C ( W 
o f this letter is being sent to the President of your 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
C 1 I A I R M E N 
A ! , D 
P R E S I D E N T S 
OF 
A L L 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K S . 

B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
'• 
or THE 
Item No. 14 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1/21/70 
K I . F A ^ ' L S * 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
f i f l i ^ 
W ^ i W f s C j S o 1 1 .* 
A D D R E S S 
O T F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 22, 1970 
Mr- W. Brad dock ilickman, 
President., 
federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
,}ear Brad: 
The thinking of the Board on the matter referred to in 
>*0ur letter of Iljvcmber 17, 1969, was last recorded in 1967 , when 
maximum fees and allowances for directors of the Reserve Banks 
V e r e increased. 
Prior to this, in 1956, the views of the Chairmen 
this subject were solicited by the Board. At that time two of 
e Chairmen suggested, as you do now, that c.n additional fee s'noulc 
Paid t;c a director for each day or portior. of a day usjsd in going 
° r returning from directors' meetings, committee meetings, or 
°ther meetings involving System activities. 
In the Board's consideration of these suggestions, there 
V a s general agreement that a director's fee should be related to 
j^etlngs attended rather than the time the director is away from 
s place of business. 
This would seem to bear out the concept 
ever the ysars, as reflected in the Board's records, that Reserve 
directors' fees are in the nature of an honorarium rather than 
^ompensation for services performed or for time lost from their own 
messes . L^ss of salary or other income by a director on account 
attending a Reserve Bank meeting wo-jld sef m to be unlikely. 
_ 
However, the Board has decided to solicit the views of the 
airmen on this subject as it did before ir. 1956. 
In addition, 
ause of the rise in travel costs, they have also been asked to 
consider whether some increase might be warranted in the daily 
sistence allowance of $25 approved for out-of-town directors 
Effective January 1, 1968! 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

C O M W T F R C I X L T E L E G R A M 
O R C A B L E 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S O F T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYStEfftw 
^ 
Item No. 15 
1/21/70 
call ltrs 
KCB 
charge to FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD 
Rate: 
via: 
Mr. Herbert V. Prochnow 
First National Bank of Chicago 
Chicago, Illinois 
January 21, 1970 
As per our telephone conversation today, Board proposes the 
following additional topic for discussion at February meeting 
of Federal Advisory Council: 
The Board would be interested in the Council's views regarding 
the following regulatory matters: 
1. 
The Board's action on January 20, 1970, to increase 
maximum rates of interest payable by member banks on time and 
savings deposits; 
page 1 of — 
PLEASE TYPE OR WRITE PLAINLY WITHIN INNER BORDER-DO NOT FOLD 
If additional space is required continue in space beiov;. 
call ltrs 
KCB 
charge to FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD 
2. 
The proposal of the same date to apply a 10 per cent reserve 
requirement on funds obtained by member banks through the 
issuance of commercial paper by bank affiliates, including a 
parent holding company; and the proposal of October 29, 1969, on 
which action has been withheld, to apply the rules governing 
the payment of interest on deposits to such funds; and 
3. 
The Board's determination of October 29, 1969, regarding 
the applicability of the rules governing payment of interest to 
commercial paper issued by bank subsidiaries, the effective 
date of which has been deferred to February 26, 1970. 
(signed) Robert C\ Holland 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary 
page 2 of 
A— 
PLEASE TYPE OR WRITE PLAINLY WITHIN INNER BORDER-DO NOT FOLD 
FOR O F F I C I A L BUSINESS ONLY - Sec Secretari al Handbook for Instructions and Rates 
