MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 24, 1969 

3ZQZ 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, October 24, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1J 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director. 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Morgan 
of the Board Members' Offices 
Mr. Grajcar of the Office of the Secretary 
U 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
U , 
v 
; .
.
.
. 
. 
t 
. 
• • 
°opies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
.><• a;* 
. , . • • r. 
•./:'•. 
• • . • 
• • 
:.. . •; 
>•{ • < 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
\ : r 1 ' • ; 
All members of the research divisions with the exception of 
Partee then withdrew from the meeting. Mr. Morgan also withdrew 
a t
 this point and the following entered: 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

3203 
10/24/69 
-2-
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Shuter of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Wood of the Division of Personnel Administration 
Mr. Waller of the Office of the Controller 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on October 20 and by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
f 
Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and 
Dallas on October 23, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed purchase of assets and assumption of 
liabilities of Riceville State Bank, Riceville, Iowa, by The First 
National 
Bank of Riceville, Riceville, Iowa, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion reading 
a s
 follows: 
The proposed purchase of assets and assumption 
of liabilities of Riceville State Bank by The First 
National Bank of Riceville would eliminate such 
competition as exists between them and reduce the 
number of banks in Riceville from two to one. 
However, 
in view of the size of each of the banks and the small 
community in which they are located, the overall com-
petitive effect is considered to be only slightly 
adverse. 

3204 
10/24/69 
-3-
Policy record entry. With a memorandum of October 21, 1969, 
Mr. Broida had submitted a draft of entry for the record of policy 
actions of the Federal Open Market Committee covering the meeting of 
the Committee held on August 12, 1969. The entry was in a form 
reflecting consideration of comments that had been received following 
the distribution of a preliminary draft. 
The entry was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
it would be distributed to the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks 
for possible further comments and that it would then be released about 
November 10, 1969, after final review by the Board. 
Regulation G question. Executive Portfolio Corporation, New 
York, New York, a corporation organized to provide financing to employees 
(of other organizations) exercising stock options pursuant to plans 
qualified under the Internal Revenue Code for preferred tax treatment, 
W a
s seeking an interpretation that the plan-lender provisions of section 
207.4(a) of Regulation G, Securities Credit by Persons other than Banks, 
brokers, or Dealers, should be construed so as to apply to financing of 
kind contemplated. 
If such an interpretation could be obtained, 
that would mean that credit could be extended to the employees by the 
corporation without regard to the normal limitations of the regulation. 
A l s
o , Executive Portfolio Corporation was petitioning the Internal 
A v e n u e Service not to consider the proposed credit arrangement part of a 

10/24/69 
-4-
qualified plan, for variances in such plans were not permitted if the 
preferred tax treatment was to be preserved. 
In a memorandum of October 20, 1969, the staff of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation recounted the history of the matter, 
recommended that the requested interpretation not be made, and also 
recommended that the Executive Portfolio Corporation's request for a 
hearing be denied. 
The staff's recommendations were reflected in a 
letter proposed to be sent to the corporation. 
After discussion the letter was approved, Governor Maisel 
dissenting, with the understanding that a copy would be sent to the 
Internal Revenue Service. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Governor Maisel dissented because he did not think evidence 
had been presented to demonstrate that a restrictive posture on the 
m
atter was required to avoid endangering the purposes of Regulation G 
and because he felt that such a showing should be made before additional 
restrictions were imposed in the stock option area since it was not his 
understanding that any major problem of excessive credit extension was 
involved. 
Cost of living adjustment. 
By action on September 30, 1965, 
Board had incorporated into the Board Plan of the Retirement System 
the Federal Reserve Banks the provisions of Public Law 89-205, enacted 
S e
Ptember 27, 1965, which amended the Civil Service Retirement Act to 
Provide for automatic increases in annuities whenever the consumer price 

3206 
10/24/69 
-5-
index increased by at least 3 per cent over the base month and remained 
up by at least 3 per cent for three consecutive months, the annuity 
increase to be equal to the highest percentage increase recorded in any 
one of those three months. 
Since then four increases had been granted 
to annuitants and survivor-annuitants covered by the Board Plan. 
As noted in a memorandum from the Division of Personnel Admini-
stration dated October 17, 1969, the Civil Service Commission had recently 
announced that another 4.0 per cent increase in the annuities of Civil 
Service retirees would become effective November 1, 1969, which meant 
that retirees under the Board Plan should have their annuities increased 
effective the same date in the same amount. 
(Note: 
At this meeting 
Mr. Johnson reported that the legislation signed by the President since 
the memorandum was prepared called for a 5.0 per cent rather than a 4.0 
Per cent increase.) 
The remaining question, as brought out in the memorandum, was 
whether the Board should continue, in this instance, the practice of 
Providing the cost of the increase in the annuities of Board Plan retirees 
a n
d their survivors on a funded basis, which would involve a payment in 
the estimated amount of at least $450,000, or whether it should shift to 
a
 Pay-as-you-go basis. 
The single payment basis was recommended, and 
approval of the resulting overexpenditure in the pertinent account of 
the Board's 1969 budget was requested. 

10/24/69 
-6-
Mr. Johnson now commented that Governor Maisel, after reading 
the memorandum, had suggested exploration of the possibility of deferring 
the aforementioned payment until after the beginning of next year in 
order to determine the extent of excess reserves that would accumulate in 
the Retirement System by virtue of a contemplated change from 3.5 per 
cent to 4 per cent in the guaranteed rate of interest. The Retirement 
Office had indicated that it would be agreeable to such a deferment in 
the making of the payment. 
Pursuant to Governor Maisel's suggestion, it was agreed to defer 
the making of the payment, it being understood, of course, that the 
increase in annuities of Board Plan annuitants and survivor-annuitants 
would be effective November 1, 1969. A copy of the letter sent to the 
Secretary of the Retirement Plan is attached under Item No. 2, along with 
a
 copy of a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
The meeting continued from this point witn limited staff 
attendance. 
Meeting with ABA committee. 
Governor Robertson reported that 
a
 committee of the American Bankers Association engaged in a study of 
bank regulatory structure had requested a meeting with Chairman 
Martin, but that the Chairman had taken the position that any such 
m e
eting should be with the Board rather than with him personally. 
Accordingly, the question was whether the Board was agreeable to meeting 

10/24/69 
-7-
with the committee. 
If so, it appeared that a meeting on the 10th or 
the 13th of November would be feasible. 
After discussion, it was the consensus that the Board should 
not decline to meet with the ABA committee. However, members of the 
Board were not aware that any reorganization plan that might serve as 
a basis for discussion at such a meeting had been prepared, and accordingly 
it was not clear exactly what questions the committee might want to explore. 
In the circumstances, it was the view that the committee should be asked 
to submit a proposed agenda in advance, in order that the Board might have 
an opportunity to prepare itself. 
Call for condition reports. Under the procedure prescribed by 
statute, the close of business on Tuesday, October 21, 1969, had been 
selected as the date for the third call on insured banks within the 
c
alendar year 1969 for submission of reports of condition. 
Accordingly, 
the usual telegram had been sent to all Federal Reserve Banks on 
October 22 requesting that a call be made upon State member banks on 
October 24 for reports of condition, on forms previously furnished by 
Board, as of the date indicated. 
The sending of the telegram was ratified by unanimous vote. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N G R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 2055' 
Item No. 1 
10/24/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C 
E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 28, 1969 
Mr. Charles G. James, President, 
Executive Portfolio Corporation, 
299 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10017 
Dear Mr. James: 
This is in response to your letter of September 15, 1969, 
requesting an interpretation of the Board as to whether the plan-lender 
Provisions of § 207.4(a) of Regulation G, "Securities Credit by Persons 
°ther than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers," were intended to apply to the 
financing of stoclc options restricted or qualified under the Internal 
^ v e n u G Code where such options or the option plan do not provide for 
S u 
1
 financing. 
You also request a hearing on the question presented. 
Section 207.4(a) of Regulation G permits a corporation or its 
Man-lender to extend credit to its employees without regard to the normal 
credit limitations of the regulation for the purpose of exercising stock 
°Ptions or stock purchase rights if the plan or agreement under which the 
credit is extended complies with certain, requirements. 
Subparagraph (1) 
0 1
 § 207.4(a) is in effect, a "grandfather clause," exempting from most 
• the credit limitations of Regulation G any such credit extended in 
connection with options or rights meeting certain specified "pre-existing" 
conditions. 
Generally, these conditions recognize inequities that would 
result from application of the regulation's restrictions to credit extended 
l n
 connection with options or rights granted, or contractual commitments 
toade prior to February 1, 1968, the date the adoption of Regulation G was 
Enounced. 
Subparagraph (2) provides a more limited exemption for credit 
^tended in connection with options or rights granted after February 1, 
and establishes requirements for plans seeking to qualify for this 
exemption. 
Subdivision (iii) of § 207.4(a)(1), which was added effective 
u
y 8, 1969, was designed to provide exemption, from all but certain 
^Porting provisions, for credit extended pursuant to the exercise of 
?jj°ck options or rights that are qualified or restricted under sections 
--424 of the Internal Revenue Code, if the options or rights were 
Granted prior to February 1, 1968. This exemption applies only to those 
3ns that provided for credit. This is because (1) employer-lenders 

Mr. Charles G. James 
- 
2 
-
3210 
who intended to supply credit when granting such options could not have 
anticipated the requirements of Regulation G arid (2) the position of the 
Commissioner of Internal Revenue that such plans cannct be modified, 
would frustrate that intention. 
If a particular plan did not provide 
for credit, no expectations would be defeated by the fact that it could 
not be modified to add such provisions. 
The recent amendment to subparagraph (2), which applies to stock 
Purchase as well as option plans, was to clarify that to be treated as 
subject to the more 'Limited exemption in that section, an otherwise appro-
priate credit arrangement need not be part of the plan. 
It is the Board's 
Experience that in some non-qualified plans, particularly stock purchase 
Plans, the credit arrangement is distinct from the plan. 
So long as the 
credit extended, and particularly, in the present context, the character 
°f the plan-lender, conforms with the requirements of the regulation, the 
fact that option and credit are provided for in separate documents is 
immaterial. 
It should be emphasized that the Hoard does not express any 
View on the prefe••ability of qualified as opposed to non-qualified options; 
role is merely to prevent excessive credit in this area. 
The amendments promulgated on February 10, 1969, made one other 
change in § 207.4(a). 
This was the addition oj the provision that the 
Plan-lender must be wholly owned as well as controlled "by the issuer of 
the collateral (taking as a whole, corporate groups including subsidiaries 
and affiliates). 
This insertion was made to clarify the Board's intent 
^hat, to qualify for special treatment under that section, the lender must 
stand in a special employer-employee relationship with the borrower, and 
a
 special relationship of issuer with regard to the collateral. 
The fact 
that the Board, for convenience and practical reasons, permitted the 
smploying corporation to act through a subsidiary or other entity should 
not be interprete»i to mean the Eoard intended the lender to be other tnan 
a n
 entity whose overriding interests were co-extensive with the issuer. 
independent corporation, with the independent interests, such as EPC, 
W a
s never intended, regardless of form, to be at the base of exempt st'.clc-
p l
* n lending. 
Finally, the Board considers that EFC has been extended ample 
°Pportuni tv to express its views and comments, both in writing and meetings 
w
ith a member of :he Board, as well as with staff, as the record will sub-
stantiate. 
Accordingly, the Board believes that no useful purpose would 
be s e w e d by granting your request for a further presentation of the matter 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P . Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

» 
' o? ccnV •. 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N G R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
10/24/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • * R E S P D N C E N C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 31, 1969 
Mr. Martin W. Bergin, 
Secretary, Retirement System 
of the Federal Reserve Banks, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New Tfork. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Bergin: 
By means of a letter dated Septemb?r 30, 1965, the Retire-
ment System was advised that the Board of Governors interposed no 
objection to increasing the. benefits under t'ie Board Plan of the 
Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Bancs to conform to the 
increased benefits provided by Public Law 89-205 to retirees and 
survivor-annuitants of the Civil Service Retirement System. 
The U. S. Civil Service Commission recently announced 
that, as a result of a further rise in the Consumer Price Index of 
3 per cent or more over the base month of December 1968, an addi-
tion*! cost-of-living increase of 4.0 per cent effective November 1, 
1-69, will be granted to those annuitants and survivor-annuitants 
on the retirerne it rolls as of November 1, 1969. This increase is 
also applicable to the future annuity of each designated survivor 
°f a retiree on the rolls as of November 1, '..969. 
In addition, the Board or Governors on October 24, 1969, 
interposed no objection to further increasing the benefits provided 
retirees and survivors-annuitants provided to the Civil Service 
Retirement System under Public Law 91-93 (copy enclosed) which 
Provides, in pa;t, that a further 1 per cent increase be added to 
the amount of cost of living annuity adjustment each time an adjust-
ment is made. 
Accordingly, the cost of living adjustments effective 
November 1, 196
l
» for annuitants and survivor-annuitants will total 
5 per cent. 
This increase is also applicable- to the future annuity 
each designated survivor of a r e t i r e e on the r o l l s as of 
November 1, 196'.). 

M r . Martin T\
T
. Bcrgin 
-2-
The method of funding these cost-of-living increases has 
been deferred on the premise that excess reserves created by the 
proposed increase to 4 per cent in the Retirement System's rate of 
interest will be used. We would appreciate your advising of the 
amount necessary to fund these increases and the estimated amount 
of excess reserves that would be available for this purpose, 
assuming favorable action on the proposed 4 per cent interest rate. 
We understand that the Actuary for the Retirement System has been 
asked to furnish this information. 
Another letter will be forwarded to you soon concerning 
other retirement benefit provisions of Public Law 91-93. 
There is enclosed a copy of a letter addressed to 
Mr. Aubrey N . Heflin, President, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
authorizing the Bank to pay to the Retirement System the sum which 
the Actuary determines necessary to fund a sr.milar cost-of-living 
increase in the annuity of Mrs. Maurice P. Flagg. 
Very trul} yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
i 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
-ill*' 
Enclosures. 

" > * y 
* > 
B O A R D • F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A O B R : S S urnciAL coRscspcNacNce 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 31, 1969 
\ 
Mr. Aubrey N. Heflin, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Heflin: 
Following the Civil Service Commission Retirement System's 
recent announcement of an increase of 4.0 per cent in the annuities 
of its retired employees and survivors, effective November 1, 1969, 
a similar increase is being made in the annuities of the retired 
employees and .survivors of the Board Plan of the Retirement System 
of the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Also, the Board of Governors approved, cn October 24, 1969, 
the increase ox an additional 1.0 per cent in benefit provisions for 
Board Plan survivor-annuitants as was provided for Civil Service 
Commission Retirement System's survivor-annuitants by Public Law 91-93. 
Therefore, the total increase in annuities of survivor-annuitants will 
be 5.0 per cent:, ef fee Live November 1, 1969. 
In order that the widow of Mr. Maurice P. Flagg may con-
tinue to receive the same benefits as those payable under the Board 
Plan, as outlined in Mr. Leach's letter of September 9, 1955, the 
Board of Governors authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
to pay to the Retirement. System of the Federal Reserve Banks the 
amount determined necessary to fund an increase of 5.0 per cent in 
her annuity for the period of her remaining life. 
It is understood that the Retirement System will bill you 
for the cost of funding this benefit as soon as this cost has been 
determined by t.he Actuary. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
fHPiw-
w
i
f
e 
KL^:-' 
