MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 26, 1972 

2587 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, September 26, 1972. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 11:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Burke, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the applica-
tion of First Financial Corporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares 
1/ Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

9/26/72 
of Venice-Nokomis Bank and Trust Company, Venice, Florida, and 
authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of First at 
Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire shares of The City 
Bank and Trust Company of St. Petersburg and The Suncoast City Bank 
of St. Petersburg, both in St. Petersburg, Florida. An order reflec-
ting that decision was also authorized. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Mid America 
Bancorporation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota, to acquire shares of First 
State Bank of Coon Rapids, Coon Rapids, Minnesota, and authorized the 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of United 
Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Richmond, Virginia, to retain shares 
of United Virginia Mortgage Corporation, Richmond, Virginia, and to 
engage de novo in the sale of credit-related insurance. An order 
reflecting that decision was also authorized. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 4. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order reflecting 
approval on September 12, 1972, of the applications of Combanks 

2589 
9/26/72 
-3-
Corporation, Winter Park, Florida, to acquire additional shares of the 
following Florida banks: South Seminole Bank, Fern Park; North Orlando 
Bank, Fairvilla; The Commercial Bank at Pine Castle, Pine Castle; and The 
Commercial Bank at Apopka, Apopka. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 5. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Boatmen's Bancshares. In a memorandum dated September 12, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the application of Boatmen's Bancshares, 
Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of Boatmen's National 
Bank of North St. Louis County, St. Louis County, Missouri, a proposed 
new bank. Other documentation included a memorandum dated September 19, 
1972, in which the Legal Division also recommended approval. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 6. 
Valley Agency Company. In a memorandum dated September 18, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended denial of the applications of Valley Agency Company, 
Valley, Nebraska, (1) to become a bank holding company through the acqui-
sition of shares of Bank of Valley, Valley, Nebraska; and (2) to continue 
to engage in general insurance activities. 

2590 
9/26/72 
-4-
The Board unanimously denied the applications, with the under-
standing that an order reflecting that decision would be prepared for 
the Board's consideration. 
"Grandfather" privileges. The 1970 amendments to the Bank 
Holding Company Act required that the Board review within a two-year 
period those bank holding companies covered by the amendments that 
had a bank subsidiary with assets of $60 million or more as of Decem-
ber 31, 1970. The purpose of the review was to determine whether 
certain nonbanking activities conducted by the holding company on or 
before June 30, 1968, and continuously since that date should be 
required to be divested. 
In memoranda dated September 13, 1972, Mr. Leavitt and the 
Legal Division stated that on the basis of staff review, conducted in 
accordance with guidelines approved by the Board on March 28, 1972, 
it had been concluded that 22 of the registered bank holding companies 
with banking assets of $60 million or more as of December 31, 1970, 
either had no nonbanking activities or had grandfathered nonbanking 
activities that did not appear at the present time to require divestiture. 
A list of the companies was attached to a memorandum from the Banking 
Markets Section dated September 13, 1972. 
Staff recommended that preliminary determination be made that 
the Board at the present time had found no basis for termination of 

2591 
9/26/72 
-5-
grandfathered activities of the 22 companies. 
It was further recom-
mended that a Federal Register notice to that effect be published for 
comment and that the companies concerned be so informed. After the 
period for comment had elapsed and any information received had been 
analyzed, the Board would then make a final determination with respect 
to the companies. A draft Federal Register notice was attached to the 
Legal Division's memorandum of September 13. 
Discussion indicated agreement with the procedures recommended 
with respect to the 22 bank holding companies. A question was then 
raised with respect to the remaining bank holding companies with grand-
father privileges that were in the $60 million asset category. Staff 
reported that reviews of the remaining companies had been completed 
and the resulting information would be assembled within the next two 
to three weeks. It was suggested that as soon as information pertaining 
to the remaining bank holding companies had been received and examined, 
a second Federal Register notice be issued inviting public comment with 
respect to the companies concerned. 
The Board then unanimously approved the publication of the 
Federal Register notice with respect to the 22 bank holding companies, 
with the understanding that a second notice inviting public comment 
on the remaining bank holding companies in the category concerned would 
be issued at a later date. Copies of the two Federal Register notices 
are attached under Items 7 and 8. 

2S32 
9/26/72 
-6-
North American Mortgage Corporation. By order dated July 139 
1972, the Board approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, the application 
of North American Mortgage Corporation, St. Petersburg, Florida, to 
acquire shares of The American Bank, St. Petersburg, Florida, a proposed 
new bank. At that time the staff was requested to review North American's 
nonbanking activities for the purpose of providing guidance to the Board 
with respect to the desirability of modifying grandfather privileges 
that the holding company acquired upon passage of the 1970 amendments 
to the Bank Holding Company Act. 
In a memorandum dated August 25, 1972, the Banking Markets 
Section and the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended that 
at the present time no requirement of modification be imposed on North 
American's grandfathered activities. 
The ensuing discussion centered on the review process with 
respect to applications for additional bank acquisitions submitted by 
bank holding companies with grandfather privileges. At the meeting 
on September 21, 1972, the Board had reached a decision on the princi-
ples to be followed with respect to such companies. During today's 
discussion the Board instructed the staff to prepare a statement of 
its understanding of those principles and related review procedures. 
(Such a statement was distributed to the Board with a memorandum of 
September 28 from the Office of the Secretary.) 

2593 
9/26/72 
-7-
Discussion then turned to North American Mortgage Corporation, 
and a majority view developed in favor of the staff recommendation in 
the August 25 memorandum. Governor Brimmer, however, expressed reser-
vations with regard to certain of North American's grandfathered 
activities. 
The Board then approved the staff recommendation, Governor 
Brimmer dissenting. 
It was understood that today's decision would 
constitute a preliminary determination and that public comment would 
be requested in the Federal Register notice to be issued in connection 
with the preceding item on today's agenda. 
Chairman Burns entered the meeting at this point and all 
members of the staff withdrew except Messrs. Holland, Melnicoff, 
O'Connell, Burke, and Greenspan. 
Salary Increase for Reserve Bank officer. Governor Sheehan 
presented a memorandum of September 25, 1972, from the Committee on 
Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans recommending that the 
Board approve an increase in the annual salary of A. B. Merritt, First 
Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, from 
$42,500 to $45,000, effective May 1, 1972, as proposed by the directors 
of that Bank. 
Following discussion, the Board approved the Committee's 
recommendation. Governor Brimmer dissented on the grounds that 

2594 
9/26/72 
-8-
(1) this action contravened established Board policy by reflecting 
special compensation to Mr. Merritt for acting as temporary President 
of the Bank, and (2) he did not want to establish a policy of granting 
retroactive increases. Attached as Item No. 9 is a copy of the letter 
informing the Reserve Bank of the Board's action. 
Mr. Burke then withdrew. 
Regulations D and J. Mr. O'Connell reported to the Board on 
conversations with Mr. Bell, Counsel for the Independent Bankers 
Association of America, in its suit against the Board in the District 
of Columbia to enjoin implementation of the proposed amendments to 
Regulation J. Mr. Bell reported that, while he had not discussed the 
matter with his client, he felt relatively sure that it would agree to 
the settlement of the suit if the Board would modify Regulation J so 
as to delay the immediate impact of the amendments on nonmember banks. 
Discussion centered on whether the proposed compromise would 
settle all law suits so as to permit the Board to implement Regulations 
D and J, whether a compromise in this case would encourage additional 
law suits on other matters, whether action would have any effect on the 
establishment of Regional Check Processing Centers, and whether compro-
mise would diminish the esteem with which a majority of banks presently 
hold the Board. 
After further discussion it was unanimously agreed that the 
Board would not compromise its position but would take all appropriate 

9/26/72 
-9-
actions in the court to obtain implementation of its regulations as 
soon as possible. Mr. O'Connell was instructed to convey this infor-
mation to the Independent Bankers Association at such time and in such 
manner as he might consider appropriate. 
In addition, it was requested that the staff explore whether 
Regulation D could be implemented at this time on a gradual basis, 
on the assumption that the delay in the implementation of Regulation J 
would be temporary. If such immediate implementation of Regulation D 
were feasible, the staff was further directed to review the merits of 
the Regulation D amendments that had been adopted by the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2536 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m No- 1 
9/26/72 
FIRST FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Financial Corporation, Tampa, Florida, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has ap-
plied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire not less than 57.967 per cent of the voting 
shares of Venicse-Nokomis Bank and Trust Company, Venice, Florida 
("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
ested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
Views has expired, and the Board has considered the application and all 
comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls nine banks with aggregate deposits of 
approximately $520 million, and is the sixth largest banking organiza-
tion in Florida, with 3.2 per cent of commercial bank deposits in the 
State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, and reflect bank 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
August 31, 1972.) Acquisition of Bank ($34.8 million in deposits) would 
increase Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits in the State by 
an insignificant amount and its ranking in the State would be unchanged. 
Bank is the second largest of three banking organizations competing 
in the Venice banking market which encompasses the city of Venice and 

- 2 -
2597 
nearby residential areas located in southwest Sarasota County. Bank 
controls 43,4 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the 
market. 
Applicant's subsidiary bank located closest to Bank is 
29 miles north of Bank, in Bradenton. It appears that there is no 
significant competition between Bank and Applicant's Bradenton Bank or 
any of Applicant's other subsidiary banks. Moreover, it appears 
unlikely that such competition would develop in the future in the light 
of the facts of record, notably, the distances separating Bank from 
Applicant's present subsidiary banks, the number of banks located in 
intervening areas, and the State prohibition against branch banking. 
It appears, therefore, that consummation of the proposal herein would 
neither eliminate meaningful existing competition nor foreclose 
significant potential competition. It appears that adverse publicity 
relating to Bank's former management has resulted in Bank's not pro-
viding the degree of competition in the market that it is capable of 
offering. Affiliation with Applicant should enable Bank to compete 
more aggressively within the Venice banking market; thus, approval of 
this application should have a procompetitive effect on competition in 
the area. On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse 
effect on competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant and its subsidiary banks are regarded as generally 

3-
2598 
satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application, particularly 
in the light of Applicant's commitment and program for increasing the 
capital of its subsidiaries. Bank has experienced some management 
problems. Affiliation with Applicant should enable Bank to draw upon 
Applicant's managerial resources to aid Bank in strengthening management 
and the condition of Bank, and enhancing its prospects. Also Applicant 
has agreed to add $1,000,000 in equity capital to Bank upon acquisition. 
The banking factors lend weight for approval. The banking needs of the 
Venice banking market appear to be adequately served at the present 
time; however, Applicant proposes to improve, expand, and revitalize 
those services Bank is offering to its community, and thereby enable 
Bank to become once again a strong competitor. Considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the community to be served weigh in 
favor of approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction is in the public interest and should be 
approved, 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
k 

2599 
-4-
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,-" effective September 26, 1972, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, Sheehan, and 
Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson 
Daane. 

2600 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m No- 2 
9/26/72 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of ganks 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has filed separate applications for the Board's approval under 
§ 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire at least 
90 per cent of the voting shares of The City Bank and Trust Company 
°f St. Petersburg ("City Bank"), and The Suncoast City Bank of St. 
Petersburg ("Suncoast Bank"), both located in St. Petersburg, 
Florida. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and the Board has considered the applica-
tions and all comments received in light of the factors set forth 
in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 26 banks with aggregate deposits of 
$904.6 million, representing 5.6 per cent of the deposits for com-
mercial banks in Florida, and is the fourth largest banking organi-
zation in the State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, 
and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
through August 31, 1972.) The acquisition of City Bank ($44.4 
million in deposits) and Suncoast Bank ($5 million in deposits) 

-2-
2tt01 
Would increase Applicant's control of State deposits to 5.9 percentage 
Points. Applicant's rank among State banking organizations would 
remain unchanged, and the concentration of banking resources on a 
local and State level would not increase significantly. 
Subject banks are located in the City of St. Petersburg, in 
the South Pinellas banking market, and their acquisitions would repre-
sent Applicant's initial entry into the area. City Bank and Suncoast 
Bank hold 4.53 and .52 per cent of total market deposits and rank 
seventh and twenty-third, respectively, among the 23 banks represented 
in this market area. Six multibank holding companies and three bank-
ing groups are represented in the market, and six banks control 57 
Per cent of total market deposits. Although subject banks are less 
than three miles apart and their service areas overlap, they do not 
actively compete with each other. Suncoast Bank was organized by 
City Bank in 1971, and both are under common management and control. 
It appears that no present or future competition between subject 
banks would be eliminated by consummation of this proposal. 
Applicant's closest subsidiary banking offices are located 
approximately 25 miles from subject banks.\ There is no significant 
Present competition between any of these offices, and due to the 
densely populated areas, the distances between banking offices, and 
' 
' ' " 
' 
f
Florida's restrictive branching laws, it appears that there is little 
likelihood of the development of future competition. 
Consequently, 
competitive considerations are consistent with approval of the 
jte 
applications. 

2«02 
- 2 ~ 
The capital positions of eight of Applicant's subsidiaries 
are deemed to be somewhat low; however, Applicant has made a commit-
ment to increase the equity capital in these banks by the end of 
1972, and after the proposed increases each of the banks would 
have adequate equity capital bases. Accordingly, the financial con-
dition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks are deemed to be 
generally satisfactory; their managements are considered to be 
capable and prospects for the group are favorable. The financial 
conditions and managements of City and Suncoast Banks are also 
believed to be generally satisfactory and prospects for both banks 
appear favorable. Banking factors are consistent with approval 
of the applications. 
Although the primary banking needs of the communities are 
Presently being served, Applicant's expansion and improvement of 
services now available at both subject banks, especially trust 
services, would benefit the public and enable banks to become 
stronger competitors with the larger area banking offices. There-
fore, considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served are consistent with and lend some support 
toward approval of the applications. It is the Board's judgment 
that consummation of the proposed acquisitions would be in the 
public interest and that the applications should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 

2«03 
- 2 ~ 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the 
effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors," effective September 26, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assietant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, Sheehan, and 
Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson 
and Daane. 

2i>04 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
9/26/72 
MID AMERICA BANCORPORATION, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Mid America Bancorporation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of First State Bank of Coon 
Rapids, Coon Rapids, Minnesota ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and the Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls five operating banks (and has received 
Board approval for an additional bank not yet opened for business) 
with aggregate deposits of approximately $59 million, representing 
0.6 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State, and 
is the seventh largest bank holding company in Minnesota. 
(All banking 
data are as of December 31, 1971, and reflect bank holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through August 31, 
1972 .) Applicant's acquisition of Bank ($10.2 million in deposits) 
would increase Applicant's share of deposits in Minnesota by 0.1 
Percentage point, without changing its ranking within the State. 

2 « 5 
- 2 ~ 
Bank, the only bank in Coon Rapids, is located in a growing 
area 15 miles north of downtown Minneapolis, adjacent to a small local 
shopping center. The relevant market area is the Minneapolis-St. Paul 
banking market in which Applicant has five banking subsidiaries 
(including the bank not yet opened for business), the closest being 
located 16 miles southeast of Bank. There is no substantial existing 
competition between Applicant's present banking subsidiaries' and Bank; 
and, for several reasons, including the distances involved, the 
Presence of banking alternatives in the intervening areas, and 
Minnesota's prohibition against branch banking, there is no substantial 
likelihood of future competition developing between those subsidiaries 
and Bank. For similar reasons, there is no significant possibility of 
Substantial competition developing between Bank and Applicant's other 
hanking subsidiary, which is located approximately 60 miles west of the 
Minneapolis-St. Paul area. 
Moreover, consummation of this transaction might have a 
beneficial effect on competition in the Minneapolis-St. Paul banking 
Market. Six bank holding company groups hold, in the aggregate, 
nearly 82 per cent of the deposits in the market, while Applicant con-
trols only 0.8 per cent of the deposits. Acquisition of Bank would 
increase Applicant's share of market deposits by 0.2 percentage points 
and would give it a service outlet in an area of the Twin Cities in 
which it is presently not represented. Thus, acquisition of Bank might 
enable Applicant to provide more effective competition for the much 

2GGS 
-3-
larger banking organizations in the Minneapolis-St. Paul banking market 
with which it must compete. On the basis of the record before it, the 
Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not 
adversely affect competition in any relevant area. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial re-
sources and future prospects of Applicant and its subsidiary banks are 
regarded as satisfactory. Applicant can provide lending policy guidance 
that might strengthen the overall asset condition and management of 
Bank and this consideration lends some weight for approval. The Coon 
Rapids community might benefit as a result of Bank's improved ability, 
through the capacity of Applicant's system, to serve the growing credit 
needs of the area more effectively. It is the Board's judgment that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest 
and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
°r (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
Such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective September 26, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
i/ Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, Sheehon, and 
Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson 
and Daane. 

2i>07 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
9/26/72 
UNITED VIRGINIA BANKSUARES INCORPORATED 
Order Approving Retention of United Virginia Mortgage Corporation 
United Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Richmond, Virginia, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to retain all of the voting 
(
 
shares of United Virginia Mortgage Corporation, Richmond, Virginia, a 
company that engages in the activities of a mortgage company and proposes 
to engage de novo in acting as agent for the sale of credit life, credit 
lability and mortgage redemption insurance. Such activities have been 
determined by the Board to be closely related to the business of banking 
<12 CFR 225.4(a)(1) and (9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
been duly published (37 Federal Register 15896). The time for filing 
comments and views has expired, and none have been timely received. 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in Virginia, controls 
i2 banks with aggregate deposits of approximately $1.3 billion, representing 
1/ 
per cent of the total deposits in commercial banks in Virginia.-* 
applicant' s nonbanking subsidiaries include a service corporation, an 
insurance agency, a leasing company, and United Virginia Mortgage Corpora-
tion ("Company"). 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1971. 

2«08 
- 
2 
~ 
The Company, with offices in Richmond, Roanoke, Annandale, 
Masses, Norfolk, Newport News, and Alexandria, Virginia, and Langley 
?ark, Maryland, engages in the activities of a mortgage company which 
delude 
originating loans as principal, originating loans as agent, 
Servicing loans for nonaffiliated individuals, partnerships and corpor-
ations, and servicing loans for affiliates of United Virginia Bankshares 
^corporated. In addition, Applicant proposes to engage de novo in 
acting as agent for the sale of credit life, credit disability and mort-
age redemption insurance in connection with the origination or servicing 
such mortgages. 
Prior to this application the Company, which was acquired on 
°ctober 1, 1968, has been operated pursuant to § 4(c)(5) of the Bank 
2 J 
hiding Company Act." 
Under § 4(c)(5), the Company is not authorized 
to conduct full service mortgage banking operations at locations other than such 
^cations where Applicant's subsidiary banks are authorized to engage in 
3 / 
^Usiness.~ 
Applicant now seeks permission to operate the Company under 
t h e broader authority of § 4(c)(8) so that none of the Company's offices 
w°uid be subject to the "loan production" restriction. 
The Board regards the standards of § 4(c)(8) for the retention 
0f shares in a nonbanking company, previously operated by a bank holding 
^ 
Prior to June 30, 1971, a bank holding company could, under § 4(c)(5), 
irectly acquire shares of a corporation to perform, at locations at which 
t s subsidiary banks are authorized to engage in business, functions, such 
Mortgage banking, that national banks are empowered to perform directly 
CPR 7.7379; 225.4(e); 250.141). 
The Company's offices that are not located on the premises of Applicant's 
?ubsidiary banks are "loan production offices" where the Company may solicit 
°ans, assemble credit information, prepare applications for loans, and perform 
^ther similar agent type activities for mortgage offices located on the 
Premises of Applicant's subsidiary banks (12 CFR 250.141). 

2699 
- 3 -
company pursuant to § 4(c)(5), to be the same as the standards for a 
Proposed § 4(c)(8) acquisition. Accordingly, the Board must find that 
Either the operation of the nonbanking company under § 4(c)(5), nor 
^ e Board's approval of the § 4(c)(8) application would result in an undue 
concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflict of 
interest, or unsound banking practices. 
Since Applicant's acquisition of the Company in 1968, the 
Company's assets have quadrupled. The Company derives business from 
. o f Applicant's subsidiary banks located throughout Virginia and from 
°ne "loan production" office located in the Maryland suburbs of Washing-
ton» D. C. With permanent mortgage servicing contracts in excess of $204 
^ U i o n , as of June 30, 1971, the Company was the third largest mortgage 
inking company in Virginia on that date. 
The Company is primarily engaged in originating mortgage loans 
f°r the account of others and servicing such loans. Although Applicant's 
Suksidiary banks do originate a limited volume of mortgage loans for their 
account, this activity does not overlap significantly with the Company's 
activiti es. Accordingly, no significant competition exists between the 
°mPany and Applicant's subsidiary banks. Further, it does not appear that 
n y significant potential competition would be foreclosed upon consummation 
of t h 
a e proposal because it is unlikely that the Company would remain a signi-
fy 
Cant competitor without access to Applicant's resources. 
Under Applicant's operations the Company, originally a small, 
local mortgage company, has become a larger and more viable competitor 

2ol0 
- 
4 
.. 
among mortgage companies in Virginia. Although the proposed retention 
Would change only the company's operating authority, some benefits may 
accrue to the public through the proposed retention,since Applicant would 
be able to offer full service mortgage banking facilities at locations 
°ther than its subsidiary banking offices, thereby providing greater 
convenience to its customers. There is no evidence in the record to 
^dicate that the proposed retention would lead to an undue concentration 
°f resources, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public interest 
^actors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is favorable. 
Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This determination is 
Subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to 
^ e Board's authority to require such modification or termination of the 
Activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board 
finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of 
the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to 
Prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governorseffective September 26, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
£T*~Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, Sheehan, and 
B^cher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson 
and Daane. 

2611 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
COMBANKS CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Combanks Corporation, Winter Park, Florida, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a) 
(3)) to acquire not less than 51 per cent of the voting shares of each 
o f the following banks all located in Florida: (1) South Seminole 
&ank, Fern Park; (2) North Orlando Bank, Fairvilla; (3) The Commercial 
Bank at Pine Castle, Pine Castle ("Commercial/Pine Castle Bank"); and 
The Commercial Bank at Apopka, Apopka ("Commercial/Apopka Bank"). 
Notice of the applications affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
Accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and the Board has considered the applications and 
comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls one bank with total deposits of approxi-
mately $59 million, representing about .4 per cent of deposits in 
1/ 
commercial banks in Florida. 
Consummation of the proposed transactions 
w°uld increase Applicant's share of Statewide deposits by only .4 per-
Centage 
points and would not result in a significant increase in the 
c°hcentration of banking resources in Florida. 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1971. 
Item No. 5 
9/26/72 

2 G 
- 2 -
South Seminole Bank (about $28 million in deposits), North 
Orlando Bank (about $14 million in deposits), Commercial/Pine Castle 
Bank (about $6 million in deposits), and Commercial/Apopka Bank (about 
million in deposits) are all located in the Orlando area, as is The 
Commercial Bank at Winter Park, Applicant's present banking subsidiary. 
Control of the five banks by Applicant would make it the second largest 
banking organization in the Orlando area with about 12 per cent of area 
deposits. However, since the largest organization in the area controls 
approximately 43 per cent of area deposits, there is no real possibility 
^at Applicant would obtain a dominant position in the area through 
c°nsummation of these transactions. Moreover, there is no existing 
competition between Applicant's lead bank and any of the four banks 
sought to be acquired, nor is there a reasonable probability of future 
8ignificant competition developing between them. Applicant presently 
directly slightly less than 25 per cent of each of the four banks, 
and the largest stockholder of Applicant owns substantial additional 
shares in each of the four banks. A working relationship between 
Applicant's bank and the four proposed subsidiaries has existed for 
8everal years, manifesting itself in the advertising of the banks as 
affiliated banks and in the sharing of executive personnel and the 
Establishment of common operating policies. The Board concludes that, 
light of the affiliate relationships among the banks involved, con-
ciliation of the proposal will not have a significant anticompetitive 
Effect in any relevant area. 

2 « 3 
- 2 ~ 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
Applicant, its subsidiary bank and South Seminole Bank, North 
Orlando Bank, Commercial/Pine Castle Bank, and Commercial Apopka Bank 
a r e regarded as generally satisfactory. Applicant, as a multi-bank 
holding company, is expected to have greater accessibility to the money 
Markets as a source of additional capital for its subsidiaries and 
Plans to provide additional capital for its present banking subsidiary 
shortly after consummation of these transactions. These considerations 
Weigh in favor of approval of the acquisitions. Considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the community are consistent with approval 
o f the applications. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed trans-
actions are in the public interest and that the applications should be 
approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved 
f°t the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
B°ard, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective September 26, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael 
A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
I/~Voting for this action; Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer. 

2i>14 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 6 
9/26/72 
BOATMEN'S BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Boatmen's Bancshares, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting 
« 
shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of Boatmen's National 
Bank of North St. Louis County, St. Louis County, Missouri, a 
Proposed new bank ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in accordance with 5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and the Board has considered the application, 
the recommendation of the Comptroller of the Currency that the 
application be approved, and all other comments received in light 
the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the sixth largest banking organization in 
Missouri, controls five banks which have total deposits of $376.5 
mHlion, representing 3 per cent of the total commercial bank 
deposits in the State. (Deposit data are as of December 31, 
i97l and reflect holding company acquisitions approved through 
Jnly 14, 1972.) Bank is a proposed new bank and its acquisition 
W Applicant would not increase the concentration of banking 
resources nor have any significant adverse effect on any competing 
bank in the relevant areas. 

2 « 5 
- 2 ~ 
Bank will be located in an unincorporated area in the 
northeastern flection of St. Louis County. Applicant's banking 
8ubsidiary closest to Bank is Its lead bank, Boatmen's National 
Bank of St. Louis ("Boatmen's"), which is located 14 miles south 
in downtown St. Louis. Applicant has two banking subsidiaries in 
St. Louis County but both are more than 27 miles from Bank. Appli-
cant does not have a dominant position in the St. Louis City and 
County area where it is the third largest banking organization 
with 6.8 per cent of total commercial bank deposits. Moreover, 
Bank's estimated primary service area is served by only one 
other bank. Thus, Applicant's acquisition of Bank would likely 
have a pro-competitive effect in providing an additional banking 
alternative. Accordingly, the Board concludes that consummation 
the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect on 
listing or potential competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks and Bank are regarded 
satisfactory and consistent with approval. Considerations 
relating to the convenience and needs of the community lend weight 
t o the approval since Bank would provide an additional source of 
inking services to a rapidly growing suburban area. 

2616 
-3-
Within the time provided for public comment, a bank 
located in Bank's proposed service area protested the applica-
tion, contending that acquisition of Bank by Applicant would be 
in violation of the branch banking restrictions of the State of 
Missouri. After careful consideration of the arguments raised 
by 
protestant and the documentary materials submitted in support 
thereof, the Board hereby affirms the position expressed in 
^HRlication of First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation, 1970 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 778, that a State*s restrictive branch banking 
laws do not, in the light of the legislative history of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, prohibit the formation or expansion 
o f a bank holding company in that State. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
fchat date, and (c) Boatmen's National Bank of North St. Louis 
County, St. Louis County, Ilissouri, shall be opened for business 
n°t later than six months after the effective date of this Order. 

2 « 7 
- 2 ~ 
Each of the periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended for 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. 
Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,effective September 25, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
-
i' Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, Sheehan, 
and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson and Daane. 

V- v« 
. 
• 
y^iiiiliv^-i 
> 
Item No. 7 
9/26/72 
For immediate release 
October 2r 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today a preliminary decision to permit 23 bank holding 
companies to retain control--under the grandfather clause of the 
1970 amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act—of nonbanking acti-
vities r if any, that they acquired prior to mid-1968. 
Comment on the preliminary determination will be received 
by tlK; Board through October 30, 1972, 
The 19V0 amendments to the 1956 Act, under certain circumstances, 
permit one-bank holding companies—and other companies that became 
subject to th*. Act—to continue to engage in nonbanking activities 
that they acquired on or before June 30, 1968. The Board may de-
termine whether such companies should divest any grandfathered acti-
vities, "having due regard to the purposes cf this Act, that such 
action ie necessary to prevent undue concentration of resources, de-
ceased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound 
bankin^practices,*." 
In the case of a company with banking assets of $60 million 
or more, the Board is required to make a determination on grandfathered 
activities within two years. This first determination is required by 
December 31, 19/2, two years after the amendments were enacted. 
Of tho preliminary determinations announced today, 22 apply 
to companies controlling a bank with $60 million or more in assets. 

2619 
«2~ 
Informat!on presented to the Board Indicates that 15 of these companies 
have no grandfathered activities. 
A copy of the Board's' order is attached. Additional de-
terminations will be announced by the Board at a later date. 
-0 

2620 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Grandfather Privileges 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
Provides certain privileges ("grandfather privileges") with respect 
1:0 nonbanking activities of a company that, by virtue of the 1970 Amend-
ments to the Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the Bank. Hold-
^ S Company Act. Pursuant to 5 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company covered 
1970" may continue to engage, either directly or through a subsidiary, 
n uonbanking activities that such a company was lawfully engaged in on 
June 30, 1968 (or on a date subsequent to June 30, 1968, in the case of 
^tivitios carried on as a result of the acquisition by such company 
° r subsidiary, pursuant to a binding written contract entered into 
Cri or before June 30, 1968, of another company engaged in such activities 
a t the time of the acquisition), and has been continuously engaged in 
fii«ce June 30, 1968 (or such subsequent date). However § 4(a)(2) re-
tires the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to deter-
mine whether such grandfather privileges should be terminated and, with 
•-'Jpect: t*o a company that controls -i bank with assets in excess of 
* 6 0 rajJ-licn o n o r after December 31, 1970, the Board is required to make 
a determination within a two year period. The Board has undertaken 
a review of nonbank activities cf each bank holding company described 
*H*a)(2) of the statute that controls a bank with assets 
million. 
in 
m excess of 
In exercising its authority under § 4(a)(2), the Board by 
0td*r» d f , : e r opportunity for hearing, may texminate the authority granted 
W 
••>' said section if, having due regard to the purposes of the Act, the 

O.; 'O-fl 
vol 
£oard determines that such action is necessary to prevent undue concen-
tration or. resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of 
interests, or unsound banking practices. On the basis of the information 
before the Board, it: appears that continuation of grandfather privileges, 
any, granted by f> 4(a)(2) to the companies listed below v;ould not be 
i 
inconsistent with the purposes of the Act. A Board determination not to 
^'-rninate grandfather privileges would not preclude the Board from making 
a determination at a later date that grandfathered activities must be 
terminated. 
^nj^Holcl t.m; Company 
Activities en ft a
i
n 
onf and 
1/ 
continuously since, June 30, 196 8 
^-snk P. Doyle Tiu-t, Article IX 
b*ntH Rosa, California 
Sumitomo Bank, Ltd. 
°aaka, Japan 
j^Peton Holding Corp, 
'llini rig ton, Delaware 
financial Investments Corp, 
cbicago, Illinois 
^-rsi: National Bank of Cicero Corp 
°alc Park, Illinois 
^ibao, lac. 
Island, Illinois 
investment Securities Corp. 
gton, Kentucky 
^-nnessee Shares Corp. 
beverly. Maryland 
Ownership of bank premises 
corporation 
None 
None 
None 
None 
Ovmer and lessor of bank 
premises 
Owner of land and lessor of 
residual mineral rights 
None 
None 
Authority to engage in some of the activities listed may also be con-
h.uV"''d i u o t i m r irrovi£:'ions of the Bank Holding Company Act/and such 
'•-ivitiea would not be subject to divestiture under 5 4(a)(2) of the Act. 

O,' 1 0 O 
Potomac Securities Corp. 
^ i Ive r S p r. in g, Ma ry 1 and 
-1 ndep en tUvni: Ban corp orat ion 
^nnenpol.ts* Minnesota 
Mercantile Commerce Co. 
Louis, Missouri 
Barclay 1f5 Bank, Ltd. 
Widon? England 
Bank of Canada 
Montreal, Canada 
^Vdustrial Bank of Japan, Ltd. 
*°kyot Japan 
> 
^iternationaX Equities, Inc. 
New York, New York 
t-
u * Securities Corp. 
Hot* York, Naw York 
Southeastern Shares Corp. 
New York, Kev7 York 
Rational Bank of Greece, S.A. 
Athens, Greece 
^tKsadria Shares Corp. 
Alexandria, Virgin:!a 
financial General Corp. 
"•ichaiond, Virginia 
*Xg 1 n:ia Bankohares, Inc. 
^ichfldnd? Virginia 
^l'ine Baiicorpor at ion 
^oatcleWashington 
Activities en^aned In on, and 
continuously since ? June, 30, 1968 
Lessor of banking equipment 
None 
Hone 
None 
None 
None 
Au t om t eo b o okke e p in g s c - vice s 
for affiliated banks 
None 
None 
None 
Automated bookkeeping services 
for affiliated banks 
None 
Automated bookkeeping services 
for affiliated banks 
Ownership of bank premises 
corporation 
Gvnership of two Edge Act 
corporations 

Thc- 
examined the nonbanking activities and the 
grandfather privileges of North American Mortgage Corporation, St. 
Petersburg, Florida. On the basis of information before the Board, 
aPi»ears that continuation of grandfather privileges granted by 
- 4(a)(2) of the Act to North American Mortgage Corporation would 
not be inconsistent with the purposes cf the. Act. 
To aid the Board in making its determinations, interested 
Persons are hereby afforded an opportunity to submit relevant: data, 
v i c v 3» 
arguments bearing on the proposed determinations by the 
oard concerning the continuation of grandfather privileges, if any, of 
t h c 0 l , bi c c t c W a t t e s . Any such material should be submitted 
wric;iifiO v:o the?^ Secretary, Hoard of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, Washington, D. C, 20551, to be received not later than 
October 30, 1972.. Such material will be made available for inspection 
CJl6 copy*«>3 upon request, except as provided in y 261.6(a) of the 
'oar<3' s ruJes regarding, availability of information, 
- 
order of the Board of Governors, September 26, 1972* 
• • 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
. • 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
iSEAL] 

V^'ru 
• 
• cY. .. v.-., 
To 
2624 
r immediate release 
Item No. 8 
9/26/72 
October 16, 5972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
Lot1y-y that It is examining an additional 44 bank holding companies to 
^-t ermine whether they should be permitted to continue activities covered 
^ the grandfather clause of the 1970 Amendments to the Bank Holding Com-
1,an>* Act. These activities were acquired by the companies prior to mid-
The Board invited public comment by November 15 relating to this 
filiation. 
Thiu is the second list of companies published by the Board in 
teview of noabftnUing activities of Bank Holding Companies that are 
®ubJect to the grandfather clause of the 1970 amendments. In its first 
u a t 
X\ 
announced October 2, the Board made a preliminary decision to permit 
?.3 ompanies to retain control of any uonbanking activities tr.at they 
Quired prior to mid-1968. No such preliminary decision was made with 
'•-spect to the 44 companion announced today. 
The 1970 amendments to the 1956 Act, under certain circumstances 
,JQ*'nv.it one-bank holding companies—and other companies that became subject 
the Act—tc continue to engage in nonbanking activities that they ac~ 
on or before June 30, 1968, The Board may determine whether such 
^Panics should dives!: any grandfathered activities, "having due regard 
the purposes of this Act, that such action is necessary to prevent 
hi. % 
concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, con-
p j.. 
' ^ccs of interest, or tmsouod banking pract.icuft*, 

2 , •» fj 
J.n the caf.se of a company with banking assets of $60 million 
or more, the Board is required to make a determination on grandfathered 
activities within two years. This first determination is required by 
Scomber 31, 1972, two years after the amendments were enacted. 
A copy of the Board's latest order in this matter is attached 
•0-

262 b 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BANK. HOLD IMG COMPANIES 
Grandfather Privileges 
Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843) 
Provides certain privileges ("grandfather privileges") with respect 
to nonbanking activities of a company t;liat» by virtue of the 19/0 Amend-
^nts to the Bank Holding Company Act, became subject to the Bank Hold-
Company Act. Pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the Act, a "company covered 
in 1970" may continue to engage, either directly or through a subsidiary. 
in nonbanking activities that such a company was lawfully engaged in on 
Juri* 30, 1968 (or on a date subsequent to June 30, 1968, in the case of 
, l cUviUes carried on as a result of the. acquisition by such company 
subsidiary, pursuant to a binding written contract entered into on 
C'r before June 30, 3.968, of another company engaged in such activities 
at the time of the acquisition), and has been continuously engaged in 
jurie 30, 1968 (or such subsequent date). However § 4(a)(2) provides 
Hoard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may determine 
^ L h e r such grandfather privileges should be terminated and, with respect 
t, 
>"0 a cewp&iy that: controls a bank v;ith assets in excess of $60 million 
or af:f. rr December 31, 1970, the Board is required to make such a deter-
Nation within a two year period. The Board has undertaken a review of 
n°nbank activities of each "company covered in 1970" that controls a bank 
Assets in axe ess of $60 million. 
In exercising its authority under 8 4(a)(2), the Board by 
fJ>c;er, < Jit'.-r opportunity for hearing, may terminate the authority granted 
&airl r,scti.ua if, having due regard to the purposes cf the Act, the. 

2627 
- 2 -
B°ard determines that such action is necassary to prevent undue concen-
tration of resourcess decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of 
interests, or unsound banking practices. An examination of the grand-
^thti privileges of the companies listed below is in process in order 
to determine whether continuation of such grandfather privileges, if any, 
3s consistent: with the purposes of the Act. A Board determination not 
to terminate grandfather privileges would not preclude the Board from 
^ H ^ g a determination at a,later date that grandfathered activities 
bo. terminated. 
fi&k K 
jOld inn Compsmy^ 
Activities engaged In 
^ , 
continuously since, June .iO, .1968--
'^•asku Banc sharer., Inc. 
An 
cnorage, Alaska 
J]0*-Id Airways, I'nc» 
Ja^.arid, California 
Alu 
Bt Railroad and Banking 
Company of Georgia 
<4Uj?ta, Georgia 
Real estate development 
Insurance agency operations 
Mortgage finaucing 
Commercial real estate business 
Management consultant, and advisor 
Investment advisor 
Supplemental air carrier 
Lease, purchase, and sale of aircraft 
Aircraft fixed base operator 
Owner and lessor of railroad property 
and securities 
. •' 
Investments in small business investment 
company, real estate trust9 housing, 
and real estate 
f^'Qt National Bank Voting Trust: 
None 
< t 0Hvwod, Florida 
'-'he "listed com; van ice may also be engaged la additional activities 
under other previsions of the Bank Holding Company Act. In 
^^.tioiv, authority to en?,age in some of the activities listed may be 
.l-c,tvt£;ineti in. other provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act* and such 
'f-:cavities would not be subject to divestiture under § 4(a)(2) of the 

2623 
Jfttk t Hoi din 
Estate of. James Mlllikin, Deceased, 
Sees tut-, Illinois 
^slganpted Associates Company ) 
Sbicatyo^ Illinois 
) 
^al^watcd Investments Company ) 
Chicago, H i inois 
_ 
) 
Highland Corporation 
highland Park, Illinois 
T;luUcma Industries, Inc. 
Gp-ry, Indiana 
'^fancial Network Corporation 
''llvaulrrc:, Vrtsconsin 
stone Consolidst.ed 
industries> Inc. 
l W i a , Illinois 
J"?*itney Holdi;Corporai: ion 
Orleansj Louisiana 
n 
Taylor Life '/.nsurarce Co. 
^braveport.. Louisiana 
paries Stewart: Mott Foundation 
Xlnt5 Michigan 
Minnesota Small Loan Company 
I" ? 
, Minnesota 
Activitiac arr^a&ed.in on» and 
Administration of the Trust of 
James Millikin, the nonbanking 
activities of which consist of 
owning farm and urban property 
and various securities 
Safe deposit business 
Small business investment, company 
Data processing services 
None 
Oanlc premioes corporation 
Real estate held for expansion of 
bank 
Manufactures steel and wire products 
Maintenance company serving bank only 
Real estate holdings 
Reinsurance of credit life risk on 
s ub s 1 d i a r y > > n nk 1 o an s 
Originates, sells and services real 
estate mortgage loans 
Operates parking facilities serving 
the subsidiary bank 
Hater utilities 
Real estate leasing 
Real estate development 
Sn^ar production and cattle raising 
Small loan business 

2623 
Activities engaged In on> and 
continuous ly_ since, June 30, 1968 
ta Loan and Finance Co, 
"t. 'Louis Missouri 
^H'onado Financial Corporation ) 
Kansas City., Missouri 
) 
P^.T. F;i nancla 1 Corp „ 
York, New York 
-usib ia Union Banc s hat es 
Kansas City? Missouri 
iact Leasing Corporation ) 
St« Lonis, Missouri 
) 
yton "Bankshares, Inc. 
) 
Louie* ? Missouri 
) 
south St. Louis Investment ) 
5>t;. Louis,. Missouri 
) 
^i'^ptr.n Ranksnares 
^» Lou isF Miasouri 
Union National Ban-
corporation 
Parlorte? North Carolina 
) 
Consumer lending 
Purchasing time sales contracts 
Commercial lending 
Loan participations 
Printing business forms and stationery 
None 
Auditing and messenger services 
Automation services for subsidiaries 
Bank advisory services 
Ownership of bank premises rsal 
estate 
Automation services for subsidiaries 
Procures and manages supplies 
Makes policy and supervises 
systems and methods for related 
banks and corporations 
Owns bank premises 
Mortgage banking 
Insurance underwriting 
Advertising 
Credit card operations 
Name billing service 
Computer services 
Courier service 
Financing and ]easing equipment 
Managing real estate 
Financial services and supplies 
Real estate 
Leasing 
Insurance 
Manufacturing and merchaodlsing 
Char it ab le f ouiidat ions 
Consumer and business finance 
Venture capital financing 
Dsta processing services 

2i>30 
ActJvitio-s engaged in on, and 
continuously sir.ce_»_,. 
Sfchrcders, Ltd. 
London, rwjland 
Securities broker, dealer and 
f. 1 otation company 
Services relating to exchange of 
securities and commodities 
Financial advice and investment 
services 
Real estate agent9 broker, and 
manager 
Oil exploration 
Subdividing and developing 
Data processing services 
^"'iss Israel Trade Bank 
, Rv.l V.tar I and 
fittaver 'Neuritlas Co., Inc. 
York, Xvw York 
^change VIace Corporation 
New York, Hew York 
K. E^ldvrin Conuuvay 
^eirmatl, Ohio 
Wasatch National. Incorporated 
°Sden3 Utah 
Mortgage Investing and real estate 
development 
Real estate 
Manufacture and sale of electronics 
equipment 
Sale of pianos, etc. in U.S. 
Publication and sale of sheet music 
Instalment sale of consumer durables, 
floor planning 
Mortgage broker#ge 
Manufacture and sale of photoelectric and 
photovoltaic devices 
Ownership and leasing of real property, 
tools, and machines 
Investments of less than 5 per cent 
of the voting shares of each of 
the following: 
Uranium mining 
Real estate/industrial parks 
Concrete pipe manufacturer 
'Iran sport at ion 

2o8i 
- 6 -
Jnnlc^lol^W,% Company 
AcClviti.es engaged in on, anjd 
coritinuously sinceJune 30, 1960 
•^iona Utah Corporation 
Sa3.t Lake -City, Utah 
* 
a la Corporation 
VteWflfc. -Arizona 
^>ub.U~ National Bank of Dallas 
> Texas 
Real estate activities 
Writes credit life and casualty 
insurance 
Equipment leasing 
Acting as an insurance agency 
primarily in connection with 
loans made by subsidiary bank 
Ownership of 20.005 per cent interest 
in savings and loan associations 
Fire and casualty insurance 
) 0 , 
Rental of office equipment to 
subsidiary bank 
) 
Oil and tyas mining, exploration and 
manufacture of related products 
Real estate Managings developing, 
and lending 
financial and management advisory -
services 
Dealing in investment securities 
Lending and borrowing -inonc-.y 
^•rst Ban corporate on 
Nevada 
. '^•-P e t u a I C o rp or a l* ion 
Angeles, California 
•'ores National. Life Insurance ) 
Co, 
) 
) 
^ 
Angeles, California 
Western and Southern Life 
insurance Company 
Gineinnati, Ohio 
Holding property occupied, or 
to be occupied, by banking 
subsidiary 
Life insurance underwriting 
Operating cemetery and 
crematorium 
Funera1 d irectors 
Sells, underwrites and issues 
individual and group life, 
accident and health policies 
•jjjt I'dtu^rmia Corporation claims grandfather privileges with respect to 
caae?:lf,y insurance business and the rental of office, equipment 
its subsidiary bank in view of its alleged status as a successor to 
u 'company engaged in such activities on-June 30, 1968, The Board has 
yet uiade a detarinination v/ith respect- to that claim. 

2632 
£H&_Holding Company 
Activities_ei->e,n^ed in on, and 
"continuously since > June 30, 1968. 
Western and Southern Life 
insurance Company (Con't ) 
k'lrst Oklahoma Banccrpora-
Inc. 
),i>.n City, Oklahoma 
Trust Company 
He ^ph Is; Ten vie s sae 
^ e Snaly and Smith Foundation 
for the John Sealy Hospital 
e*lvesf; on, Texas 
'» ! 
p"Jston National Company-
teas 
and sells individual annuity 
contracts 
Owns and manages apartment and 
commercial buildings 
Writes credit life and accident 
insurance 
General mortgage company activities 
Consulting and financial advisory 
services to apartment developers, 
builders, and owners 
Building construction 
P rope r ty consuIt at ion 
Personal property leasing 
Manages bank premises 
Investing in debt and/or equity 
securities 
Providing management services to 
sub s id.iari.es 
Investing in companies that are 
not subsidiaries 
Dealing In commercial paper 
Real estate development, invest-
ments and leasing 
Investments in stocks, bonds, and 
real property 
Owns a hospital 
Owns two parking lots 
Owns and sells real estate for 
oil exploration 
Manufactures fiber glass pipe 
Manufactures filament winding 
equipment 
Real estate development 
Operator or lessor of oil and 
gas properties 
Owns and operates commercial 
buildings and parking garages 
?J iioSTi^NaLT^^ 
claims grandfather privileges with respect^ 
*o the listed activities in view of its alleged status as a "successor" 
Tie Board has not yet made a determination with respect 
V . * 
that claim. 

' " J O 
<oooo 
Houston National Company (Cort' t,) 
M 
^tst National Bank in Dallas-
I,, • 
p Texas 
Hongkong and Shanghai -
%nV.in £ Corp oration 
Kong 
c^icago City Eanccrporation, Inc. 
Illinois 
Activities engaged in on, and 
coritinuously since, June 3D, 1968 
Operative builder of hotel, parking 
garages and office buildings 
Ownership of company accepting deposit; 
and making loans outside of the 
United States-
Ownership of small business invest-
ment company 
Building maintenance 
Accounting, auditing, and bookkeeping 
services 
Foreign financial activities 
Owning commercial buildings used 
as branch offices for subsidiary 
bank 
Insurange agent and broker 
To aid v;be Board in waking its determinations, interested 
tesOm? are hereby afforded an opportunity to submit relevant: data, 
and arguments relating to the continuation of grandfather privileges, 
^ any, of the subject companies. Any such material should be submitted 
writing to the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
%cte.m, Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received not later than November 
Such mate.iiai will be made available for inspection and copying 
u R n rcquaet, except as provided in § 261.6(a) of the Board's rules 
>:s8ard.lng availability of information. 
By order of the Board of Governors > September 26, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
tSktt.1 
Tyilan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
•yj Vi,rst~Na?:iWai Bmslt in Dai las doei? not control a bank with assets 
e x c o f $oOrail'Jicn but is itself euck a bank. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20!.:51 
Item No. 9 
9/26/72 
ADORESD OFFICIAL CL'RRESPONDENCE 
TH THE HOARD 
September 27, 1972 
Mr. 0 . M< r e cl i t h Wilson, C ha i rma n 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
Dear Mr. Wilson: 
In response to the request contained in your letter of 
September 7, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
has approved an increase in Mr, A. B. Kerritt's annual salary 
from $42,500 to $45,000, effective May 1, 1972. 
The Board did not approve your recommendation to adjust 
the salary range for First Vice Presidents, Ac you are aware, 
studies have been initiated by the Presidents' Conference to ob-
tain quantitative data on the movement in executive compensation 
since January .1969 for positions comparable to Federal Reserve Bank 
officials. The Board will review such data and resulting recommen-
dations before approving officer salary structure adjustments. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
