i jpi /• 
PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
November 19, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
• • 
., 
, i ' 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
/ > - 5 , 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

3
Z
W 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, November 19, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. McClintock, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Anderson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Administrative Services 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Administrative Services 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended. 
Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares. A draft of an order reflecting 
approval on November 9, 1970, of the application of Virginia Commonwealth 
Bankshares, Inc., Richmond, Virginia, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to The Merchants and Farmers Bank of Galax, Galax, Virginia, 
had been distributed, along with a draft of transmittal letter. 

3 ^ 1 0 
11/19/70 
-2-
The issuance of the order was authorized; a copy of the document, 
as issued, is attached as Item No. 1. A copy of the letter to applicant 
is attached as Item No. 2. 
Commerce Bancshares. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated November 6, 1970, and other pertinent papers, 
including a proposed order, had been distributed in connection with an 
application of Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to 
acquire shares of Commerce Bank of Bonne Terre, Bonne Terre, Missouri. 
The recommendations were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, and the issuance of 
the order was authorized. A copy of the document, as issued, is attached 
a s Item No. 3. 
Valley Bancorporation. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated November 3, 1970, and other pertinent papers, 
including a proposed order, had been distributed in connection with an 
application of Valley Bancorporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, to acquire 
shares of Bank of Kewaskum, Kewaskum, Wisconsin. The recommendations 
were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, and the issuance of the 
order was authorized. A copy of the document, as issued, is attached as 
ItemNo. 4. 

11/19/70 
-3-
Fidelity Union Bancorporation. A memorandum from the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation dated November 17, 1970, and other perti-
nent papers had been distributed in connection with an application of 
Fidelity Union Bancorporation, Newark, New Jersey, to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition of shares of Fidelity Union 
Trust Company, Newark; Bank of West Jersey, Delran; and the successor 
by merger to The National Bank of New Jersey, New Brunswick, all of 
New Jersey. The recommendations were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Marine Midland Trust Company of Central New York. A memorandum 
from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated November 13, 1970, 
and other pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an 
application of Marine Midland Trust Company of Central New York, 
Syracuse, New York, to merge Marine Midland Trust Company of the Mohawk 
Valley, Utica, New York, the resulting bank to be known as Marine 
Midland Bank-Central, Syracuse, New York. The recommendations were 
favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Functions of the Comptroller General. Unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to the House Committee on Government Operations re-
garding S. 4432, a bill "To revise and restate functions and duties of 

3 2 J L 2 
11/19/70 
-4-
the Comptroller General of the United States; to change the name of the 
General Accounting Office to 'Office of the Comptroller General of the 
United States1, and for other purposes." A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 5. 
Discount window procedures. In a memorandum dated November 6, 
1970, Mr. Hackley commented on certain proposed changes in discount 
window procedures, previously discussed by the Board but deferred, that 
would involve, among other things, an amendment to Regulation A, Advances 
and Discounts by Federal Reserve Banks. 
Governor Maisel expressed reluctance to proceed with the steps 
indicated until consideration had been given to implementing the recom-
mendations resulting from the fundamental reappraisal of the discount 
mechanism. 
In the circumstances, it was agreed that the matter should be 
brought back for consideration when additional members of the Board were 
available. 
Clayton Act question. A request had been received through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco for a ruling on whether an officer 
°f the Morris Plan Company of California, San Francisco, California, 
would be prohibited, by section 8 of the Clayton Act and the Board's 
Regulation L, Interlocking Bank Relationships under the Clayton Act, 
from serving as a director of a State member bank. In a memorandum 
dated November 16, 1970, the Legal Division recommended a finding that 

3 2 1 3 
11/19/70 
-5-
the Morris Plan Company was a "bank" within the meaning of section 8 of 
the Clayton Act and, accordingly, the proposed interlocking relationship 
would be prohibited. A draft letter to the Reserve Bank along these 
lines was attached. 
The Legal Division's recommendation was approved unanimously. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
is attached as Item No. 6. 
Survey of trust department assets of State member banks. In a 
memorandum dated November 16, 1970, the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation recommended that the Board participate, with the Comptroller 
of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, in a 
third annual survey of trust department assets of insured banks, as of 
December 31, 1970. Attached to the memorandum were a proposed letter 
to the Federal Reserve Banks advising of the Board's decision in this 
regard and a draft report form and related instructions to be sent to 
State 
member banks. 
Mr. Sigel stated that the Division of Research and Statistics 
supported the above recommendation, but suggested that consideration 
be given to expansion of the survey in the future to include additional 
information, along lines that he described. Such expansion, he noted, 
had been resisted to date by the other banking agencies. 
Unanimous approval was given to the conducting of the survey, 
copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Banks is attached as 

1 . 4 
11/19/70 
-6-
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Annex building. In a memorandum dated August 24, 1970, 
Governor Sherrill had recommended that the Board authorize the necessary 
actions to award a contract before the end of 1970 for construction of 
the annex building. The matter had been discussed at the Board meeting 
on August 27, but a decision was deferred. 
At today's meeting Governor Robertson suggested that consider-
ation of the recommendation again be held over until additional members 
of the Board were available. However, he expressed the view that the 
proposed annex was already too small to meet prospective needs, and 
that consideration should be given to relocating computer operations 
to another site. 
It was understood that the matter would be brought back for 
further discussion at a meeting of the Board when all members could be 
present. 
Officer appointment. Upon recommendation of Governor Sherrill, 
the Board approved the appointment of Joe M. Jackson as Assistant Director 
of the Division of Data Processing effective November 15, 1970, with no 
change in annual salary. 
Travel expenses. Governor Sherrill presented a report of travel 
expenses incurred by Board and staff through the third quarter of 1970. 

3 2 1 5 
11/19/70 
-7-
The report reflected an overall expenditure equivalent to 80 per cent 
of three-quarters of the travel funds provided in the budget. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
- *•• 
/ 
» 
• * i 

3 2 1 6 
Item No. 1 
11/19/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Ir» the Matter of the Application of 
VIRGINIA COMMONWEALTH BANKSHARES, INC., 
Richmond, Virginia, 
for approval of acquisition of 100 per cent 
°f voting shares of the successor by merger to 
The Merchants and Farmers Bank of Galax, 
Galax, Virginia. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 UcS.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, 
Inc., Richmond, Virginia ("Applicant ), a registered bank holding 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per 
C e n t °f the voting shares of a new insured nonmember bank into which 
w°uld be merged The Merchants and Farmers Bank of Galax, Galax, Virginia 
( 'Galax Bank"). The new bank has significance only as a means of acquir-
in8 all of the shares of the bank to be merged into it; the proposal is 
therefore treated herein as one to acquire shares of Galax Bank. 

-2-
3
2
1
7 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Banking for the State of Virginia and requested his views and recom-
mendation. The Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 27, 1970 (35 Federal Register 13573), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application was for-
warded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the fourth largest banking organization in Virginia, 
controls 12 banks with aggregate deposits of $581 million, representing 
8.1 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. (All 
hanking data are as of December 31, 1969, adjusted to reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) The 
acquisition of Galax Bank, with deposits of approximately $15 million, 
Would increase Applicant's control of deposits in the State by 

-3-
3 2 1 8 
0.2 percentage points. Applicant's relative ranking among banking 
organizations would remain unchanged. 
Galax Bank is situated in the independent City of Galax in 
the southwestern section of Virginia, and serves an area which includes 
the city and the greater part of Carroll and Grayson Counties. Galax 
Bank, with control of slightly over 24 per cent of area deposits, is 
the second largest of the five independent banks in the area, the largest 
and third largest controlling, respectively, close to 32 and 21 per cent 
of the total area deposits. 
Applicant's subsidiary bank located nearest to Galax Bank is 
39 miles to the northeast in the City of Pulaski, Virginia; and communities 
*ith alternative banking facilities are located in the intervening area. 
There is no meaningful competition between Applicant's present subsidiaries 
and Galax Bank, and it does not appear that consummation of this proposal 
^ould foreclose potential competition, or have any adverse effect on 
competing banks. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect competition in any 
relevant area. The financial condition of Applicant appears to be reasonably 
satisfactory. The Board has considered Applicant's long-term debt position 
and its commercial paper outstanding together with all the facts in the 
record, including the earnings record of the system, Applicant's apparent 
ability to service its debt, Applicant's plans for increasing the capital 
of its subsidiary banks, and concludes that Applicant's debt position 

does not preclude approval of the implication herein. Management 
throughout Applicant's system is considered capable and progressive, 
and prospects for the group appear favorable. The banking factors as 
they pertain to Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Galax Bank are con-
sistent with approval of the application, and Applicant's projected 
increase in the capital of Galax Bank and Applicant's ability to supply 
management as needed lend some weight in favor of approval* 
Considerations 
relating to the convenience and needs aspects of this proposal also lend 
support in favor of approval because Applicant through its subsidiaries, 
would be in a position to furnish a variety of specialized services to 
the Galax area, which is expanding industrially. These services include 
factoring, equipment leasing, trust services, and expertise in the con-
sumer credit field. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed trans-
action would be in the public interest, and that the application should 
be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, pro-
vided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than 
three months after the date of this Order, unless such time be extended 
for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 

3
2
2
0 
-j. 
t ' : 
: 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 19, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

3
Z
2
1 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 2 
11/19/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
f«4L 
RES?; 
November 19, 1970 
REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc. 
800 East Main Street 
Richmond, Virginia 32314 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
has approved the application of Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, 
Inc., for permission to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
of the successor by merger to The Merchants and Farmers Bank of 
Galax, Galax, Virginia. 
Enclosed are the Board's Order and the press release on 
this action. The indebtedness of your holding company, referred to 
in the enclosed Order, will continue to be a matter of concern to 
the Board, the subject of close examination by the Board's staff 
and the staff of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, and an impor-
tant consideration in the review of future applications. 
In connection with the provision of the Board's Order 
relating to the time within which the acquisition herein approved 
is to be consummated, advice of the fact of consummation should be 
given in writing to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
Very truly yours 
) 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A, Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosures 

Item No. 3 
UI! I TED STATES OF AMERICA 
11/19/70 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, IPC., 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
for approval of acquisition of more than 
8C per cert of the voting shares of 
Commerce Bank of Bonne Terre, Bonne Terre, 
Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1042(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)) an application by Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas 
City, Missouri ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of more than GO per cent 
of the voting shares of Commerce Bank of Bonne Terre, Bonne Terre, 
Missouri ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Finance of 
the State of Missouri, and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Commissioner 
recommended approval of the application. 

3 ^ 3 
-16-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 10, 1970 (35 Federal Register 16021), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the second largest bank holding company and the 
third largest banking organization in Missouri, has 15 subsidiary banks 
with $823 million in deposits, which represent 7.6 per cent of the total 
deposits of commercial banks in the State. (Unless otherwise indicated, 
all banking data are as of December 31, 1969, adjusted to reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date). 
Bank (deposits of $7.0 million as of August 31, 1970) was organized 
in August 1970 by directors and officers of Applicant and its subsidiary banks 
under emergency circumstances as a successor to First State Bank of Bonne Terre. 
Bank is presently controlled by, and is operating under the close super-
vision of, Applicant's officers, and the present proposal was contemplated 

-17-
3 2 2 4 
at the time of its organization. Bank, the only bank in Bonne Terre, 
67 miles south of downtown St. Louis, is the sixth largest of nine banks 
serving the northern half of St. Francois County and portions of the 
three adjacent counties, and holds 11.7 per cent of that area's commercial 
bank deposits. Applicant's closest subsidiary bank is 55 miles north of 
Bank, and neither it nor any other of Applicant's present subsidiaries 
compete with Bank to a significant extent. Nor does it appear likely that 
such competition would develop, because of distances between Applicant1s- pre-
sent subsidiaries and Bank arid Missouri's restrictive branching laws. It 
does not appear that existing competition would be eliminated or signif-
icant potential competition foreclosed by consummation of Applicant's 
proposal, or that there would be undue adverse effects on any bank in the 
area involved. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would not have significant adverse effects 
on competition in any relevant area. Considerations relating to the 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects are regarded as 
consistent with approval of the application as they relate to Applicant 
and its subsidiaries, and lend weight in support of approval as they 
relate to Bank, since Applicant would assist Bank in recruiting permanent 
and capable management. Applicant's early establishment of a new bank, 
in a time of emergency, has been instrumental in minimizing the inconvenience 
that resulted from the closing of the First State Bank of Bonne Terre. Bank's 
affiliation with Applicant would continue to provide the area with an 

3o o t r 
-4-
additional source of quality banking services and would provide Bank with 
a stability which, in view oil the financial difficulties of its predecessor, 
i 
is important to the maintenance of public confidence. These considerations 
lend strong weight in support of approval of the application. It is the 
Board's judguent that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be 
in the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It.-, is hereby ordered, On the basis of the findings summarized 
above, that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that 
the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than 
three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 19, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchellj ilaisel and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, 
and Brimmer 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

3
2
2
6 
Item No. 4 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
11/19/70 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D„ C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
VALLEY BANCORPORATION, 
Appleton, Wisconsin, 
for approval of acquisition of 
80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Bank of Kewaskum, 
Kewaskum, Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Valley 
Bancorporation, Appleton, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), a registered 
bank holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Bank of Kewaskum, Kewaskum, Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 
of Banking of the State of Wisconsin and requested his views and 

3
Z
Z
7 
reciomtaeiiciation. The Commissioner indicated that he had no objection 
to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 24, 1970 (35 Federal Register 15335), 
providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and 
managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the eighth largest registered bank holding 
company and banking organization in Wisconsin, controls eight banks 
with aggregate deposits of $100.8 million, representing 1.2 per cent 
of the State's total deposits. 
(All banking data are as of 
December 31, 1969, adjusted to reflect bank holding company forma-
tions and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) Upon acqui-
sition of Bank ($11 million in deposits), Applicant would increase 
its share of State-wide deposits to 1.3 per cent. 

3 % 8 
Bank's sole office is located in Kewaskum, 52 miles southeast 
of Applicant's nearest subsidiary bank in Oshkosh. Bank's primary 
service area is stated by Applicant to consist of the village of Kewaskum 
and its environs; however, after consideration of all the facts of record, 
the Board concludes that, for the purposes of the subject application, 
the relevant market includes the city of West Bend and the surrounding 
communities, including the Kewaskum area, the upper two-thirds of 
Washington County, and the lower portion of Fond du Lac County, including 
the town of Campbellsport. Under Wisconsin law, no subsidiary of Applicant 
could establish a branch in the relevant market. 
Bank is the third largest of the eight banks operating in 
its market, holding 15.5 per cent of market deposits. The largest area 
bank holds 42 per cent of market deposits, and the second largest area 
bank, a subsidiary of The Marine Corporation (the third largest regis-
tered bank holding company and banking organization in Wisconsin), 
holds 16 per cent of market deposits. 
The proposed action will apparently have no effect on the areas 
served by Applicant's present subsidiaries and will result in only an 
insignificant increase in banking concentration in the State of Wisconsin. 
It does not appear that existing competition would be eliminated, or 
significant potential competition foreclosed, by consummation of the 
Present proposal. On the contrary, it would appear that Bank's affiliation 

1 
-4-
3 2 2 9 
with Applicant would afford the Kewaskutn area the benefit of a more 
meaningful competitive alternative to the two larger banks serving 
that area. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would not have significant adverse effects 
on competition in any relevant area. The banking factors, as they relate 
to Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are consistent with approval 
of the application. Furthermore, although it appears that all major 
banking requirements of the Kewaskum area currently are being adequately 
served, consummation of the proposal would enable Bank to expand and 
improve the services which it offers. It is the Board's judgment that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest, 
and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above, that 
said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acquisition 
so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 13, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane 
and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A, Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

3
2
3
0 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 5 
11/19/70 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E 
O F 
T H E 
V I C F . 
C H A I R M A N 
November 20, 1970 
The Honorable Chet Holifield, Chairman 
Committee on Government Operations 
House of Representatives 
2157 Rayburn House Office Building 
Washington, Dc C. 20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: * 
I am responding to the Committee's request of October 21, 
1970, for the Board's views on S. 4432, a bill "To revise and restate 
functions and duties of the Comptroller General of the United States; 
to change the name of the General Accounting Office to 'Office of the 
Comptroller General of the United States', and for other purposes." 
The bill, among other things, would expand the investigation, 
analysis, evaluation and reporting function of the Comptroller General 
in the areas of legislative proposals, construction programs, and 
research and development programs. As we understand the terms of the 
bill, such expansion would not appear to affect the Board's operations. 
Accordingly, the Board has no comments on the bill to offer for your 
consideration. 
Sincerely 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L, Robertson 

mm 
B O A R D 
G F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
3 2 3 1 
Item No. 6 
11/19/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 19, 1970 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, 
Senior Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
Dear Mr . Jennings: 
This refers to the recent correspondence from Union Bank, 
Los Angeles, California, requesting a Board determination as to the 
status of the Morris Plan Company of California ("MPC") under 
section 8 of the Clayton Act and the Board's Regulation L. The 
purpose of the request is to determine whether Mr. Ralph N. Larson, 
Chairman and President of MPC, would be prohibited by section 8 from 
serving as a director of Union Bank. If MPC is considered to be a 
"bank" for section 8 purposes, the interlocking relationship would 
appear to be prohibited. 
It is understood that MPC is organized under the provisions 
of Division 7 of the California Financial Code which deals with 
industrial loan companies and is under the supervision of the State 
Commissioner of Corporations, and not the State Superintendent of 
Banks. Further, the Superintendent of Banks has indicated an industrial 
loan company is not a "bank" under California law. MPC engages in the 
consumer credit business involving primarily personal loans and auto-
mobile sales contracts. To finance its interests, MPC, among other 
things, sells thrift investment certificates in two forms. One form 
of investment certificate is sold in denominations of $5,000, only, 
bearing interest at 6 per cent which is paid by check at the end of 
each calendar quarter; this type of certificate represents about 
two-thirds of all thrift certificates issued by the company. The 
other form of investment certificate is a passbook where any amount 
may be placed at any time, bearing interest at 5-1/2 per cent, 
credited quarterly. Although the company reserves the right to require 
30 days' notice for redemption of the certificates, the usual prac-
tice has been to redeem either form of certificate on demand. It 
has been reported in the press that, at September 30, 1969, MPC had 
outstanding $109,804,960 in thrift investment certificates and 
$137,958,207 in loans and retail sales contracts. 
/ 

3
2
3
2 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings 
-2-
As Union Bank was previously advised, the Board, on prior 
occasions, has noted that the question whether a particular Morris 
Plan company is a bank within the meaning of section 8 of the Clayton 
Act is often a perplexing one, depending upon a number of factors, 
including not only the legal powers of the institution, but also its 
actual business operations. After a detailed review of the facts and 
arguments presented, the Board has concluded that MPC is a bank within 
the meaning of the statute, and accordingly, the proposed interlocking 
relationship described above would appear to be prohibited by section 8 
of the Clayton Act. 
In arriving at its determination, the Board considered the 
nature of the investment certificates issued by MPC and found that 
they are substantially similar to certificates of deposit and "pass-
book" savings account deposits of commercial banks and that the 
issuance of such certificates constitutes an integral part of the 
business being carried on by MPC. Further, the Board noted that the 
Morris Plan Company engages extensively in the making of personal loans 
on terms similar to those made by commercial banks. 
It is requested that you advise Union Bank as to the substance 
of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

3
2
3
3 
i M l f c 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 7 
11/19/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 23, 1970 
The Board has decided to ask member State banks to report 
information on their trust assets for the year 1970. Comparable 
trust asset information is being collected from other insured banks 
by the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. The report form and related instructions are similar to 
those used in the first two surveys. A copy is enclosed for your 
information. Additional copies are being sent to your Bank under 
separate cover. 
Please arrange to send three copies of the report form 
and one copy of the instructions to each member State bank trust 
department in your District. It will be appreciated if you will ask 
each such bank to complete the report and return two copies to your 
Bank, not later than March 1, 1971. For control purposes, a list of 
all these member banks should be sent to the Board's Division of 
Supervision and Regulation. 
After you have edited each completed report, please for-
ward one copy to that Division for further processing. As before, 
editing should include a^determination that the reported information 
appears reasonable and is internally consistent. 
Very truly yours, 
-—y 
/ 
o ^ K - i 
K 
- f y i 
^ 
Kenneth A4 Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosures 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
