Minutes for 
May 24, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
y°ur initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
°
niy that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

2 ; j 6 4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, May 24, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Rober tson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
uu i-
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Messrs. Cloth, Forrestal, Plotkin, Sanders, 
and Via of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Fisher, Golden, Shull, and Thompson 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able t 
c o the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
^ a t e d . 

2065 
5/24/67 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
1 
California, granting an extension of time 
wi-thin which to establish a branch in Torrance. 
Letter to The First National Bank of Boston, 
2 
Boston, Massachusetts, consenting to its acqui-
sition of the shares of a trust company known 
Bank of Boston Trust Company (Bahamas) 
limited. to be formed under the laws of the 
Bahamas. 
fetter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
3 
l^terposing no objection to negotiations for 
"e acquisition of property adjoining the 
Reserve Bank building. 
In connection with Item No. 3, Mr. Farrell commented that for 
a number of years the Boston Reserve Bank had been hopeful of alleviat-
§ its space problems through acquisition from the New England Tele-
Phone Company of property adjoining the Bank building. Recent discus-
si°ns with the telephone company revealed that it would be willing to 
release the property by 1972, and in the meantime would be willing to 
n tertain bids. The Reserve Bank was also studying possibilities for 
th 
removal of its operations in entirety to some other location. How-
r> the Bank was of the opinion that ownership of the additional 
Pro Perty would prove advantageous in any event, since the attractive-
nes 
Bank 
s of the present Reserve Bank site would then be enhanced if the 
eventually decided to move elsewhere. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller 
of t, 
ne Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 

2066 
5/24/67 
-3-
^erger of Citizens Bank of Wilkes-Barre, Pa., Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, 
into Miners National Bank of Wilkes-Barre was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Citizens Bank of 
Wilkes-Barre, Pa., into Miners National Bank of Wilkes-Barre 
would eliminate existing and potential competition between 
the two banks and would further the concentration of banking 
resources in the area's largest bank. Overall the effect of 
the proposal on competition would be adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
m e r g e r of The Jefferson Banking Company, Jefferson, Ohio, into The 
N°rtheas tern Ohio National Bank, Ashtabula, Ohio, also was approved 
U nanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion read 
a s follows: 
There is some competition existing between The Jefferson 
Banking Company and The Northeastern Ohio National Bank, Ash-
tabula, and in view of Ohio's branch banking laws there is 
potential for increased competition between them. 
Consumma-
tion of the proposal would reduce the number of banks in 
Ashtabula County from five to four, and the already high con-
centration of banking resources in that county would be 
increased. The overall effect of the merger on competition 
would be adverse. 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
c 
ctors involved in the proposed purchase of assets and assumption of 
A b i l i t i e s of Boulevard Bank, Sepulveda, California, by Santa Clarita 
National Bank, Newhall, California, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion stated that the competitive 
e^fects of the proposed acquisition would not be adverse. 

?081 
5/24/67 
-4-
Investment in bank premises by holding company banks. Marine 
Midland Corporation, a registered bank holding company of Buffalo, New 
Y°rk, had asked the Board to rule that its subsidiary State member 
b^nks were not required to include all or any part of the indebtedness 
°f Marine Midland Properties Corporation (a subsidiary incorporated in 
l 961 to acquire and hold real and personal property and lease the same 
Marine Midland or any of its subsidiaries) in determining under 
S ection 24A of the Federal Reserve Act how much they could invest in 
bank premises without prior Board approval. 
In a memorandum of February 24, 1967, the Legal Division pre-
sented to the Board a recommendation that the Board grant prior general 
aPproval for any investment in bank premises by Marine Midland's State 
mentber banks provided the proposed investment would not cause (1) the 
d ePreciated cost of the bank's premises to exceed 100 per cent of the 
bank's capital stock, and (2) the aggregate depreciated cost of all 
Ostein bank premises to exceed 100 per cent of the aggregate capital 
st°ck of all of Marine Midland's subsidiary banks. The Legal Division 
S o expressed the opinion that a published interpretation of the Comp-
t r°Uer of the Currency to the effect that indebtedness of an affiliated 
bank Premises corporation must be taken into account only when the bank 
bcid a direct investment in such corporation was contrary to the express 
U n 
guage of section 24A and should not be adopted by the Board. 
After discussion at the meeting on March 3, 1967, the Board 
*
r ected the Legal Division (1) to consult with the Comptroller's staff 

21 )68 
5/24/67 
-5-
to determine whether a uniform interpretation could be agreed upon, 
a n d (2) to consult with Marine Midland to determine the effect of the 
Proposed ruling on their situation. It had now developed that Marine 
Midland believed that the proposed ruling would not be materially-
helpful. 
After further study the Legal Division recommended in a memo-
randum of May 18, 1967, that the Board preliminarily adopt the ruling 
Previously recommended by the Division, with some clarifying amendments 
^hile the adoption of such a ruling would have little effect in terms 
°f Marine Midland's proposed investments for 1967, it would be helpful 
t o other holding company systems and to Marine Midland in other circum-
stances. It would also have the effect of "curing" past violations of 
S e ction 24A by Marine Midland's State member banks, since each such 
hank had made investments in bank premises that, together with the 
a8gregate indebtedness of Marine Midland Properties Corporation, 
d e e d e d its capital stock. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to Marine 
^
d l a n d incorporating the recommendations of the Division. The letter 
^ould include advice to Marine Midland that the Board would entertain 
annual requests from any of its State member banks for approval of 
^
r°Posed investments, up to a specified maximum amount, to be made dur-
n8 the ensuing year. Such blanket approvals of estimated investments 
had be en granted by the Board in the past. Before any letter was sent, 

2 ( H 
5/24/67 
-6-
however, the staff proposed to discuss the matter with the Comptroller
1 
staff and then bring the matter back to the Board for final resolution. 
In discussion, Governor Mitchell expressed the opinion that for 
the purpose in question a bank holding company system should be treated 
in the same manner as a branch banking system. This alternative, which 
t he staff had rejected, seemed to him the realistic one. 
Mr. Plotkin said this possibility had been discussed by the 
s taff a t 
s o m e i e n g t h and seemed to present a policy question that the 
Board would have to decide. In the case of a branch banking system 
there was a single legal entity, whereas a holding company system 
involved a fragmentation. 
In a hypothetical situation a holding com-
H d n y might have one sound subsidiary bank and another subsidiary bank 
poor condition. The management of the holding company might decide 
that it wanted to improve the image of the second bank by building an 
imposing edifice for that bank. The question was whether the holding 
c°nipany management should be allowed to draw upon the resources of the 
s°
und bank for that purpose. 
Governor Brimmer inquired at this point why the Marine Midland 
^estion had been brought back to the Board prior to the discussion 
the Comptroller's staff that had been envisaged at the March 3 
m e e t i n g of the Board. 
Mr. Sherman explained that this was because the Board had asked 
the staff to confirm that the ruling recommended by the staff would 

2070 
5/24/67 
-7-
Prove satisfactory to Marine Midland. That had proved not to be the 
c a s e • 
Accordingly, it was thought advisable to check again with the 
Board before entering into discussion with the Comptroller's staff. 
the circumstances, the Board might conclude that the recommended 
ruling should not be made, which would have a significant bearing on 
a n y discussion with the Comptroller's Office. 
Governor Daane inquired how the objective described by Governor 
Mitchell might most reasonably be accomplished, and Mr. Hexter said he 
did not think the Board could properly interpret section 24A so as to 
eUminate the need for Board approval of direct and indirect investments 
bank premises by holding company banks. However, he felt that the 
^°ard, if it so desired, could legally grant a general prior approval 
c°vering investments by all of the banks in a holding company system. 
Then the Marine Midland system, for example, could invest throughout 
t l l e system the aggregate of all of the capital stock of all of the 
S ubsidiary banks pursuant to such an approval. This would mean that 
a n individual subsidiary bank could invest in bank premises two or 
thr 
e e times the amount of its capital stock. 
b . 
v. 
In reply to a further question, Mr. Plotkin pointed out that 
th 
e r e was no problem insofar as an affiliated bank premises corporation 
eif made investments in bank premises. The problem arose when a 
ksidiary bank of a holding company system made a loan to the bank 
pf . 
l ses affiliate and the latter then went ahead with the investment. 

2071 
5/24/67 
-8-
M r- Hexter added that if Marine Midland found it feasible to have all 
°f the system's bank premises built and owned by its bank premises 
corporation, no question would arise under section 24A. Question arose 
only when one of the subsidiary banks made a direct or indirect invest-
m ent in bank premises. The Comptroller's ruling said, in effect, that 
indirect investments through collateral affiliates could be ignored. 
Mr. Plotkin then reviewed the Comptroller's ruling, the lan-
guage of the statute, the reasons why the Legal Division would not 
consider it proper for the Board to follow the Comptroller's interpre-
n>
 and the reasons why the staff believed that some relief was 
•Justified in the circumstances presented by the Marine Midland situa-
tion. He also reviewed evidence from the files indicating that the 
Comptroller's outstanding interpretation was at variance with the posi-
tion taken by the Comptroller in 1953 when amendment of section 24A to 
^corporate the language now contained therein was under consideration. 
Governor Sherrill noted that there was a distinction between 
Position of a holding company system and that of a branch banking 
y stem because the holding company could sell individual subsidiary 
bankq 
as units. He saw a possibility of some abuse in real estate 
A°pment through the holding company device. In his opinion the 
Ho 
a r d ' s staff should be authorized to negotiate with the Comptroller's 
o f f i c 
e to see if there was not some way of arriving at a mutually 
U s e a b l e solution. 

>£\) < & 
5/24/67 
.9. 
Governor Mitchell said he continued to feel that as a matter 
o f policy the holding company system should be viewed as a unit. If 
the question was one of policy, he thought that was the right policy. 
I f the law could not be so interpreted, that was a different matter. 
Governor Mitchell responded to a question by saying that he 
W o u l d favor accepting an alternative proposal made by Marine Midland, 
namely % that the Board treat the holding company's subsidiary banks as 
a group, so that investments in bank premises by those banks would not 
require Board approval as long as the aggregate capital stock of all 
o f the subsidiary banks exceeded the sum of (a) the aggregate invest-
m e n t of said banks in bank premises, (b) the amount of the indebtedness 
o f said banks' wholly-owned real estate subsidiaries, and (c) the 
indebtedness of Marine Midland Properties Corporation. 
Governor Daane said his only question with regard to such a 
Pr°posal was the one that had been raised by Governor Sherrill. The 
company system might have some advantage in a speculative sense 
Mr. Hackley commented that there were really two questions 
i nVol V ed. First, there was the question of the legal necessity for 
Pfin 
r Board approval, and in that connection he thought the Comptrol-
ler 'q 
& outstanding 
ruling was clearly wrong. The second question, which 
more to policy, involved the conditions upon which the Board might 
a n t a blanket approval in a situation involving holding company sub-
d i a r y banks. The alternative proposal of Marine Midland would be one 

2073 
5/24/67 
-10-
W a y
 o f proceeding. However, the Legal Division felt that such a pro-
cedure would involve something of an abdication of the Board's respon-
sibilities in giving effect to the purposes of the statute. 
Governor Maisel then suggested consideration of an approach 
under which investments in bank premises to be made by Marine Midland's 
subsidiary banks would not require Board approval as long as the aggre-
gate capital stock of all of the subsidiary banks exceeded the sum of 
the aggregate investment of said banks in bank premises and the amount 
°f the indebtedness of said banks' wholly-owned real estate subsid-
iaries. 
Mr. Plotkin replied that such a possibility had been considered 
ky the staff but abandoned because a bank that was a member of a hold-
ing 
not a member of such a system. 
company system would be at an advantage compared with a bank that 
Was 
Governor Maisel said that nevertheless he thought it would be 
r°Per policy to allow a holding company system to allot investments 
i n bank premises among its individual subsidiary banks as long as the 
Sgregate investment of such banks in bank premises did not exceed the 
a8gregate capital stock of all of the subsidiary banks. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that the Board should 
PPly the statutes as they were written. It appeared that the outstand-
interpretation of the Comptroller was clearly erroneous, and an 
°
rt should be made to bring the positions of the Board and the 

?081 
5/24/67 
-11-
Comptroller as close together as could be done. He suggested authoriz-
ing the Board's staff to negotiate with the Comptroller's staff in an 
endeavor to reach agreement on a reasonable position. Then the Board's 
staff would come back to the Board and advise of the results. 
Governor Brimmer commented that this raised the question of 
w hat approach would be taken by the Board's staff in such negotiations, 
i n U g h t of the several views that had been expressed during today's 
discussion. 
Governor Mitchell said he would not go along with the Comptrol-
l e r's ruling that the indebtedness of an affilated bank premises corpo-
r ation could be entirely ignored. However, he would favor an approach 
a lo 
0 n 8 the lines that he had stated earlier, under which the holding 
c°®pany system would be viewed as a unit. Governor Maisel said that 
h e would be willing to run the risk of granting a blanket prior approval 
the understanding that the staff would follow reports of invest-
6 n t s m a d e under such approval. Governor Brimmer observed that the 
cjues 
appeared to be one of using the Board's time to consider indi-
i d u a l requests for prior approval or using staff time to check out 
t l l e reports. 
Chairman Martin then suggested that the Board instruct the Legal 
v i s i o n to take the matter up with the Comptroller's staff, review all 
of t h 
aspects of the problem but take no firm position, and report 
^
ack t 0 the Board. There was agreement with this suggestion. 

207 
5/24/67 
-12-
Proposals to amend Federal Credit Union Act (Items 4-5). The 
Board had been asked by Chairman Patman of the House Banking and Cur-
rency Committee to express its views on bills H.R. 6155, H.R. 6156, 
a nd H.R. 6157, all of which would amend the Federal Credit Union Act. 
^he Board had also been requested by the Bureau of the Budget to com-
m ent on a draft bill prepared by the Department of Health, Education, 
and Welfare to amend the Federal Credit Union Act. 
In a memorandum from the Legal Division dated May 22, 1967, 
^ e view was expressed that the provisions of the draft bill did not 
S eem to relate to the Board's area of responsibility. Attached was a 
r att of letter to the Budget Bureau indicating that in the circum-
stances the Board had no comments. 
As to the bills on which views had been requested by the Bank-
*
ng and Currency Committee, the Legal Division noted that the Board 
might want to refrain from expressing any comment on the ground that 
th 
e Proposed legislation did not relate directly to the Board's area 
^ responsibility. If the Board did desire to comment, it was recom-
mended that its comments be limited to (1) the provisions in H.R. 6155 
hat would authorize Federal credit unions to invest in central credit 
U n ions, and (2) the provisions in H.R. 6156 that would authorize Fed-
eral credit unions to engage in long-term real estate lending. Attached 
tman questioning the need for the authority to invest in central 
the Legal Division's memorandum was a draft of letter to Chairman 

2076 
5/24/67 
-13-
credit unions and questioning the desirability of granting authority 
to make long-term real estate loans. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that the Board should take 
a strong stance against both of the aforementioned provisions. He 
deferred to and endorsed the statement in the 1963 report of the Presi-
dent's Committee on Financial Institutions opposing long-term lending 
by Federal credit unions. He also suggested referring to authorization 
to invest in central credit unions as undesirable. 
Governor Maisel agreed, so far as the authority to make long-
term real estate loans was concerned, but indicated that he felt the 
central credit unions might be a useful device to provide assurance of 
l iquidity in times of difficulty. 
Governor Daane expressed doubt whether such a device would pro-
°te stability and soundness. He felt that individual credit unions 
might come to rely unduly on the central credit unions to deal with 
l iquidi t y problems. 
Governor Brimmer said he did not see how the central credit 
n*on arrangement necessarily would mean that individual credit unions 
°
uld move in the direction of long-term loans. The Board should call 
attp 
e r ition to the danger of authorizing credit unions to make long-term 
feal 
estate loans, but he felt that it should not oppose the central 
rec*it union arrangement. 

pry-, 
fC\) i 
5/2^/67 
-14-
Governor Mitchell referred to discussions he had had with 
executives of the credit union industry when he made an address to that 
group in Minneapolis last year. He found many of those executives, 
some of whom were operating credit unions of very substantial size, 
S urprisingly well versed in lending practices. Therefore, he questioned 
the general applicability of the comment in the report of the President' 
Committee on Financial Institutions that " . . . credit unions are typi-
call, 
managed on a part-time basis by nonprofessionals whose judgment 
^ likely to be most reliable in assessing the credit worthiness of 
their peers for relatively small consumer loans." 
Governor Sherrill said that he favored restricting the credit 
U nions to relatively short-term lending. He pointed out that one prob-
lem in making long-term loans related to the fact that borrowers might 
*
eave the employ of the organization in which the credit union was 
Seated. Also, he had noticed that applications for larger loans and 
l°^ger-term loans were likely to come from more senior employees who 
W e r e closer to retirement. In short, the organizational structure of 
th 
e credit union was not well suited to long-term lending. 
Further, 
while he recognized the possibility of liquidity problems arising in 
S uch institutions, he felt that the credit unions probably could con-
tinue to make the necessary adjustments without dependence upon a 
entral credit union. On the other hand, the availability of such an 
rg
anization might increase the temptation to get into long-term lend-

207 
5/24/67 
-15-
Governor Robertson said he did not feel as strongly as Governor 
Sherrill on the matter of the central credit unions. However, he was 
satisfied with the draft letter in that regard because it simply raised 
a question. 
Governor Daane reiterated that he would prefer not only to 
question the need for central credit unions but also to question their 
desirability. 
Governor Robertson replied that he thought the Board, before 
taking too firm a position, should have the benefit of additional 
relevant information. In the absence of such information, he would 
hesitate to go beyond questioning the need. 
Governor Maisel noted that by raising a question the Board 
w°uld only be saying that it was not clear as to the need for central 
e ait unions. He pointed out that some credit unions had unskilled 
m a nagement and were likely to run into liquidity problems, which raised 
th 
e question whether there would not be some advantage in providing a 
e ntral organization to come to their assistance, particularly in 
times of monetary stringency. 
Governor Sherrill mentioned that the credit unions had thus far 
£ 
lowed quite successfully the practice of borrowing from one another 
from banks to meet seasonal or unexpected needs. 
There followed suggestions by members of the Board for changes 
the draft letter designed to accommodate the views expressed during 
in 

2079 
5/24/67 
-16-
t he discussion, and approval then was given to a letter to Chairman 
patman in the form attached as Item No. 4. The proposed letter to the 
Budget Bureau on the draft bill submitted by the Department of Health, 
EH 
ucation, and Welfare was approved unanimously; a copy is attached as 
Itgm^No. 5. 
Ratings for competitive factor reports (Item No. 6). 
There 
h a d been distributed a memorandum dated May 18, 1967, from Governor 
Maisel recommending certain classifications that the Board might use 
reporting to other Federal bank supervisory agencies on the competi-
t i V e e ffects of proposed mergers. An earlier memorandum from Governor 
M a i s e l was considered at the meeting on April 26, 1967, and the sug-
§ e sted terms had now been revised in the light of comments at that 
lr*g and subsequent discussion with other members of the Board and 
W i t h the staff. 
The recommended ratings were (1) monopoly, (2) substantially 
d v e r s e , (3) adverse, (4) slightly adverse, and (5) no adverse compet-
t i V e e ffects. Explanations for each of the five terms were set out 
in 
attachment to the distributed memorandum. If the Board approved 
the use of the terms, it was suggested that the explanatory sheet be 
Wished to the other bank supervisory agencies and to the Department 
of j u 
s t i c e . 
It was also suggested that the applicable explanatory 
a§
raph appear at the bottom of each competitive factor report. 
Discussion centered on possible interpretations of the term 
"adv G r s e , M 
Mr. Leavitt said it was the view of some members of the 

2080 
5/24/67 
-17-
staff that the term "adverse" and its explanatory paragraph might be 
understood to amount to something close to a "substantially adverse" 
conclusion, particularly if read without reference to the other ratings 
and their explanations. Accordingly, he suggested a possible revision 
°f the explanatory paragraph. However, members of the Board expressed 
doubt that the meaning of the term was made clearer by the proposed 
r evision. Several alternative suggestions were offered, but a consen-
t s emerged in favor of the wording submitted by Governor Maisel. 
Since 
Part of the difficulty appeared attributable to the reading of the 
e xPlanation of "adverse" in isolation, there was agreement with a sug-
gestion by Governor Brimmer, concurred in by Governor Maisel, that the 
c°
mPlete list of explanatory paragraphs might be attached to each com-
Petitive factor report, at least for the time being. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the use of the five terms 
their explanations, as attached under Item No. 6, with the under-
taking that the proposal would first be brought to the attention of 
other bank supervisory agencies for the purpose of informing them 
V:. 
allowing them to make comments. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, Fauver, 
Farrell, and Miss Wolcott then withdrew. 
Operations in coupon issues. Mr. Fauver referred to an article 
today's issue of the Journal of Commerce reporting a rumor "that 
the Foj 
*<-aeral Open Market Committee had authorized the purchase of as 

?081 
5/24/67 
-18-
wuch as $500 million of long-term government coupon bonds with the idea 
°f bringing about at least a temporary reversal of the uptrend of the 
c°st of borrowing in the long-term market." 
He said that Mr. Holmes, 
Manager of the System Open Market Account, who had been receiving a 
number of inquiries as a result of the article, was responding to the 
e ffect that the Committee had not in the past, as its policy records 
showed, followed the practice of instructing the Desk to buy or sell 
specific securities, and that operations currently conducted by the 
esk would of course be reflected in the usual Thursday release. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: 
On May 23, 1967, 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
I t 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (copy attached as 
approving the appointment of John R. Sweetland as assistant 
examiner. 
as T
 L e t t e r to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City (copy attached 
•^•glP No. 8) approving the appointment of William Robert Slagle as 
e*aini ner. 
V j i * y vVEtSfoi.y \, i ; 
Secretary) 
a g 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (copy attached 
No- 9) approving the appointment of Cecil G. Smith as examiner. 

O A Q O 
<7 5 >17c w 
B O A R D D F G G V E R N • R S 
Item No.1 
OF the 
5/24/67 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFUCIAl CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
May 24, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
United California Bank, 
Los Angeles, California. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System extends to December 1, 1967, the 
time within which United California Bank, Los 
Angeles, California, may establish a branch in 
the vicinity of the intersection of Hawthorne 
Avenue and Carson Street, Torrance, California. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2083 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
5/24/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
May 24, 1967. 
The First National Bank of Boston 
International Division, 
67 Milk Street, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Gentl emen: 
As requested in your letter of April 28, 1967, the Board 
°f Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act and Regulation M , for The First National Bank of 
Boston ("FNBB"), Boston, Massachusetts, to purchase and hold all 
he shares of a trust company to be formed under the laws of the 
ahamas to be known as Bank of Boston Trust Company (Bahamas) 
United ("Trust Company"), to be located in Nassau, Bahamas, at a 
c°st of approximately US$100,000, provided such shares are acquired 
lthin one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
° shares of Trust Company by FNBB is granted subject to the appli-
a b l e provisions of Section 25 and Regulation M and the condition 
at FNBB shall not hold any shares of stock in Trust Company if 
r ust Company at any time fails to restrict its activities to those 
Permissible to a national bank or to a foreign branch of a national 
ank under the provisions of Regulation M. 
Regulation M provides that, when required by the Board 
g o v e r n o r s , FNBB will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
activities of Trust Company as it may require from time to time. 
. 
Ttie foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
and ! "
n v e s t m e n t 
n o w heing approved, combined with other foreign loans 
Bos
 i n v e s t m e n t s 
o f y°ur bank, Bank of Boston International, and 
S u
S £
o n Overseas Financial Corporation, will not cause the total of 
loans and investments to exceed the guidelines established 
er the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort now in effect. 

• . 
»Sf 
V*.
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
V 
1 
% 
The First National Bank 
of Boston 
-2-
ft 
•V-' ,y-
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities con 
tained therein. 
It is understood that the Board of Governors will be 
furnished copies of the Articles of Association and By-Laws of 
Trust Company upon its organization. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
ftliv 
liif.-M
 
1 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary, 

208 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
I t e m No> 
3 
• F T H E 
5 / 2 4 / 6 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
May 24, 1967 
Mr r> 
• George H. Ellis, President, 
eral Reserve Bank of Boston, 
°
st°
nj Massachusetts. 
02106 
D e a r Mr. Ellis: 
^ 
This refers to your letter of May 10, 1967, concerning 
need for additional building space and the possibility of 
quiring the adjoining property from the New England Telephone 
^ P a n y . 
j 
Your understanding concerning the intent of the Board's 
a c
 t e r of April 26th is correct; namely, that negotiations to 
r e a l estate are not suspended nor prohibited, but rather 
Un(j building construction should be deferred until studies now 
a i t
e r w a y supply a better basis of judgment for selecting the best 
e rnative to satisfy a bank's future space needs. 
of M
 
v ^
e w 
t-^
16 circumstances described in your letter 
ne 
10, the Board will interpose no objection to your 
of
 
I a t i n g with the telephone company and bidding for acquisiti< 
the p
a t C O m P
a n y ' s property located within the same city block as 
Pro
 
S e r v e Bank building. It is understood that details of the 
aPpr°
SeC* P
u r c *
i a s e 
be supplied for the Board's review and 
°
val before any option to purchase is exercised. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

2086 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
• fthe: 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
S Y 5 T E M 
WASHINGTON, •. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
5/24/67 
OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN 
May 25, 1967 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D 0 C. 
20515 
Dea r Mr. Ch air ma n; 
This is in response to your request of March 10, 1967, for 
the Board's views on H.R. 61.55, H.R. 6156, and H.R. 6157, each pro-
viding certain amendments to the Federal Credit Union Act. 
H.R. 6155 is a bill to amend the Act to modernize the loan, 
n vestment, dividend, and reserve provisions; to require the establish-
ment of an education committee; and for other purposes. 
H.R. 6156 would amend the Act to permit Federal credit unions 
0 make long-term loans secured by real estate. 
H.R. 6157 would permit Federal employees to purchase shares 
Federal or State-chartered credit unions through voluntary payroll 
A u c t i o n s . 
t 
Many of the provisions in the above bills are concerned with 
G internal management and organization of Federal credit unions. 
3
 asrn<Jch as these provisions do not relate to the Board's area of re-
nsibilityj it has no comment with respect to these provisions. 
£ 0 
The Board does, however, have some question about the need 
panting to Federal credit unions authority to invest in central 
unions and similar institutions, as contained in H„R. 6155. 
«ough certain advantages, as well as disadvantages, are involved 
the establishment of a central credit union to serve Federal 
"it unions, it is noted that credit unions have had little, if 
ha 
liquidity problems in the past. On the contrary, they seem to 
f r
V G been able to attract ample funds from customers and to borrow 
°
n e another and from banks for seasonal or unexpected needs. 
nus 
M 
j the need for authority to make investments in central credit 
p °
ns would seem to depend upon the possibility of greater liquidity 
tims in the future. Accordingly, a careful study of such problem: 
usefully precede legislative action on this point. 

2087 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
The Board also questions the desirability of H.R. 6156, 
which would grant to all Federal credit unions authority to make' 
long-term real estate loans. Such authority would represent a 
radical departure from the traditional operations of Federal credit 
unions that specialize in much shorter-term credit advances. Invest-
ment in long-term real estate loans requires considerable expertise 
j-n loan origination and servicing, and involves loans of comparatively 
A arge average size. The loans are not readily salable in the secondary 
market (especially conventional loans), and it is a time-consuming and 
ifficult process to realize on the collateral for the loans in case 
o f foreclosure. 
> ! J 
While it is true that some State-chartered credit unions 
£f
n n o w m a k e long-term real estate loans, it appears questionable to 
Board that this authority should be granted to credit unions that 
chartered by the Federal Government. In this connection, the 1963 
^
ePort of the President's Committee on Financial Institutions implicitly 
Pposed such long-term lending by Federal credit unions, statins at 
PP. 30-31: 
"Credit unions might reasonably be expected to continue 
to concentrate on short- and intermediate-term consumer loans 
to their members. In the case of these institutions, considera-
tions of safety and solvency loom particularly important, since 
credit unions are typically managed on a part-time basis by 
nonprofessionals whose judgment is likely to be most reliable 
in assessing the credit worthiness of their peers for relatively 
small consumer loans. Limitation to this kind of lending is 
also consistent with the special purpose of credit unions—which 
is, through cooperative action, to help close a possible gap in 
the availability of small loans to individuals." 
dak 
> however, the Congress should decide that authority to 
c o n s
, t h "
S e 
l o n 2 ~ t c r m loans is appropriate, the Board recommends that 
V h e t K
d e r a t i °
n b e S
i v c n to whether the loans should be fully amortized, 
ess
 
a n 
aSSi"
egate limit of as much as 25 per cent of assets is 
t 8 
ntlal, and whether some limit on the maximum size of a single loan 
needed in order to assure a certain degree of portfolio diversification. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

2 0 8 8 
B D A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 5 
5/24/67 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C C l R R E S P D N D t N C t 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 24, 1967 
M r . Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Executive Office Building, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
D e a r Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your Legislative Referral Memo-
randum of April 19, 1967, requesting the views of the Board on 
a HEW draft bill to amend the Federal Credit Union Act. 
The provisions of the proposed bill do not relate to 
the Board's area of responsibility and, therefore, the Board 
a s no comments to make with respect to it. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman 
Secretary. 

2089 
rl\ 
4. 
'.P. 
' 
•i ! 
5. 
:>m 
' • f 
Item No. 6 
5/24/67 
!• 
The term "monopoly" is used herein to indicate the Board's 
view that the proposed transactions must be disapproved in 
accordance with paragraph (5)(A) of section 1828(c) of 
.12 U.S.C. 
The term "substantially adverse" is used herein to indicate 
the Board's view that the proposed transaction would have 
such actual or potential anticompetitive effects as to 
forbid approval unless "clearly outweighed" as specified 
in paragraph (5)(B) of section 1828(c) of 12 U.S.C. 
The term "adverse" is used herein to indicate the Board's 
view that in appraising the public interest to determine 
whether the proposal should be approved or disapproved, 
the actual or potential adverse anticompetitive effects 
thereof would be such as to necessitate definite considera-
tion as one of the factors covered in the last sentence of 
Paragraph (5) of section 1828(c) of 12 U.S.C. 
The term "slightly adverse" is used herein to indicate the 
Board's view that the actual or potential anticompetitive 
effect of the transaction would be of little importance. 
The term "no adverse competitive effects" is used herein to 
indicate the Board's view that the situation with respect 
actual or potential anticompetitive effects need not 
W e i g h against the application. 

J2090 
B O A R D 
O F G O V E R N • R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 7 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
5/24/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 23, 1967 
Mr. Leland M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in your letter of May 19, 1967, the Board approves 
the appointment of John R. Sweetland as an 
assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago. Please advise the effective date of the 
appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2091 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
or the: 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
5 Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 8 
5/24/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R D 
May 23, 1967 
Mr. George D. Royer, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64198 
Dear Mr. Royer: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of May 19, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of William Robert Slagle as an examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. 
Please 
advise the salary rate and the effective date of the 
appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

^
u
y
p 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
or THE 
Item No. 9 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
5/24/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
C f F I C I A L 
C O R R E 5 P 3 N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 23, 1967 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in Mr. Hemmings
1 letter of May 19, 1967, the Board 
approves the appointment of Cecil G. Smith, at 
present an assistant examiner, as an examiner for 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, effective 
July 1, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
