';•: 
V.J 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 9, 1972 

1232 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, May 9, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Althausen, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously the application 
made on behalf of Northridge Bank, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, for membership 
in the Federal Reserve System. A copy of the letter sent to the Organi-
zation Committee is attached as Item No. 1. 

1233 
5/9/72 
-2-
The Board authorized the issuance of an order reflecting approval 
on April 26, 1972, of the application of Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing 
Company, St. Paul, Minnesota, for an exemption from the prohibitions of 
section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act relating to nonbanking activities 
and acquisitions. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of First Empire 
State Corporation, Buffalo, New York, to acquire shares of Hambro American 
Bank & Trust Co., New York, New York, and authorized the issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached under 
Item No. 3, along with a copy of the letter sent to the applicant. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of Dominion Bankshares 
Corporation, Roanoke, Virginia, to acquire shares of State Mortgage Corpo-
ration, Martinsville, Virginia, and authorized the issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board approved unanimously the applications of Consolidated 
Bankshares of Florida, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, Florida, to acquire shares 
of First National Bank of Eau Gallie, Melbourne, Florida, and Indialantic 
Beach Bank, Indialantic, Florida. The issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision was authorized; a copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of First Tennessee 
National Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to Bank of Morris town, Morristown, Tennessee, and authorized the 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 6. 

1234 
5/9/72 
-2-
The Board approved unanimously the applications of MEI Corporation 
and its proposed subsidiary, IGI Successor, Inc., both of Minneapolis, 
Minnesota, to become bank holding companies through acquisition of shares 
of First National Bank in Sioux City, Sioux City, Iowa, and authorized the 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 7. 
By telegram dated March 29, 1972, Governor Brimmer notified the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta that the Committee on Organization, Compen-
sation, and Building Plans had approved the Bank's request for an increase 
in its 1972 employment ceiling to provide additional personnel for the 
Miami Office. The sending of that telegram was ratified by unanimous vote. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Report on financial developments. With a memorandum dated May 8, 
1972, Mr. Partee presented a draft of a review of financial developments 
in the first quarter of 1972 to be submitted to the Joint Economic Committee 
°f Congress. 
After a discussion during which several changes were agreed upon, 
the Board unanimously approved the sending of the report. It was understood 
that any further suggested changes should be referred to Mr. Partee. A 
copy of the letter transmitting the report to the Joint Economic Committee 
is attached as Item No. 8; a copy of the report, as transmitted, has been 
Placed in the Board's files. 
Kansas City Bank building. 
In a memorandum dated May 1, 1972, the 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations outlined reasons in support of 

1235 
5/9/72 
-4-
the restoration and renovation of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
City's building. The Division recommended that the Bank be authorized 
to solicit bids from qualified contractors for the restoration and reno-
vation, which was to be done at a cost not to exceed $2,076,000, including 
contingencies and architect's fee. A draft letter to the Kansas City Bank 
was attached. In a memorandum dated May 4, 1972, the Committee on Organi-
zation, Compensation, and Building Plans concurred in the Division's 
recommendation. 
Discussion indicated support for the staff recommendation. However, 
it was noted that presently there were no specific guidelines as to which 
building repairs or alterations made by Federal Reserve Banks require Board 
approval. It was therefore understood that the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans would explore the matter. 
The Board then unanimously approved the letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City; a copy is attached as Item No. 9. 
Report on competitive factors. The Board approved unanimously, 
for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a report 
on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Union Bank 
& Trust Co., Erie, Pennsylvania, into The Pennsylvania Bank and Trust 
Company, Titusville, Pennsylvania. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Union Bank & Trust 
Co., Erie, with The Pennsylvania Bank and Trust Company, Titusville, 
including the divestiture of one of the two offices which the 
resulting bank would otherwise operate in Union City, would have 
slightly adverse competitive effects. The proposal would eliminate 
some potential for greater competition between the two banks through 
the establishment of de_ novo branches. 

1236 
5/9/72 
-2-
United National Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated May 3, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of the 
application of United National Corporation, Vermillion, South Dakota, to 
acquire Rushmore State Insurance Agency, Hill City, South Dakota. The 
Division stated that the dominant figure in management and ownership of 
United National also owned and managed a chain of other banks and one-bank 
holding companies, which were generally in less than satisfactory condition, 
and that, based upon the banking factors, denial was warranted. However, 
the Division noted that all other factors were consistent with approval. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis had also recommended denial. 
During discussion it was noted that the Board was concerned with 
the situation described by the staff and believed that positive steps 
should be taken to deal effectively with problems related to the applicant, 
but there was also a feeling that so far as these problems did not relate 
to this application, they should not weigh against approval. 
It was noted, 
however, that applicant's equity status was presently at a low level, and 
there was support for the suggestion that the Board defer further consider-
ation of the application until applicant had been contacted regarding this 
matter. 
It was therefore understood that staff would contact applicant 
and express the Board's concern with regard to its present debt to equity 
ratio, and suggest that applicant consider implementing a program designed 
to improve its equity status. 

1237 
5/9/72 
-6-
Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company. In a memorandum dated 
May 1, 1972, the Legal Division stated that a question had been raised 
as to whether Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company, Boston, Massachusetts, 
a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Boston Company, Inc., was engaged in the 
business of making commercial loans within the meaning of section 2(c) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act and was, accordingly, a bank, and its 
parent company a bank holding company. Boston Safe accepted demand deposits 
and made loans for business purposes, but stated that such loans were only 
made as an accommodation to trust customers. Boston Safe also invested 
in certificates of deposit, commercial paper, and bank acceptances and it 
I*, i 
• 
sold Federal funds. 
In its memorandum, the Division recommended that the Board conclude 
that (a) loans to individuals for business purposes were commercial loans; 
(b) making occasional loans to accommodate trust customers should not be 
regarded as engaging in the business of making commercial loans; (c) 
Purchases of certificates of deposit, commercial paper, and bank acceptances 
and the sale of Federal funds should not be regarded as commercial loans 
for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act; and (d) Boston Safe Deposit 
and Trust Company would not be regarded as engaged in the business of making 
commercial loans for purposes of the Act so long as it did not conduct a 
regular loan business and its loan transactions were on a limited and occa-
sional basis and not significant in amount (not substantially over 1 per 
cent of assets). A draft letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Was attached. 

1238 
5/9/72 
-2-
During discussion Governor Mitchell expressed the belief that 
since the sale of Federal funds constituted a loan for the purposes 
of section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act, it should constitute a 
commercial loan for the purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Governor Robertson expressed reservations with respect to 
the staff argument that Boston Safe should be excluded from the Bank 
Holding Company Act's coverage because it only made loans to individ-
uals for business purposes on a de minimis basis. 
In the ensuing discussion, a question was raised regarding 
Congressional intent with respect to institutions such as Boston Safe. 
In this regard it was suggested by the staff that, on the basis of 
information before it on the nature of Boston Safe's activities, 
s 
Congress specifically intended to exempt from the Bank Holding Company 
Act institutions such as Boston Safe since the conditions which the 
Act was designed to preclude were not likely to be fostered by these 
institutions. 
After further discussion the Board approved the letter to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston submitted by the Legal Division, with the 
understanding that staff would make necessary changes in consultation 
with Governors Robertson and Mitchell. 
It was also understood that if 
there was a strong feeling that the letter should include the condition 
that Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company terminate its activity in the 

9 
5/9/72 
-8-
Federal funds market, the matter would be considered further by the 
Board. 
(The matter was considered further at the meeting on May 18, 1972.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

OfCOwf* •. 
B B S * . 
1240 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 1 
5/9/72 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRfSI'UNDENCE 
TD THE BOARD 
May 9, 1972 
Organization Committee 
Northridge Bank 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Northridge Bank, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago effective if and 
when the bank opens for business under appropriate State authori-
zation, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank 
shall have paid-in and unimpaired capi4^1 stock of 
not less than $500,000, and other capital- funds of 
hot less than^$50Q^)0Qr~ 
- - 
- -
The Board also approves the operation of the branch to be 
situated directly on the mall and separated from the headquarters 
office in the Northridge Shopping Center by an intervening parking 
area. 

1241 
Organization Committee 
-2-
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation II, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to Commence Business 
has been issued. The board of directors should also adopt, at the same 
time, a resolution ratifying the action which has been taken in the bank's 
behalf in making application for membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
A certified copy of each resolution, together with advice of compliance 
with the provisions of condition numbered 3, should be transmitted to the 
federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. Arrangements will thereupon be made to 
accept payment for an appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to 
accept the deposit of the required reserve balance, and to issue the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
limited Lo 30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies 
to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the 
bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership 
3-n the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
&ank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will b'e glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours^ 
Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
fine1osure 

1242 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/9/72 
MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING COMPANY 
Order Approving Exemption of Nonbanking Activities 
of Bank Holding Company 
Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, St. Paul, 
Minnesota ("3M"), a bank holding company within the meaning of the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841), by virtue of owner-
ship of all but the directors' qualifying shares of Eastern Heights 
State Bank, St. Paul, Minnesota ("Bank"), has applied to the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to § 4(d) of the Act, for an exemption from the 
Prohibitions of § 4 (relating to nonbanking activities and acquisi-
tions). 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on January 5, 1972 (37 Federal Register 118). Time 
for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered. No request for a hearing has been received. 
Section 4(d) of the Act provides that to the extent such 
action would not be substantially at variance with the purposes of the 
Act and subject to such conditions as the Board considers necessary to 
Protect the public interest, the Board may grant an exemption from the 
Provisions of § 4 of the Act to certain one-bank holding companies in 
order (1) to avoid disrupting business relationships that have existed 
0ver a long period of years without adversely affecting the banks or 
communities involved, or (2) to avoid forced sales of small locally 
owned banks to purchasers not similarly representative of community 
interests, or (3) to allow retention of banks that are so small in 

-2-
1243 
relation to the holding company's total interests and so small in 
relation to the banking market to be served as to minimize the likeli-
hood that the bank's powers to grant or deny credit may be influenced 
by a desire to further the holding company's other interests. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in § 4(d) of the Act and finds that: 
3M, with assets in excess of $1.5 billion as of year-end 
1970, is a diversified company engaged in the manufacture of a variety 
of consumer and industrial products within the United States and 
abroad. In the late 1950's 3M had begun the establishment, in a 
developing area on the outskirts of St. Paul, of what is now the com-
pany's headquarters. By 1958, approximately 1,000 employees of 3M were 
located at the new 3M facility, and further substantial employee growth 
at the plant and population growth in the surrounding area were 
Cxpected. No banking facilities were available within a 3-1/2 mile 
radius of 3M's headquarters. 
In 1958, the Board denied the application of an existing bank 
holding company (the predecessor to First Bank System, Inc.) to acquire 
the voting shares of a proposed new bank to be located in the area 
(1958 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1061), According to 3M, no other organi-
2ation was available to take over and supply the needed capital for the 
Proposed bank and, since bank services were needed in the area, 3M 
Provided the capital to establish the Bank and acquired substantially all 
°f its stock at the time the Bank was organized, in 1958. At present, 

1244 
-3-
3M owns all of Bank's stock except for directors' qualifying shares, it 
appears that Bank is well managed and in sound financial condition; and 
Provides a substantial number of social and community services in 
addition to the usual services provided by commercial banks. The 
record contains nothing to suggest that 3M has abused its relationship 
with Bank or misused Bank's services for the benefit of 3M's other 
interests. 
The record shows that Bank's total assets ($29.3 million) at 
year-end 1970 were less than 2 per cent of 3M's total assets; Bank's 
net income, for the same period, was equal to 0.16 per cent of 3M's net 
inCome. 3M states that during 1970 alon,e, it borrowed $55.5 million, 
deluding over $23 million in short-term loans. In contrast, Bank's 
al loans outstanding as of year-end 1970 totaled under $11 million, 
o f which less than 10 per cent represented commercial or industrial 
i 
a n s- 
It appears that 3M has never borrowed from Bank and 3M states 
th 
a t it is not aware of any instance in which a significant customer, 
SuPPlier, dealer or distributor of 3M has done business with Bank. 
Bank (approximately $25 million in deposits) competes in the 
neapolis-St. Paul SMSA banking market and controls about 0.5 per cent 
of t. 
\/ 
«e total deposits in that market.- 
In the same market, two bank 
companies (First Bank System, Inc., and Northwest Bancorporation) 
°ntrol in the aggregate, 70 per cent of total deposits. In Bank's 
Mediate service area there are 12 other banks and Bank controls only 
Per cent of the aggregate total deposits of these 13 banks. 
2 
^ p A l 1 b a n k i n S d a t a a re as of June 30, 1971, and reflect bank holding 
Ha*.!!?1^ formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
t c h 31, 1972. 

1245 
•3- 4i 
The record contains nothing to suggest that 3M has misused 
Bank's services for the benefit of 3M's other interests and, in view 
of the size disparity between Bank and 3M, and the small size of Bank 
in relation to the surrounding banking market and to the credit needs 
°f 3M, future misuse of Bank by 3M seems unlikely. 
Based on the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has concluded, pursuant to § 4(d)(3), that 
Bank is so small in relation to the total interests of 3M and so small 
in relation to the banking market served by Bank as to minimize the 
likelihood that Bank's powers to grant or deny credit may be influenced 
by a desire to further 3M's other interests; and an exemption is 
Warranted. Accordingly, an exemption is granted; provided, however, 
that this determination is subject to revocation if the facts upon 
which it is based change in any material respect, 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— effective May 9, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
i 
>:v; 
• 
. 
• 
• \s * 
Voting for this action; Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Maisel, 
Brimmer. 
v? 
f 
• 
! 
" • 
,! 8 •' I 
" j 
• 
• 
•• 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/9/72°' 
FIRST EMPIRE STATE CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Empire State Corporation, Buffalo, New York, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act, has applied for the Board's approval under 5 3(a)(3) 
°f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1042(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the 
voting shares of Hambro American Bank & Trust Co., New York, 
New York ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing com-
ments and views has expired. The Board has considered the applica-
tion and all comments received in the light of the factors set 
forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls one bank with deposits of $885.6 
Million, respresenting .9 per cent of the total commercial deposits 
New York.—^Acquisition of Bank would not increase significantly 
Applicant's control of commercial bank deposits in the State, and 
applicant's rank as the sixteenth largest banking organization 
the State would remain unchanged. Bank, with deposits of 
$78.4 million, controls approximately .1 per cent of commercial 
dePosits in the Metropolitan New York banking market and is the 
thirty-fourth largest of 60 banks in that market. 
|/~AU banking data are as of June 30, 1971, adjusted to reflect 
10Idirig company formations and acquisition through February 29, 1972. 

The nearest banking subsidiary of Applicant to Bank is 
Manufacturer's and Traders Trust Company ("M & T Bank"), 
New York, located over 300 miles away from Bank, Since 
^ & T Bank derives 2.1 per cent of its deposits from Bank's 
8ervice area there is a slight amount of existing competition 
between the two banks. However, Bank is primarily engaged in 
national and international banking and therefore is competing 
for different customer's than M & T Bank. Considering the 
Stance separating the two institutions and the differing nature 
their banking business, consummation of the proposed acquisi-
ti 
would not eliminate significant existing competition. 
• 
• 
Although Applicant might enter the New York banking 
arket de novo or through acquisition of a smaller bank, such 
V seems unlikely. Neither a de novo subsidiary nor a smaller 
would be likely to offer Applicant the expertise necessary 
0 compete with the larger New York banks in international banking. 
Th 
before, Applicant's acquisition of Bank would have no adverse 
^f f 
e°t on potential competition and could result in increased 
|| 
- . 
- - s'i 
" 
^Petition in the New York City banking market. 
The financial and managerial resources and future 
Pfccts of Applicant and Bank are generally satisfactory and 
distent with approval of the application. It is expected also 
a 
applicant's acquisition of Bank may add depth and experience 
^ 
, 
** 8 management. In acquiring Bank, Applicant will incur 

18 
-2-
substantial debt in relation to its net worth. Although the 
Board is concerned x*ith high levels of acquisition debt, it 
does not appear that such debt will weaken the financial stability 
of Applicant or Bank. Applicant's past earnings indicate that it 
Will be able to service the debt from future earnings without 
adversely affecting the condition of M & T Bank, or Bank. On the 
basis of these facts the Board does not consider the level of 
acquisition debt in this case to be such as to require denial of 
the application. 
Applicant proposes to offer new and improved banking 
services at both banks if this application is approved. Applicant 
ttould add construction financing, commercial mortgages and leasing 
to the services Bank presently offers. In addition,Bank's expertise 
in international financing would enable M & T Bank to provide more 
sophisticated banking service to its customers. Accordingly, con-
siderations relating to the convenience and needs of the community 
to be-served lends weight toward approval. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest 
and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 

1219 
-4-
tlle effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to 
^legated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governorseffective May 9, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
*, 
W 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane, ?iaisel} 
Brimmer. 

I 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
1250 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
May 9 , 
1972. 
ATR,MAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
First Empire State Corporation 
One M & T Plaza 
Buffalo, New York 
14240 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the application of First "Empire'State Corporation, for 
permission to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares of Hambro 
American Bank & Trust Co., New York, New York. The Board's approval 
in this matter was granted with reliance upon the commitment of 
First Empire State Corporation to issue common stock of the corpora-
tion in the approximate amount of ten million dollars within eighteen 
months of approval of this application, and to apply the proceeds of 
such issue to the retirement of the debt incurred in acquiring Hambro 
American Bank & Trust Co., New York, New York. In addition, it is 
expected that First Empire State Corporation will consider a public 
offering of debentures to retire the remainder of the debt: incurred 
in acquiring Hambro American Bank & Trust Co. 
Enclosed are the Board's Order and press release on this 
action. 
In connection with the provision of the Board's Order 
relating to the time within which the acquisition herein approved 
is to be consummated, advice of the fact of consummation should be 
Biven in writing to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosures 

Item No. 
5/9/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD 
DOMINION BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of State Mortgage Corporation 
Dominion Bankshares Corporation, Roanoke, Virginia, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting 
shares of State Mortgage Corporation ("State Mortgage"), Martinsville, 
Virginia, a company that engages in the activity of making personal loans 
to individuals, principally upon the security of second mortgages on 
Residential property. Such activity has been determined by the Board to 
b c closely related to the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
ested persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors 
has been duly published (37 Federal Register 5979). The time for filing 
c°niments and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant, parent holding company of The First National 
^change Bank of Virginia ("Bank"), Roanoke, has aggregate deposits of 
$678.8 million, representing 7.9 per cent of the total commercial de-
1/ 
Posits in Virginia. Bank is the largest banking institution in the 
Roanoke Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area ("SMSA"), where it holds 
almost 43 per cent of deposits in that market. Although Bank is active 
the origination of first mortgage loans on real property, its second 
operations are nominal (total outstanding volume approximating 
^3,000) and amount to approximately 1.2 per cent of the estimated total 
second 
mortgage loans outstanding in the Roanoke market. 
i7~Deposit data as of December 31, 1971. 

1252 
-3-
Statc Mortgage is engaged in the business of making or 
acquiring loans of individuals for its own account secured primarily by 
second mortgages on residential real estate. Contrary to the implica-
tion in its corporate title, the principal business of State Mortgage is 
n°t to make loans to purchase residential property, nor to originate such 
loans for delivery to others. Its customers generally are seeking funds 
0 t modest amounts for various family needs, such as debt consolidation, 
Purchase of automobiles, medical expenses, home improvement, or education. 
Though the only office of State Mortgage is located in Martinsville, its 
business is derived not only from the Martinsville market, but from the 
R°anolce, Danville and Lynchburg markets as well. At year end 1971, State 
Mortgage held total outstanding mortgage loans of $906,000, of which 
$272,000 came from the Roanoke market. Thus, State Mortgage and Bank's 
combined outstanding second mortgage loans represented less than 7 per 
cent of the Roanoke market volume. 
The minimal competition that presently exists between State 
Mortgage and Bank in the Roanoke market is not likely to increase to a 
°lCnifleant degree, inasmuch as federal banking law restricts the circum-
stances in which national banks may make loans secured by second mortgages 
real property. Thus, Bank is riot ridw end can not in the futune be 
considered an active participant in the business of originating second 
ni0rtgage loans. The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed 
Acquisition would have no adverse effects on existing competition, nor 
reclose the development of future competition. 

1253 
-3-
Approval of the proposed acquisition will make available 
to State Mortgage the financial resources of Applicant and permit State 
Mortgage to satisfy a greater portion of the demand for second mortgage 
* 0 a n s• As a result, State Mortgage should be in a position to better 
serve its customers and provide more effective competition in its market 
a r e a. On balance, the Board concludes that these public benefits outweigh 
any possible adverse effect on competition. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
i a t h e record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) 
is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This de-
nomination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) of 
^Sulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification or 
t Grmi n a t i o n o f t h e activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiar-
*"Gs a s the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions 
a j. j 
Purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued 
hereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 9, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane, 
Maisel and Brimmer. 

Item No 
5/9/72 
1 £ 5 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CONSOLIDATED BANKSHARES OF FLORIDA, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Consolidated Bankshares of Florida, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, 
Florida, a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, has filed separate applications for the Board's approval 
under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of First National Bank of Eau Gallie, 
Melbourne, Florida ("Eau Gallie Bank"), and Indialantic Beach Bank, 
Indialantic, Florida ("Indialantic Bank"). 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and none has been timely received. The Board has considered the appli-
cations in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls five banks with aggregate deposits of 
approximately $280 million, representing 1.90 per cent of total deposits 
In commercial banks in Florida and is the thirteenth largest banking 
organization and bank holding company in the State. (All banking data 
are as of June 30, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding company formations 
and acquisitions approved by the Board through April 25, 1972.) The 
acquisitions of Eau Gallie Bank ($14 million deposits) and Indialantic 
Bank ($6 million deposits) would increase Applicant's share of State 
deposits by 0.13 percnntage points. 

-2-
Indialantic Bank and Eau Gallie Bank serve the South Brevard 
banking market controlling 12.94 and 5.52 per cent of the market's 
deposits as the fourth and seventh largest, respectively, of the market's 
eight banks. The largest of the four holding companies competing in this 
market holds over 35 per cent of the market deposits. It appears that 
affiliation of these banks with Applicant would increase their ability 
to compete with the larger banks without adversely affecting any of the 
area banks. 
Eau Gallie Bank was organized by stockholders and directors of 
Indialantic Bank in 1963, and the close affiliation between them has been 
continuous. The two banks are six miles apart and their service areas 
overlap, but due to their common control and management, there is no 
meaningful competition between them nor is any likely to develop. Appli-
cant's closest subsidiary bank is located approximately 150 miles south 
of the Melbourne and Indialantic areas and does not compete with Banks . 
In view of the distances separating the banks and State laws restricting 
branching, it appears unlikely that any significant competition would 
develop in the future. Acquisition of Banks by Applicant would have no 
adverse effects on existing or potential competition. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant, 
its present subsidiaries and of Indialantic and Eau Gallie Banks are 
aatiafactory, and the future prospects of each appear favorable. Con-
siderations relating to banking factors are consistent with approval of 
the applications. Full banking services are available to the residents of 

1253 
-3- 
• 
the relevant areas at the present time, and Applicant will introduce no 
new services to the Eau Gallie or Indialantic Banks. However, Applicant 
proposes to improve the operating efficiency of the subject banks, to 
increase loan participations, and to assist in obtaining qualified per-
sonnel for the banks through Applicant's training and recruiting program. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served are consistent with and lend some support toward approval of 
the applications. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the 
Proposed transactions would be in the public interest and that,the 
applications should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
°tder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 9, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell 
and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 

1257 
Item No. 6 
5/9/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST TENNESSEE NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Tennessee National Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act> has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
°f the successor by merger to Bank of Morristown, Morristown, Tennessee 
("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
e*cept as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. 
Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor organ-
nation is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
none have been timely received. The Board has considered the appli-
cation in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls four banks with aggregate deposits of approxi-
mately $834 million and is the largest banking organization in Tennessee, 
1/ 
Strolling 10.7 per cent of deposits in commercial banks in the State. 
Ac<luisition Q f B a n k (deposits of $13 million) would increase Applicant's 
percentage share of deposits in the State by less than two-tenths of 1 per 
Cet*t and would not result in a significant increase in the concentration 
banking resources in Tennessee. 
Pranking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company 
N a t i o n s and acquisitions approved by the Board through April 30, 1972. 

1258 
-3-
There is no present competition existing between Bank and 
any of Applicant's banking subsidiaries. Moreover, due to the distances 
involved and Tennessee's restrictive branching laws, there is little 
probability of substantial future competition developing between any of 
these subsidiaries and Bank. Bank is located in the eastern part of 
Tennessee, whereas Applicant's lead bank, The First National Bank of 
Memphis, Memphis, Tennessee (deposits of $777 million), is some 450 miles 
distant from Morristown, and no other subsidiary of Applicant is within 
45 miles of Bank. Moreover, Applicant's acquisition of Bank could have 
pro-competitive effects. Bank is the smallest of three banks located in 
the Morristown banking area and is approximately half the size of the 
two other institutions in the area, one of which is already affiliated 
with a bank holding company. The expertise and management depth that 
Applicant can provide Bank should enable Bank to be a stronger competitor 
for these two larger organizations. Competitive consequences of the 
transaction are considered by the Board to be consistent with approval of 
the application. 
Considerations relating to the financial condition, managerial 
resources, and prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank 
are satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. Con-
siderations relating to the convenience and needs of the community to be 
served lend some weight toward approval of the application since affilia-
tion with Applicant by Bank will permit Bank to offer more sophisticated 
services and larger loans which the Morristown area appears to require. 

1259 
-3-
It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
would be in the public interest and the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective May 9, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
A/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 

1260 
Item No. 7 
5/9/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MEI CORPORATION AND IGI SUCCESSOR, INC, 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Companies 
MEI Corporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota ("MEI"), a bank 
hiding company by virtue of its ownership of Olmsted County Bank 
& Trust Company, Rochester, Minnesota ("Olmsted Bank"), proposes to 
acquire IGI Successor, Inc., Minneapolis ("Successor"), a proposed 
n e w company. IGI Successor will succeed, through merger, to the 
interests of Investors Growth Industries, Inc., Minneapolis ("IGI"), 
a bank holding company by virtue of its indirect ownership of approxi-
mately 68 per cent of the voting shares of First National Bank in 
sioux City, Sioux City, Iowa ("Bank"), Before consummation of the 
Proposal, MEI will divest itself of Olmsted Bank.-'' The direct acqui-
sition of Bank by Successor, and the acquisition by MEI of Successor, 
require Board approval pursuant to § 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act 
U.S.C. 1842). 
Notice of receipt of the proposal has been given in accordance 
Vith § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments and views 
expired. The Board has considered the applications involved and 
all 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
°f fche Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Bank ($77.7 million in deposits) is the second largest of six 
in Sioux City, Iowa, and the ninth largest banking organization 
J 
Bank Shares Incorporated, Minneapolis, has been granted Board 
PProval to acquire Olmsted Bank (1971 Fed. Res. Bulletin 681). 

^ 
U9! 
1261 
- 2 -
Iowa (controlling 1,1 per cent of the total commercial bank 
n / 
deposits in Iowa),- 
Bank is 68 per cent owned by Minnesota Small 
Loan Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota, a subsidiary of IGI. IGI 
ltself engages in soft drink bottling and distribution. 
Consummation of the proposal would eliminate neither existing 
n°r potential competition; nor does it appear that there would be any 
Qdverse effects on any bank in the area. The financial and managerial 
^sources and future prospects of Applicants and Bank are consistent 
with approval of the applications. No changes are contemplated by 
Applicants which would affect the convenience and needs of the community 
Solved. 
Normally, the Board does not approve an application involving 
formation of a bank holding company with nonbanking assets, unless 
th 
e retention of those assets is permissible under the provisions of 
ection 4(c) of the Act, However, under the circumstances presented 
y this transaction, the Board concludes that approval of the applica-
0118 would be in the public interest, A result of approval would be 
0 req U£ r e separation of nonbanking activities from banking activities 
a date earlier than might otherwise be the case, IGI became a bank 
°lding company by operation of law on December 31, 1970, It has filed 
irrevocable declaration with the Board pursuant to 12 CFR 225.4(d) 
thai 
that- . 
it would cease to be a bank holding company by January 1, 1981, 
e 8 s IGI is acquired by another company, the combination of banking 
n(1 Nonbanking in its organization might continue until that date. As 
!^~~Benking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect bank holding 
°Ripany acquisitions and formations approved by the Board through 
h 31, 1972, 

-3-
1262 
bank holding companies organized subsequent to December 31, 1970, both 
MEI and Successor would be required under § 4(a)(2) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1843(a)(2)) to divest the nonbanking assets acquired from IGI within 
two years after becoming a bank holding company, unless the activities 
are permissible under section 4(c) or the Board grants an extension of 
time pursuant to section 4(a)(2). 
The applications are approved on condition that the transaction 
shall not be consummated (a) before MEI divests itself of Olmsted Bank, 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order, whichever is later, or (b) later than three months after 
the later of these dates, unless such period is extended for good cause 
by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
3 / 
By order of the Board of Governors,— effective May 9, 1972, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
i7~~Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane, Maisel, 
and Brimmer. 

Item No. 
5/9/72 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
May 15, 1972 
The Honorable William Proxmire 
Chairman 
Joint Economic Committee 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. 
Chairman: 
In accordance with the arrangements previously 
made with your Committee, I am transmitting herewith a 
staff report on financial developments in the first quarter 
of 1972. 
; 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

• f / 
• S T r e s ^ * 
1 'Y>. 
1284 
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 9 
5/9/72 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
May 9, 1972 
Mr. John T. Boysen 
First Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Kansas City, Missouri 64198 
Dear Mr. Boysen: 
The Board has considered your request to solicit bids 
for the exterior restoration and interior renovation work of the 
Kansas City Bank building as described in your letter of 
February 11, 1972, and supplementary information submitted by the 
Bank. The Board will interpose no objection to the Bank s obtain-
ing bids for this work which is estimated at $2,076,000, including 
contingencies and the architect's fee. The Board is aware of 
possible additional costs that might bo expected if it is found 
that during the course of the work the main structural steel 
members have deteriorated to the extent that they will require 
extensive repair work or replacement. In the event of such 
finding, it is understood that the Bank will submit pertinent 
information and a revised budget cost for Board consideration. 
After receipt of bids, it is understood that the bid 
amounts, together with an analysis of the bids and the Bank's 
recommendations, will be submitted to the Board prior to entering 
into an agreement to proceed, with the construction phase. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed ) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
