FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
July 30. 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
3 -
Note: No changes from draft minutes 

1933 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, July 30, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Ghiardi, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance, 1/ 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then reviewed matters of interest to the Federal 
Reserve presently being considered by the Congress. 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously the applica-
tion of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire 
shares of The Woodville State Bank, Woodville, Ohio, and authorized the 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also attended the meeting. 

1934 
7/30/71 
-2-
issuance of an order (copy attached as Item No. 1) reflecting this 
decision. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1935 
Item No. 1 
7/30/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED, 
1 
Columbus, Ohio, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 
per cent or more of the voting shares of 
The Woodville State Bank, Woodville, Ohio. ' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 
("Applicant"), Columbus, Ohio, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of The Woodville State Bank ("Bank"), 
Woodville, Ohio. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent 

- 2 -
193G 
of Banks for the State of Ohio, and requested his views and 
recommendation. The Superintendent indicated that he had no 
objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on June 15, 1971 (36 Federal Register 11539), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, the third largest batik holding, company and 
sixth 
largest banking organization in Ohio, has eight subsidiary 
banks with aggregate deposits of approximately $762 million, 
representing 3.5 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in 
the State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1970 and 
reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved . 
through June 30, 1971.) Consummation of the proposal herein would 
increase Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits in the State 
by an insignificant amount. 

193V 
- 3 -
i ' 
Bank (over $14 million of deposits), with about 11 pet 
cent of deposits in its market, is the only bank in Woodville 
and the fifth largest of six banks located in Sandusky County 
(which approximates the relevant banking market). 
Applicant's two subsidiaries located closest to Bank 
are respectively 18 miles northwest of Woodville and 15 miles 
southwest of Woodville, the former in Lucas County and the 
latter in Wood County. It appears that there is no significant 
competition between Bank and either of these two banks or any 
of Applicant's other subsidiary banks, nor does it appear likely 
that such competition will develop in the future in the light of 
the facts presented, notably the distances separating Bank from 
Applicant's subsidiaries, the number of banks located in the 
intervening areas, and the restrictive provisions of the Ohio 
law on branch banking. There appears to be little likelihood 
that Applicant would establish a de novo office in the area 
served by The Woodville State Bank. Thus, it appears that con-
summation of Applicant's proposal would neither eliminate any 
meaningful existing competition nor foreclose significant 
potential competition. Affiliation with Applicant may enable 
Bank to compete more aggressively with the larger banks irt-the 
market, and may encourage the opening of new branches in San-
dusky County, which would have a procompetitive effect. 

1938 
, j 
] 
On the basis of the record before it, the Boaird concludes 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would ndt have an 
adverse effect on competition in any relevant area. The financial 
and managerial resources and prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries, 
and Xhe Woodville State Bank are regarded as consistent with approval. 
Applicant proposes to assist Bank in developing a branch system through-
out Sandusky County, offering trust services through Applicant's lead 
bank and increasing lending services by encouraging utilization • 
of participation loans with Applicant's present subsidiaries. Thus, 
considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
involved lend some support to approval of the application. It is the 
Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public 
interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period 
is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 30, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell| Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane 
and Brimmer, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. ICenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 
^ 
