MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 25, 1969 

2 6 2 5 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, August 25, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions other than Mr. Partee and 
Mr. Norwood (International Finance) then withdrew and the following 
entered: 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Hi?! 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

8/25/69 
-2-
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Lynch and Marinaccio of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Ducy, Lawrence, and Wiles of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Goodfellow, Kline, and Sanford 
of the Division of Supervision and Regu-
lation 
Messrs. Wood and Cochran of the Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City on August 18 and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis, and San Francisco 
on August 21, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Ratification of action. With the approval of the available 
members of the Board, there had been sent to First National City Bank, 
New York, New York, on August 21, 1969, a letter granting its request 
for permission to acquire stock of Far East Bank Limited, Hong Kong. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
The sending of the letter was ratified by unanimous vote. 
Foreign banking matters. The Board approved unanimously a 
letter to Chemical Bank, New York, New York, granting its application 
to establish a branch in Frankfurt/Main, Federal Republic of Germany. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to First National City 
Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent 

2627 
8/25/69 
-3-
to its proposed acquisition of shares of Corporacion Financiera de 
Occidente, Pereira, Colombia. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Roanoke-Chowan Bank, Roxobel, 
I 
North Carolina, into Southern Bank and Trust Company, Mount Olive, 
North Carolina, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion stating that the proposed 
merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Millikin Trust Company, Decatur, Illinois, into The 
Millikin National Bank of Decatur, Decatur, Illinois, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
conclusion stating that the proposed merger would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
After discussion of the report to be made to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
^n.tiun'.ui 
f<« 
merger of State Bank of Spring Green, Spring Green, Wisconsin, into The 
Farmers State Bank of Spring Green, Spring Green, Wisconsin, there was a 
disposition to agree with the Banking Markets Section that the effect on 
competition should be cited as adverse rather than slightly adverse, as 
proposed by the Division of Supervision and Regulation. Accordingly, 
unanimous approval was given to the transmittal to the Corporation of a 

Xb'.'Q 
8/25/69 
-4-
report in which the conclusion read as follows, although Governor Mitchell 
indicated that he had reservations and Governor Sherrill felt that the 
case was marginal: 
Some competition would be eliminated by the proposed 
merger, and the number of banks in Spring Green would be 
reduced to one. Overall, the effect on competition is 
viewed as adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Monroe County Bank, Sparta, Wisconsin, into The Farmers 
National Bank of Sparta, Sparta, Wisconsin, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion 
reading as follows: 
Since there is considerable competition existing 
between Monroe County Bank, Sparta, and The Farmers 
National Bank of Sparta, the effect of the proposed 
merger on competition would be adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The First National Bank of Topeka, Topeka, Kansas, with 
The Second National Bank of Topeka, Topeka, Kansas, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
conclusion stating that consummation of the proposed merger (which was 
merely a transaction to facilitate the acquisition of The First National 
Bank of Topeka by First Topeka Bankshares, Inc., Topeka, Kansas, a newly 
formed holding company) would have no adverse competitive effects. 
5 T 
Northeastern Bankshare Association. Issuance of an order and 
statement reflecting approval on August 13, 1969, of the application 
of Northeastern Bankshare Association, Lewis ton, Maine, to 

2629 
8/25/69 
-5-
acquire shares of Westbrook Trust Company, Westbrook, Maine, was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 4. 
Barnett National. Issuance of an order and statement reflecting 
approval on August 13, 1969, of the application of Barnett National 
Securities Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of The 
Tallahassee Bank North, Tallahassee, Florida, a proposed new bank, was 
authorized. Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under 
Item No. 5. 
Regulation D question. On September 10, 1969, the State of 
Alaska was to sell to the highest bidders parcels of oil and gas leases 
valued at between $2 billion and $4 billion. Each bid was required to 
be accompanied by a bank officer's check in the amount of 20 per cent 
of the bid, and the checks were to be issued by representatives of member 
banks who would be present at the bidding. If a bid was not accepted, 
the check would be returned. 
Under Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, demand deposits 
subject to reserve requirements include "all outstanding certified and 
officers' checks", and reserve requirements are based on average daily 
net deposit balances "at the close of business each day". In the 
present case, a check tendered in Alaska by a representative of a New 
York bank, for example, on the morning of September 10 might not be 
returned to the representative (if the bid was not accepted) until late 
in the evening New York time. Therefore, if the amount of check had to 
be included in deposits for reserve purposes for that day because it was 

2630 
8/25/69 
-6-
outstanding as of the "close of business", the bank's deposits subject 
to reserve requirements would be inflated. Because of the large amounts 
involved and the number of officers' checks that presumably would be 
returned, the aggregate impact on reserves might be significant. 
In a memorandum of August 22, 1969, Mr. Hackley advised that 
the possibility of issuing a general interpretation had been considered 
but for a number of reasons had been discarded. As an alternative, it 
was recommended that a letter be sent to the Federal Reserve Banks 
suggesting that they might want to inform member banks in their districts 
that would be participating in the bidding procedure that in instances 
where an officer's check was canceled and returned to a representative 
of the bank at a time not prior to midnight in the place where the 
member bank's head office was located, it was the view of the Board that 
such a check need not be regarded, for reserve purposes, as outstanding 
at the close of business on that day. 
Members of the Board were generally sympathetic to the approach 
recommended. Although some apprehension was expressed that the taking 
of the position indicated might have unforeseen implications, the Board 
concluded that the risk was probably minimal. It was pointed out that 
it was not intended that the letter to the Reserve Banks be published. 
Accordingly, the sending of the letter was approved unanimously. 
A copy of the letter, as sent, is attached as Item No. 6. 
Salary structures at Kansas City Bank. Pursuant to the 
recommendation contained in a memorandum from the Division of Personnel 

2 ( J 3 1 
8/25/69 
-7-
Administration dated August 20, 1969, the Board approved unanimously 
adjustments that had been requested in the salary structures applicable 
to employees of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City and its branches. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Bank pursuant to this action is attached 
as I tern No. 7. 
In this connection, however, a Board member (Governor Brimmer) 
noted that the Kansas City directors also had approved general salary 
increases for the employees of the head office and branches. He suggested 
that at some point the Board take up with the Reserve Bank Presidents the 
question of the spreading practice of granting across-the-board salary 
increases, to which he added that to the best of his knowledge the Board 
had never requested the Conference of Presidents to review the subject. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff attendance. 
Parsons Group banks. In a memorandum of August 20, 1969, 
Mr. Leavitt reported on further developments with regard to the efforts 
of the bank supervisory authorities, Federal and State, to deal with the 
problems of the banks owned by various partnerships involving members 
of the so-called Parsons Group. He recalled that at a meeting on August 1, 
1969, with five of the general partners of COMAC Company, representatives 
of the supervisory agencies had proposed a set of interim guidelines 
designed to improve the condition of the Parsons Group banks with the 
hope that they would be adopted by COMAC. 
The Senior Managing Partner of COMAC had responded in a letter 
of August 13 to the General Counsel of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation to the effect that the COMAC partners had adopted certain 

8/25/69 
-8-
revised interim guidelines for recommendation to COMAC's client banks. 
The revised guidelines were regarded as unsatisfactory by Mr. Leavitt 
and by representatives of the other supervisory agencies, and moreover 
the letter from the Senior Managing Partner contained the following 
paragraphs: 
We have advised each of our client banks that, in the 
event of their adoption of the recommended guidelines, 
we would expect that bank supervisory authorities would, 
during this interim period: 
A. Provide complete assistance from the Federal Reserve 
System for funds at the Fed. window during this 
restricted interim period provided their require-
ments fall within eligibility of Regulation A. 
B. Would provide constructive attitude toward appli-
cations by client banks for such items as requests 
for branch locations. 
The FDIC's General Counsel had then drafted a letter to COMAC 
stating that at staff level the amended guidelines were regarded as 
unsatisfactory and that if COMAC did not adopt essentially the guidelines 
suggested by the supervisory agencies the FDIC staff would recommend to 
the directors of the Corporation that proceedings be instituted under 
section 8(a) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act to terminate the 
deposit insurance of all banks in the Parsons Group. 
After consulting with Governor Robertson and Mr. O'Connell, 
Mr. Leavitt had informed a representative of the FDIC that it would be 
appropriate to inform COMAC that staff of the Federal Reserve concurred 
in the view that the revised guidelines were unsatisfactory, but that 

8/25/69 
-9-
he (Mr. Leavitt) could not endorse the threat to use termination-of-
insurance proceedings. 
With a second memorandum, dated August 21, 1969, Mr. Leavitt 
transmitted a copy of the letter that had been sent by the FDIC General 
Counsel to COMAC. The letter indicated that COMAC's August 13 response, 
unless substantially modified by September 2, 1969, to meet the ten 
guidelines originally suggested at the August 1 meeting, left him 
(the General Counsel) with no alternative but to recommend institution 
of proceedings to terminate insured status as provided in section 8(a) 
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. 
In a discussion of the reported developments during which 
Mr. Leavitt indicated that representatives of the FDIC did not appear 
receptive to the idea of instituting cease-and-desist proceedings in 
lieu of section 8(a) proceedings, it was agreed generally that there 
appeared to be little to do until it was ascertained what further 
response COMAC would make to the FDIC by September 2, 1969. However, 
individual Board members expressed various views on the problem. 
Governor Robertson expressed agreement with Mr. Leavitt that 
it was appropriate for the Federal Reserve to take basically the 
position that the decision whether to institute section 8(a) proceedings 
was one for which the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation should 
properly assume responsibility. Governor Mitchell raised for consideration 
the possibility that the Federal Reserve should develop its own set of 
guidelines for application to the State member banks in the Parsons 

2634 
8/25/69 
-10-
Group. He also reported having discussed with the President of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago the attitude being taken by the 
Reserve Bank toward applications for borrowing by Parsons Group banks 
at the discount window and expressed the view that the limitations 
on such borrowing being imposed by the Reserve Bank were appropriate. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the opinion that forceful and prompt action 
to deal with the Parsons Group banks should be taken and that the 
Federal Reserve should not resist any proposal by the FDIC to institute 
section 8(a) proceedings. 
Governor Brimmer also inquired about the likelihood of simultaneous 
examination of the Parsons Group banks by the respective bank supervisory 
authorities, and Mr. Leavitt said that Federal Reserve representatives 
who participated in the interagency discussions had expressed willingness 
to cooperate. It was his belief that arrangements for such examinations 
probably would be made within the relatively near future. 
Governor Sherrill noted certain problems involved in section 8(a) 
proceedings, principally because of their protracted nature, in a 
situation where it seemed probable that there would be no substantial 
change in management philosophy and conditions would continue to 
deteriorate. For those reasons he suggested that Federal Reserve 
representatives urge that further consideration be given to the use 
of cease-and-desist procedures as an alternative. 
Proposed interagency meeting. Governor Robertson reported 
that at the most recent meeting of the Interagency Coordinating Committee 

£633 
8/25/69 
-11-
on Bank Regulation, Chairman Randall of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation had suggested a meeting with the Board of Governors, 
apparently for general discussion. Since he was to be away in the 
near future, Governor Robertson said, he would advise Chairman Martin 
of Mr. Randall's request. 
While no objection to such a meeting was expressed, a suggestion 
was made that Chairman Randall be urged to submit an agenda in advance. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
ecretary 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R 5 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
8/25/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
August 21, 1969. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of Jure 27, 1969, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act and Regulation M, for First National City Bank 
("FNCB"), New York, New York, to purchase and hold up to 76 per cent 
of the outstanding capital stock of Far East Bank Limited ("FEB"), 
Hong Kong, at a cost of approximately $2,900,000, provided that such 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed holding of shares of 
FEB by FNCB is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if FEB shall in any manner engage in 
any activity or take any action whatsoever that 
would not be permissible if FEB were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors FNCB 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FEB as it may require from time 
to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FEB 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if FEB were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 
(4) That FNCB shall not carry on its books the shares of 
FEB at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of FEB, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 

First National City Bank 
- 2 -
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of FEB. 
The Board has noted that as of June 30, 1969, the foreign 
loans and investments of your bank and its subsidiaries exceeded the 
guideline ceiling applicable under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect. The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that those foreign loans and investments will be reduced as soon as 
possible to a level consistent with the guidelines; that the invest-
ment now being approved will be made within those guidelines; and that 
due consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
KSigaed) Kenneth A. Ken/on 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
8/25/69* 2 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OrriCIAl. CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
AUG 2 5 1969 
Chemical Bank, 
20 Pine Street, 
New York, New York. 
10008 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors grants its permission to Chemical 
Bank, New York, New York, pursuant to the provisions of Sections S 
and 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Frankfurt 
Germany, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the pro-
visions of such Sections and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before September I, 1970, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Keserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Frankfurt. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
vances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
payments, the above consent, is given with the understanding that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is 
understood that any investment required will be made within the guide-
lines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities 
of your bank, and that due consideration is being given to the priori-
ties contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Diiutfcta L Carmiclwel 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 3 
8/25/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
a F T I C I A L 
C O R R C S P a N D E N c c 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 25, 1969 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request cortained in your letter 
of May 22, 196.), the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("FNCOIC") to purchase and hold up to 50 per cent of 
the shares of Corporacion Financiera de Occidente ("CFO"), Pereira, 
Colombia, at a cost of approximately $1,080,000, provided'the shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. In this 
connection, approval is also granted for the purchase and holding 
of shares of CFO in excess of 10 per cent of your Corporation's 
capital and surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of CFO by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in CFO if CFO at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if CFO establishes a n y branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Colombia or elsewhere, in any manner which at the time 
would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of CFO as it may require from time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CFO be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if CFO were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 

26'40 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(4) . That FNCOIC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of CFO at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of CFO, after giving 
effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by CFO in Colombia in the 
currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of CFO. 
The Board has noted that as of June 30, 1969, the foreign 
loans and investments of your Corporation, First National City Bank, 
and its other subsidiaries, exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable 
under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect. The fore-
going consent is given with the understanding that those foreign loans 
and investments will be reduced as soon as possible to a level con-
sistent with the guidelines; that the investment now being approved 
will be made within those guidelines; and that due consideration is 
being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2«41 
Item No. 4 
8/25/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
NORTHEASTERN BANKSHARE ASSOCIATION, 
Lewiston, Maine, 
for approval of acquisition of at 
least 51 per cent of the voting shares 
of the Westbrook Trust Company, 
Westbrook, Maine. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
<12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Northeastern 
Bankshare Association, Lewiston, Maine, a registered bank holding 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of at 
least 51 per cent of the voting shares of the Westbrook Trust Company, 
Westbrook, Ma ine. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Deputy Bank 
Commissioner of the State of Maine and requested his views and 
Recommendation. He recommended the application be given favorable 
consideration. 

-2* 
Notice of receipt of the application w&s published in the 
Federal Register on July 9, 1969 (34 Federal Register 11394), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this25thday of August 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and 
Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant'Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
NORTHEASTERN BANKSHARE ASSOCIATION, LEWISTON, MAINE, 
FOR THE APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
OF THE WESTBROOK TRUST COMPANY, 
WESTBROOK, MAINE 
STATEMENT 
Northeastern Bankahare Association, Lewiston, Maine 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to 
the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, for prior approval of the acquisition 
at least 51 per cent of the voting shares of the Westbrook Trust 
Company, Westbrook, Maine ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Deputy 
Bank Commissioner of the State of Maine of receipt of the application 
and requested his views and recommendation thereon. The Deputy 
Commissioner recommended that the application be given favorable 
consideration. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed 

acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a 
\ 
monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant 
controls about $54 million in deposits 1/. and is the seventh largest 
banking organization and the smallest of three bank holding companies 
operating in the State of Maine. The 10 largest banking organizations, 
which include the three bank holding companies operating in the State, 
control $825 million in total deposit8,representing 76 per cent of the 
total deposits held by all commercial banks in the State. Applicant's 
four subsidiary banks hold 
5 per cent of all bank deposits in Maine. 
Consummation of Applicant's proposal would increase Applicant's share 
of such deposits to 6.3 per cent, whereby Applicant would become the 
1/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1968, unless otherwise 
noted, and refer to insured commercial banks adjusted to reflect 
holding company acquisitions. 

2645 
-3-
sixth largest banking organization, yet remain the smallest bank holding 
company, in the State of Maine.!/ 
Applicant's largest and only wholly-owned subsidiary bank 
is Eastern Trust and Bank Company, Bangor, Maine, which has deposits 
of $31 million. Applicant's other subsidiary banks which are directly 
owned by Eastern Trust and Banking Company are Lincoln Trust Company, 
Lincoln ($8 million deposits); Millinocket Trust Company, Millinocket 
($9 million deposits);and Guilford Trust Company, Guilford ($6 million 
deposits); all are located in the State of Maine. 
Westbrook Trust Company ($15 million deposits) is the 
smallest of four banks headquartered in Cumberland County, and holds 
7 per cent of the $205 million commercial bank deposits in the county. 
The balance is held by the second, third, and fifth ranked banking 
organizations in the State (all located in Portland) which control 39 
Per cent, 26 per cent, and 26 per cent, respectively. A branch office 
Maine's largest banking organization holds the remaining 2 per cent. 
/ The next largest banking organization to Applicant is First-Manufacturers 
National Bank of Lewiston-Auburn, Lewiston, Maine ("First Bank"), with 
$64 million in deposits. First Bank and The Peoples National Bank of 
Farmington, Farmington, Maine ("Peoples Bank"), with $7 million in 
deposits, had planned to affiliate as subsidiaries of First Bankshare 
Association, and, on March 3, 1969, the Board approved the formation 
that bank holding company. Subsequently, both First Bank and Peoples 
Bank entered into an agreement to affiliate with Applicant, with respect 
^o which Applicant has applications pending. Should the First Bankshare 
Association proposal be consummated, Applicant would be the seventh 
largest banking organization, and the smallest of four bank holding 
companies in the State of Maine. 

2646 
-4-
The City of Westbrook, with a population of less than 
15,000, is located in the southeast corner of the State directly 
west and adjacent to Portland, the largest city in the State. The 
distance between downtown Portland and Westbrook is six miles. Bank 
provides banking services to the towns immediately surrounding its 
four offices in the Westbrook area and in North Windham. It competes 
with the above-mentioned three Portland banks,which together operate 
26 offices and control 92 per cent of the total deposits of banks 
located in Bank's service area. Westbrook holds the remaining 8 per cent. 
None of Applicant's present subsidiaries presently compete 
to any significant extent with Bank. The nearest office of a subsidiary 
bank of Applicant, the Eastern Trust and Banking Company, is located 
in Bangor, 140 miles from Westbrook. Applicant does not derive any 
significant business from the area served by Bank, and Bank does not 
compete to a significant extent outside of that area. Acquisition of 
Bank by Applicant, therefore, would not eliminate existing competition. 
Under Maine Banking Law, the only method by which any of 
Applicant's present subsidiaries can branch into Cumberland County is 
by de novo entry into any town therein that has no banking office. There 
are at present eight such communities in the area served by Bank. However, 
because of the small population of four of the towns, the highly 
concentrated banking market, and the distance that all are from any 
subsidiary of Applicant, the possibility of Applicant's entry into 
this area by de novo branching is remote. Therefore, it does not appear 

that any significant potential competition would be foreclosed by 
the consummation of the proposal. 
The proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly 
o r be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area. Approval of 
the application and consummation of the proposal would not substantially 
lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in 
any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
financial conditions and managements of Applicant, its subsidiary 
banks, and those of Bank, are satisfactory, and their prospects appear 
favorable. Considerations relating to the banking factors are consistent 
wi-th approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
^°nsummation of the proposed transaction would have no effect on 
Customers of Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
All major banking services are available in the area served 
ky Bank from banks located in and near that area. However, consummation 
the proposal would enable Bank to offer a more complete line of 
banking services, thus constituting it a more meaningful alternative 
8°virce of services now provided by larger banks in the area. To that 
extent, the convenience of the banking public in the area would be served 
ky consummation of the proposal. 

» 
2618 
-6-
Considerations under this factor lend some weight toward " 
aPProval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
c°ntained in the record, and in light of the factors aet forth in 
Action 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
* ' - 1 " < . » 
;::: 
• 
August 25, 1969 
m 4 ;•. 

Item No 
8/25/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BARNETT NATIONAL SECURITIES CORPORATION, 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
The Tallahassee Bank North, Tallahassee, 
Florida, a proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK 
STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Barnett National Securities 
Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, for the Board's prior approval 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
The Tallahassee Bank North, Tallahassee, Florida, a proposed new 
bank. 
Inasmuch as the proposed new bank is to be a State bank, 
the Board, pursuant to section 3(b) of the Act, gave written notice 
receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking of 

^ e State of Florida, and requested his views and recommendation in 
Aspect thereto. In response, the Commissioner recommended approval 
o f the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 7, 1969 (34 Federal Register 9104), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
0rder, unless such time shall be extended for good cause by the 
Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority, and that The Tallahassee Bank North be open for business 
n°t later than six months after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 25th day of August, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P, Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
BARNETT NATIONAL SECURITIES CORPORATION, JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE TALLAHASSEE BANK NORTH, TALLAHASSEE, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Barnett National Securities Corporation ("Barnett"), a 
re8tftered bank holding company located in Jacksonville, Florida, 
h a s aPPlied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) 
o f the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), 
f o r prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the 
v°ting shares of The Tallahassee Bank North, Tallahassee, Florida 
( Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority, -
because the proposed new bank is to be a State bank, the Board 
notified the Commissioner of Banking of the State of Florida of the 
recelpt of the application, as required by section 3(b) of the Act, 
requested his views and recommendation thereon. In response, 
Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
0tiopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 

- 2 -
& J > 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
0 r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
a r e clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
tbe transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
t o be served. In each case the Board is required to take into con-
sideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the con-
Venience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Barnett is the 
fourth largest bank holding company and the fourth largest banking 
0rganization in the State of Florida. It holds 4.8 per cent of the 
total deposits 
held by all Florida banking organizations and it 
°Perates 15 subsidiary banks which have total deposits of $555 mil-
lion. one of its subsidiary banks, The Tallahassee Bank and Trust 
Company, is located in Tallahassee, Leon County, Florida. No other 
Batnett subsidiary bank is located within sufficient distance of Leon 
County to be regarded as a convenient alternative for banking services 
tG<luired by County residents. 
1/ 
* 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1968, refer to insured 
^ommercial banks, and include all holding company applications 
PPfoved by the Board. 

At the present time there are seven commercial banks operat-
ing in Leon County. All of these are located in Tallahassee. It is 
Proposed that Bank, when established, will be located just outside the 
c*-ty limits of Tallahassee, and will serve an area with a population 
14,000. The proposed acquisition will result in Barnett's control-
ling two of the eight commercial banks which will then operate in 
Leon County. 
Barnett is the only bank holding company with a subsidiary 
bank in Leon County. The three largest banks there hold 82.5 per cent 
total County deposits. The Tallahassee Bank and Trust Company, with 
31.6 per cent, holds the largest share of such deposits. Three Leon 
County banks, among which is the second largest bank in the County, are 
affiliated by reason of common ownership, and together hold 31.2 per 
Cent of such deposits. The third of the top three commercial banks 
located in Leon County holds 25.1 per cent of total County deposits. 
Board finds, therefore, that Barnett does not occupy a dominant 
monopoly position in the relevant market. 
Bank is to be newly organized, and it will not be established 
unless the application is approved. There is, therefore, no existing 
competition to be eliminated by the acquisition as no banking alter-
ative is to be eliminated; and no potential competition is to be 
foreclosed. Moreover, no increase in concentration of banking resources 
*ould immediately result in any area, and, based upon Bank's projected 
dePosits of $3.5 million at the end of three years of operation, no 
si8nificant increase in concentration is foreseen in the near future. 

265 
- 4 -
All seven of the Tallahsssee banks are located within 4.2 miles 
the proposed site of Bank. The Tallahassee Bank and Trust Company is 
located 2.7 miles from Bank's site; it derives some business from Bank's 
designated service area, but not a substantial amount. Four banks are 
located in the area between Bank's proposed site and The Tallahassee Bank 
and Trust Company's downtown location. Two of these, with deposits of 
$33 million and $34 million, respectively, approximate Barnett's subsid-
iary in size. Another, a bank with deposits of $3.3 million, is affili-
ated with two other banks which, as earlier discussed, together possess 
the second largest share of County deposits; this bank has received 
Permission to relocate to within one-quarter mile of Bank's site. The 
other bank in this area has deposits of $10.6 million. There should be 
n° harmful effect on any competing bank resulting from Barnett's 
acquisition of Bank. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
o f the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
o f the County. 
Financial ard man9flerial resources and future prospects. -
Barnett's financial condition, management, and prospects are regarded 
a s reasonably satisfactory. These conclusions apply to Barnett's 
subsidiary banks. 

ortri-
Bank's organization has received the preliminary approval of 
the Commissioner of Banking of the State of Florida. Its proposed 
capital appears adequate, its proposed management competent, and its 
Prospects appear favorable. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are regarded 
as consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Bank 
is to be located just outside the city limits of Tallahassee and 
will serve the northern portion of the city and nearby suburban areas. 
There is no evidence that banking needs in this area are going unserved. 
However, the convenience of residents of the area would be served by 
establishment of Bank as a local alternative for banking services. 
Commercial development, present and potential, offers a promising 
€conomic future to the service area, and Bank's establishment could 
Provide additional economic stimulus. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
immunity which Bank would serve provide some weight in favor of 
aPproval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
c°ntained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth 
i n section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the 
aPPlication 
should be approved, 
^gust 25 , 1969. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
QVCPVA*. 
O F T H E 
S-2102 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
8/25/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TQ THE BOARD 
August 25, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
In connection with bids to be submitted and opened in 
Alaska on September 10, 1969, for the purchase from the State of 
Alaska of certain oil and gas leases, it is understood that each bid 
will be required to be accompanied by an officer's check of a bank 
an amount equal to a certain percentage of the amount of the bid 
and that, if the bid is not accepted, the check will be canceled and 
^turned to the representative of the bank present at the bidding. 
view of time differences, the cancellation and return of such a 
check in Alaska may be late in the afternoon or evening in the city 
In which a member bank's head office is located. 
Under Regulation D, demand deposits subject to reserve 
requirements include "all outstanding certified and officers' 
checks" and reserves are based upon average daily net deposit 
balances "at the close of business each day." However, where 
a n officer's check is canceled and returned to a representative 
a member bank at a time that would be prior to midnight in 
place in which the member bank's head office is located, it 
the view of the Board that such a check need not be regarded, 
f°r reserve purposes, as outstanding at the close of business for 
that day. 
We are not informed as to the names of all banks that 
may be participating in the bidding in Alaska. However, it is 
Su8gested that you coir.municate the Board's views to any banks in 
District that may inquire about the matter or that seem likely 
t o be concerned. 
Very truly yours, 
' 
- c 
x 
p 
\ 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
T o THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS. 

fe&V-. 
mi 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R 5 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 7 
8/25/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
AUG 25 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. George H. Clay, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 64198 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
As requested in your letter of August 18 , 1969, the Board of 
Governors approves the following minimum and maximum salaries for the 
respective grades of the employees' salary structures at the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City, and branches, effective September 1, 1969: 
Kansas City 
Denver 
Oklahoma City 
Omaha 
trade Minirnnr.i Maximum Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum Minimum Maximum 
1 
$ 3,328 $ 3 705 
$ 3 328 $ 3 822 
$ 3 328 $ 3 497 
$ 3,328 $ 3,692 
2 
3,328 
4 173 
3 328 
4 290 
3 328 
3 952 
3 328 
4 147 
3 
3,484 
4 706 
3 562 
4 810 
3 328 
4 472 
3,458 
4,654 
4 
3,913 
5 278 
3 991 
5 395 
3 731 
5 031 
3,861 
5,213 
5 
4,355 
5 889 
4 459 
6 019 
4 186 
5 655 
4,316 
5,837 
6 
4,888 
6 591 
4 979 
6 734 
4 693 
6 344 
4,836 
6,526 
7 
5,460 
7 358 
5 551 
7 501 
5 265 
7 111 
5,408 
7,293 
8 
6,110 
8 242 
6 201 
8 372 
5 902 
7 969 
6,032 
8,151 
9 
6,825 
9 204 
6 916 
9 334 
6 604 
8 918 
6,734 
9,100 
10 
7,605 
10 270 
7 696 
10 400 
7 371 
9 958 
7,501 
10,114 
U 
8,450 
11 414 
8 567 
11 570 
8 229 
11 115 
8,359 
11,284 
12 
9,412 
12 714 
9 529 
12 857 
9 178 
12 389 
9 .295 
12,545 
13 
10,491 
14 157 
10 595 
14 313 
10 231 
13 819 
10,348 
13,962 
14 
11,674 
15 756 
11 804 
15 938 
11 414 
15 405 
11,505 
15 j535 
15 
13,013 
17 563 
13 130 
17 732 
12 714 
17 160 
12,818 
17,303 
16 
14,495 
19 565 
14 625 
19 747 
14 170 
19 136 
14,261 
19,266 
Salaries should be paid to employees within the limits specified 
the grades in which their respective positions are classified. All 
employees whose salaries are below the minima of their grades as a result 
these structure increases should be brought within appropriate ranges 
hy December 1, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Fcrresta! 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
