Minutes for 
November 14, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
kJ 

uu < 1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, November 14, 1968. The Board met in the 
Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Shepardson, Cons ultant to the Board 
Mrs. Winkler, Secretary, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Lynch and Noble of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver, Ducy, and Wiles of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill of the Division of International 
Finance 
Messrs. Achor, Goodfellow, and Sanford of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 

3978 
11/14/68 
-2-
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. * 
Item No. 
Letter to Franklin International Corporation, 
1 
New York, New York, granting consent for the 
corporation to continue to hold the stock of 
American Swiss Credit Co. Ltd., New York, New 
York, after acquisition by the latter of 
stock of Ecuatoriana de Desarrollo S.A., 
Quito,Ecuador. 
Letter to Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking 
2 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent for the corporation to continue to 
hold the stock of Banco Lar Brasileiro S.A. , 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, after acquisition by 
the latter of stock of Companhia Metropolitana 
de Sao Paulo-Metro, Sao Paulo, Brazil. 
Letter to Boston Overseas Financial Corporation, 
3 
Boston, Massachusetts, granting permission to 
change the site of incorporation of a proposed 
international trade development company from 
Bermuda to Panama and to reactivate a presently 
inactive Panamanian subsidiary. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
4 
approving the opening of an account in the name 
of Bank of Mauritius. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed consolidation of The Connecticut Bank 
and Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut, and The Connecticut National 
Bank, Bridgeport, Connecticut, was approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Comptroller of the Currency in a form in which the conclusion 
read as follows: 

1> 
11/14/68 
-3-
There is little existing competition between The 
Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, Hartford, and The 
Connecticut National Bank, Bridgeport, in the local 
banking markets which they serve, but they do appear 
to compete for larger accounts throughout the State. 
Moreover, there is potential for significant competi-
tion between the two banks even in local markets either 
through de novo branching or through merger with other 
possible alternatives in which the anticompetitive 
effects would be considerably lessened. 
Subject proposal would join the second and fifth 
of the State's largest banks creating a bank that would 
hold almost one-quarter of the State's total commercial 
bank deposits and would have about the same proportion 
of all commercial banking offices. Such a move would 
obviously have a profound impact on the State's commer-
cial banking structure. 
The overall competitive effect of the proposed con-
solidation would be substantially adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Union and New Haven Trust Company, New Haven, Connecti-
cut, into The Fairfield County Trust Company, Stamford, Connecticut, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insur 
ance Corporation in a form in which the conclusion read as follows: 
There is little existing competition between The 
Fairfield County Trust Company, Stamford, and The Union 
and New Haven Trust Company; however, there is potential 
for competition between them either through de novo 
branching or through merger with other possible alterna-
tives, which would be less anticompetitive than the pro-
posed merger. 
The proposed transaction would combine the third 
and tenth largest banks in Connecticut, thereby increas-
ing the concentration of commercial bank deposits in the 
five largest banks. 
The overall competitive effect of the proposed merger 
would be adverse. 

3980 
11/14/68 
-4-
In the form in which they were transmitted, the two foregoing 
reports incorporated banking structure analysis provided by the Bank-
ing Markets Section. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Bank of Hampton Roads, Newport News, Virginia, into Virginia 
National Bank, Norfolk, Virginia, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion reading as 
follows: 
Consummat ion of the proposed merger of Bank of 
Hampton Roads, Newport News, into Virginia National 
Bank, Norfolk, would eliminate competition existing 
between the two as well as foreclose the possibility 
of greater competition between them. Further, the 
proposal would increase the concentration of banking 
resources in the Newport News-Hampton market in the 
State's four largest banking organizations. Overall, 
the effect of the proposal on competition would be 
adverse. 
Applications of Dominion Bankshares Corporation (Items 5-7). 
The re had been distributed drafts of orders and a statement reflecting 
the Board's action on October 31, 1968, approving applications of 
Dominion Bankshares Corporation, Roanoke, Virginia, to acquire 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of First National Bank of Norfolk, 
Norfolk, Virginia, and The City Bank and Trust Company of Alexandria, 
Alexandria, Virginia. 
The issuance of the orders and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 5, 6, and 7. 

11/14/68 
-5-
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Kenyon, Solomon, Farrell, Byrne, and O'Connell. Mr. Shepardson 
remained and Messrs. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel Adminis-
tration, and Kakalec, Controller, entered the room. 
Culpeper installation (Item No. 8). With reference to the data 
processing installation at the Communications and Records Center at 
Culpeper, Virginia, Mr. O'Connell recalled that in 1967 the Board 
authorized an increase in cost not to exceed $470,000 to effect certain 
changes that had been recommended. By this summer the estimates for 
the work were found to have mounted to somewhat in excess of $1 million, 
at which point the Board authorized Governor Sherrill to contact the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, its architect, and its contractor to 
determine the reasons for the substantial difference between the 
original and the current estimates. Governor Sherrill had had several 
meetings with the parties concerned, and the Reserve Bank had retained 
an attorney to represent it. To date the contractor had been paid 
about $420,000. He had submitted another bill for approximately 
$304,000 that had been certified by the architect, but not paid, and 
at the end of September had requested further payment in the amount of 
approximately $606,000, which request had not been certified by the 
architect. The terms of the contract provided that after submission 
°f a request for payment by the contractor and certification by the 
architect, the contractor had the right to quit the job and terminate 
the contract if payment was not made within a specified number of days. 

11/14/68 
-6-
It appeared, Mr. O'Connell said, that the architect might 
ultimately reduce his total charge for the work to something in the 
neighborhood of $900,000, but that was still not firm, and the work 
had not yet been fully completed. On November 11 the Reserve Bank 
received a letter from the contractor the effect of which was to make 
a demand on the Reserve Bank, under the terms of the contract, for 
payment of the amounts that had been requested, including the $304,000 
certified by the architect. The contractor indicated that if payment 
was not made he would quit the job and look to remedies under breach 
of contract. 
Mr. O'Connell said he had talked with the Bank and its attorney 
since receipt of the letter. They were of the view that payment should 
be made promptly by the Reserve Bank, but only in the amount of $304,000. 
He had also been in touch with Governor Sherrill, who agreed that such 
payment might reasonably be made provided certain written assurances, 
as described, were received from the contractor. 
Upon Mr. O'Connell1s recommendation the payment by the Reserve 
Bank of the amount of $304,459.31, which had been certified by the 
architect, was authorized, with the understanding that Mr. O'Connell 
would endeavor to arrange for assurances along the lines proposed by 
Governor Sherrill. A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond pursuant to this action is attached as Item No. 8. 
Messrs. Farrell and Byrne then withdrew from the meeting. 

3 9 8 3 
11/14/68 
-7-
Annex building. Mr. Shepardson referred to the decision that 
had been reached to retain the services of the firm of Loewy-Snaith 
in connection with the interior decorating and furnishing of the 
Board's annex building. He said that representatives of the firm and 
the Board's architects had subsequently agreed on an appropriate divi-
sion of responsibilities. Loewy-Snaith had then presented a proposal 
that would involve payment of $155,000 for the services they would 
render. 
Mr. Shepardson went on to say that at the suggestion of 
Governor Robertson (in Governor Sherrill's absence) he had contacted 
the architects to obtain an estimate of their fee for performing ser-
vices similar to those that would be rendered by Loewy-Snaith. After 
making certain adjustments in light of the present contract with the 
architects, it appeared that the architects' fee for comparable services 
would be around $39,000. Mr. Shepardson also said that the bringing of 
Loewy-Snaith into the picture would involve a delay ranging from 30 to 
90 days in the annex building program. He further stated that upon 
learning of the Board's decision to retain Loewy-Snaith he had sug-
gested to the firm that they proceed with studies incident to the 
services they would perform. Therefore, if the Board now wanted to 
make any change, Loewy-Snaith should be notified promptly. 
After discussion it was agreed that Mr. Shepardson would 
instruct Loewy-Snaith to suspend work on the project, that he would 

11/14/68 
-8-
endeavor to get in touch with Governor Sherrill to advise him of 
developments, and that the matter would be considered further by the 
Board tomorrow upon Governor Sherrill's return. 
by Mr. Solomon, there was a discussion of the proposed appointment to 
the staff of the Division of International Finance of an official who 
would be borrowed from the Department of State, including the general 
nature of the duties that would be envisaged. The discussion included 
consideration of the general staffing problem in the Division and the 
need for additional strength in certain areas, particularly analytical 
research. It was agreed to review the matter again at tomorrow's 
Board meeting, at which time it was anticipated that all members would 
be present. 
Mr. Shepardson then withdrew from the meeting. 
Proposed staff appointment. On the basis of a presentation 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

3885 
.\3sSS^Sfe.. 
•f^LRtsfr-
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
11/14/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B D A R D 
November 14, 1968. 
Franklin International Corporation, 
130 Pearl Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of September 5, 1968, the Board of Governors grants its consent 
for your Corporation to continue to hold the stock of American 
Swiss Credit Co. Ltd.("Amerswiss"), New York, New York, after 
Amerswiss acquires 5,000 shares of the stock of Ecuatoriana de 
Desarrollo S. A., Quito, Ecuador, at a cost of approximately 
$25,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of Amerswiss, and that due consideration is being given 
to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3 9 8 6 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 2 
11/14/68 
ofcov^-
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 14, 1968. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of August 29, 1968, the Board of Governors grants its consent for 
your Corporation ("CMOBC") to continue to hold the stock oJE Banco 
Lar Brasileiro ("Banco Lar"), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, after Banco Lar 
acquires a nominal amount of the shares of Companhia Metropolitana 
de Sao Paulo - Metro ("Metro"), Sao Paulo, Brazil, at a cost in 
cruzeiros not exceeding the equivalent of approximately $27,650, pro-
vided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
It is understood that the funds to be used for the above 
investment are those of Banco Lar and that no transfer of dollars 
from the'United States, either directly or indirectly, is involved. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3387 
BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
11/14/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 14, 1968. 
Boston Overseas Financial 
Corporation, 
67 Milk Street, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 02110 
Gentlemen: 
In response to the request contained in your letter of 
September 13, 1968, the Board of Governors amends the relevant por-
tion of the first sentence of its letter of consent of July 2, 1968, 
relating to the acquisition of shares of a new international trade 
development company to read: 
. . to operate under the laws of 
Panama . . 
In all other respects that letter of consent remains 
unaltered. In addition, the Board approves the reactivation of 
Massnat Corporation, a presently inactive, wholly-owned Panamanian 
subsidiary of your Corporation, with the understanding that Massnat 
Corporation will serve as your international trade development com-
pany and that its name will be changed to Overseas Trade Development 
Company. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, The First National Bank of Boston, and Bank of 
Boston International, and that due consideration is being given to 
the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

T E L E G R A M 
Item No-
L . A . I D «m ( u r v i c i 
11/14/68 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
November 14, 1968. 
MACLAURY - NEW YORK 
Your wire of November 7. Board approves opening and maintenance of 
an account on books of Federal Reserve Bank of New York in the name 
of Bank of Mauritius, subject to usual terms and conditions. It 
is understood that participation in this account will be offered 
to other Federal Reserve Banks. 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
HOLLAND 

3389 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C; 
In the Matter of the application of 
' 
DOMINION BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
1 
Roanoke, Virginia, 
• 
for approval of acquisition of 80 
' 
Per cent or more of the voting shares 
1 
the First National Bank of Norfolk, 
1 
Norfolk, Virginia. 
• 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
18A2(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Dominion Bankshares Corporation, 
Roanoke, Virginia, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
Prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of the First National Bank of Norfolk, Norfolk, Virginia. 
As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
viev>s and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
• y ) 
' 
' 
' 
. 
the application. 
Item No. 5 
11/14/68 

3330 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 7, 1968 (33 Federal Register 11190), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
ls approved, provided that the application so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
°f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 14th day of November, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3 3 9 1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Item No. 6 
11/14/68 
In the Matter of the application of 
DOMINION BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
Roanoke, Virginia, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
The City Bank and Trust Company of 
Alexandria, Alexandria, Virginia. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Dominion Bankshares Corporation, 
Roanoke, Virginia, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
Prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The City Bank and Trust Company of Alexandria, Alexandria, 
Virginia. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Commissioner of Banking of the State of Virginia of the applica-
tion and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
recommended approval of the application. 

3992 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 7, 1968 (33 Federal Register 11190), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all tho se received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
o f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 14th day of November, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY DOMINION BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
OF THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF NORFOLK, NORFOLK, VIRGINIA,AND 
THE CITY BANK AND TRUST COMPANY OF ALEXANDRIA, ALEXANDRIA, VIRGINIA 
STATEMENT 
Dominion Bankshares Corporation, Roanoke, Virginia ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 
per cent or more of the voting shares of the First National Bank of 
Norfolk, Norfolk, Virginia ("First Norfolk"), and The City Bank and 
Trust Company of Alexandria, Alexandria, Virginia ("City Bank"). 
While each of the applications has been separately considered and is 
subj ect to a separate Board Order, because of facts and circumstances 
common to both applications, this Statement contains the Board's find-
ings and conclusions with respect to both. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
o f the Currency of receipt of the application relating to First Norfolk 
and notified the Commissioner of Banking of the State of Virginia of 
Item No. 18 
11/14/68 

3 3 9 4 
-2-
receipt of the application relating to City Bank, and requested their 
views and recommendations thereon. Recommendations for approval 
were received in both cases. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a 
monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of 
trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of 
the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest 
b y t h e probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience 
ar*d needs of the community to be served. In each case the Board is 
required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community to 
b e served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transactions. - Applicant, 
th 
e sixth largest banking organization in Virginia, controls deposits 
o f $353 million, representing 5.8 per cent of the total deposits in 
th 
e State. 
Upon completion of the acquisitions proposed, Applicant 
Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of December 31, 1967. 

would control 6.3 per cent of total deposits in the State and would 
become the fifth largest banking organization in Virginia. Consumma-
tion of the proposals would not significantly affect the present 
•• * 
. 
v 
degree of State-wide concentration. 
First Norfolk, which has deposits of $21 million, has its 
Principal office in Norfolk and has one branch in each of the neighbor-
ing cities of Virginia Beach and Chesapeake. The areas served by the 
three offices are separate and consist of portions of the three 
cities. First Norfolk is the smallest of seven banks serving these 
areas; its competitors are the two largest independent banks in the 
State and four banks which arc subsidiaries of three bank holding companies 
City Bank, with deposits of $10 million, has its main office 
and only branch in Alexandria and serves the eastern section of that 
city and a small portion of adjoining Arlington County. It is the 
tallest bank in that area, and its competitors are four subsidiaries 
o f bank holding companies and a $14 million independent bank. 
None of Applicant's present subsidiary banks is located 
I e s s than 95 miles from either Norfolk or Alexandria, and First Nor-
folk and City Bank are located about 180 miles apart. It does not 
aPpear that any competition exists between the two proposed subsidiary 
banks or between either of them and present subsidiaries of Applicant, 
further, in view of the distances involved and State branching 
Restriction s, it does not appear likely that such competition would 
develop in the future. It is reasonably foreseen that the acquisitions 

-2-
proposed will increase the competitive abilities of the acquired banks, 
without adversely affecting the viability or competitive effectiveness 
of competing banks. 
'In the light of these facts, the Board concludes that con-
summation of the proposed acquisitions would not result in a monopoly 
nor be in any furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt 
to monopolize the business of banking in any area. It does not appear 
that consummation of either or both of the proposals would have the 
effect of substantially lessening competition or tending to create a 
monopoly in any section of the country, or would in any manner be in 
restraint of trade. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition, management and prospects of Applicant and 
First 
Norfolk are considered satisfactory, although the prospects of 
First Norfolk would be somewhat improved by consummation of Appli-
cant's proposal. 
City Bank's four and one-half years of operating history 
reflect significant managerial difficulties. An exceptionally high 
rate of personnel turnover is only partially reflected by the fact 
that 
three different chief executive officers have served the bank. 
The absence of continuing, experienced management direction has 
adversely affected many aspects of City Bank's operations, particu-
larly its loan portfolio and its earnings. Absent substantial 
improvements in these areas, City Bank's prospects are not promising. 

-2-
Considerations under this factor, as they relate to First 
Norfolk, are consistent with approval of the application. Such con-
siderations lend significant weight toward approval of the proposed 
% 
acquisition of City Bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Con-
summation of Applicant's proposals would not affect the convenience 
or needs of the communities served by its present subsidiaries. 
Applicant details plans for broadening the services avail-
able through First Norfolk and for the opening of new offices which 
will contribute to the convenience of that bank's customers. 
Immediate 
Plans include the creation of an international department and a mortgage 
department, and the enlargement of the bank's existing installment loan 
department to encompass a full range of specialty consumer financing. 
The communities served by City Bank are amply supplied with 
convenient full service banking outlets. There is no evidence of un-
served needs, nor does Applicant suggest that the proposed affiliation 
will fulfill any unserved needs. Rather, the affiliation's primary 
contribution to the Alexandria banking community would be the overall 
improvement in City Bank's financial condition and stability that 
oan be reasonably expected to ensue from Applicant's efforts to correct 
operational difficulties and management deficiencies. Applicant also 
Proposes to expand and improve the quality of services presently 
offered by City Bank. Affiliation of City Bank with Applicant would 
serve the convenience of the community by providing the community 
with an additional well-managed full service banking institution. 

3 3 9 8 
-2-
These considerations are consistent with, and provide some 
weight in favor of, approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed transactions would be in the public interest and that the 
applications should be approved. 
November 14, 1968 

3 2 9 9 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 
11/14/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 18, 1968 
Mr. Aubrey N. Heflin, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
Dear Mr. Heflin: 
This refers to the letter dated November 11, 1968, 
addressed to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond by Mr. Peter 
Hantegna, Vice President of Piracci Construction Co., Inc., 
Baltimore, Maryland, the General Contractor for the Communications 
and Records Center project at Culpepper, Virginia. Mr. Mantegna's 
letter, a copy of which you furnished to the Board, refers to an 
application for payment, submitted with respect to work under PCC 47 
in the amount of $304,459.31 ("Application No. 4"), which has been 
certified by Mr. Marcellus Wright, Jr., representing Marcellus Wright 
& Partners, Architects for the Culpeper project ("the Architect"), 
and transmitted to your Bank under letter dated September 16, 1968. 
Mr. Mantegna's letter also refers to application for payment dated 
September 30, 1968, in the amount of $606,863.57, presently awaiting 
certification by the Architect. 
The General Contractor's November 11 letter refers to 
Article 23 of the construction contract relating to the terms of 
the Owner's (Richmond Reserve Bank) obligations to pay applications 
for payment properly certified by the Architect, to the General Con-
tractor's rights if such payment is not made, and to Article 25 of 
said contract relating to the requirements for certification for pay-
ment by the Architect or, in the alternative, for a written statement 
of reasons for withholding such certification. The Contractor has 
demanded payment of Application No. 4, and either the issuance of a 
certificate of payment by the Architect on the application for payment 
submitted by letter of September 30, 1968, in the amount of $606,863.57, 
or a written statement of reasons for withholding the certificate 
requested. 
The Board has been advised by Mr. O'Connell of its staff 
that your Bank has recommended payment of Application No. 4 in the 
amount of $304,459.31, pursuant to the certification for payment 

4000 
Mr. Aubrey N. Heflin 
-2-
previously executed by the Architect. We are further advised that 
Mr. Norman A. Coplan of Bernstein, Weiss, Porter, Coplan & Weinstein, 
New York, your Bank's retained counsel in this matter, has also 
recommended payment of Application No. 4 subject to receipt from the 
payee of certain assurances hereinafter discussed. 
The Board has approved payment by your Bank to the General 
Contractor of $304,459.31 pursuant to Application No. 4. You are 
advised that the Board's approval action was taken with the expressed 
understanding that such payment be made only if there is obtained from 
the General Contractor, or his appointed representative, an agreement 
that the certification by the Architect and payment thereunder shall 
not constitute or be interpreted as a ruling or finding by the Architect 
as to the costs of the work under PCC 47, the appropriate allowance for 
overhead and profit, or the validity of any claims for delay, impact, 
or otherwise in connection with the subject work. Said agreement should 
further provide that the payment of the $304,459.31 requested shall not 
in any way prejudice your Bank's right under the construction contract 
to appeal and/or submit to arbitration any ruling, decision, or certif-
icate of the Architect, and that your Bank shall not be prejudiced in 
any respect as a consequence of the payment of Application No. 4. It 
is understood that Mr. Coplan has made known to the General Contractor's 
counsel that any payment that Mr. Coplan might recommend be made would 
be conditioned upon receipt of the above-stated agreement. 
Regarding the General Contractor's request for certification 
by the Architect of the application for payment of $606,863.57, it is 
understood that the Architect is preparing for transmission to the 
General Contractor a written statement of the reason or reasons for 
withholding certificate of payment on the application. We will appre-
ciate receipt of copies of letters sent to the General Contractor by 
your Bank and by the Architect. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
