Minutes for 
October 23, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

4 04 8 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, October 23, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Gramley, 
Smith, Eckert, Bernard, Ettin, Fry, and Keir 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Reynolds, Wood, Baker, 
Bryant, Gekker, Pizer, and Ruckdeschel of the 
Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Bernard reported on conditions in the 
Government securities market, Mr. Eckert commented on recent and pro-
> £ r 
sPective bank credit developments, Mr. Keir discussed the corporate 
and municipal bond markets, and Mr. Baker summarized foreign exchange 

1049 
10/23/67 
- 2 -
and gold market developments, with emphasis on the position of sterling 
and the change in the British Bank rate. Copies of the several charts 
and tables distributed in connection with today's review have been 
placed in the Board's files. 
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions except Messrs. Brill, Solomon, Partee, Smith, 
Sammons, and Keir withdrew from the meeting, as did Mr. Broida, and 
the following entered: 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Sanders, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver, Eisenbeis, Greenspun, and Shull of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City on October 13 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, and San Francisco on October 19 
1967, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules 
was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Reports on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency of a report on 
the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The Colonial 
National Bank of Alexandria, Alexandria, Virginia, into Mount Vernon 
National Bank and Trust Company of Fairfax County, Annandale, Virginia, 
in a form in which the conclusion read as follows: 

10/23/67 
- 3 -
4 050 
There is some existing competition between The Colonial 
National Bank of Alexandria and Mount Vernon National Bank 
and Trust Company of Fairfax County, Annandale, a subsidiary 
of First Virginia Bankshares Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, 
a registered bank holding company. There is potential for in-
creased competition between the two banks, including opportu-
nities for de novo branching. Numerous alternatives, includ-
ing Washington, D. C., banks, would remain available for area 
residents. 
First Virginia Bankshares Corporation, Arlington, pres-
ently controls 3 Northern Virginia banks, which operate 31 
banking offices and hold 25.9 per cent of Northern Virginia's 
area deposits. If the proposed transaction is consummated, 
this holding company would control 33 banking offices and 
26.6 per cent of area deposits. Four holding companies, 
which have banks in Northern Virginia, together hold about 
71 per cent of area deposits, which would be increased to 
about 72 per cent if the instant merger is approved. 
The overall effect of the transaction would be adverse. 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Canton National Bank, 
Canton, Ohio, into First National Bank of Canton was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Canton 
National Bank into First National Bank of Canton would 
eliminate existing and potential competition and combine 
the second and fourth largest of the five banks headquar-
tered in Canton. The resulting bank would hold 40 per cent 
of the total deposits held by the four banks headquartered 
in Canton and operate 9 of 22 banking offices in Canton and 
its immediate area. 
There is already a high level of banking concentration 
in Stark County and, upon consummation of this merger, the 
resulting bank would hold approximately 30 per cent of the 
total deposits held by banks in Stark County. 
It appears the overall effect of the proposal on com-
petition would be substantially adverse. 

4051 
10/23/67 
- 4 -
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of First State Bank of Mendon, 
Mendon, Michigan, into The American National Bank and Trust Company of 
Michigan, Kalamazoo, Michigan, was approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Comptroller. The conclusion read as follows: 
Little, if any, competition exists between The Ameri-
can National Bank and Trust Company of Michigan, Kalamazoo, 
Michigan, and First State Bank of Mendon, Mendon, Michigan. 
However, consummation of the transaction would eliminate 
potential for some competition between them. The overall 
competitive effect of the proposal would be slightly ad-
verse . 
Account for Banco Central do Brasil (Item No. 1). Unanimous 
approval was given to a telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York (copy attached as Item No. 1) approving the opening and main-
tenance of an account in the name of Banco Central do Brasil. 
Revenue bond underwriting (Items 2 and 3). There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated October 20, 1967, from Messrs. Partee and 
Cardon relating to a request from Senator Proxmire, Chairman of the 
Subcommittee on Financial Institutions of the Senate Banking and Cur-
rency Committee, for an expression of the Board's views by Tuesday, 
October 24, on three amendments proposed by investment bankers to 
S. 1306, the bill to authorize commercial banks to underwrite and 
deal in revenue bonds. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter commenting 
adversely on the proposed amendments on the general ground that 

4052 
10/23/67 
- 5 -
restrictions on bank participation in the marketing of municipal bonds 
such as were contemplated by the amendments could defeat the objective 
of lowering borrowing costs for municipalities. 
Mr. Cardon said that a letter had been received this morning 
from Senator Sparkman, Chairman of the Banking and Currency Committee, 
requesting the Board's views on a proposed revision of the first amend-
ment that he reportedly favored. Consequently, more attention to that 
amendment would now seem to be called for. The amendment, as originally 
stated, would prohibit a bank from purchasing any municipal obligation 
(revenue or general obligation) for its own investment account from 
it self as underwriter. Mr. Cardon was not certain from discussion with 
a member of the Banking and Currency Committee staff exactly what effect 
the refinements offered by Senator Sparkman would have. In essence, 
however, the amendment, in either form, would seem to place some restric-
tions on the extent to which a bank, as underwriter, could negotiate more 
favorable terms for its own purchases than would be available to pur-
chasers who were not members of the syndicate. In view of the time 
limit, Mr. Cardon said, he would recommend that the Board oppose the 
second and third amendments but take no position on the first amendment. 
Mr. Partee said that he had not had an opportunity to study the 
Sparkman proposal. It seemed to him, however, that in such matters it 
would be better to proceed through regulation than legislation. The 

3 ' •• C O 
10/23/67 
- 6 -
effect of legislative language on the complex manner in which underwrit-
ing syndicates were set up and carried out their functions was difficult 
to foresee. 
There followed a discussion of various interpretations that 
might be placed upon the proposed amendment, and of the possible effects 
in terms of the cost of municipal financing and the relative positions 
of bank and nonbank underwriters. Mr. Sanders agreed with Mr. Partee 
that it did not seem practical to attempt to prescribe underwriting 
practices through legislation. 
The draft letter to Senator Proxmire was considered further in 
the light of the foregoing discussion, and certain changes were suggested 
in li ne with Mr. Cardon s recommendation that the Board express opposi-
tion to the second and third amendments but take no position with respect 
to the first amendment. This contemplated that the letter to Senator 
Sparkman would be compatible. Several Board members emphasized the dif-
ficulty involved in reaching a judgment on a matter of this kind within 
the indicated time limit. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the transmittal of letters 
to Senator Proxmire and to Senator Sparkman in the form attached as 
.Items 2 and 3. respectively. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1 0 4 9 
10/23/67 
- 7 -
Secretary's Notes: Attached as Item No. 4 
is a copy of an interpretation dated Octo-
ber 20, 1967, relating to bank holding com-
pany ownership of mortgage companies. This 
interpretation was issued pursuant to the 
understanding at the meeting of the Board 
on September 5, 1967. 
On October 20, 1967, Governor Robertson 
approved on behalf of the Board memoranda 
recommending the following actions relating 
to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Charles E. Rogers as Statistician, Division of Data Processing, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $15,106, effective the date 
of entrance upon duty. 
Constance Hall as Research Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,451, effective 
October 23, 1967. 
Errol L. Hough as Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Richard E. Johnson as Messenger, Division of Administrative Ser-
vices, with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
James E. Milton as Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases, effective October 22, 1967 
Basic annual salary 
Nameand title 
Division 
From 
To 
Office of the Secretary 
Barbara J. Carter, Clerk-Typist 
Bank Operations 
Eleanor E. Omohundro, Operations Analyst 
$4,413 
8,740 
$4,557 
9,001 

4055 
10/23/67 
- 8 -
Salary increases, effective October 22, 1967 (continued) 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Administrative Services 
Carroll P. Hickman, Supervisor-Inspector 
$ 6,594 
$ 6,864 
(change in title from Supervisory Clerk) 
John C. Simmons, Laborer 
4,585 
4,707 
Charlie H. Ward, Foreman, Laborers and 
5,408 
5,970 
Gardeners (change in title from Lead Laborer) 
Data Processing 
Irma B. Gavin, Senior Graphic Illustrator 
7,942 
8,478 
Paul Goldstein, Production Control Supervisor 
11,685 
12,873 
Change in title 
Patricia Willis, from Statistical Clerk to Statistical Assistant, 
Division of Research and Statistics, with no change in basic annual 
salary at the rate of $5,331, effective October 22, 1967. 
On October 20, 1967, Governor Robertson 
noted on behalf of the Board a memorandum 
advising of the death of John C. Franzoni, 
Operations Analyst in the Division of Bank 
Operations, on October 7, 1967. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Divi-
sion of Examinations, Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board the 
appointment of Edgar Maurice McWhirter as 
Assistant Federal Reserve Examiner in that 
Division, with basic annual salary at the 
rate of $11,426, effective November 2, 1967. 
On October 20 and 23, 1967, actions were 
taken on behalf of the Board under dele-
gated authority as indicated by the follow-
ing letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indicated: 

4056 
10/23/67 
- 9 -
0n October 20, 1967 
Bvthe Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Item No, 
Letter to The Schenectady Trust Company, 
5 
Schenectady, New York, approving the 
establishment of a limited purpose in-
town branch. 
Letter to Nassau Trust Company, Glen Cove, 
6 
New York, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch in 
Greenvale, Nassau County. 
OlLQctober 23, 1967 
By .the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
7 
Francisco approving the appointment of 
Wayne N. C. Hall and Harold C. Palmer as 
examiners. 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to State Savings Bank, Lowell, 
8 
Michigan, approving the establishment of 
a n in-town branch. 

7 
Item No. 1 
T E L E G R A M 
10/23/67 
L E A S E D W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
October 23, 1967 
WAAGE - NEW YORK 
Your wire of October 19. Board approves opening and maintenance 
°f an account on books of Federal Reserve Bank of New York in the 
name of Banco Central do Brasil, subject to usual terms and 
conditions. It is understood that participation in this account 
ttill be offered to other Federal Reserve Banks. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
• 
; < - ' 
' 
• 
.> : . 
SHERMAN 

4 OSS 
•r^LRt^. 
Item No. 2 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
_ , - _ 
Q F T H E 
10/23/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , •. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
October 23, 1967. 
The Honorable William W. Proxmire, Chairman, 
Subcommittee on Financial Institutions, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
°ear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your letter of October 18, in which 
you requested the Board's views regarding three amendments that 
have been suggested to S. 1306, the bill to authorize commercial 
banks to underwrite and deal in revenue bonds. 
The fir st of the proposed amendments would prohibit a 
ank from purchasing any municipal obligation (revenue or general 
obligation) for its own investment account from itself as under-
writer. The second amendment would prohibit a bank from selling 
a ny such obligation that it is underwriting to any borrower or 
correspondent bank until after the syndicate has closed as to 
underwriting, and if the bank gives any investment advice concern-
ing such obligations to any person it would also have to disclose 
jn writing the extent and nature of its interest as underwriter or 
ealer. The third amendment would prohibit any bank that is a 
member of an underwriting syndicate from performing certain 
iduciary functions associated with the issue. 
One point should be clarified with regard to the second 
^endment. The material enclosed with your letter states that 
ubstantially the same amendment was proposed by the Federal 
Reserve Board in 1965." This statement is in error, possibly 
Reflecting some confusion about an amendment prepared by the 
°ard s staff for Representative Reuss when the House Committee 
Banking and Currency was considering H.R. 7539, a predecessor 
0 S. 1306, in 1965. Mr. Balderston, then Vice Chairman of the 
°ard, was asked to comment on the 1965 amendment, which included 
. Provision similar in some respects to the second amendment on 
ich you now seek the Board's views. In a letter to the 

The Honorable William W. Proxmire 
- 2 -
4059 
Chairman of the House Committee, a copy of which is enclosed, 
Mr. Balderston concluded that the amendment would be ineffective 
unless tightened so severely as to hamper banks in performing 
more valuable functions. 
The Board shares Mr. Balderston's concern about the 
feasibility of dealing with potential conflicts of interest by 
imposing restrictions on bank participation in the marketing of 
municipal obligations. S. 1306 now includes several provisions 
aimed at reducing potential conflicts of interests. In the 
Board's judgment, there is a serious danger that further 
restrictions could defeat the objective of lowering borrowing 
c°sts to municipalities, without achieving offsetting benefits, 
either as to conflicts of interest or as to competitive relation-
ships among market participants. 
The suggested amendments seem likely to have the effect 
°f reducing bank interest in the underwriting and purchasing of 
municipal bonds. Thus, rather than improving the market for 
revenue bonds and reducing borrowing costs for State and local 
government, the amendments could produce the opposite result, 
ttot only for revenue bonds but for general obligations. Running 
risk seems particularly undesirable at this time, when the 
market for municipal obligations is already subject to substantial 
Pressures and uncertainties. 
Accordingly, the Board recommends against adoption of 
. 
second and third amendments. The effect of the first amendment 
more difficult to judge. The latest revision available to the 
th^ r d- m a k e S l t c l e a r t h a t a b a n k underwriter will continue to have 
a
 
ri-ght to purchase from the syndicate for its own investment 
Ccount. But if the amendment is to have any effect it would 
^ e m to place some restrictions on the extent to which the bank 
underwriter may negotiate more favorable terms for such 
purchases—for example as to priority or price--than are 
^aiiabig t o purchasers who are not members of the syndicate. 
? t h e extent such restrictions are effective, it seems reason-
e to expect that they will be reflected in bids on the issue 
y underwriting banks. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Closure 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
D F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , •. C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
Item No. 
10/23/67 
AL RES*" . -
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
October 23, 1967. 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
De*r Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your letter of October 20, regarding 
n amendment to S. 1306, the bill to authorize commercial banks to 
underwrite and deal in revenue bonds. 
, 
The general effect of the amendment is to prevent a bank 
f at is underwriting municipal bonds from purchasing such bonds 
rom itself as underwriter or dealer. The amendment provides 
t,at thl-s restriction shall not apply to purchases directly from 
® syndicate. But it would seem that if it is to have any 
fect it would necessarily result in some restrictions on the 
fa e n t tC> 
t*le bank as underwriter may negotiate more 
^vorable terms for such purchases--for example, as to priority 
^ Price--than are available to purchasers who are not members 
the syndicate. To the extent such restrictions are effective, 
b seems reasonable to expect that they will be reflected in 
s on the issue by underwriting banks. 
. 
In view of the shortness of time before your meeting 
r "^rrow, the Board is not prepared to comment further with 
Sard to the amendment. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
U-Vr. 
. . 
, ; 
••'"••;• 
'V<0 .':/!: 
• * 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
E 

TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
I t e m N o. 4 
10/23/67 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
. -V r % ' V • ' • 
• - «- ) .'.i A 
• . 
' -'1 
( 
> 
[Reg. Y] 
- 
' 
R . 
„ > 
- " : •;•,'! 
>V, 
PART 222 - BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
. ' 
.i<# , 
, 
» , « ' 
• , * * \ 
Mortgage companies 
S 222.122 Bank holding company ownership of mortgage companies. 
(a) The Board of Governors recently considered whether a 
bank holding may acquire, either directly or through a subsidiary, 
t h e stock of a so-called "mortgage company" that would be operated on 
t h e following basis: The company would solicit mortgage loans on 
behalf of a bank in the holding company system, assemble credit informa-
tion, make property inspections and appraisals, and secure title informa-
The company would also participate in the preparation of 
aPPlications for mortgage loans, which it would submit, together with 
Commendations with respect to action thereon, to the bank, which 
al°ne would decide whether to make any or all of the loans requested. 
T h e company would in addition solicit investors to purchase mortgage 
loai*s from the bank and would seek to have such investors contract 
w i th the bank for the servicing of such loans. 
(b) Under section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 
l843). a bank holding company is generally prohibited from acquiring 
direct or indirect ownership" of stock of nonbanking corporations. The 
t V o exceptions principally involved in the question presented are with 

4C 562 
respect to (1) stock that is eligible for investment by a national 
bank (section 4(c)(5) of the Act) and (2) shares of a company "fur-
nishing services to or performing services for such bank holding company 
°r its banking subsidiaries" (section 4(c)(1)(C) of the Act). 
(c) The Board has previously indicated its view that a 
national bank is forbidden by the so-called "stock-purchase prohibi-
tion" of paragraph "Seventh" of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes 
(12 U.S.C. 24) to purchase "for its own account . . . any shares of 
stock of any corporation" except (1) to the extent permitted by specific 
Provisions of Federal law or (2) as comprised within the concept of 
incidental powers as shall be necessary to carry on the business 
of banking" referred to in the first sentence of said paragraph "Seventh . 
-
There is no specific statutory provision authorizing a national bank 
t 0 Purchase stock in a mortgage company, and in the Board's view such 
Purchase may not properly be regarded as authorized under the "incidental 
Powers" clause. (See 1966 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1151; 12 CFR 208.119.) 
Accordingly, a bank holding company may not acquire stock in a mortgage 
c°mpany on the basis of the section 4(c)(5) exemption. 
(d) However, the Board does not believe that such conclusion 
Prejudices consideration of the question whether such a company is 
wlthin the section 4(c)(1)(C) "servicing" exemption. The basic purpose 
0 f section 4 of the Act is to confine a bank holding company's activities 
t o the management and control of banks. In determining whether an 

- 3 -
4. 063 
activity in which a bank could itself engage is within the servicing 
exemption, the question is simply whether such activity may appropriately 
be considered as "furnishing services to or performing services for" a 
bank. 
(e) As indicated in the Board's interpretation published in 
the 1958 Federal Reserve Bulletin at page 431 (12 CFR 222.104), the 
le8islative history of the servicing exemption indicates that it includes 
the following activities: "auditing, appraising, investment counseling" 
and "advertising, public relations, developing new business, organization, 
derations, preparing tax returns, and personnel". The legislative 
history further indicates that some other activities also are within 
the scope of the exemption. However, the types of servicing permitted 
Ur*der such exemption must be distinguished from activities of a "financial, 
fiduciary, or insurance nature", such as those that might be considered 
f o r possible exemption under section 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
(f) In considering the interrelation of these exemptions in 
• 
-.( " - • Y 
t h e light of the purpose of the prohibition against bank holding company 
V 
nterests in nonbanking organizations, the Board has concluded that 
t h e appropriate test for determining whether a mortgage company may be 
c°nsidered as within the servicing exemption is whether the company will 
perform as principal any banking activities--such as receiving deposits, 
Paying checks, extending credit, conducting a trust department, and the 
^ke, xn other words, if the mortgage company is to act merely as an 

- 4 -
4064 
adjunct to a bank for the purpose of facilitating the bank's operations, 
company may appropriately be considered as within the scope of the 
1/ 
servicing exemption. 
(g) On this basis, the Board concluded that, insofar as the 
Bank Holding Company Act is concerned, a bank holding company may acquire, 
either directly or through a subsidiary, the stock of a mortgage company 
whose functions are as described in the question presented. On the 
°ther hand, in the Board's view, a bank holding company may not acquire, 
° n the basis of the servicing exemption, a mortgage company whose functions 
include such activities as extending credit for its own account, arranging 
*nterim financing, entering into mortgage service contracts on a fee 
or otherwise performing functions other than solely on behalf of 
a bank. 
(12 U.S.C. 248(i). Interprets 12 U.S.C. 1843.) 
y Insofar as the 1958 interpretation referred to above suggested 
t h at the branch banking laws are an appropriate general test for 
^termining the scope of the servicing exemption, such interpretation 
is hereby modified. Under the branch banking laws, a mortgage company 
who S e functions are restricted as indicated in the question presented 
constitute a branch within the meaning of section 5155 of the 
Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 36). 
(See 1967 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
a t Page 1334; 12 CFR 208.122.) In view of the different purposes to 
b e served by such law and by section 4 of the Bank Holding Company 
the Board has concluded that basing determinations under the 
latter solely on the basis of determinations under the former is 
^appropriate. 

I : 
'.Is 
4065 
-5-
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 20th day of October, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
.V * 
-i ' 
£ 
> 
' •• 4 -i 
f,i 
• 
* 
> . 
.. 
' 
:<U \ 
. " 
« ' 
" 
" 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
YV:i" 
. { y 
-- 1 
J.I 
• 
c 

4066 
*-«B) 
Item No. 5 
10/23/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK 1004S 
October 20'; 1967 
U** Harry S • Vhittingham 
ice President and Trtaiurtr 
Schenectady Trust Company 
State 8treat 
Sefcanectady, lav York 
12301 
r Mr. Vhittinghami 
This rafara to your bank'e application datad September 15, 
, requesting permission to establish a Halted purpose braneh 
ea at 26^-7-9 State Street, Schenectady, Schenectady County, 
York, for the purpose of conducting a Truat Division and 
r Internal operations. After reviewing the application in 
Ught of the factora enumerated In Section 265.2(f)(1) of the 
•s Regarding Delegation of Authority laauad by the Board of 
°*ornors of the Federal Reserve System, we have concluded that 
nur application ahould be approved. Accordingly, on behalf of 
Board of Governors, the Federal Reserve Bank of lav York, 
lag under delegated authority, approves the establishment by 
bank of a Halted branch at the above-mentioned location for 
*Qt Purpose of conducting a Trust Division and other Internal 
^•rations not involving public contact, provided the branch ia 
••tabli.hed vithin six months after the data of this letter. 
4 
We shall appreciate your advising us when the branch la 
*ctualiy established and opened for bualneaa giving the effective 
of opening, the name, if any, by vhlch it will be known, and 
official postal addreaa, including the sip code number. 
U| 
Please acknowledge reoelpt by algnlng and returning to 
the enclosed copy of this letter. 
Very truly youra, 
Fred V. Piderit, Jr. 
Vice President 
osure 
*g 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
Item No. 6 
10/23/67 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10045 
Ootobar 20, 1967 
*r. Walter Lundstroa 
Scerctiry 
Vassau Trust Coupaay 
Ian Cora, lav York 
Dear M r . Lundctrom: 
Mf«r«tto« la atdi to your lattar Ait«4 
October 18, 1967, raquaatlng an axtaaslon of the tlaa 
vlthln vhlch your bunk aay establish a branch on the 
aorth alda of lorthara Boulevard approxlaately 120 faat 
~»st of tha intersection of Olaa Cora Boat M l lorthara 
oulevard, Oreeavale, Town of Borth Beapetead, Kaaaau 
ounty, l«v York1 aa approved by tha Board of Oovernors oa 
y l6f 1966. Since that tlaa thara haa baaa oaa extension 
of tlaa, which expires Boveaber 16, 1967* 
0a behalf of tha Board of Ooveraore of tha Federal 
« serve Gystea, tha Fadaral Reserve Bank af Bav York, acting 
u&dar delegated authority, haa approved your request and 
•stands to Dsceaber 16, 1967* tha tlaa vlthin which your 
bank aay establish a braaoh at tha above location. 
Va shall appraelata your advising us when tha 
reach la astabllshad and opanad for buslnaaa, giving tha 
effective data of opanlng, tha naaa, If aay, by whieh it will 
*>« known, and tha official postal addraaa, Including tha tip 
ooda nuabar. 
Plaasa acknowledge racalpt of thla lattar by elgn-
and raturning tha anolosad oopy to us. 
Yary truly yoursf 
Frad V. Pldarlt, Jr. 
Yloa Prasidant 
*holosura 
p*P/aab 

40G8 
B D A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
10/23/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 24, 1967 
•viy 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
7 i - f t 
'r-t 'H «*•/•'> 
• V r,' 
U'vC 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of October 18, 1967, the Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointments of 
Wayne N. C. Hall and Harold C. Palmer, at present assistant 
examiners, as examiners for the Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco, effective January 1, 1968. Please advise 
the salary rates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
V 3.V 
v 
.. 
l^-Tfn 
« 
fix-

scr 
Jtfl: 
h 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
4089 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60W0 
P1D HA 7-2)20 
October 23, I967 
Item No. 8 
10/23/67 
to* H. J. Englehardt, Prefident 
State Savings Bank 
0. Box 158 
^vell, Michigan 24-9331 
Dear Mr. Englehardt: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
^legated authority, this Bank has approved the establishment 
y your bank of a branch at the northwest comer of M-21 and 
est*™* 
™- V e ' L o v e l l> Michigan, provided the branch is 
^Dlished within one year from the date of this letter. 
ass^ 
< T116 R e s e r v e ^ ^ 
f l n d s that although capital to risk 
ca^'f-. 
a n d d e s e r v e B management's watchful attention, 
vi^i i l z a t l o n o f S t a t e Swings Bank is considered adequate in 
bar* ° 5 u S a t l S f & C t 0 r y management and general condition of the 
ien 
t h e p r°P° 6 e d branch will serve the needs and conven-
c o m m u n l ty> and that the branch will not create an 
desirable competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
E. 0. Fults 
Assistant Vice President 
k 
' J®. Merritt Sherman / 
J^chigan Financial Institutions Bureau 
Detroit Branch 
^aainer'a File (T ff^ J 
Y 
