MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 21, 1970 

1 5 4 2 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, May 21, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco on May 14, by 

mm 
5/21/70 
-2-
the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on May 18, and by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta on May 19, 1970, of the rates on discounts 
and advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, 
with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those 
Banks. 
Foreign banking applications. The following letters were 
approved unanimously after consideration of background information 
that had been made available to the Board. Copies are attached under 
the respective numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to First Chicago International Finance 
1 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, granting con-
sent to acquisition of the shares of Arrendadora 
e Inversionista Latina, Mexico D.F., Mexico. 
Letter to Bamerical International Financial 
2 
Corporation, San Francisco, California, granting 
consent to the acquisition of additional shares 
of Ameribas Holding S. A., Luxembourg, and to the 
issuance by the latter of additional obligations 
in the European market. 
Nassau branch. International Bank of Detroit, Detroit, Michi-
gan, had applied for permission to establish a branch in Nassau, 
Bahamas, and to issue promissory notes with maturities in excess of 
one year. 
The application was approved, Governor Robertson dissenting 
and Governor Brimmer abstaining insofar as the application involved 

1544 
5/21/70 
-14-
the establishment of the Nassau branch. A copy of the letter sent to 
applicant is attached as Item No. 3. 
Membership application. The Board approved unanimously a 
letter to Barbour County Bank, Philippi, West Virginia, approving the 
application made on behalf of the bank for membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. A copy is attached as Item No. 4. 
Bank Pac Committee. The Board approved unanimously a letter 
to President Francis of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis in 
response to his request for the Board's opinion as to the propriety 
of service by a Federal Reserve Bank branch director on a committee 
known as the Bank Pac Committee, which was understood to have been 
formed for the purpose of centralizing appeals for financial assis-
tance made to bankers by candidates for election to Congress. A copy 
°f the letter is attached as Item No. 5; the substance of the letter 
was sent to the other Reserve Banks for their information. 
Michigan National Bank. At the April 14, 1970, meeting of the 
Board, action on the application of Michigan National Bank, Grand 
Rapids, Michigan, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, was 
deferred pending further staff study of the question of capital ade-
quacy. A request had now been received from Michigan National Bank 
for permission to withdraw the application, and in a memorandum dated 
May 18, 1970, the Division of Supervision and Regulation suggested 

1545 
5/21/70 
-14-
that the request be handled in the usual manner, with routine publi-
cation in the weekly announcement of applications received or acted 
upon. 
No objection was interposed to the suggested procedure. A 
copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 6. 
First Bancshares of Florida. Drafts of an order and state-
ment reflecting the Board's approval on May 6, 1970, of the applica-
tion of First Bancshares of Florida, Inc., Boca Raton, Florida, to 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of 
First Bank and Trust Company of Boca Raton, National Association; 
University National Bank of Boca Raton; First National Bank and Trust 
Company of Riviera Beach; and Citizens Bank of Palm Beach County, West 
Palm Beach, had been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 7, along with 
a copy of the letter sent to applicant. 
Commerce Bancshares. A draft of an order reflecting the 
Board's approval on May 13, 1970, of the application of Commerce Banc-
shares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of Mechanics 
Bank and Trust Company, Moberly, had been distributed, along with a 
concurring statement by Governor Brimmer. 
The issuance of the order was authorized. A copy is attached 
under Item No. 8, along with the concurring statement. 

is!*; 
5/21/70 
-5-
Isabella County State Bank. Drafts of an order and statement 
reflecting the Board's approval on May 12, 1970, of the application of 
Isabella County State Bank, Mount Pleasant, Michigan, to consolidate 
with Weidman State Bank, Weidman, Michigan, had been distributed. 
The report from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on 
the competitive factors involved had not yet been received, but it was 
expected that the report would be forthcoming tomorrow. As a courtesy 
to the new Chairman of the Corporation, it was suggested that the issu-
ance of the order and statement be deferred pending receipt of that 
report. It had been the practice in the past to make specific mention 
in the Board's orders of the authorities from whom reports had been 
received. It was proposed to avoid potentially embarrassing situations 
in the future by the inclusion of a statement couched in general rather 
StKLlnoac ,:aper'; hnd bc^n tl.;er 
! 
cr -.1 v. >.-.. :iy<<; vi':i o .*. pp i 
than specific terms. 
Comments indicated a willingness on the part of the Board to 
delay the issuance of the order for a period of 24 hours. However, 
it was suggested that if the report from the FDIC had not been received 
by that time, the order should be revised in accordance with the new 
procedure. 
Subject to the foregoing understanding, the issuance of the 
order and statement was authorized. Copies of the documents, as 
»:!>•; application, ^ .u ?• 
tmt 
^ t d S ocJir not ;>:» issnsd 
issued, are attached under Item No. 9. 
Report on competitive factors. A draft of report to the Comp-
troller of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the 

5/21/70 
-6-
proposed merger of Orange Valley Bank, Orange, New Jersey, into First 
National State Bank of New Jersey, Newark, New Jersey, had been dis-
tributed. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Orange Valley 
Bank, Orange, New Jersey, into First National State Bank 
of New Jersey, Newark, New Jersey, would eliminate existing 
and potential for greater competition between the two 
banks. In addition, it would concentrate further banking 
resources in the Greater Newark Market in the large banks 
headquartered in Newark. Overall, the effect of the pro-
posal on competition would be adverse. 
After some discussion of the proper definition of the relevant 
market area, unanimous approval was given to the transmittal of the 
report to the Comptroller. 
Security New York State Corporation. A memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated May 14, 1970, and other 
pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an applica-
tion of Security New York State Corporation, Rochester, New York, to 
acquire shares of the successor by merger to The National Bank of 
Auburn, Auburn, New York. The staff recommendations were favorable. 
It was noted that action on the application had not yet been 
taken by the New York State banking authorities. However, the 
recently-appointed State Superintendent had given assurances that 
action would be taken not later than June 3. Assuming Board approval 
of the application, staff proposed that the Board's order not be issued 
until after advice had been received of the action taken by the State. 

1548 
5/21/70 
-14-
Question was raised as to the advisability of taking action 
in advance of the State decision, both on legal grounds and as a 
matter of policy, and it was recalled that under a long-standing 
arrangement with the State bank supervisors it had been the policy of 
the Board to defer action on various applications of State member 
banks pending advice of State action. One of the problems in proces-
sing merger and holding company applications within a 90-day time span 
had stemmed from attempts on the part of the Board to operate under 
time schedules of others. 
Expressions indicated some support for adherence by the Board 
to the 90-day time schedule, after giving such consideration as was 
possible to the States' scheduling, while other comments brought out 
that failure to await State action would lose the advantages accruing 
from having the State input available in reaching decisions. 
It was suggested that an inventory of State laws would be help-
ful, because it would reveal the number of States in which statutory 
requirements necessitated State action prior to consummation of a 
merger or holding company transaction. This suggestion gave rise to 
a discussion of the desirability of approaching the State supervisors 
with a view to obtaining their cooperation in meeting the Board's time 
schedule. The consensus favored preparation by the staff of a memo-
randum addressed to the legal facts and to policy and other questions 
raised during the discussion. However, it was agreed that action on 
the Security New York State application need not be deferred. 

5/21/70 
-6-
The application was thereupon approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that an order would be prepared and considered following 
action by the State. 
Atlantic Bancorporation. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated May 7, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers, including a proposed order, had been distributed in connection 
with an application of Atlantic Bancorporation, Jacksonville, Florida, 
to acquire shares of The Atlantic Bank of Orlando, a proposed new 
bank. The recommendations were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, and the issuance of 
the order was authorized. A copy of the document, as issued, is 
attached as Item No. 10. 
Public debt operations. In a memorandum dated May 19, 1970, 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended that the 
Board interpose no objection to a proposed visitation program by the 
Treasury Department to the Federal Reserve Banks for the purpose of 
reviewing public debt operations. It was understood that members of 
the Division would accompany Treasury personnel on those visits. 
Attached was a proposed letter to the Fiscal Assistant Secretary of 
the Treasury along these lines, together with a draft letter to the 
Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks informing them of the project. 
There was agreement with a suggestion that copies of the cor-
respondence be sent to the Chairman of the Committee on Fiscal Agency 
Operations of the Conference of First Vice Presidents. 

1 5 5 0 
5/21/70 
-14-
Unanimous approval was then given to the Division's recommen-
dation. Copies of the pertinent letters are attached under Item No. 11. 
Mercantile Bankshares Corporation. Discussion continued at 
today's meeting of the application of Mercantile Bankshares Corpora-
tion, Baltimore, Maryland, to become a bank holding company through 
acquisition of shares of the successors by merger to Mercantile-Safe 
Deposit and Trust Company, Baltimore, (a noninsured State bank), and 
The Annapolis Banking and Trust Company. The various steps proposed 
to accomplish this organization, including the application of Severn 
Bank and Trust Company, Annapolis, Maryland, for admission to member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System and to merge with The Annapolis 
Banking and Trust Company, were discussed in a memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated April 20, 1970, and 
other pertinent papers. The staff recommendations were favorable. 
At the meeting on May 6, 1970, Chairman Burns and Governors 
Daane and Maisel were disposed to approve the application while 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, and Brimmer leaned toward denial. 
Accordingly, it had been understood that the application would be 
reconsidered at a time when all members of the Board could be present 
and that in the meantime the staff would develop additional informa-
tion with respect to implications of the noninsured status of the pro-
Posed lead bank, Mercantile-Safe Deposit and Trust Company. 
In a memorandum dated May 15, 1970, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation commented on the nature of the lead bank's activities 

1551 
5/21/70 
-14-
and the advantages that might accrue to a bank as a result of its non-
insured status. While the Division was inclined to agree that deposit 
insurance for all banks would be in the public interest, it expressed 
the view that the lead bank's noninsured status should not in the pre-
sent instance serve as a bar to approval of the holding company for-
mation . 
Governor Mitchell said that, on the basis of an analysis of 
deposit structure, it appeared to him that Mercantile-Safe Deposit 
and Trust Company resembled a money market bank, and he would be 
reluctant to grant the additional power that would follow the estab-
lishment of a holding company. In addition, it was apparent that 
Mercantile held many small savings accounts. Advantages accruing to a 
noninsured bank were substantial, and while Mercantile had agreed to 
abide by some of the limitations imposed on member banks, it had not 
offered to forego the advantages resulting from more flexibility with 
respect to transactions in real estate and corporate stocks. 
There followed some discussion of the grounds on which the 
application might legally be denied. There was general agreement that 
Federal insurance of deposits was desirable; however, there were 
differing views as to the weight that should be given to the matter in 
the present instance in light of existing law. Comments were directed 
to the desirability of seeking a change in legislation, and there was 
support for a suggestion that the issue should be explored with a view 
to making a recommendation to the Congress at an appropriate time. 

1 5 5 
5/21/70 
-14-
Governor Brimmer indicated that it was not clear to him from 
the staff documentation whether the flexibility allowed noninsured 
banks in the real estate, corporate stock, and other areas might per-
mit those banks to engage in types of activities that would constitute 
unsafe and unsound banking practices. 
Several Board members pointed out that the history of Mercan-
tile was very good, the laws of the State of Maryland were apparently 
sound, and reports of examinations by the State indicated that the 
bank was operating satisfactorily within those laws. 
K2V- lew.: "-ii u O 
, 
. . 
. . X 
C-. 
I - -
Governor Robertson stated that, upon reflection, he had 
decided that the Board would be in a better position from the over-
all policy point of view if Mercantile were brought within a holding 
company system, since the Federal Reserve would then have rights of 
examination. 
The application of Mercantile Bankshares Corporation was then 
approved, Governors Mitchell and Brimmer dissenting, along with the 
related merger and membership applications. It was understood that 
orders and a statement would be drafted for the Board's consideration, 
along with a dissenting statement. 
Armored car services as branch banking. The implications of 
the recent Supreme Court decision in First National Bank v. Dickinson 
as related to the Board's published interpretation that the typical 
armored-car pick-up services of State member banks do not constitute 

1553 
57. 
'..I 
5/21/70 
-12-
branch banking within the meaning of the Federal branching statutes 
were discussed by the Board on March 3, 1970. 
In the light of that discussion the Legal Division had now 
r 
set forth in a memorandum dated March 24, 1970, two alternative inter-
pretations, the first of which was substantially the same as the draft 
considered but not acted upon on March 3. According to that inter-
pretation, any bank-controlled facility that provides bank customers, 
regularly or continuously, with an opportunity to make deposits or 
have checks paid or arrange for loans is a "branch" for purposes of 
section 5155 of the United States Revised Statutes, even if a "final" 
step takes place at the bank's head office (in the absence of the 
customer). The Legal Division continued to recommend this approach as 
more nearly conforming to the principles announced by the Supreme Court 
in the Dickinson case. 
The second alternative would rest on the fact that the Supreme 
Court had described in detail the nature of the operation. It would 
select certain factors that must all be present in order for armored-
car service to constitute branch banking. 
In an additional memorandum, dated April 14, 1970, the Legal 
Division set forth the pros and cons of taking no action at this time. 
There was some discussion, in response to questions from mem-
bers of the Board, as to the posture that the Comptroller of the 
Currency was likely to take and the possibility of coordinating the 

1554 
5/21/70 
-14-
Board's views with those of the Comptroller. Members of the staff 
indicated that the legal staff of the Comptroller apparently viewed 
the Dickinson decision in extremely narrow terms and that the Comp-
troller might take no action pending clarification through additional 
court decisions. : 
Governor Maisel then suggested the issuance of an interpre-
tation defining in general terms the armored-car services that would 
constitute branch banking and indicating that such services could be 
supplied by State member banks only where permissible under State law. 
Governor Daane's preference was to defer action pending additional 
court decisions, and Chairman Burns suggested that since the Supreme 
Court decision directly affected a national bank, the appropriate 
procedure might be to await a determination by the Comptroller. 
Governor Mitchell favored initiating discussions either with 
the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation or directly with the 
Comptroller, and a majority of the Board supported such an approach. 
However, Governor Robertson expressed the view that the Board had no 
alternative but to revise its previous interpretation in light of the 
Supreme Court decision, and Governor Brimmer concurred. 
Following a lengthy discussion of legal aspects of the situa-
tion, and of the response that should be made to any inquiries regard-
ing the Board's current position on the question (which would be that 
the matter was under study), it was understood that the subject would 

1 5 5 5 
5/21/70 
-14-
be pursued with the Comptroller of the Currency and that it would be 
reconsidered by the Board within a reasonable time. 
First Wisconsin. Governor Mitchell referred to the action 
taken, by 3 - 2 vote, to deny the application of First Wisconsin Bank-
shares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire the shares of a 
proposed new bank in Madison. He expressed the view that it would be 
appropriate if the case were reopened for consideration by a full 
Board. 
Upon motion by Governor Robertson, the Board voted to recen-
sider the application. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

15SG 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
5/21/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
D O A R D 
May 21, 1970 
First Chicago International 
Finance Corporation, 
One First National Plaza, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60670 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of April 21, 1970, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FCIFC") to pur-
chase and hold all of the shares of Arrendadora e Inversionista 
Latina ("AIL"), Mexico D.F., Mexico, at a cost of approximately 
$20 ,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The BoardTs consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of the shares of AIL by FCIFC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FCIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of AIL if AIL at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if AIL establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Mexico or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to FCIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FCIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of AIL as it may require from time 
to time; 

1557 
First Chicago International 
Finance Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by AIL 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if AIL were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 
(4) That AIL will confine its leasing activities essen-
tially to the leasing of property under leases 
under which AIL will recover the full costs of ac-
quisition and any other expenses expected to be 
incurred by AIL during the lease, and that AIL 
shall not acquire property for leasing before the 
prospective lessee has executed the lease agreement. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends until further notice the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by AIL in Mexico in 
the currency of that country. 
The Board understands that AIL will apparently be formed 
with extremely broad powers providing for a wide range of activi-
ties. However, it is further understood that, although no plans to 
activate the corporation are presently being considered, its primary 
business will be to finance commercial trade in Mexico and other 
countries outside the United States including lease financing of 
various types of personal and real property. In view of the possible 
additional activities of AIL, the Board must be informed of the 
Proposed scope of operations of AIL after activation of the company. 
Mien the proposed acquisition is made, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of AIL. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the guide-
lines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activi-
ties of The First National Bank of Chicago and its subsidiaries, 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A, Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

-.-> ,y - . \ -it . 
1558 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• r 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
5/21/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O H R E S P D N ' J E N C C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 21, 1970 
Bamerical International 
Financial Corporation, 
Bank of America Plaza, 
San Francisco, California. 
Gentlemen: 
94104 
As requested in your letter of April 23, 1970, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("BIFC") to pur-
chase and hold additional shares of Ameribas Holding S.A. ("Ameribas"), 
Luxembourg, at a cost of approximately $7 50,000, provided such shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. In this 
connection, the purchase and holding of shares of Ameribas by BIFC 
in excess of 10 per cent of BIFC1s capital and surplus is also ap-
proved . 
Consent for Ameribas to issue an additional $5,000,000 
of its own obligations in the European market is also granted. 
The above consents are granted subject to the same con-
ditions and understandings prescribed in the Board's letter of 
July 29, 1966, which authorized your Corporation's initial invest-
ment in Ameribas. 
The Board has noted that as of March 31, 1970, the for-
eign loans and investments of your Corporation, Bank of America 
National Trust and Savings Association, and Bank of America, New 
York, exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect. The foregoing consents 
are given with the understanding that those foreign loans and in-
vestments will be reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent 
with the guidelines; that the investment now being approved will 
be made within those guidelines; and that due consideration is 
being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1559 
E3DARD DF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
item No. 3 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
5/21/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 21, 1970 
International Bank of Detroit, 
Box. 116A, 
Detroit, Michigan. 48232 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants permission to International Bank of Detroit, Detroit, Michigan, 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and 
maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and 
of Regulation K. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not- as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no contact 
with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract'by 
another party. In view of the special character of this operation, 
the foregoing permission is granted subject to continuing observa-
tion and review by the Board and, after due notice, may be withdrawn 
or modified. The foregoing permission is also granted on the con-
dition that adequate information covering the branch's operations 
will be maintained at your head office and will be available to 
the Board and its accredited representatives. The Board should 
be promptly informed of any modification in the branch's methods 
of operation, including changes in any contract under which serv-
ices are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before June 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is opened for business, 

15G0 
International Bank of Detroit 
-2-
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change 
in location of the branch in Nassau. 
Section 211.7(c) of Regulation K subjects only the deposits 
received in the United States by Edge Corporations to the requirements 
of Regulations D, as to reserves, and Q, as to the payment of inter-
est, thus exempting deposits received and payable only at foreign 
branches of the Corporations from those requirements. The general 
purpose of these exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United 
States banking institutions to compete abroad with foreign banks. 
In these circumstances, it has long been and continues to be the 
policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits by United 
States residents at foreign branches of United States banking insti-
tutions unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
actions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capi-
tal, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of 
the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments 
on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with the 
understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum 
reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United 
States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment required 
will be made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your Corporation, and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
As also requested in your letter of April 16, 1970, the 
Board of Governors grants approval for your Corporation to issue 
and have outstanding, in accordance with Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Section 211.4 of Regulation K, promissory notes with 
maturities in excess of one year, up to a total of $10,000,000, pro-
vided such notes are issued within five years from the date of this 
letter. 
The Board understands that it is your intention to issue 
the notes in the medium-term Eurodollar market without the guarantee 
of your parent, National Bank of Detroit. For your information, in 
reference to guarantees of such obligations by your parent, which 
would make them direct, primary obligations of that bank payable in 

1 5 6 1 
International Bank of Detroit 
-3-
Detroit, it is the Board's position that such notes would be 
"deposits" of National Bank of Detroit under Sections 204.1(f) of 
Regulation I) and 217.1(f) of Regulation Q. Such notes would there-
fore be subject to the requirements and restrictions of those Regu-
lations unless one of the exceptions specified in those Sections 
were applicable or unless both the notes and the guaranty were 
expressly made payable only outside the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

15(>2 
Item No. 4 
5/21/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D V R C S F ' D N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
Q D A R D 
May 21, 1970 
Board of Directors, 
Barbour County Bank, 
Philippe West Virginia. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application of Barbour County Bank, Philippi, West Virginia, for 
stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, effective if and when 
the bank opens for business under appropriate State authorization, 
subj ect to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to tiie safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made 
in the general character of its business or in the scope 
of the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other cor-
porate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $200,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$300,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
K®gulation II, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
"he Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
BDARD DF GnVFRNDRS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
0 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 

Barbour County Bank 
- 2 -
1 5 6 3 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to Commence Busi-
ness has been issued. A certified copy of such resolution, together 
with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, 
should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Arrange-
ments will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount 
of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required 
reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve 
Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to the 
Board and obtains an extension of time. Mien the Board is advised that 
a H of the requirements have been complied with and that the appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, the 
Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and. at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
ank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Normand Bernard 
Normand R. V. Bernard, 
Assistant Secretary. 
^closure. 

1564 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
.•^orcow'.. 
-or THE. 
Item No. 5 
P E D E F ^ L W t S E ^ V E S Y S T E M 
5/21/70 
H^'SS'^^-MLS T 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
S i ([[«/£* 
^ r / ^ * • 
a d d r e p b arnci/vL 
c h r r e s p d n d e n c e 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
May 21, 1970 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
P. 0. Box 442, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 
63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
This is in reply to your letter of May 4, 1970, in which 
you ask the Board's opinion as to the propriety of a Federal Reserve 
Batik branch director's service on a committee known as the'^Bank Pac 
Committee". 
The Committee consists of a nationwide group of bankers 
and was formed for the purpose of centralizing appe'als for financial 
assistance made to bankers by candidates for election to Congress, 
^ne Committee will not publicly endorse or campaign for any person 
out it is expected that contributions received would be given to 
candidates "who are thought to be friendly to the banking industry." 
It is the Board's judgment that service on this Committee 
Would result in "engaging in partisan political activities such 
as• • .serving as a member of a fund-raising. . .committee" within 
the meaning of the prohibition of the Board's policy statement; on 
this subject. 
(S-2071, November 29, 1968, 1 F.R.L.S. ?100.45.) 
Your letter notes that the beneficiaries of the Committee's 
contributions would probably receive the financial support of individual 
ankers and that a purpose for the formation of the Committee is to provide 
ankers with a ready answer to unwanted entreaties. In the Board's 
view these circumstances do not alter the fact that the Committee's 
as'ic function is political fund-raising. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

15ti5 
HOARD • F GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
Item NO. 6 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
5/21/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
May 25, 1970 
Mro Joseph F. Shaw, 
President, 
Michigan National Bank, 
Grand Rapids, Michigan. 49501 
Dear Mr. Shaw: 
As requested in your letter of May 13, 1970, 
to Mr. James R. Morrison, Senior Vice President, of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, the application 
of your bank for approval by this Board of the estab-
lishment of a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, will be 
considered to have been withdrawn. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenne th A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1566 
Item No. 8 
5/21/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
I n t h e Matter of the Application of 
j:lRST BANCSHARES OF FLORIDA, INC. 
Raton, Florida, 
approval of action to become a bank 
Riding company through the acquisition 
80 per cent or more of the voting 
a r e s of First Bank and Trust Company 
Boca Raton, National Association, 
0f°!! Rat°n; University National Bank 
Nati ° R n t o n> B o c a R a t°n; First 
tional Bank and Trust Company of 
viera Beach, Riviera Beach; and 
t l 2 e n s B a n k Q f p a l m B e a c h C o i m t y > 
s t Palm Beach, all in the State of 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to Action 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 
U*S.C. 1842(a)(1)),, and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
E l a t i o n Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Bancshares 
Florida, Inc., Boca Raton, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of 
whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of First Bank 

15(i7 
- 2 -
S"; ^ « • 
and Trust Company of Boca Raton, National Association, Boca Raton; 
University National Bank of Boca Raton, Boca Raton; First National 
Bank and Trust Company of Riviera Beach, Riviera Beach; and Citizens 
Bank of Palm Beach County, West Palm Beach, all in the State of Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
a n d ttle Florida Commissioner of Banking, and requested their views and 
recommendations. The Comptroller and the Commissioner recommended approval 
o f the application* 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
F e d e r a l Register on March 31, 1970 (35 Federal Register 5375), which 
Provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
i e W s w i t h respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application 
a s forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration, 
time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
h a V e b e e n considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
ement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
°vlded that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 

extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 21,1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1569 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST BANCSHARES OF FLORIDA, INC., BOCA RATON, FLORIDA, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
First Baucehares of Florida, Inc., Boca Ratcn, 
Florida ("Applicant"), has applied to the Board, pursuant to 
8eCtlotl 3<a)(l) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, for prior 
PProval of action to become a bank holding company, through the 
cquisition of 00 per cent or more of the voting shares of First Bank 
\ 
• £ V U f, -" • . • 
T^ust Company of Boca Raton, National Association, Boca Raton 
("Fir 
8t Bank"); University National Bank of Boca Raton, Boca Raton 
("u 
niversity Bank"); First National Bank and Trust Company of Riviera 
each> Riviera Beach ("Riviera Beach Bank"); and Citizens Bank of Palm 
Be°Ch County, West Palm Beach ("West Palm Beach Bank"), all in the State 
°f Florida. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. - As 
q U i r e d by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
GiPt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and the 
F^oria 
a Commissioner of Banking, and requested their views and 
"^ndations. , The Comptroller and the Commissioner recommended 
°val of the application. 

- 2 -
158B 
Statutory 
c . o n s i dprnt-i ons. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
0 r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the 
e transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
t o be served. In each case the Board is required to take into consideration 
the f 
e financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
hiding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
o f the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
an^ing organizations in Florida are bank holding companies, and control 
40 
n p y , 
cent of the State's commercial bank deposits. Applicant's 
acquisition of voting shares of First Bank ($53 million deposits); 
niversity Bank ($11 million deposits); Riviera Beach Bank ($20 million 
ePoslts); a n d W e s t P a l m B e a c h B a n k 
m i n i o n deposits) would result 
l t S bec°ming the fifteenth largest bank holding company in the State. 
It \7ojj1 J control less than 1 per cent of State deposits, and would rank 

1571 
- 3 -
seventeenth in size among banking organizations in Florida. The 
consummation of Applicant's proposal would not significantly affect 
State-wide banking concentration. 
The four proposed subsidiary banks are located in Palm Beach 
County. Their combined deposits, representing 13.4 per cent of the 
county's total, would rank Applicant as the third largest banking 
organization headquartered in Palm Beach County, but as the fifth 
la*gest banking organization and the smallest of four bank holding 
c°mpanies represented in the area. 
Riviera Beach Bank is located in the northeast section of the 
county, about eight miles north of West Palm Beach Bank, and eight banks 
compete in the intervening area. The Riviera Beach Bank serves a 
Population of approximately 62,000, and the smaller West Palm Beach 
D 1 
n 
serves a population of 39,500; the areas vhich they serve do not 
verlap. 
Tfce t w o b a n k s h a v e b e e n affii i a t e d S i n c e 1964, but even in 
^ 
a b s e n c e of such affiliation it does not appear that the two banks 
oe significant competitors. 
First Bank and University Bank are located in Boca Raton, 
m l l e s s o u t h of West Palm Beach, and have been affiliated since 
iversity Bank was opened in 1965 in order to provide more convenient 
to customers located in the area. They are only 2.5 miles 
apart » and there is a substantial overlap in their service areas. 
B eca U s e of 
r t h e nature and origins of their affiliation, however, the two 
ksnko h 
a^c never been competitors and appear unlikely to become such. 

158B 
- 2 -
In view of the absence of present or potential competition 
between banks in either of the affiliated groups, or between the two 
groups, it does not appear that Applicant's proposal would adversely 
affect competition in any area. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly, 
nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States, 
and would not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or 
tend to create a monopoly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant, a newly organized Florida corporation, has no financial or 
°Perating history. Its projected financial condition is satisfactory, 
a s is its management, which is to be drawn primarily from the First 
Sank. Applicant's prospects, which would be dependent upon those of 
the four banks it proposes to acquire, appear favorable. 
The present financial condition of each of the four proposed 
J 
subsidiary banks is considered to be generally satisfactory, giving 
appropriate weight to Applicant's expressed intention to strengthen 
tlle capital of each of the banks. The management of each proposed 
Subsidiary is considered to be experienced and capable, and the 
Prospects of the banks appear favorable. 
The Board concludes that considerations relating to the 
banking factors are consistent with approval of the application. 

- 2 -
158B 
needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of the communities involved appear to be adequately met 
by existing banking facilities. However, the proposal would permit 
m°re effective competition with the large banking institutions in Palm 
B e a c h C o u nty. The banks would have increased lending capability as a 
t e S U l t o f greater facility for arranging participations among them; 
hiring of specialized personnel would be more feasible for Applicant 
atl for the constitutent banks; the banks would have access to a computer 
Center to be installed at First Bank; and the holding company organization 
v°uld allow economies of operation through combination of functions 
SUch as advertising, public relations, auditing, investment and promotion 
Pr°grams, and trust services. 
The Board concludes that considerations under this factor 
lend some support for approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
c°ntained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
ection 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
A c t i o n would be in the public interest and that the application 
b°uld be approved. 
May 21, 1970. 

BDARD OF GOVERN•RS 
• F" T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
O. 
C. 
20551 
1574 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R M E S P O N D F; N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R O 
May 21, 1970 
i ^ H A l L - REGISTERED 
i^URN "RECEIPT REQUESTED 
First Bancshares of Florida, Inc., 
150 East Palmetto Park Road, 
Soca Raton, Florida. 33432 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
aPproved the application of First Bancshares of Florida, Inc., for 
Permission to become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
°f 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of First Bank and Trust 
Company of Boca Raton, National Association, Boca Raton; University 
National Bank of Boca Raton, Boca Raton; First National Bank and Trust 
Company of Riviera Beach, Riviera Beach; and Citizens Bank of Palm 
Beach County, West Palm Beach, all in the State of Florida. 
As noted in the Board's Statement., in approving this application, 
^ e Board has given weight to the plans of First Bancshares of Florida, 
i^e. to increase capital of the subsidiary banks by a total of $2,200,000 
^thin the next six months. The Board will continue to review the capital 
evels of the subsidiary banks in considering any future acquisitions. 
Enclosed is the Board's Order, together with the accompanying 
tatement and the press release on this action. 
In connection with the provision of the Board's Order relating 
t:*-me within which the action herein approved is to be consummated, 
vice of the fact of consummation should be given in writing to the 
federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Closures 

1575 
Item No. 8 
5/21/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
I u the Matter of the Application of 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC,, 
a a s a s City, Missouri, 
approval of acquisition of more than 
Me £ e r ° e n t ° f t h e v o t i n S shares of 
B a n k a n d Tr«st Company, 
Soberly, Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
0 section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(l2 u.S.c. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Station Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Commerce Bancshares, 
c*> Kansas City, Missouri ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding 
Pat*y, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of more than 
8 0 Per cent of the voting shares of Mechanics Bank and Trust Company, 
MohftvO 
erly, Missouri ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notiCe of 
receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Finance of 
the st-
a e of Missouri, and requested his views and recommendation. The 

1576 
-2-
Commissioner commented that he viewed the proposal as a progressive step 
banking in the area involved. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 3, 1970 (35 Federal Register 5570), providing 
a n opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for 
£ ili 
nS comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
c°nsidered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
c 
actors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of the 
Proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial resources 
^ 
f u t u re prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, and the 
° n V e n i e n c e and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such 
c°asideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the largest bank holding company and the third 
a^gest banking organization in Missouri, has 13 subsidiary banks with 
$727 million in deposits, which represent 7.1 per cent of the total 
p0sits of all banks in the State. (All banking data are as of June 30, 
1969 
ad-
» 
justed to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions 
appro , 
G d by the Board to date.) Bank, with deposits of $17.4 million, 
lightly the smaller of two banks located in Moberly and the second 
largest 
among five banks in Randolph County. Applicant has no subsidiary 
andolph County. Its closest subsidiary is located in Boone County, 

158B 
- 2 -
about 35 miles southeast of Moberly, and neither it nor any other of 
Applicant's present subsidiaries competeswith Bank to any meaningful 
extent. It does not appear that existing competition would be 
eliminated, or significant potential competition foreclosed, by 
c°nsummation of Applicant's proposal, or that there would be undue 
adverse effects on any other bank in the area involved. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
the proposed acquisition would not have significant adverse effects on 
competition in any relevant area. Applicant proposes to provide additional 
CaPital needed by Bank, and the acquisition would also result in stronger 
nanagement direction of Bank; these considerations lend some weight toward 
aPproval of the application. Major banking needs of the area served by 
ank are being adequately met at present. However, consummation of the 
Pr°posal would result in improvements in Bank's lending services, and 
WO 111 rl 
permit the introduction of specialized services not now available 
n e area. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed 
1Ccluisition would be in the public interest, and that the application 
sh°uld be approved. 
above 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, on the basis of the findings summarized 
> that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that 
the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thi 
rtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than 

1578 
- 4 -
three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
• 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 21, 1970. 
a 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
> 
feAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
I 

1579 
Concurring Statement of Governor Brimmer 
I join in the Board's action approving the subject application, 
°n the basis of the facts of this particular case. However, for the 
reasons which I cited in my Concurring Statement in connection with 
Applicant1 
s proposal to acquire shares of Mexico Savings Bank, Mexico, 
Missouri (1970 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
, May 13, 1970), I believe the 
aceelerating pace of holding company activity in Missouri, particularly 
the part of this Applicant, bears close attention. 
May 21, 1970. 
j 
. 

Item No. 9 
5/21/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C, 
the Matter of the Application of 
ISABELLA COUNTY STATE BANK 
f°r approval of consolidation v;ith 
"eidman State Bank 
ORDER APPROVING CONSOLIDATION OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Isabella County 
State Bank, Mount Pleasant, Michigan, a State member bank of the 
federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the consoli-
dation of that bank and Weidman State Bank, Weidman, Michigan, under 
t h e charter and title of Isabella County State Bank. As an incident to 
tlle consolidation, the sole office of Weidman State Bank uould become 
a branch of the resulting bank. Notice of the proposed consolidation, 
i n form approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
"e factors 
set forth in said Act, including reports received pursuant 
to the Act on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
c°nsolidation, 

1 5 8 1 
-2-
i 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that said consolidation shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 26, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
' 
• 
• 
i 
/signed/ Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1 5 8 2 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
) ft -7-
APPLICATION BY ISABELLA COUNTY STATE BANK 
FOR APPROVAL OF CONSOLIDATION WITH 
WEIDMAN STATE BANK 
V;'' 
STATEMENT 
Isabella County State Bank, Mount Pleasant, Michigan 
("Isabella Bank"), with total deposits of $22.4 million, has applied, 
Pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's 
Ptior approval of the consolidation of that bank and Weidman State 
Bank, Weidman, Michigan ("Weidman Bank"), which has total deposits 
$2.7 
million.-^ The banks would consolidate under the charter 
an<* name of Isabella Bank, which is a member of the Federal Reserve 
System. As an incident to the consolidation, the sole office of 
Kidman 
Bank would become a branch of Isabella Bank, increasing the 
dumber of its offices to three. 
Competition. - Both banks are located in Isabella County 
(Population 39,000),in the central portion of the State. Isabella 
Bank operates its head office and only branch in Mount Pleasant 
(Population 15,000), which is the County seat. Weidman Bank operates 
' y j • i. 1 
1/ Figures are as of December 31, 1969. 

158B 
- 2 -
its sole office in Ueidman (population 450), which is 14 miles 
northwest of Mount Pleasant. There are no banking offices in the 
intervening area. The areas served by the two banks overlap to some 
e"'tent in the area of Beal City (population about 200) . 
The relevant market area includes all of Isabella County 
and the southern portion of Clare County, located just beyond 
Isabella County's northeastern boundary. There are seven banks in 
the area, including one in Clare. Isabella Bank is the second 
largest, holding 28 per cent of area deposits; Ueidman Bank is the 
smallest, with only 3 per cent. The area's largest bank, located in 
clare, holds 30 per cent of area deposits. Upon consummation of the 
Proposal, Isabella Bank would be the largest, with 31 £er cent, 
^hile there is some present competition between the proponent banks, 
n e potential for further competition between them is limited by the 
home-office-protection feature of Michigan law and by the small size 
A Y\ A 
_ 
relatively ineffective competitive posture of Ueidman Bank. 
The 
over-all effect of the proposal upon competition would 
b e no more than slightly adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
financial and managerial resources of Ueidman Bank are satisfactory, 
hut i *• 
i C S earnings have been low and it appears that its prospects are 
^toited. The banking factors with respect to Isabella Bank are 
sonably satisfactory, as they would be following the proposed 
C0*solidation. 

1584 
-3-
Convenience and needs of the communities. - The area around 
Weidman consists of good quality farmland. Six lakes constitute the 
nucleus for a recreational area which is on the threshold of develop-
ment. The resulting bank, with a higher legal lending limit,would 
he able to satisfy the growing demand for banking services in the 
Weidman area more readily than could Weidman Bank. 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
e£fect of the proposed consolidation on competition would be no more 
than slightly adverse and would be offset by benefits to the banking 
convenience and needs of the Weidman area. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
b e approved. 
26, :r)7o. 

UNITED STATES OF 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF 
WASHINGTON, 
1585 
Item No. 10 
5/21/70 
AMERICA 
THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
ATLANTIC BANCORPORATION 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
approval of acquisition of 
per cent or more of the voting shares 
o f The Atlantic Bank of Orlando, 
Orlando, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a) (3) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Atlantic Bancorporation, 
Jacksonville, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding 
c°mPany, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 
per cent or more of the voting shares of The Atlantic Bank of 
Orlando, Orlando, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 

158B 
- 2 -
°f Bank ing of the State of Florida and requested his views and 
recommendation. The Commissioner recommended approval of the 
aPplication. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 11, 1970 (35 Federal Register 6025), providing 
a n opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for 
filing comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
Actors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
rcsources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
Qnd the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Ufon 
S u ch consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant is the fourth largest banking organization in 
controlling 14 banks which hold $550 million in deposits, 
falling 4.7 per cent of total bank deposits in the State of Florida. 
banking data are as of June 30, 1969, adjusted to reflect holding 
c°mPany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) 
Cort 
Summation of the proposal would not increase concentration in any 
^tket, as Bank is a proposed new bank. 

1 5 8 7 
- 3 -
Bank would be located in downtown Orlando, the principal city 
in Orange County. Applicant's only present subsidiary in Orange County 
is a bank with $10 million in deposits, located in Winter Haven 7.1 
wiles north of Orlando. 
None of Applicant's subsidiaries competes to 
any significant extent in the Orlando area. The largest banking 
•organization in Orange County is a bank holding company centered in 
Orlando, the subsidiaries of which hold 42 per cent of deposits in 
the County. Applicant's entry into Orlando would likely stimulate 
additional competition and promote deconcentration in the area. 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition would neither eliminate 
existing competition, foreclose potential competition, nor have 
adverse effects on the viability or competitive effectiveness of 
ar*y competing Bank. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
c°nsummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse 
e£fect on competition in any relevant area, and would have a pro-
s p e c t i v e effect in Orlando and Orange Counties. The banking factors, 
a s applied to the facts of record, are consistent with approval of 
application, and the convenience to the Orlando community of an 
additional full service bank is a consideration which lends 
additional weight in support of approval. It is the Board's judgment 
t^at the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and 
t^lat the application should be approved. 

158B 
- 2 -
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the findings 
i'•:.: Uf 'v. 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, provided 
that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than 
three months after the date of this Order; and that The Atlantic Bank of 
Orlando shall be opened for business not later than six months after the 
dQte of this Order. The latter time periods may be extended for good 
C a u s e hy the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to 
legated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 21, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
\ 

15 Si) 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 11 
5/21/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
H D R R E S P D N D E N C 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 21, 1970 
Mr. John K. Car lock., 
fiscal Assistant Secretary, 
United States Treasury Department, 
Washington, D. C. 
20220 
°ear Mr. Carlock: 
The Board agrees that the proposed visitation program to 
the Reserve Banks by personnel of the Bureau of Public Debt as out-
lined in your letter of May 15th would be mutually beneficial to 
hoth the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve System. The 
Board also agrees that it would be of value to have representatives 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations participate in 
the visitation program and staff members will be in touch with 
appropriate Treasury Department personnel concerning arrangements 
for the implementation of the project. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
• F T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 21, 1970 
Dear Sir: 
Enclosed for your information is an exchange of 
correspondence between Fiscal Assistant Secretary Carlock of 
the Treasury Department and the Board of Governors concerning a 
proposed visitation program to review public debt activities. 
Very truly yours 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary, 
Enclosures. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

1 5 9 1 
B C D A R D O F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N Q E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 21, 1970. 
Mr. William F. Treiber, Chairman, 
Committee on Fiscal Agency Operations, 
Conference of First Vice Presidents, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Bill: 
Enclosed for the information of the Committee on 
Fiscal Agency Operations is an exchange of correspondence 
between Fiscal Assistant Secretary Carlock of the Treasury 
Department and the Board of Governors concerning a proposed 
visitation program to review public debt activities. 
One change has been made in that the program will 
be initiated at Boston on June 2-4, 1970, instead of 
Philadelphia as mentioned in John Carlock's letter. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) John N. Kiley 
John N. Kiley, 
Associate Director 
Enclosure 
