PR 609 
^ev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
October 14, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Burns 
Robertson 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Maisel 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

2 6 7 3 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, October 14, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 
9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane JL/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Chairman Burns opened the discussion by raising the question 
the appropriateness of certain recreational facilities planned for 
inclusion in the Board's new building. He expressed the view that some 
facilities might be difficult to defend if they were subject to the type 
criticism that Representative Patman had leveled recently at some 
Federal Reserve expenditure items. Mr. Kelleher was asked to survey 
the physical fitness and recreational facilities available in other 
Government buildings. With the approval of the Board, Chairman Burns 
aPPointed a committee consisting of Governor Sherrill as chairman, 
Chairman Burns, and Governor Robertson to review the building plans 
and also Board expenditure policies with respect to travel, payment 
-i/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

268 
10/14/71 
-2-
of moving expenses, Board contributions to employee recreational 
activities, and other similar types of expenditures. The purpose of 
the review would be to compare the Board's expenditure policy in these 
areas with those of other Federal Government agencies with the view to 
bringing Board policy into line with accepted practice where desirable 
and to assure that outlays were appropriate and that related benefits 
could be satisfactorily established. 
Copies of a memorandum by Mr. Kelleher, dated October 6, 1971, 
and a memorandum by Mr. Kakalec, dated October 7, 1971, relating to 
this matter have been placed in the confidential files of the Secretary 
Office. 
At this point Messrs. O'Connell, General Counsel, and Solomon, 
director, Division of Supervision and Regulation, joined the meeting. 
Truth in lending matters. Governor Robertson reported that an 
°Pinion dated September 27, 1971, of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 
Fifth Circuit, Case No» 71-1150, Leila Mourning v. Family Publications 
Service, inc., held that the Board's "more than four instalment rule" 
under Regulation Z exceeded its authority and established a conclusive 
Presumption which violated the Fifth Amendment. He said that there 
was the prospect of an appeal in this case and that in the event there 
W as such an appeal, he proposed that the Board should enter as amicus 

2 6 7 5 
10/14/71 
-3-
Governor Robertson asked the Board's approval of a change in 
•the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the Advisory Committee on 
Truth in Lending established pursuant to section 110 of the Truth in 
Lending Act. The existing Rules of Organization and Procedure provide 
that the terms of 10 members of the 20-member Committee expire each 
year, requiring the appointment of 10 new members each year. It was 
noted that the need for meetings of the Committee has greatly diminished 
now that Regulation Z has been in effect for more than two years and in 
•the future only infrequent meetings would be required when, for example, 
substantive amendments to the Act were enacted. Consequently, the 
staff had recommended that the Rules of Organization and Procedure be 
amended to allow present members of the Committee to continue to serve 
indefinite terms. 
The Board approved amending section 2A of the Rules of 
Organization and Procedure as follows: 
The Committee shall consist of 20 members appointed 
by the Board. Members shall serve on the Committee until 
successors are appointed by the Board. The Board shall 
have the authority to appoint persons to fill vacancies 
on the Committee. 
Governor Robertson said that the Board had received a formal 
Petition asking it to publish in the Federal Register for public comment 
certain proposed amendments to Regulation Z dealing with foreign language 
truth in lending disclosures. The amendments would generally allow 
c°nsumers to cancel credit transactions where they could not understand 

2 6 7 8 
10/14/71 
-4-
the agreement because they were unable to understand English. He 
supported the staff's recommendation that the petition be denied on 
the basis that the proposed amendments were both impractical and 
beyond the Board's authority under the Truth in Lending Act. The 
Board approved this recommendation; a copy of the letter denying the 
Petition is attached as Item No. 1. 
Bank of the Commonwealth. Governor Robertson reported that 
further developments might occur in the Bank of the Commonwealth case 
during his absence. He said that the FDIC was exploring various alter-
ative approaches to the situation and that Mr. Fred Solomon would be 
Prepared to deal with this or any other development that might arise 
in connection with this case. 
Director appointments. The following actions were taken with 
respect to the appointment of Chairmen, Deputy Chairmen, and Class C 
directors at Federal Reserve Banks and the appointment of directors at 
Federal Reserve Bank branches, with the understanding that advice of 
the appointments would be sent to the respective appointees at an 
aPpropriate time and that public announcement would be made near the 
end of the year in accordance with the usual practice: 
The following were reappointed as Class C directors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks indicated, each for a three-year term 
beginning January 1, 1972: 
Name 
Bank 
James S. Duesenberry 
Boston 
Roswell L. Gilpatric 
New York 
Horace A. Shepard 
Cleveland 

10/14/71 
-5-
Name 
Bank 
William H. Franklin 
Frederic M. Peirce 
Bruce B. Dayton 
Robert W. Wagstaff 
Chas. F. Jones 
Chicago 
St. Louis 
Minneapolis 
Kansas City-
Dallas 
The following were reappointed as directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank branches indicated, each for a three-year term 
beginning January 1, 1972: 
Name 
Branch 
Norman F. Beach 
Buffalo 
Graham E. Marx 
Cincinnati 
Richard M. Cyert 
Pittsburgh 
James M. Jarvis 
Baltimore 
W. Cecil Bauer 
Birmingham 
Edward J. Boling 
Nashville 
Peter B. Clark 
Detroit 
A1 Pollard 
Little Rock 
Ronald E. Reitmeier 
Louisville 
C. Whitney Brown 
Memphis 
R. M. Buckley 
Houston 
The following were reappointed as directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank branches indicated, each for a two-year term 
beginning January 1, 1972: 
Name 
Branch 
William A. Cordingley 
A. James Ebel 
Frank Anderson 
The following were designated as Chairmen and Federal Reserve 
Agents of the Federal Reserve Banks indicated for the year 
1972, with compensation fixed at an amount equal to the fees 
that would be payable to any other director of the same Bank 
for equivalent time and attendance to official business: 
Name 
Bank 
Helena 
Omaha 
Portland 
James S. Duesenberry 
Roswell L. Gilpatric 
Boston 
New York 

2 6 7 8 
10/14/71 
-6-
Name 
Bayard L. England 
Albert G. Clay 
Robert W. Lawson, Jr. 
John C. Wilson 
Emerson G. Higdon 
Frederic M. Peirce 
David M. Lilly 
Robert W. Wagstaff 
Chas. F. Jones 
0. Meredith Wilson 
Bank 
Philadelphia 
Cleveland 
Richmond 
Atlanta 
Chicago 
St. Louis 
Minneapolis 
Kansas City 
Dallas 
San Francisco 
The following were appointed as Deputy Chairmen of the Federal 
Reserve Banks indicated for the year 1972: 
Name 
Louis W. Cabot 
John R. Coleman 
J. Ward Keener 
Stuart Shumate 
William H. Franklin 
Sam Cooper 
Bruce B. Dayton 
Willard Deere Hosford, Jr. 
Philip G. Hoffman 
S. Alfred Halgren 
Bank 
Boston 
Philadelphia 
Cleveland 
Richmond 
Chicago 
St. Louis 
Minneapolis 
Kansas City 
Dallas 
San Francisco 
It w a s agreed to ascertain through the Chairmen of the 
aPpropriate Federal Reserve Banks whether the following persons would 
accept appointment if tendered as Reserve Bank or branch directors for 
terms indicated, with the understanding that if it were found that 
they would accept, the appointments would be made: 
Edward W. Robinson, Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer, 
Provident Home Industrial Mutual Life Insurance Company, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, as a Class C director of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia for the three-year term 
beginning January 1, 1972. 

10/14/71 
-7-
E. Craig Wall, Sr., Chairman of the Board, Canal Industries, 
Inc., Conway, South Carolina, as a Class C director of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond for the three-year term 
beginning January 1, 1972. 
Robert Cook Edwards, President, Clemson University, Clemson, 
South Carolina, as a director of the Charlotte Branch of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond for the unexpired portion of 
the three-year term ending December 31, 1972, such unexpired 
portion to begin January 1, 1972. 
Charles F. Benbow, Treasurer, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, as a director of the Charlotte 
Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond for the three-
year term beginning January 1, 1972. 
H. G. Pattillo, President, Pattillo Construction Company, Inc., 
Decatur, Georgia, as a Class C director of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta for the three-year term beginning January 1, 
1972, with the understanding that if Mr. Pattillo accepted the 
appointment he would be appointed Deputy Chairman for the year 
1972. 
Alvah Herman Chapman, Jr., President, Miami Herald, Miami, 
Florida, as a director of the Jacksonville Branch of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta for the three-year term 
beginning January 1, 1972. 
Fred Adams, Jr., President, Cal-Maine Foods, Inc., Jackson, 
Mississippi, as a director of the New Orleans Branch of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta for the unexpired portion 
of the three-year term ending December 31, 1971, and reap-
pointment for the three-year term beginning January 1, 1972. 
Maurice B. Mitchell, President, University of Denver, Denver, 
Colorado, as a director of the Denver Branch of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City for the two-year term beginning 
January 1, 1972. 
Joseph H. Williams, President, The Williams Companies, Tulsa, 
Oklahoma, as a director of the Oklahoma City Branch of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City for the two-year term 
beginning January 1, 1972. 

2G80 
10/14/71 
-8-
Gage Holland, Manager, Forker-Gage Ranch, Alpine, Texas, as 
a director of the El Paso Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Dallas for the three-year term beginning January 1, 1972. 
Marshall Boykin, III, Attorney, Corpus Christi, Texas, as a 
director of the San Antonio Branch of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas for the three-year term beginning January 1, 
1972. 
Mas Oji, Farmer, Yuba City, California, as a Class C director 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco for the three-
year term beginning January 1, 1972„ 
Edward A. Sloan, Founder and Operator, Sloan's Dry Cleaners, 
Los Angeles, California, as a director of the Los Angeles 
Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco for the 
unexpired portion of the three-year term ending December 31, 
1973. 
Ruth Handler, President, Mattel, Inc., Hawthorne, California, 
as a director of the Los Angeles Branch of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco for the three-year term beginning 
January 1, 1972. 
Theodore C. Jacobsen, Secretary, Jacobsen Construction Company, 
Inc., Salt Lake City, Utah, as a director of the Salt Lake 
City Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco for 
the two-year term beginning January 1, 1972. 
Thomas Hirai, Farmer, Woodinville, Washington, as a director 
of the Seattle Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco for the two-year term beginning January 1, 1972. 
(Note: It subsequently developed that Mr. Chapman would be 
unable to accept appointment. It having been ascertained 
that acceptances would be forthcoming, appointment telegrams 
were sent to the other persons listed.) 
Messrs. Johnson, Kelleher, Kakalec, Kiley, and Halley then 
withdrew from the meeting and the following entered the room: 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Messrs. Coyne and O'Brien, Special Assistants to the Board 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 

2681 
10/14/71 
-9-
Mr. Crews, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, and Mr. Lyon, Assistant 
Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
Consent calendar. Pursuant to the understanding at the Board 
meeting on September 2, 1971, the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had 
been advised that its supplemental retirement allowance agreement with 
President Mayo might be revised to incorporate certain changes. The 
changes in the standard text had been approved in a similar agreement 
submitted by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. 
The Chicago Bank had now rewritten its agreement with President 
Mayo and submitted it to the Board. At today's meeting the Board 
unanimously approved the revised agreement. Copies of the letter sent 
to the Chicago Bank and of the agreement are attached under Item No. 2. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
First City Bancorporation of Texas. In a memorandum dated 
October 1, 1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
aPproval of an application of First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., 
Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of Humble State Bank, Humble, Texas. 
During discussion it was noted that, within the Houston banking 
market, the applicant had 3 banking subsidiaries, held a minority 
interest in 15 other banks, and was affiliated with 6 additional banks 
trough common shareholders. Suggestion was made that the recently 

268 
10/14/71 
-10-
adopted amendments to Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, regarding 
presumptions of control, might disclose that some of these minority 
interests in fact represented control and it might be incumbent upon 
the Board to make such a determination. Questions were raised also 
regarding the need to avoid further concentration in the Houston area 
of banks related to the applicant. Some reservations were expressed 
with respect to the plan of the applicant to acquire shares of Humble 
State Bank from the Chairman of that bank, who was also an officer of 
the applicant's lead bank in the area. 
Action was deferred pending further staff study of the questions 
raised. 
Banks of Iowa, Inc. In a memorandum dated September 3, 1971, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of an 
aPplication by Banks of Iowa, Inc., Cedar Rapids, Iowa, to acquire 
shares of Valley Bank and Trust Company, Des Moines, Iowa. The Divi-
sion noted that the Research Department of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago had recommended qualified approval of the application, with the 
condition that Banks of Iowa be required to divest itself of indirect 
control of its affiliate, City National Bank, Cedar Rapids, Iowa. How-
ever, the Division of Supervision and Regulation concluded that approval 
the application should not be subject to any qualification. In a 
Memorandum dated October 8, 1971, the Banking Markets Section presented 
a n analysis of the banking structure of Iowa. 

2 6 8 3 
10/14/71 
-11-
During discussion there appeared to be no objection to approving 
the subject application. With respect to the recommendation of the 
Chicago Bank's Research Department that the applicant be required to 
divest itself of the indirect control of its affiliate in Cedar Rapids, 
the view was expressed that a holding company application should not 
be the lever used to require deconcentration of deposits in any partic-
ular area. It was the general view that the application should be 
considered on the basis of factors affecting the relevant area of 
°es Moines. 
The application was thereupon approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that an order reflecting this decision would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration. 
Perry County Bank. On September 7, 1971, the Board considered 
an application of The Perry County Bank, New Lexington, Ohio, a sub-
sidiary of BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, to merge with The Peoples 
Bank, Thornville, Ohio. There was a general unwillingness to increase 
the heavy concentration of BancOhio subsidiaries in the area, and the 
staff Was asked to provide additional information on the proposed 
Merger, with emphasis on possible alternative solutions to the manage-
ment problem at the Thornville bank, 
if1 
The Bank Examination Department of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland had now reevaluated the banking factors involved in the 
Proposed merger. In a memorandum dated September 30 summarizing the 

2681 
10/14/71 
-12-
results of the reinvestigation, the Department concluded that there 
was only a remote possibility of attracting capable management for 
Peoples Bank except through merger with Perry County Bank. It also 
Was pointed out that according to Ohio law the Thornville bank could 
merge only with another bank in the same county, and the only possible 
and practical merger would be with Perry County Bank. Therefore, the 
Department recommended approval of the application on the basis that 
the adverse competitive effects of the merger were outweighed by the 
banking factors. In a memorandum dated October 7, 1971, the Division 
°f Supervision and Regulation also recommended approval of the application. 
Today's discussion indicated that the questions that had been 
raised were answered to the Board's satisfaction in the Cleveland Bank's 
memorandum and that the Board agreed with the conclusion stated therein. 
The application was thereupon approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that an order would be drafted reflecting the Board's 
view that the adverse competitive factors were offset by the banking 
factors. 
U.S. Bancorp. In a memorandum dated October 4, 1971, the Legal 
Divi sion recommended that the Board accept an application of U.S. 
Bancorp, Portland, Oregon, to acquire shares of Securities-Intermountain, 
, Portland, Oregon, a firm engaged in mortgage banking as well as 
"incidental" activities of land development and construction. While 
activities of a mortgage company had been included among the permissible 

2 6 8 5 
10/14/71 
-13-
activities for holding companies listed in Regulation Y, as yet no 
determination had been made with respect to land development and 
construction activities. 
It was agreed unanimously to accept the application and to 
invite the applicant to participate in a hearing that was being arranged 
to consider whether limits should be placed on the size, geographic area, 
and types of activities of already established mortgage companies that 
way be acquired by bank holding companies. 
Messrs. Hexter, Assistant to the Board, and Melnicoff, Deputy 
Executive Director, entered the room at this point. 
Economic Stabilization Act. The Office of Management and 
Budget had requested the Board's views on a draft bill to extend and 
amend the Economic Stabilization Act of 1970. Chairman Burns pointed 
°ut that the proposal to expand section 202 of the Act was of particular 
concern to the Board since this would authorize the President to sta-
bil ize interest rates and dividends at levels consonant with orderly 
economic growth. 
Discussion centered on the need to make clear that the authority 
contemplated in section 202 related to direct restraints and did not 
encompass indirect restraints through monetary policy actions that are 
a chief responsibility of the Federal Reserve System. It was agreed 
that the reply to the Office of Management and Budget should emphasize 
that point. 

2686 
10/14/71 
-14-
At the conclusion of the discussion, which included a 
summarization by Mr. Hexter of the other provisions of the bill, 
unanimous approval was given to the sending of a letter to the Office 
of Management and Budget in the form attached as Item No. 3. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

268 
BOARD TJF GOVERNORS 
N; 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
D F THE 
Item No. 1 
10/14/71 
WASHINGTON, •. C. 2Q55I 
Mr. Jack Greeriberg 
Mr. Eric Schnapper 
Suite 2030, 10 Columbus Circle 
Now York, New York 10019 
Mr. Alan Exelrod 
Mexican-American Legal Defense 
and Education Fund 
145 Ninth Street 
San Francisco, California 
94103 
We are responding to the Petition For Initiation of Rule 
Making Procedure and For Amendment of Regulation Z filed by you on 
behalf of Jose and Ana Canas, the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational 
Fund, Inc., National Office For the Rights of the Indigent, Mexican-
American Legal Defense Fund, National Consumer Law Center, Puerto 
Rican Forum, Inc., and the San Francisco Neighborhood Legal Assistance 
Foundation. 
As indicated by Governor Robertson's letter of March 18, 
1971. to Senator Proxmire attached as Exhibit F to the Petition, 
the Board shares your concern about the utility of English Truth in 
bonding disclosures made to non-English speaking consumers. However, 
the Board does not believe it has the authority under the Truth in 
Lending Act to provide the cancellation right for non-English speaking 
consumers which the Petition requests. In addition, it has serious 
questions as to the feasibility of the proposal. Accordingly, the 
Board does not deem it appropriate to publish the proposal for public 
comment under the Administrative Procedure Act, and has denied the 
Petition. 
Gentlemen: 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

of Cow!.. 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
26 
Item No. 2 
10/14/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPOND 
TO THE HOARD 
October 14, 1571 
.CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Ward J. Larson 
Senior Vice President, 
General Counsel, and Secretary 
Federal Preserve Hank of Chicago 
Chicago, Illinois 60690 
Dear Mr. Larson: 
This refers to your letter of September 28, 1971, 
enclosing four (4) copies of the revised supplemental retirement 
allowance agreement dated September 23, 1971, between the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago and Mr. Robert P. Mayo. 
The Board of Governors has approved the revised agree-
ment as submitted and, as Secretary of the Board, I have affixed 
®y signature in the appropriate place on all copies. One copy of 
the agreement has been retained for the Board's files; the other 
three copies are returned herewith. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
^closures 
t 
tc 

2 6 3 9 
For and in consideration of the mutual promises of each party hereto, 
thls Agreement is entered into between ROBERT P. MAYO and the FEDERAL RESERVE BANK 
*CfiICAGO, CHICAGO, ILLINOIS. 
\ 
Subject to all of the applicable provisions of lav, ROBERT P. MAYO agrees 
Serve as an officer of the said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK as long as such service shall 
dually agreeable to the parties hereto. 
For and on account of such service, said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK shall pay said 
^ItT -n , 
1 1 • MAYO as follows: 
(1) Said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK shall pay to said ROBERT P. 
i 
MAYO u salary at the rate of $67,500 per annum during the 
period ending December 31, 1971, and thereafter during his 
service as an officer of said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK and prior 
to his retirement his salary shall be determined from time 
J. _ j .. ... . j 
j 
...Ul, 
1 
VI » 
,, r~. 11'.?' * 
(2) If, having attained the age of 65, said ROBERT P. MAYO 
shall retire with not less than 10 years of service creditable 
under the Retirement Plan for Employees of the Federal Reserve 
System, and if he is President of said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK 
at the time of his retirement, said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK shall 
pay to said ROBERT P. MAYO after such retirement and during the 
remainder of his lifetime an amount per annum which, together 
with his normal retirement pension under the Retirement Plan for 
Employees of the Federal Reserve System (before conversion under 
a survivorship or other option), will aggregate a sum equal to 

per cent of his final average salary (as defined in the 
2 6 9 0 
then current provisions of said Retirement Plan), less 50 per 
cent of his primary Federal Old Age Insurance Benefits—?-
> 
such reduction to "be prorated if he has less than 30 years 
of creditable service; and 
(3) 
If, without having attained the age of 65, said ROBERT P. 
MAYO shall retire vith not less than 10 years of service cred-
itable under the Re^tirementPlan for Employees of the Federal 
Reserve System and if he is President of said FEDERAL RESERVE 
BANK at the time of his retirement, the aggregate sum equal to 
per cent of his final average sfclary referred to in the pre-
ceding paragraph (2) shall be reduced by the application of the 
•i 
-
then current table of pension reduction factors applicable to 
lumbers of said Plan oxner than enrolovppp: of 
of 
Governors, and the portion of the aggregate that is payable by 
said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK shall be the difference between the 
dollar amount represented by such lesser percentage of salary 
Qnd the early retirement pension payable at the attained age by 
said Retirement Plan. 
This Agreement does not obligate the said ROBERT P. MAYO to remain as an 
V h 
° f t h° s a i d FEDERAL RESERVE BANK, and does not constitute an Agreement 
A F E D E R A L
 RESERVE BANK or the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
** that v 
^flVfc 
V i l 1 C 0 n t i n u e i n S U c h c aP a c i ty; it 
not obligate the said FEDERAL 
3 % K to o.ppoint, reappoint, or continue him as an officer, nor does it 
tVi 
e Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to approve his appointment 

-3-
Or T 
2 6 9 1 . 
I 
eapp0intment or his compensation. This Agreement supersedes and rescinds the 
e°ment entered into between the parties on September 2h, 1970. 
Witness our hands and seals this 
clay of , w ^ L ^ f ^ f 
1971, 
this agreement in quadruplicate originals. 
Z7 
ROBERT P. MAYO 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
Att est; 
By_ 
<<u 
/he 
Chairman of rhe Board of Directors 
The above Agreement has been approved by the Board of Governors of the 
^ 
Heserve System and in witness thereof, the seal of the said Board is attached 
Secretary has affixed his signature. Dated at Washington, D. C., this 14th 
-~°9tober 
1971. 
% 
14, 1971 
(Date) 

m
m
-
-
. 
lip 
• - S r ^ : - ' 
I 
BOARD • F GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
2 6 S 
Item No. 3 
10/14/71 
;>o 
rW 
A D D R E S S 
n r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
October 14, 1971 
• .as 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Bureau of the Budget 
Executive Office Building 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Pommel: 
This is in response to your Legislative Referral Memorandum 
of October 12, requesting the Board's views on a draft of a bill to 
extend and amend the Economic Stabilization Act of 1970. On the 
basis of necessarily brief consideration of the draft bill, the Board 
sees no objection to the bill. 
The Board notes the proposal to expand section 202 of the 
Economic Stabilization Act to authorize the President to stabilize 
interest rates and dividends. In lieu of the new language on these 
subjects contained in the draft bill transmitted to it, the Board 
suggests that section 202 be amended to read as follows: 
"The President is authorized to issue such orders 
and regulations as he may deem appropriate, with a state-
ment of reasons for such orders and regulations, to 
stabilize prices, rents, wages, and salaries -at levels 
not less than those prevailing on May 25, 1970, and to 
stabilize, interest rates and dividends at levels conso-
nant: with orderly economic growth. Such orders and 
regulations may provide for the making of such adjust-
ments as may be necessary to prevent gross inequities." 
The history of the Economic Stabilization Act of 1970, and 
its implementation to date, seem to indicate clearly that the Presi-
dential authority that would be embodied in section 202, if that 
section was amended as proposed, will extend to the establishment of 
direct restraints on prices, wages, interest rates, etc. There has 
been no suggestion that section 202, as amended, would be intended 

Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
-2-
2 6 9 2 
by Congress to authorize the President indirectly to affect interest 
rates, prices, or wages through monetary actions, principally changes 
in the availability of credit, that are a chief responsibility of 
the Federal Reserve System. However, to avoid any possible misunder-
standing, the Board believes that the transmittal letter or other 
presentations to Congress should include an explicit statement that 
the authority conferred by section 202 does not include authority 
to control the decisions of the Federal Reserve System in its formu-
lation or implementation of monetary policy pursuant to the Federal 
Reserve Act and other laws administered by the Board. 
Very truly yours. 
C/ 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
