k 609 
Minutes for 
April 16, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

131^ 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, April 16, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Misses Ormsby and Wolcott of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Mertz, and Noble and Mrs. Duerson 
of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Fisher, Schweitzer, and Wiles of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Kline of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Wood of the Division of Personnel 
Administration 

1313 
4/16/69 
-2-
Application of Marine Midland Banks (Items 1-4). There had 
been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's approval on March 17, 1969, of the application of Marine 
Midland Banks, Inc., Buffalo, New York, to acquire at least 80 per 
cent of the voting shares of Tinker National Bank, East Setauket, 
New York. Dissenting statements by Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
also had been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 1 and 2. 
Copies of the dissenting statements of Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
are attached as Items 3 and 4, respectively. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
5 
Francisco relating to possible violation 
of section 11(m) of the Federal Reserve 
Act by Walker Bank & Trust Company, Salt 
Lake City, Utah, in connection with two 
related secured loans. 
Letter to General Bancshares Corporation, 
6 
St. Louis, Missouri, regarding whether the 
Bank Holding Company Act requires Board 
approval of the acceptance, by a subsidiary 
bank of a bank holding company, of a long-
term trust consisting of voting shares of a 
non-subsidiary bank. 

1314 
4/16/69 
-2-
Curtailment of nonessential programs (Item No. 7). There had 
been distributed a draft of letter to all Federal Reserve Banks request-
ing them to curtail nonessential programs for the last six months of 
this year in view of the continuing economic pressures. 
Governor Brimmer inquired about the reaction to the Board's 
recent request that Reserve Banks defer or reduce construction projects. 
Mr. Farrell reviewed the responses, and Governor Brimmer suggested that 
the proposed letter include an expression of the Board's appreciation. 
There was agreement with this suggestion. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to the Chairmen 
and Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks in the form attached as 
Item No. 7. 
Mortgage commitment survey (Item No. 8). In a memorandum from 
Mr. Brill dated April 14, 1969, it was proposed that a survey be under-
taken by the Federal Reserve Banks early in May to ascertain current 
and prospective mortgage commitment volume at leading representative 
commercial banks, mortgage companies, savings banks, and life insurance 
companies. An attached draft of letter set forth the questions that 
would be asked of the parties interviewed. The questions would be 
along the lines of those asked in last July's survey and would parallel 
questions used by the Federal Home Loan Banks in surveying savings and 
loan associations. 

1315 
4/16/69 
-2-
Following explanatory comments by Mr. Fisher, the proposed 
survey was authorized. Attached as Item No. 8 is a copy of the letter 
sent to the Reserve Banks. 
Views of directors (Item No. 9). There had been distributed 
a memorandum from the Office of the Secretary dated April 15, 1969, 
recommending that from time to time the Board develop questions on 
current developments for submission to the Boards of Directors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks to obtain their reactions. Attached to the 
memorandum was a letter to the Chairmen of all Banks that would express 
the Board's intent to follow such a procedure and solicit the views of 
the directors with respect to significant changes in business capital 
expenditures or inventory plans and the extent to which current and 
prospective monetary conditions were having an effect on those decisions. 
The sending of the letter was approved unanimously. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 9. 
Testimony on one-bank holding companies. Pursuant to the 
understanding at the Board meeting on April 15, 1969, there had been 
distributed a revised draft of testimony to be presented by Chairman 
Martin before the House Banking and Currency Committee on April 18 
with respect to proposed legislation to regulate one-bank holding 
companies. 
(H.R. 6778 and H.R. 9385, introduced by Chairman Patman 
and Representative Widnall, respectively.) 
In commenting on the changes made in the draft statement, Mr. 
Cardon pointed out that a paragraph had been added proposing that the 

1316 
4/16/69 
-2-
Congress authorize the promulgation of rules and regulations to govern 
borrowing by bank holding companies and their nonbank affiliates. This 
paragraph had been suggested as a means of coping with fund-raising 
transactions in which some banks had been engaged through their holding 
company affiliates. 
Asked whether the Board did not have authority at present to 
reach this problem, Mr. Sanders replied that it was questionable. It 
was the basic view of the Legal Division that unless an affiliate was 
merely acting as a funnel to the parent bank, the affiliate's actions 
would not come within the scope of the Board's regulations. Mr. Hexter 
expressed agreement. The purpose of the paragraph, Mr. Holland added, 
was to go on record, at least, as requesting power to control a situa-
tion, through the promulgation of rules and regulations, when it was 
apparent that the structure of the holding company was being used as 
a means of circumvention of the intent of banking laws and monetary 
policy. Mr. Hexter noted that the drafting of such regulations might 
be difficult. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that inclusion of the 
paragraph might do a disservice. He did not agree that the Board 
lacked authority at present. If the paragraph were included and no 
legislation was forthcoming, the Board's position might be damaged. 
Governor Brimmer recalled that the Reserve Banks had been 
asked to submit information on the kinds of transactions by which 

7 
4/16/69 
-2-
member banks had been seeking funds outside the scope of Regulations D 
and Q. When those comments were received and analyzed, it was his 
understanding that there would be a report from the staff. Until that 
presentation was made and discussed, he was not prepared to accept the 
view that the Board did not have authority to deal with the situation. 
Following further discussion, Chairman Martin suggested that 
the proposed paragraph be dropped from the statement. There was 
agreement with this suggestion. 
Governor Daane then referred to the portion of the statement 
containing technical comments on the bills under consideration and 
expressed the view that inclusion of those comments in the body of the 
statement detracted from its effectiveness. He suggested that they 
might be submitted in an appendix. 
Following consideration of this point, it was understood that 
the comments would be retained in the body of the statement, but that 
in making his presentation the Chairman would simply call attention 
to their inclusion for the record and not read them. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
the draft testimony would be edited to take into account suggestions 
agreed upon at today's meeting and that the statement would be pre-
sented in a final form satisfactory to Chairman Martin. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance, and the Board received a report from Governor Daane on the 

4/16/69 
t 
-7-
Basle meeting held this past week end 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

1319 
Item No. 1 
4/16/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
MARINE MIDLAND BANKS, INC., 
Buffalo, New York, 
for approval of acquisition of at least 
80 per cent of the voting shares of 
Tinker National Bank, East Setauket, 
New York. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Marine Midland 
Banks, Inc., Buffalo, New York, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of at least 80 per 
cent of the voting shares of Tinker National Bank, East Setauket, 
New York. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
the application. 

1320^ 
- 2 -
As discussed in the accompanying Statement, the New York 
State Banking Board approved an application involving the same pro-
posal in accordance with the recommendation of the New York State 
Superintendent of Banks, and advised this Board of its action. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 11, 1968 (33 Federal Register 18414), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 16th day of April, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

11^ 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
I t e m N o # 2 
4/16/69 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY MARINE MIDLAND BANKS, INC. FOR 
APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
TINKER NATIONAL BANK, EAST SETAUKET, NEW YORK 
STATEMENT 
Marine Midland Banks, Inc., Buffalo, New York ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acqui-
sition of at least 80 per cent of the voting shares of Tinker National 
Bank, East Setauket, New York ("Tinker National"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority, - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
of the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
and recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
the application. 
Pursuant to the requirements of Article III-A of the New 
York Banking Law, Applicant submitted an application involving the 
same proposal to the New York State Banking Board. The Banking Board 
approved the application on February 6, 1969, in accordance with the 
recommendation of the New York State Superintendent of Banks, and 
transmitted a copy thereof to the Board of Governors. 

-10-
1322 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act 
provides that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would 
result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination 
or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business 
of banking in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board 
approve any other proposed acquisition the effect of which, in any 
section of the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, 
or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would 
be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompet-
itive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in' 
the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in 
meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In 
each case the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding 
company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. 
Competitive cffect of proposed transaction. - Applicant, 
one of 12 banking organizations in the State of New York with deposits 
in excess of $1 billion, is the seventh largest banking organization 
and the second largest bank holding company in the State. Its 11 sub-
sidiary banks hold total deposits of $4.5 billion,^ representing 
1/ All banking data are as of June 29, 1968, unless otherwise noted, 
adjusted to reflect mergers approved by supervisory authorities to date. 

1323 
-10-
6 per cent of the total deposits held by the State's insured commercial 
banks. Acquisition of Tinker National would result in Applicant's 
becoming the only holding company with a subsidiary bank in each of 
New York State's nine banking districts, but would not change its 
relative position among the State's largest banking organizations. 
Its share of the State's commercial bank deposits would be increased 
t o 6.1 per cent. 
Tinker National ($85 million deposits) has nine banking 
offices, all of which are located in Suffolk County. Its main office 
and one branch are located in East Setauket, a small village situated 
the north shore of Long Island in the Town of Brookhaven. Five 
other branches of Tinker National are located throughout Brookhaven, 
which is the largest township in Suffolk County in terms of area 
(260 square miles) and the second largest in terms of population 
(200 ,000); one branch is located in Smithtown (population 99,000), 
which adjoins Brookhaven on the west, and one is located in Southampton 
(population 33,000), about 35 miles southeast of Tinker National's 
main office. 
Suffolk County is in New York's First Banking District, which 
also includes Nassau County and the two New York City counties of Kings 
and Queens. The remaining New York City counties of Bronx, New York, 
and Richmond constitute the Second Banking District. In general, State 
law permits branching only within the District in which a bank is head-
bartered. New York City banks, however, may branch throughout the 
City without regard to District lines, and, in addition, may branch 

1324 
-10-
into Nassau County in the First District and Westchester County in 
the Third District. Banks headquartered in the latter two counties 
may branch throughout New York City, as well as within their own 
Districts. Banks headquartered in Suffolk County, however, may 
branch only within the First District, and only First District banks 
®ay branch into that county. 
Until relatively recently, Suffolk County was a predominantly 
rural area, the banking needs of which were served primarily by local 
banks. At present, it is one of the fastest growing areas in the 
United States; its population has increased by about 250 per cent 
since 1950, and is expected to increase by another 65 per cent by 1980. 
Although Suffolk County still ranks first in the State in terms of the 
value of its agricultural production, the western portion of the 
county is almost fully integrated into the New York metropolitan eccnowy 
and has become a highly diversified business-industrial-retail complex. 
The central portion of the county, in which Brookhaven and Smithtown 
are located, is not yet as fully developed as the western area, nor is 
fij: closely oriented towards the metropolitan area; it is currently 
undergoing rapid population growth and business expansion, however, 
and it appears that it will shortly become completely urbanised. The 
^astern portion of the county, in which Southampton is located, is still 
largely rural in character, and its urbanization appears to be several 
year8 away. 

-10-
1325 
A rapid expansion of banking facilities has accompanied 
this population growth and business expansion. Of the 160 banking 
offices in Suffolk County, 110, or nearly 70 per cent, have been 
established since 1960. Of these, nearly half have been established 
by banks headquartered in Nassau or Queens Counties. Despite the 
entry of these larger organizations, however, local institutions have 
also shared in the county's growth. Tinker National has been the 
fastest growing of these; without benefit of merger, it has increased 
its deposits from $5.3 million at year-end 1957 to $85 million at 
Present. 
Tinker National is presently the second largest of 15 banks 
headquartered in Suffolk County, and the eighth largest of 22 banks 
with offices in the county. Its principal competitors are four banks 
which range in deposit size from $132 million to $1.9 billion. All 
four of these banks operate more offices in Suffolk County than does 
Tinker National, despite the fact that only one of them, Security 
National Bank of Long Island, Huntington ($608 million deposits), is 
headquartered in the county. 
Of Applicant's 11 subsidiary banks, 10 are located in upstate 
New York and do not compete with Tinker National. Its largest sub-
8idiary bank, Marine Midland Grace Trust Company ("Marine Grace"), 
which has deposits of $1.8 billion, is located in New York City. 
Marine Grace provides a complete line of wholesale and retail banking 
and trust services. It is the eighth largest bank in New York City, 

-6-
and presently operates 18 banking offices. Five of its offices are 
located in the First Banking District - four in Queens County and 
one recently opened branch in Nassau County. As a Second District 
bank, Marine Grace is not permitted under State law to branch into 
Suffolk County. Its closest office to an office of Tinker National 
is the Naseau County branch, which Is 23 miles from the Smithtown 
office of Tinker National. 
It does not appear that any significant competition exists 
between Tinker National and Marine Grace. The amount of business 
derived from Suffolk County by Marine Grace is equal to only about 
4 and 7 per cent, respectively, of the total deposit and loan business 
of Tinker National, and is insignificant in relation to the total 
business of Marine Grace. Tinker National derives only about 3 per 
cent of its deposits from New York City and Nassau County. 
With respect to potential competition, State law would 
permit Tinker National to branch into Nassau end Queens Counties, 
which could place it in competition with offices of Marine Grace. Such 
a geographic extension of the branching pattern of Tinker National is 
not viewed as a likely occurrence in the foreseeable future, however, 
because of the more immediate opportunities presented by the antici-
pated continued growth of Suffolk County, and the elimination of such 
Potential as does exist is of minor consequence in view of the number 
other strong competitors in New York City and Nassau County. 

-10-
1327 
In Suffolk County, potential competition would depend upon 
2/ 
acquisition by Applicant of a smaller bank in the county." 
There is 
little doubt that an organization of Applicant's size could effect 
meaningful entry into Suffolk County through acquisition of a less 
able and sizable competitor than Tinker National, and such entry 
would have procompetitive aspects which are not present in the instant 
application. But that consideration is not in itself of compelling 
significance. Tinker National is clearly not a dominant competitor 
in Suffolk County; its deposits are less than one-seventh as large 
as those of the largest bank headquartered in the county, it ranks 
fourth in size in terms of deposits originating in the county, sixth 
in terms of the number of county offices, and eighth in overall size 
among banks competing in the county. The four banks which rank imme-
diately behind Tinker National in size have deposits of $52 million 
t o $70 million, indicating a rather even distribution of deposits 
among the medium-sized banks in the area. Concentration in the county 
is not so great, or the number of significant potential competitors 
8o limited, as to cause critical importance to be attached to Appli-
cant's ability to enter the market through a smaller acquisition. 
pinally, the number of large banking organizations which are actual 
and potential competitors in the area, and the success of local insti-
tutions in competing with such organizations in the past, preclude 
any reasonable inference that entry barriers would be raised significantly 
•2/ A proposal by Applicant to acquire the largest bank in the county, 
Security National Bank of Long Island, Huntington, was denied by the 
B°ard in 1962 (1962 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1597). 

-10-
1328 
by consummation of the proposal or that there would be undue adverse 
effects on smaller competitors. Under all these circumstances, it 
Is the Board's view that Applicant's proposal would not have signif-
icant anticompetitive effects, and that there is therefore no reason 
to require that Applicant pursue some alternative means of extending 
its services to the Suffolk County area. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Board concludes that 
consummation of Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly 
°r be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any area, and would not sub-
stantially lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly in any 
section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant's financial condition and management are satisfactory, and 
its prospects are favorable. 
Although Tinker National is in generally satisfactory 
financial condition, the extremely rapid growth of the bank has caused 
it difficulty in maintaining adequate capital, despite the fact that 
its above-average earnings have been retained in their entirety in 
recent years and capital stock has been sold on four different occasions. 
Applicant proposes to increase the bank's capital by at least $2.5 mil-
lion in the event the present application is approved. Management 
the bank is satisfactory, except for a lack of experience in its 
lending staff, a problem that the bank is actively attempting to solve. 

1329 
-10-
There is no reason to believe that Tinker National is 
incapable of satisfactorily dealing with these problems, and prospects 
of the bank are regarded as favorable regardless of the outcome of the 
present proposal. Consummation of the proposal, however, would provide 
the means for the prompt and certain resolution of both problems, and 
considerations under the banking factors are therefore regarded as 
providing some weight in favor of approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved, -
Consummation of the present proposal would not affect the convenience 
°r needs of customers served by Applicant's present subsidiary banks. 
The rapid growth of Suffolk County has been accompanied by 
increased demand for banking services. Although it does not appear, 
and Applicant does not contend, that any major banking needs are pre-
sently going unserved, a full range of banking services 
is available 
only from the largest banks in the county, all but one of which is 
headquartered outside the county. Despite the rapid growth of local 
banks, including Tinker National, such banks have not expanded their 
service offerings to fully respond to the area's demand for such 
services. Applicant's proposal would make Applicant's expertise and 
specialized skills available to Tinker National, and Applicant proposes 
assist the bank in developing or expanding its municipal financing 
services, personal and corporate trust services, long-term mortgage 
loans (including F.H.A. and V.A. guaranteed loans, which Tinker 
National does not presently offer), construction loans, agricultural 
inking services, and accounts receivable financing. 

1330 
-10-
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the Suffolk County community provide some support for approval of the 
application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
8hould be approved. 
April 16, 1969. 

1331 
Item No. 3 
4/16/69 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
I can find no feature of this proposal that justifies 
the Board's approval action. On the contrary, every major consid-
eration compels, in my opinion, a denial of the application. 
The Tinker National Bank, with $85 million of deposits, 
is the second largest of 15 banks headquartered in Suffolk County, 
and holds the fourth largest share of county deposits. It is a 
sound, aggressive, full-service bank, able to serve well, without 
the proposed affiliation, the banking needs of its present and potential 
customers. Its excellent growth record is evidence of this fact. 
While Tinker National and Marine Midland's subsidiaries do not presently 
operate in the same geographic market, Suffolk County is a natural 
srea for entry by banking organizations in New York City and in Nassau 
County; and Applicant is, in my judgment, the most likely and, in many 
respects, one of the strongest and most favorably-positioned, potential 
entrants into Suffolk County. Its acquisition of one of the most rapidly 
growing and sizable banks in Suffolk County will, foreclose substantial 
Competition without any resulting countervailing benefits to the com-
munities affected. These are not results that are in any respect con-
sistent with approval action. 
An additional aspect of this proposal which concerns me -
a s it has in a number of previous bank holding company applications -
i s the ability of a large bank holding company, because of its sizable 

13 
- 2 -
capital base and large number of shareholders, to make to the 
shareholders of a bank which the Applicant wishes to acquire a 
tender offer so generous that the bank's shareholders cannot reason-
ably afford to reject it. In the present case, Applicant has tendered 
to Tinker National Bank's shareholders a stock exchange offer re-
flecting a premium equivalent to 11 per cent of the bank's deposits 
based on book values of the stocks to be exchanged. Such premium 
will have insignificant effect upon the earnings of an organization 
the size of Applicant, whereas a similar exchange offer by an organ-
ization having less capital and fewer shareholders would be out of 
the question. The ability of a bank holding company to make an offer 
that the offerees' shareholders cannot afford to decline and that the 
holding company'8 lesser-sized competitors could not afford to make 
gives such an applicant a bidding advantage that could contribute 
significantly to the continuing trend toward concentration of banking 
resources in a few large organizations. 
The foregoing adverse features of Applicant's proposal 
require that I dissent from the Board's approval of this application. 
April 16, 1969. 

13 
Item No. 4 
4/16/69 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
In my judgment, Applicant has not provided even minimum 
justification for approval of its acquisition of the Tinker National 
Bank. Candidly stated, this application involves a market entry 
by one of the State's largest banking organizations in a manner 
that will have clear anticompetitive consequences, while producing 
minimal benefits to the communities in that market. 
Tinker National Bank, with a record of 50 years of service 
to Suffolk County, is a vigorous, high-earning, rapidly-growing 
institution. During the 10-year period ending December 30, 1967, 
its deposits increased from $5 million to approximately $77 million; 
and it is presently the second largest bank domiciled in Suffolk 
County. Its rate of growth in this period has been greater than any 
of its Suffolk County-based competitors. Applicant asserts an ability 
to aid the Tinker National Bank in strengthening its somewhat under-
capitalized position. The record reflects that the bank has increased 
its capital through public stock offerings on four previous occasions, 
but that bacause of its extremely rapid growth, additional capital 
should again be added. While additions to the bank's capital commen-
surate with its deposit growth could more certainly and perhaps more 
immediately be effected by Applicant than by the bank on its own, I 
am satisfied that the Tinker National Bank could strengthen its capital 
Position adequately without the assistance tendered by Applicant's 
proposal. 

1334 
-2-
Assuming for argument's sake that Applicant would provide 
in a more assured and immediate manner the additional capital needed 
by Tinker National Bank, the weight favorable to approval that is 
thus accorded the application falls far short of that required to 
outweigh the adverse competitive effect inherent in the proposal. 
The record makes clear that Applicant is the most likely and one of 
the most able potential entrants into Tinker National Bank's market. 
Its acquisition of that bank, therefore, will effectively foreclose 
substantial competition that, in my judgment, would most likely 
develop between them. This application should be approved only upon 
a showing that the convenience and needs of the communities now 
served by Tinker National Bank would be so significantly advantaged 
as to outweigh clearly the established anticompetitive aspects of the 
proposal. The record is void of such a showing. The statute under 
which this application has been considered contemplates approval of 
acquisitions found to be in the public interest, not those which merely 
serve the best interests - competitive and financial - of the appli-
cant organization. I would deny the application. 
April 16, 1969. 

of Gov/•. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
4/16/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 17, 1969 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Re: Walker Bank & Trust Co., Salt Lake City: 
whether secured loans by two borrowers, 
one of which is 90 per cent owned by the 
other, are loans to "one person" within 
the meaning of section 11(m) of the Federal 
Reserve Act; application of "debt previously 
contracted" exception. 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
This is with reference to your letter of October 24, 1968, 
which relates to a possible violation of section ll(m) of the Federal 
Reserve Act by Walker Bank & Trust Co., Salt Lake City, Utah, in 
connection with two related secured loans. 
In 1966 Walker Bank had outstanding a $1,550,000 loan to 
Rico Argentine Mining Company secured by Banner Company stock, as 
well as an unsecured loan of $600,000 to Dairy King Sales and Service, 
a 90 per cent owned subsidiary of Rico Argentine. Both borrowers are 
apparently corporations. The collateral is the property of the parent 
company alone. Subsequently, the two loans were "combined into one 
note" in the amount of $2,601,680. The "combined note" was secured 
by the same stock, which is entirely owned by the parent borrower and 
was recently worth in excess of $8 million. At the time the loans 
were combined the total amount of debt was increased by over $400,000. 
At the examination of October 9, 1967, the question of a 
Possible violation of section ll(m) of the Federal Reserve Act was 
raised. That section prohibits member banks from making "loans secured 
by stock or bond collateral . . . to any person in an amount in excess 
°f 10 per centum of the unimpaired capital and surplus of such bank". 
This limitation would have been $1,560,000 in the case of Walker Bank, 
considerably less than the amount of the "combined note". 

1336 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings 
-2-
In March, 1968, reportedly to end the violation, the bank 
renewed the credit in the form of two notes, one of $1,500,000 of 
Rico Argentine and a second of $1,100,000 of Dairy King, each secured 
by all of the Banner Company stock described above. 
Your letter, and the attached memoranda, present two prin-
cipal questions. First, in view of the relationship between the 
borrowers, should they be regarded as "one person", in which case 
Walker Bank is apparently in violation of section 11(m)? Second, if 
this is so, does the case come within the scope of the so-called "debt 
previously contracted" exception (the "d.p.c." exception), so that no 
violation of section ll(m) exists? 
On a number of occasions the Board has applied the doctrine 
of disregarding the separateness of two corporate entities where not 
to do so would result in evasion of statutory or regulatory restrictions. 
(1969 Bulletin 52; Interpretations If 4210, 1966 Bulletin 655, 12 CFR 
208.118; Interpretations f 4679, 1963 Bulletin 1637, 12 CFR 218.107) 
Disregarding corporate separateness under such circumstances has sub-
stantial support in the law, and the present case, where the two notes 
in question were made by a borrower and its 90 per cent owned subsidiary, 
and where the collateral is owned solely by the parent, would seem to 
be an appropriate case for the application of this doctrine. 
However, the existence of a parallel and contemporaneous 
statute applicable to national banks casts some doubt on the foregoing 
conclusion. As noted, section ll(m) provides that no loan secured by 
stock or bond collateral may be made by a member bank "to any person" 
in excess of 10 per cent of the bank's unimpaired capital and surplus. 
A somewhat similar provision relating to national banks (§ 5200 of the 
Revised Statutes) provides, with certain exceptions, that the "total 
obligations . . . of any person, copartnership, association, or cor-
poration" to a national bank shall not exceed 10 per cent of the bank's 
capital and surplus. The term "obligations" is defined to "include in 
the case of obligations of a corporation all obligations of all sub-
sidiaries thereof in which such corporation owns or controls a majority 
interest." 
The provision last quoted was added to section 5200 by the 
Banking Act of 1933. The 1933 Act, which wholly revised section ll(m), 
substituted the phrase "to any person" in place of the phrase "of any 
one borrower" in that section. The words added to sections 5200 and 
11(m) by the Banking Act of 1933 are not identical, but they perform 
the same function in sections which perform similar functions. Under 

1337 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings 
-2-
these circumstances, the fact that Congress expressly provided for 
disregarding corporate separateness in section 5200 and failed to do 
so in the case of section ll(m), which was amended simultaneously, 
would provide a basis for an argument that no such corporate separateness 
was intended to be observed in the case of section ll(m). If this 
argument were accepted as controlling, the corporate entities would not 
be disregarded in this case. On the other hand, it may be argued that 
such a result would defeat the legislative purpose to some extent, since 
it provides an obvious means for member banks to avoid the 10 per cent 
limitation by splitting loans between corporations and their majority-
owned subsidiaries. The legislative reports relating to the Banking 
Act of 1933 shed no light on the matter. 
Thus the alternatives are (1) to consider and effectuate the 
intent of Congress in enacting section 11(m) - which would seem to 
require disregarding the corporate entities, considered without reference 
to the 1933 amendment to section 5200, or (2) to construe the explicit 
provision in section 5200 as implying the absence of a similar intent 
in section ll(m), precluding the application of the doctrine. 
In view of the absence of any clear Congressional indication 
that the sections are to be construed together and the considerably 
different language used in the two sections, it is the Board's judgment 
that this is a proper case for disregarding the separate corporate 
entities of Rico Argentine Mining Company and Dairy King Sales and 
Service, and that the loans are therefore apparently in violation of 
section ll(m). 
It thus becomes necessary to consider the second question, 
that is, whether the apparent violation falls within the scope of the 
so-called "d.p.c." exception. Under that doctrine, restrictions of 
the banking laws are disregarded where a bank is concerned, in good 
faith, about the collectibility of a loan and makes efforts to protect 
and collect it. The exception is expressly recognized by some statutes 
(e*g«> § 4(c)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act), and it is ordinarily 
assumed that it has application in other situations where it is not 
expressly referred to by statute. 
However, the d.p.c. exception is limited in its applicability 
to situations where a bank accepts security (or additional security) 
t o protect itself against loss on a loan which has deteriorated in 
quality. There is nothing in your letter or the attachments thereto 
suggesting that the quality of the loans under consideration has 
deteriorated. 

1338 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings 
-2-
Accordingly, the d.p.c. exception is not applicable and an 
apparent violation of section 11(m) exists. To extend the scope of 
the d.p.c. exception to permit its application where a bank accepts 
security in violation of a restriction of the banking laws merely in 
order to enhance the safety of an otherwise sound loan would open the 
way to wholesale violations of those laws. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
f * 
• 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1339 
BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
4/16/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20951 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 17, 1969 
Mr. Daniel S. Hapke, 
General Counsel, 
General Bancshares Corporation, 
901 Washington Avenue, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 63101 
Dear Mr. Hapke: 
This refers to your request for an opinion as to whether 
approval of the Board of Governors, pursuant to applicable provisions 
of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, is required for 
Bank of St. Louis, a subsidiary of General Bancshares, to continue 
to act as trustee of a perpetual trust of certain bank stock. 
The pertinent facts related in your letter of August 16, 
1968, indicate that Bank of St. Louis is trustee of a perpetual trust 
established by Declaration of Mrs. Lilian D. Payne; that the trust 
assets consist of 5,020 of the 10,000 outstanding shares of Bank of 
Steele, Steele, Missouri; and that the trust income, after the death 
of Mrs. Payne, is to be applied to assist graduates of two Missouri 
schools in attending the University of Missouri. 
Your letter indicates that the question arises as a result 
of the 1966 amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act, which redefined 
the term "company" so as to include a long-term trust, and which altered 
the exemption of section 3 of the Act with respect to stock acquired 
by a bank in a fiduciary capacity so as to exclude from the exemption 
shares "held under a trust that constitutes a company . . . ." The 
issue involved is whether it was the intent of Congress, in so limiting 
the exemption, that ownership or control of shares held in such a 
banner be attributed to the trustee bank or its parent bank holding 
company for purposes of section 3(a)(3) of the Act. For the reasons 
stated hereinafter, it is concluded that such was not the intent of 
Congress. 

1340^ 
Mr. Daniel S. Hapke 
-2-
The Senate Report on the 1966 amendments states as follows 
with respect to the purpose of the pertinent provisions (Sen. Rep* 
No. 1179, 89th Cong., May 19, 1966, p. 6): 
"Commercial banks with trust departments hold shares of 
stock in a fiduciary capacity for their customers; that is, 
legal ownership of the stock is in the bank and its nominee, 
but the beneficial ownership is in the customer or a 
beneficiary designated by the customer. The act now con-
tains several provisions designed to permit this trust 
business to continue without subjecting the bank to 
regulation under the act simply because it acquires legal 
title to shares in other banks through its trust department. 
"Since the bill would amend the act to cover long-term 
trusts . . ., some changes must be made in those provisions 
to prevent their being used to achieve exemption for the 
trusts involved simply by selecting banks as trustees. 
Accordingly, the present exemptions in sections 2, 3, and 
4 with respect to shares held by a bank in a fiduciary 
capacity would be amended to recognize the inclusion of 
long-term trusts in the definition of 'company' . . . . 
"In addition, the first section would revise section 
2(a)(A) to make it clear that except in the cases covered 
by paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 2(g), a company that 
owns or controls a bank shall be entitled to the same 
exemptions as the bank is entitled to with respect to 
shares held in a fiduciary capacity." (Emphasis added.) 
The Senate Report thus not only fails to reflect an intent 
that ownership or control of shares held in trust be attributed to the 
trustee bank for purposes of the Act (except under the circumstances 
set forth in paragraphs (2) and (3) of section 2(g), which circum-
stances are not involved here), but indicates that, in amending 
section 2(a)(A), which deals directly with the question of attribution, 
Congress was desirous of making clear that neither a bank nor a company 
that owns or controls a bank would be regarded as a bank holding company 
simply because of such bank's fiduciary activities. While Congress 
conceivably could have applied a different test in section 3 from that 
which it felt was desirable with respect to banks which were not bank 
holding company subsidiaries, it does not appear that such was its 
intent. Rather, it appears that the intent was to prevent the exemption 
in section 3 from being interpreted to achieve exemption for the trusts 
involved simply by selecting banks as trustees. 
The situation to which the section 3 amendment seems to have 
been addressed is that which arises, for example, where a trustee bank 

1341. 
Mr. Daniel S. Hapke 
-3-
is vested with discretion to invest trust funds. In such a case, if 
the bank should invest the funds in such manner as to cause a trust 
that constitutes a company to violate the Act, the amendment was in-
tended to make clear that the prohibitions of the Act are applicable 
Irrespective of the fact that the shares were acquired for the trust 
W a bank in good faith in a fiduciary capacity. But the question of 
the acquisition's consistency with the Act is to be judged solely on 
the basis of the shares owned or controlled by the trust after the 
acquisition, and not on the basis of other shares owned or controlled 
by the trustee bank or a parent bank holding company. And, since 
ownership or control of the trust shares is not attributable to the 
bank or holding company, it is unnecessary for either to apply for 
Board permission under section 3(a)(3). (Of course, if the £rust 
were a bank holding company, or would become such as a result of the 
acquisition contemplated, the bank, as trustee, would seek prior Board 
approval on behalf of the trust.) 
In the present case, it appears that the Payne trust owns 
25 per cent or more of the voting shares of only one bank. Accordingly, 
the trust, although a "company" by virtue of its duration is not a 
"bank holding company" by virtue of its holdings. Since it appears 
that Bank of St. Louis holds the stock of Bank of Steele in good faith 
in a fiduciary capacity, and not for the benefit of itself, General 
Bancshares, or employees or shareholders of either of them ownership 
or control of the stock is not attributable to the bank or General 
Bancshares for purposes of section 3(a)(3) of the Act. Therefore, 
since it does not appear that any "company" became a bank holding com-
pany as a result of the activity described, or that any bank holding 
company acquired more than 5 per cent of an additional bank within the 
contemplation of the Act, no violation of section 3 a)(3) occured as 
a result of acceptance of the trust, and no approval of the Board is 
necessary for Bank of St. Louis to continue to act as trustee. 
As you may be aware, it has been proposed that the Act be 
amended to encompass companies that control only one bank and it has 
also been proposed that the exemption presently accorded bank shares 
held in trust be modified. The foregoing analysis, of c o u r s e , contem-
plates only the present provisions of the Act, and the c ° n c j u s ^ s 
that the trust in question is not a bank holding company and that Bank 
of Steele is not a subsidiary of General Bancshares are subject to 
devaluation in the event of any material change in those provisions. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary, 

1342 
0? GOv'.^ 
^LRES^r*' 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
4/16/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 16, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
At a time when the Federal Reserve System is urging restraint 
in all sectors of the economy to combat widespread inflationary pres* 
sures, it is apparent that we have a particular obligation in the 
administration of the System's internal affairs to subject ourselves 
to the same discipline that we ask of others. 
Meaningful efforts, of course, have already been made in 
this regard. The Board requested restrictive measures on the occasion 
°f its review of the Reserve Banks' budgets during the last two periods. 
Most recently, construction of the Board's annex was postponed indef-
initely, and the Board was gratified by the reaction to its request 
that the Reserve Banks and branches defer or reduce construction 
Programs to the maximum extent practicable. 
i - 1., 
Since the economy continues to move at a pace which is a 
cause for increased concern, the Board assumes that the officers and 
directors of each Bank and branch will want to initiate and intensify 
efforts to contain or cut nonessential programs in the budgets for 
the last six months of this year, with particular attention focused 
on all requests for staff increases, furniture and equipment purchases, 
and repairs and alterations projects. 
Very truly yours, 
/^L-S 
c 
-K / 
. 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
THE CHAIRMEN OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
T o THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

^LRtStV 
BDARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
1343 
Item No. 
3 
4/16/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 17, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board would appreciate having a capsule report of your 
impressions concerning the current situation and near-terra outlook 
in the residential mortgage market in your District, to be forwarded 
to reach the Board not later than Wednesday, May 14. 
In order to parallel a similar Federal Home Loan Bank sur-
vey of savings and loan associations, your report should reflect 
informal interviews with some (perhaps 15 to 25) representative bank 
and nonbank lenders in your District other than savings and loan 
associations--!.e., commercial banks, mutual savings banks, life in-
surance companies, and mortgage companies. These interviews should 
elicit responses to the following questions, which generally parallel 
those asked in last July's survey. Changes from the last survey 
include the addition of two new questions about variable-rate provisions 
in home mortgages and equity participations in apartment-house loans, 
omission of a question asked last July about FNMA's weekly auction, 
and segregation of responses for home as compared with apartment-house 
mortgages. Interviews may be conducted at any time after the end of 
April, so long as summaries of the findings reach the Board by the 
deadline indicated above. 
The questions to be asked are as follows: 
1. (For all respondents.) Aside from any change resulting 
from seasonal influences, the dollar volume of new commitments being 
made by your institution on home mortgages (1-4 family structures) 
now as compared with 3 months ago is: (a) substantially larger; 
(b) moderately larger; (c) essentially unchanged; (d) moderately 
smaller; (e) substantially smaller. 
2. (For all respondents.) Aside from any change resulting 
from seasonal influences, the dollar volume of new commitments being 
made by your institution on apartment-house mortgages now as compared 

liV 
- 2 -
with 3 months ago is: (a) substantially larger; (b) moderately larger; 
(c) essentially unchanged; (d) moderately smaller; (e) substantially 
smaller. 
3. (For commercial banks and savings banks.) Aside from any 
change resulting from seasonal influences, how do you expect that your 
net savings inflow (i.e., new savings minus withdrawals) will change 
over the next 3 months? 
(a) up substantially; (b) up moderately; 
(c) essentially unchanged; (d) down moderately; (e) down substantially. 
4. (For life insurance companies.) 
A. Aside from any change resulting from seasonal influences, 
how do you expect that your cash flow potentially available for invest-
ment in residential mortgages will change over the next 3 months? 
(a) up substantially; (b) up moderately; (c) essentially unchanged; 
(d) down moderately; (e) down substantially. 
B. In making this estimate, how do you expect that your 
policy loan demand will change over the next 3 months? 
(a) up sub-
stantially; (b) up moderately; (c) essentially unchanged; (d) down 
(state approximate percentage change estimate, if available). 
5. (For all respondents.) Aside from any change resulting 
from seasonal influences, how do you expect that the volume of your 
new home mortgage loan commitments will change over the next 3 months? 
(a) up substantially; (b) up moderately; (c) essentially unchanged; 
(d) down moderately; (e) down substantially. 
6. (For all respondents.) Aside from any change resulting 
from seasonal influences, how do you expect that the volume of your 
new apartment-house mortgage loan commitments will change over the 
next 3 months? 
(a) up substantially; (b) up moderately; (c) essentially 
unchanged; (d) down moderately; (e) down substantially. 
7. (For all respondents.) How would you evaluate the present 
demand for mortgage loans on single-family homes, at current interest 
rates and terms? (a) demand substantially exceeds mortgage funds avail-
able; (b) demand moderately exceeds mortgage funds available; (c) demand 
just about in balance with mortgage funds available; (d) demand falls 
moderately short of mortgage funds available; (e) demand falls substan-
tially short of mortgage funds available. 
8. (For all respondents.) How would you evaluate the present 
demand for mortgage loans on apartment-houses, at current interest rates 
and terras? (a) demand substantially exceeds mortgage funds available; 
(b) demand moderately exceeds mortgage funds available; (c) demand is 
just about in balance with mortgage funds available; (d) demand falls 
moderately short of mortgage funds available; (e) demand falls 
substantially short of mortgage funds available. 

35^ 
9. (For all respondents.) On home mortgages now being 
approved on local properties, variable-rate provisions (under which 
the interest rate may change during the outstanding life of a loan 
whenever some other financial rate changes) are being used—(a) as 
a standard requirement; (b) fairly commonly; (c) occasionally; 
<d> never. 
For all respondents except those giving (d) as their 
answer, please request a brief description of the nature of the 
variable-rate provision most commonly employed. 
10. (For all respondents.) On apartment-house mortgages 
now being approved on local properties, equity participations are 
being used—(a) as a standard requirement; (b) fairly commonly; 
(c) occasionally; (d) never. For all respondents except those giving 
(d) as their answer, please request a brief description of the nature 
of the equity participation most commonly employed. 
After surveying all respondents, please summarize your 
impressions of typical District conditions in brief narrative form, 
indicating any marked differences among types of lenders or properties 
and any other unusual features of interest. Also, please take each 
question in turn and indicate where appropriate, the total number of 
respondents of each type that chose each of the various multiple-
choice answers. 
The reports for all Districts will be tabulated and summarized 
by the Board's staff, along with the findings of the Federal Home Loan 
Banks, for distribution in the Greenbook of May 21. (For your reference 
Purposes, the survey made last July was summarized in an attachment 
to the Greenbook supplement of August 9.) Survey replies should be 
sent to the Secretary's Office; meanwhile, questions regarding the 
survey should be addressed to Mr. Robert Fisher at the Board. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
T o THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

••f^TRES^.** 
1346 
BOARD OF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
4/16/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
. .•'". V* '. 
^pril 16, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
In a letter dated Harch 1, I960, the Board of Governors 
equested that the Reserve Bank Boards of Directors provide specific 
statements setting forth the principal reasons underlying proposed 
changes in discount rates. These submissions from the directors on 
iscount rate matters have been most helpful to the Board in under-
ending the bases for director actions. 
The March 1 letter also asked for a continuing flow of 
formation from the directors on other developments with relevance to 
monetary policy. Specifically, the Board felt it would be helpful to 
® advised from time to time of any special facts or insights known to 
he directors that might represent a net addition to the Board's 
"telligence concerning economic or financial trends of national 
significance. 
Pursuant to this general interest, it has recently been 
uggested that the Board might from time to time submit questions to 
e boards of directors concerning economic developments on which it 
°uld find added information helpful. This suggestion has met with 
terest from a number of quarters, and this letter represents the 
rst in what may be a series of such requests for information. 
The Board would appreciate bein£ advised, currently and over 
e next few months, if and as the directors learn of significant 
anges in business capital expenditures or inventory plans and to 
eft*" e x t e n t current and prospective monetary conditions are having an 
tect on these decisions. The Board has no wish to receive the names 
Of . ny specific companies, but only to be aware of the general lines 
business and size of firms in which any noted changes are taking 
Place. 

13T 
-2-
Views on this topic might usefully be solicited from branch 
Bank directors as well as those of the Head Office. The Board leaves 
to your judgment whether you communicate with ybur branch Boards on 
this matter, or whether you prefer the Board to do so directly. 
If this procedure works out to the satisfaction and benefit 
of all concerned, as we hope it will, we would propose to submit other 
questions from time to time in the future. Any comments or suggestions 
you might have on the workability and usefulness of the procedure or 
how it might be improved would therefore be appreciated. 
Very truly yours, 
- v 
/ 
^ 
< 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
T0 THE CHAIRMEN OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
COPY TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
