609 
v' 5-67) 
Minutes for 
January 24, 1968 
To: 
Membe rs of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
VJIP' 

•>'> 1 
A^rW* t 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, January 24, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
M r . Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Hart and Messrs. Noble, Plotkin, Porter, 
and Shuter of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Ettin and Shull of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Lyon, Maguire, and Kline of the 
Division of Examinations 
Mr. Sheehy of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York 

1/24/68 
-2-
Ratification of actions. Actions taken by the available 
members of the Board at the meeting held on Monday, January 22, 1968, 
as recorded in the minutes of that meeting, were ratified by unanimous 
vote. 
Application of BT New York Corporation (Items 1 and 2). 
There 
had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's actions on January 3, 1968, relating to the application of 
BT New York Corporation, Suffern, New York, to acquire 80 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of Liberty National Bank and Trust Company, 
Buffalo, New York. 
The Board had originally denied the application by 
order dated May 4, 1967. 
On January 3, 1968, the Board granted 
requests for reconsideration filed by BT New York Corporation and 
by Liberty National. 
Then, having proceeded with reconsideration, 
it reaffirmed the original decision. 
Governor Mitchell suggested certain changes in the draft state-
ment, to which other members of the Board agreed. 
Governor Brimmer introduced a discussion of the recording of 
Board members' positions in the draft order. 
He noted that Governor 
Maisel, who had abstained from voting because he preferred not to 
Proceed with reconsideration at that point, was shown as "not voting," 
while Governor Sherrill was shown as "absent and not voting." 
Mr. O'Connell responded by mentioning circumstances that had 
S u8gested adopting the procedure, followed in this particular case. 

1/24/68 
-3-
During the ensuing discussion Governor Sherrill expressed agreement 
with the reaffirmation of the Board's original decision, and question 
then was raised whether, in the circumstances, it would not be appro-
priate to associate him with the recorded vote. 
Some sentiment was 
expressed in favor of that procedure. 
On the other hand, it was 
brought out that adoption of the practice could sometimes result in 
a n anomalous situation, for example, if seven members voted on a case, 
one member ended his service with the Board, and his successor also 
recorded a vote. 
It was noted that, although the decision on a merger 
or bank holding company case remained within the control of the Board 
until the order and statement were issued, the orders issued had cus-
tomarily reflected the votes cast by members present when the case was 
decided, in the absence of action by the Board as a body to reopen the 
case upon the request of a member. 
The latter procedure was to be dis-
tinguished from that sometimes followed when members of the Board con-
sidering an application found themselves divided regarding its merits 
and therefore decided to hold the matter for further consideration at 
a time when additional members could participate. 
The discussion of procedures concluded with agreement to adhere 
to the recording of positions, in this case, as set forth in the pro-
Posed order, but with the understanding that further consideration 
would be given at a later date to the procedures to be followed gener-
ally in recording votes on bank merger and holding company cases. 

1/24/68 
-4-
The issuance of the order and statement, with the changes in 
the latter that had been agreed upon, was then authorized. 
Copies of 
the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are attached as 
Items 1 and 2. 
Messrs. Shull, Lyon, Noble, and Kline then withdrew from the 
meeting. 
Appointment of President and First Vice President (Item No. 3). 
Pursuant to action on December 6, 1967, Chairman Hyde of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond had been informed in a letter dated Decem-
ber 11, 1967, that in view of the forthcoming retirement of President 
Wayne the Board was prepared to approve the appointment of Aubrey N. 
Heflin to succeed Mr. Wayne as President of the Reserve Bank, with 
salary at the rate of $37,500 per annum, and also to approve the 
aPPointment of Robert P. Black as First Vice President to succeed M r . 
Heflin in that position, with salary at the rate of $27,500 per annum. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum from the Division 
°f Personnel Administration dated January 16, 1968, regarding notifi-
cation by Chairman Elkins of the Richmond Reserve Bank (who had assumed 
that office at the beginning of the year) that the Bank's Board of 
Directors had appointed Messrs. Heflin and Black as President and First 
Vice President, respectively, for the period April 1, 1968, through 
February 28, 1971, and had fixed their salaries at the rates contem-
plated for the period April 1 through December 31, 1968. Attached to 

1/24/68 
-5-
the memorandum was a draft of letter that would inform Chairman Elkins 
of the Board's approval of the appointments and salaries. 
The letter was approved unanimously. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
Officer salaries at New York Reserve Bank (Item No. 4). 
There 
had been distributed a draft of letter that would inform the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York of the Board's approval of the payment of 
salaries, at rates fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors, to certain 
officers whose promotions had been the subject of a letter from the 
Bank dated January 5, 1968. 
Discussion developed agreement that a paragraph should be added 
to the letter to suggest that the Bank follow the practice of having 
Preliminary informal discussions of such promotions with the Board's 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans. 
The letter was then approved unanimously in the form attached 
a s Item No. 4. 
Agreement with President Irons (Item No. 5). There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated January 19, 1968, from the Division of 
Personnel Administration regarding a request from the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas for the Board's approval of an agreement between the 
Bank and President Irons guaranteeing him a retirement allowance equal 
t o 40 per cent of his annual salary at the time of his retirement at 
the end of January 1968. 
(It had developed that the difference between 

fOe 
1/24/68 
-6-
President Irons' normal retirement allowance and 40 per cent of his 
salary at the time of retirement would be about $500 per year.) 
The 
agreement was similar to those in effect between several other current 
Presidents and their respective Reserve Banks; these had been entered 
into subsequent to the Board's 1959 approval of a plan that would 
guarantee short-service Presidents a minimum retirement allowance of 
40 per cent of their final annual salary provided they had completed 
a t least ten years of service. 
The Division of Personnel Administra-
tion recommended approval of the agreement; a letter that would inform 
Chairman Thomsen of the Reserve Bank of such approval was attached. 
The discussion included expressions of the view that it was 
unfortunate that the agreement between the Dallas Reserve Bank and 
President Irons had not been proposed at an earlier date. 
The staff 
W a s requested to review the general practice with a view to determin-
ing whether the Reserve Banks should be advised that such agreements 
should be entered into at the time a Reserve Bank President took office 
o r at least a certain number of years before his prospective retirement 
The agreement with President Irons was then approved unani-
mously. A copy of the letter sent to Chairman Thomsen pursuant to this 
a c t l o n is attached as Item No. 5. 
Mr. Johnson withdrew from the meeting during the foregoing 
discussion. 

1/24/68 
-7-
Regulations T, U, and G. 
Pursuant to action on October 18 and 
19, 1967, the Board on October 20 published for comment proposed amend-
ments to Regulations T and U, relating to stock market credit, and a 
proposed new Regulation G, to apply to such credit extended by lenders 
hitherto not subject to regulation. 
The amendments to Regulations T 
and U were principally designed to close loopholes, although one--a 
change from four to five days in the period allowed for settlement of 
a margin transaction--had been requested by representatives of the New 
York Stock Exchange to relieve a paper work burden. 
There had now been distributed, among various other materials, 
a memorandum dated January 18, 1968, from the Legal Division and the 
Divisions of Research and Statistics and Examinations recommending 
Proposed amendments to Regulations T and U and a new Regulation G in 
form revised in the light of numerous comments received and consulta-
tion by the Board's staff with members of the securities financing 
community. 
The memorandum analyzed the comments received and explained 
the basis for the suggested changes from the original proposals. 
Mr. Par tee summarized the procedures through which the staff 
had developed the current recommendations and noted that five princi-
Pal points were at issue: 
the proposal to subject loans on convertible 
honds to margin requirements, with its related questions such as pro-
viding an exemption for market makers; the principle embodied in Regu-
l ation G, under which unregulated lenders would be subjected to margin 

1/24/68 
-8-
requirements; a new treatment of subscription accounts proposed under 
Regulations T and U; the proposal to separate bond from stock accounts 
under Regulation T to preclude abuse of the substitution privilege; 
and a new recommendation, which was not reflected in the proposals pub-
lished in October, that a purpose statement be required in the future 
in connection with loans under Regulation U and also under Regulation G. 
Also to be considered was the proposal, which did not appear to consti-
tute an issue, to move from four-day to five-day settlement. 
Governor Mitchell raised a question whether the various pro-
posals M r . Par tee had mentioned need be treated as a package or whether 
parts could be acted upon separately. Mr. Partee replied that some 
urgency had been indicated regarding the need for moving from four to 
five-day settlement; that could be acted upon separately if agreement 
could not be reached regarding the other proposals. 
It had been con-
sidered earlier that it would be desirable to combine that action with 
others, since it would be the only liberalizing change. 
However, 
several other liberalizations were now included. 
It seemed feasible 
also to act on the question of margin requirements on convertible bond 
transactions, but he did not believe it would be desirable to move at 
separate times on Regulation G, subscription accounts, and purpose 
statements. 
After further discussion of timing and procedure, Chairman 
Martin expressed the view that there were advantages to acting on the 

1/24/68 
-9-
various measures as a package; he suggested that a release date of 
February 1 would be a good target. 
There was general agreement. 
Mr. Keir then commented on the proposal to subject convertible 
bond transactions to margin requirements. After careful study of the 
many comments received, he said, the staff still believed it would be 
preferable to apply to such transactions a 70 per cent margin, the 
same as applied to stock transactions. 
However, the strength of the 
comments received suggested that this proposal represented a drastic 
change from past practice. 
Therefore, if the Board thought a more 
moderate change would be desirable, the staff suggested an across-the-
board margin for all convertibles of perhaps 50 or 60 per cent, rather 
than a formula (one of the alternatives that had been considered) that 
would make allowance for the equity call in convertible bond instru-
ments. 
Regardless of where the margin was placed, the staff recom-
mended an exemption for security dealers who made regular secondary 
markets in convertibles, the exemption to be limited to firms that 
filed registration statements with agreements that they would make 
markets. 
They would be required also to make regular reports of trans-
actions and positions in individual convertible issues, with the under-
standing that if over a period of time these reports did not reflect 
the function of market making, the exemption would be withdrawn. 
The 
Principal arguments in opposition to the proposal to subject convert-
ible bond transactions to margin requirements were that it would 

1/24/68 
-In-
discriminate against issues on which the stock was accorded a rela-
tively low value, and that it was likely to erode the relative 
attractiveness of the convertible instrument as a means of corporate 
financing. 
In further comments M r . Keir discussed the rationale of the 
formula approach that had been suggested as an alternative to the 
imposition of a flat 70 per cent margin on convertible bond transac-
tions, and the problems the staff believed would be presented by such 
an alternative. 
In essence, the objections to the formula approach 
were that it would provide a significant loophole in margin regulation 
and that its administrative complexities would involve a burden on 
firms already suffering from an excess of paper work. Although ques-
tion could be raised whether somewhat similar problems might not be 
encountered through the imposition of a flat margin requirement of 
50 or 60 per cent, the staff believed that that approach was prefer-
able and that the magnitude of the problems would be smaller. 
Mr. Keir next commented on the question whether a flat margin 
requirement on convertible bond transactions would risk any serious 
erosion of the general attractiveness of such financing. 
He described 
certain aspects of the behavior of the convertible bond market since 
October 20, 1967, when the Board's proposals were published for comment, 
that suggested that active margin buying on highly leveraged credit was 
n°t essential to the effective distribution of a large volume of con-
V ertlble bonds. 

1/24/68 
-11-
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the staff analyses 
did not appear to have reached firm conclusions regarding the funda-
mental desirability of convertible bonds, although there had been a 
number of inferences as to their desirability. 
He assumed that the 
major benefit of convertibles was that medium-sized corporations could 
issue them advantageously. 
From the point of view of marketability, 
it seemed to him that there might be merit in according convertibles a 
differential treatment. 
If they were in fact a desirable market instru 
ment and an aid to corporate financing, it would appear that the market 
for them could be assisted by giving them the same privileges as sub-
scription accounts. 
Under such an arrangement, convertible issues 
would be given preferential treatment for the first year, after which 
they would be treated the same as stock. 
Mr. Keir responded that such an arrangement obviously would 
bring more credit and demand into the convertible market. 
The staff 
had originally included such a proposal in its drafting but had elimi-
nated it because of objections by the Securities and Exchange Commis-
si°n. The Commission feared that the arrangement would lead to com-
plications with underwriters, who under Commission regulations were 
n°t allowed to make subscription accounts directly with their customers 
a Prohibition that might be jeopardized if preferential treatment were 
accorded convertible issues. 
The Commission felt that the plan also 
might facilitate speculation in the new issues market. 

1/24/68 
-12-
In response to a question from Governor Mitchell as to whether 
it would be appropriate to grant any greater privileges to new issues 
than to seasoned issues, Mr. Keir observed that new issues were more 
actively traded; after the underwriting period market activity in a 
given issue usually subsided. 
Mr. Partee observed that the proposed regulation would extend 
the subscription account privilege to rights issues but not to public 
issues. 
He personally had found several objections to extending it to 
Public issues. First, at least provisionally the SEC staff had been 
opposed to such an action because it would put the Commission under 
great pressure to change its ruling, and there might be questions 
whether underwriters would continue performing that function if they 
had to refer their margin customers to banks. 
Second, if the margin 
required for subscription accounts was only 25 per cent, and if such 
a margin were applied to transactions in public issues, speculation 
might be encouraged, with a resultant problem of forced margin calls. 
Third, he had always understood that the Board had given preferential 
treatment to subscription accounts in order not to deprive a stock-
holder of an opportunity to maintain his proportionate share of the 
company, and that philosophical principle would be lost, he believed, 
if the subscription account privilege were extended to public issues, 
finally, it seemed to him that if the subscription account privilege 
were granted to public convertible bond issues, there was no reason 

1/24/68 
-13-
why it should not be granted also to new issues of stock that did not 
have preemptive rights. 
Overall, his feeling was that if the Board 
wished to consider greater extension of the subscription account priv-
ilege, the staff should expl ore the matter further with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that Mr. Partee's points 
regarding subscription accounts were well taken. Also, he found the 
staff's arguments against the formula approach persuasive. 
However, 
it seemed to him that there might be an advantage in authorizing a 
loan value on convertible bond issues of 70 per cent of the par or 
market value, whichever was lower, or 30 per cent of market value if 
it went above par. He would advocate such a provision on two grounds--
first, he had a great deal of sympathy for the complaints that had been 
received that it would be unfair to disregard the bond value in setting 
the margin; second, he believed convertible bonds were clearly a desir-
able instrument of corporate finance. 
They provided a more efficient 
method of selling equities, because by selling a call on its stock a 
corporation could at the same time gain the tax advantages accorded 
convertible bonds by the Internal Revenue Service. 
He believed that 
a s a policy matter the Board ought to facilitate the operation of this 
market. 
It was his impression that an arrangement such as he had out-
lined would not be more difficult to administer than the 50 per cent 
loan value the staff had suggested. Moreover, it seemed to him that 

250 
1/24/68 
-14-
since it appeared that quite a few market makers were interested in 
an issue when it was about par, if the loan value were set at 70 per 
cent some of them would not find it worth while to register as market 
makers and therefore the list of registrants for exemption would be 
held down. 
Miss Hart commented that the proposal to remove margin require-
ments from loans on non-convertible bonds was based on an indication 
that there was no reason to expect any substantial speculation in them. 
The same was not true, however, with respect to convertible bonds. 
Mr. Partee expressed the view that the arrangement suggested 
by Governor Maisel would allow such a liberal use of credit for trans-
actions in convertible issues that the purpose of sealing the existing 
loophole in margin regulations would not be accomplished. 
Complica-
tions would probably be encountered also because many issues sold 
below par not because they were recently floated but because they 
carried a low interest rate. Also, he believed such a provision would 
offer 
a strong inducement for a speculator to move out of an issue as 
it moved up in price in order to take his profit and move into another 
issue, with a consequent churning of activity that would neither be 
beneficial to the market nor functional in any way. 
There was also 
a n implication that there would tend to be at around par not a smaller 
Premium over conversion value for the issue price but a larger premium, 
because the margin value that had the greatest importance to a specu-
lator was around 100. 
It would seem that under these circumstances 

Aw 
1/24/68 
-15-
permanent buyers of convertibles would be less interested in them when 
their price was around par. 
In further comments Mr. Partee said his own view was that 
margin regulation should allow advantages to convertible bond issues 
not only because they were a useful instrument and facilitated equity 
financing, which was difficult to obtain at present, but also because 
they tended to equalize the position of the trader looking at his 
margins. 
He was in favor of the suggestion of a 50 per cent margin 
for convertibles rather than 70 per cent. 
Mr. Keir said his thinking fell more on the other side of the 
question; he believed that credit was not so essential to the continued 
flotation of a rather substantial volume of convertible securities as 
critics implied it was. 
Governor Brimmer stated that Mr. Partee's remarks with respect 
to the views of the Securities and Exchange Commission seemed to him 
persuasive. 
He was troubled by the implication that if a firm was 
relatively small it ought to have the use of credit to any extent 
desired in order to float its securities. 
In his view, that attitude 
was in conflict with the Board's responsibility to moderate the use of 
credit. 
He did not believe convertible issues should be favored as a 
means of floating equities to such an extent that the Board would in 
effect abrogate its responsibility. 
He would not be in favor of giving 
convertibles the same privileges as subscription accounts, but he did 

1/24/68 
-16-
agree with the suggestion of a 50 per cent margin rather than 70 per 
cent. 
Governor Sherrill said he shared the staff's view regarding 
the undesirable complexity of the formula approach. 
However, since 
he believed convertible issues should be given some encouragement, he 
would accept a 50 per cent margin as a starting point. 
Governor Robertson said he shared that view. 
It might be that 
a 50 per cent margin would be found too restrictive, but he would be 
in favor of prescribing it now. 
If there were repercussions, it could 
be changed. 
Chairman Martin expressed himself in favor of a 50 per cent 
margin rather than a formula. 
Since convertible issues afforded small 
firms an advantage that larger ones did not need, some favor might be 
accorded the market for such instruments, but he did not think it 
would be advisable to go too far in that direction. 
The discussion then turned to the question of providing an 
exemption for market makers. As far as the staff could observe, there 
were relatively few who performed that function generally--perhaps 8 
to 12--but there might be a number of additional ones who made markets 
for individual issues. M r . Partee pointed out that it was proposed 
initially to accept on faith the assertion of a dealer in convertible 
securities that he would make a market in them. There was at present 
no objective test available, but as time went on evidence would be 

2
m 
1/24/68 
-17-
available from the reports that would be required. 
He saw no alterna-
tive to accepting a statement of intent at the present time, but the 
New York Reserve Bank was concerned about the lack of an administra-
tive guideline. 
Mr. Sheehy commented on the difficulty of identifying market 
makers, bringing out that determination of the status of market makers 
and providing an exemption for them might have implications for the 
future in regard to other types of market-making activities. 
His view 
was that no exemption should be provided at least until more definite 
identification was possible. 
However, that course might not be feasi-
ble since, as Mr. Partee had mentioned, the Board's public indication 
that it would consider providing an exemption for market makers might 
have carried some degree of commitment. 
Mr. Plotkin commented that he strongly supported Mr. Sheehy's 
preference for deferring the question of granting an exemption. 
He 
observed that any implication of commitment on the part of the Board 
might be regarded as negated if the Board adopted a 50 per cent margin 
for convertibles, because willingness to consider an exemption was 
expressed at a time when a 70 per cent margin was being proposed. 
He 
questioned whether there was need for an exemption at the lower margin. 
A1 so, the problem of deciding upon the terms of the exemption would 
involve a significant burden. 

243 
1/24/68 
-18-
Governor Mitchell remarked that the proposal to provide an 
exemption for market makers clearly assumed that theirs was a bene-
ficial use of credit. 
He suggested that, since there would be an 
interval of several weeks before margin requirements would be applied 
to convertible bond transactions, the Board let it be known that any-
one who wanted to qualify for the exemption should begin immediately 
to report his daily transactions. 
Thus, at the time the new require-
ments came into operation, sufficient data should have been collected 
on which to base a judgment whether or not a particular dealer should 
be granted an exemption. 
He believed the requirements for qualifica-
tion should be stringent. 
Governor Brimmer also suggested that the question of granting 
exemptions be deferred, but that in the meantime the reporting proce-
dure be instituted in order to accumulate information upon which to 
base a decision regarding how much of an exemption, if any, should be 
granted and who should get it. 
It seemed to him that even if the 
Board should decide not to grant an exemption, it would have fulfilled 
its commitment to consider the question. 
Additional discussion included comments to the effect that 
since the data to be reported were confidential there might be reluc-
tance to report them unless there appeared to be a good likelihood of 
obtaining an exemption as a market maker. 
There was general agreement 
that it would be advisable to initiate the reporting procedures as 
soon as possible. 

')io 
5. Aw 
1/24/68 
-19-
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
2:15 p.m. with Chairman Martin and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill present and the following staff members 
in attendance: 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Assistant Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Examinations 
Mrs. Semia of the Office of the Secretary 
Miss Hart and Messrs. Plotkin, Porter, and Shuter of 
the Legal Division 
Mr. Ettin of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Maguire of the Division of Examinations 
Mr. Sheehy of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Regulations T, U, and G. 
There was further discussion of the 
Point under consideration at the end of the morning session, namely, 
the question of providing an exemption from margin requirements on 
convertible bond issues for those who made a market in such securi-
ties. Comments were made on types of information that might be used 
in establishing criteria. 
Governor Brimmer stated the consensus 
reached during this and the earlier discussion that at present the 
Board accepted the prospect of providing an exemption for market 

243 
1/24/68 
-20-
makers, according to a definition to be developed, but that the exemp-
tion would apply only to dealers who applied and were found to qualify 
for it. 
It was understood that the staff would draft a reporting form 
and other material to assist the Board in determining qualifications 
for a market-maker exemption. 
Miss Hart then asked the Board's guidance on the staff's pro-
posal that it be required that transactions in convertible bonds be 
kept in separate accounts from other margin transactions, because of 
the complex technical problems that would be encountered if two kinds 
of margin transactions were mingled. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that if a dealer wanted to 
avail himself of the advantage of a lower margin requirement on con-
vertible issues, he should maintain separate accounts for them. 
Mr. Partee commented that the question of separate accounts 
for convertible bond transactions had some bearing on the question of 
the retention requirement (that is, where margin had fallen below 
requirement, the percentage of the proceeds of a sale of securities 
that would have to be retained to improve the status of the loan). 
The staff had proposed a retention requirement of 70 per cent for 
transactions in convertibles with the expectation that they would be 
in the same account with other margin transactions and the same reten-
tion requirements should apply to the entire account. 
However, if 

1/24/68 
-21-
convertibles were carried in a separate account, the Board might wish 
to consider whether a lower retention requirement, perhaps 50 per cent, 
should be set for them. 
Governor Robertson suggested that the staff give further 
thought to that question and develop recommendations to the Board for 
a retention requirement for convertibles that would be in harmony with 
the 50 per cent margin requirement. 
The discussion then turned to the draft of proposed new 
Regulation G, which would extend margin requirements to lenders hitherto 
unregulated. Miss Hart reviewed the circumstances that had pointed to 
the need for such a regulation to increase the over-all effectiveness 
of margin requirements. 
She emphasized that since Regulation G would 
reach into a new area, there were many uncertainties regarding the 
number and identity of lenders who would be affected. 
It should be 
expected that problems would be encountered that would disclose the 
need for amendments. 
Comments on the published proposal to extend 
margin requirements to unregulated lenders had led to a recommendation 
by the staff that was now presented to the Board for the first time, 
namely, that a purpose statement be required not only of such lenders 
but also of banks under Regulation U. 
There had been a considerable 
volume of comments to the effect that it would be inequitable to 
e*tend margin requirements to unregulated lenders unless loans by 
banks were more carefully policed; there was a fairly strong public 

2/1 AiJ 
1/24/68 
-22-
impression that many so called non-purpose loans by banks were really 
for the purpose of purchasing or carrying registered stocks. 
Also, 
whereas the October proposals had contemplated that credit on all 
registered securities would be subject to Regulation G, in the light 
of comments received the draft regulation as now presented would apply 
only to credit on registered equity securities. 
Miss Hart then presented a number of points at issue in the 
proposed regulation for the Board's decision. 
The first of such ques-
tions related to the timing of applicability, in particular, whether 
or not credit extended between the publication of the proposal on 
October 20, 1967, and the date the regulation was adopted would be 
subject to the regulation's requirements. 
After discussion there was unanimous agreement with the staff's 
recommendation that credit extended before the date of adoption of the 
regulation should be exempt and credit extended thereafter be covered. 
The next problem, Miss Hart continued, was more complex. 
In 
order to make a regulation of this type workable, the staff believed 
that a lender should not be permitted to have both purpose and non-
purpose loans outstanding to the same borrower at the same time. 
In the ensuing discussion the staff agreed that the proposed 
restriction would involve problems, such as in the case of credit 
unions. 
However, it was felt that in the absence of such a restric-
tion the promulgation of Regulation G would be a meaningless gesture. 

1/24/68 
-23-
If a purpose loan, requiring 70 per cent margin, was made, and then a 
non-purpose loan was made to the same borrower, the collateral for the 
latter might be overvalued in order to circumvent the margin require-
ment applicable to the purpose loan. 
Governor Maisel said he had some feeling that, since the new 
regulation would apply to a great number of lenders who might be 
regarded in a sense as being subject to it only by accident, it would 
be advisable to make the initial requirements fairly liberal. 
However, after further comments by members of the staff regard-
ing the problems that would be encountered in enforcement if the regu-
lation did not include a restriction against purpose and non-purpose 
loans being outstanding at any one time to a particular borrower, 
there was general acceptance by members of the Board of the staff 
recommendation. 
Another point to be decided, Miss Hart continued, related to 
registration. 
She described various approaches that had been consid-
ered by the staff prior to the one now recommended. 
For reasons that 
she described, the staff believed the requirement of registration 
should be based on volume of loans on collateral that included regis-
tered equity securities. More specifically, the staff recommended 
that registration be required of any lender who made an aggregate of 
$25,000 of loans on registered equity securities in any one calendar 
quarter or had outstanding a total of $50,000 of such loans at any 
°
n e time. 

1/24/68 
-24-
During the general discussion that ensued, Governor Robertson 
suggested that a higher volume guide be specified, such as $100,000 
of loans on registered equity securities outstanding or $50,000 
extended in any quarter, and Governor Mitchell also expressed the 
view that the volume should be set higher than the staff had suggested. 
Governor Brimmer expressed preference for an initial registration 
requirement that would provide a census of regulatory coverage; sub-
sequently, exemptions could be extended to lenders not considered of 
importance for the effectiveness of the regulation. 
If the criteria 
recommended by the staff would meet the objective of providing a 
census, he would accept them, but he did not like the suggestion of 
a $100,000 volume guide. 
Mr. Maguire commented that a guideline of $100,000 outstanding 
had been considered by the staff but abandoned because it was feared 
that hard-core lenders would find it profitable to set up multiple 
companies, each of which could have $99,000 of loans outstanding, and 
thus avoid registration requirements. 
At the conclusion of the discussion of the registration ques-
tion it was agreed, Governor Brimmer's reservations being noted, that 
registration would be required of any lender whose loans on registered 
equity securities amounted to $50,000 in any one quarter or to $100,000 
outstanding at any one time. 

9 1 
1/24/68 
-25-
Miss Hart then commented that a number of corporations had 
raised objections to the application of the proposed Regulation G to 
stock option and purchase plans. After considerable discussion, the 
staff had concluded that credit used to finance purchases under such 
plans would not tend to be excessive or to create destabilizing 
effects, if the plans could be limited in such a way as to encourage 
repayment of the credits from the employee's or officer's own resources, 
and it was thus less likely that the stock would be sold in the market. 
She then described the provisions in the proposed regulation that the 
staff had devised to meet those objectives. 
Discussion indicated general agreement with the provisions 
Miss 
Hart had outlined. 
The staff then presented a series of additional points regard-
ing the proposed actions, the Board accepting the staff recommendation 
in each case. 
In regard to questions raised regarding present provi-
sions allowing one-day substitution of collateral in undermargined 
accounts, the view was expressed that no change should be made at the 
Present time but that the over-all question should be studied. 
Among the materials that had been distributed were drafts of 
statements by a borrower and by a bank regarding the purpose of loans 
secured by stock. 
The tenor of discussion indicated no substantial 
disagreement with the draft of statement proposed to be required of 
the borrower, but a consensus developed in favor of abbreviating the 

1/24/68 
-26-
statement to be supplied by the bank. 
It was deemed desirable to 
avoid making the requirement more onerous than appeared necessary; if 
experience indicated a need for more comprehensive information, the 
scope of the statement could be broadened. 
It was agreed to send to the Federal Reserve Banks for comment 
the drafts of the two statements, with the bank statement revised accord-
ing to the views expressed by members of the Board, after which the 
Board would give further consideration to the form of the statements. 
Other comments related to a letter proposed to be sent to 
parties who had requested an opportunity to present their views to the 
Board in person. 
On November 20, 1967, the Board had decided not to 
accede to such requests. 
After suggestions were made regarding the appropriate tone of 
such a letter and the time at which it should be sent, it was under-
stood that Governor Brimmer would work with the staff with respect to 
the content of the letter and the procedures for sending it. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
staff would work further on the proposed amendments to Regulations T 
a n d U and on the new Regulation G to refine the details thereof in the 
light of the views that had been expressed. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland 
a n d Kenyon. 
Staff appointment. 
The Board approved the appointment of 
Charles C. Walcutt, currently Assistant Chief Federal Reserve Examiner 

250 
1/24/68 
-27-
in the Division of Examinations, as Assistant Director of the Division 
of Examinations effective February 1, 1968, with salary at the rate 
of $22,000 per annum. 
Foreign travel. 
The Board authorized travel by J. Charles 
Partee, Associate Director of the Division of Research and Statistics, 
and Rodney H. Mills, Jr., Economist in the Division of International 
Finance, to Basle, Switzerland, to attend a meeting of central bank 
economists being held at the Bank for International Settlements on 
March 7-9, 1968. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
A letter was sent 
today to First National City Bank, New 
York, New York, acknowledging receipt 
of notice of its intent to establish 
an additional branch in Singapore, to 
be located in the Toa Payoh Section. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Bank Operations dated January 17, 
1968, recommending the establishment of an additional secretarial posi-
tion in that Division. 
; _ J 
:••} [•• • » i 
U M . at 
i • 
• 
... . 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
£g_j-ary increase 
M . Callie Wickline, Nurse, Division of Personnel Administration, 
from $9,434 to $9,884 per annum, effective January 15, 1968. 

258 
1/24/68 
Transfers 
-28-
Normand R. V. Bernard, from the position of Economist in the Divi-
sion of Research and Statistics to the position of Special Assistant in 
the Office of the Secretary, with an increase in basic annual salary 
from $17,953 to $18,404, effective upon assuming his new duties. 
Charles C. Baker, Jr., from the position of Economist in the Divi-
sion of International Finance to the position of Economist in the Divi-
sion of Research and Statistics, with an increase in basic annual salary 
from $15,307 to $16,369, effective upon assuming his new duties. 
• 
Governor Robertson today noted on 
behalf of the Board a memorandum 
advising that James C. Smith, Assis-
tant Director, Division of Examina-
tions, had filed application for 
retirement, effective February 1, 
1968. 
On January 23 and 24, 1968, actions 
were taken on behalf of the Board 
under delegated authority as indi-
cated by the following letters, 
copies of which are attached under 
the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
0£L_January 23, 1968 
j^Lthe Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
aPproving the designation of J. L. Cook, John B. 
Burtchaell, Clinton Gene Kelley, and Thomas Bruce 
Russell as special assistant examiners. 
i^_the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch in Spring-
field Township, Delaware County. 
Item No, 

1/24/68 
-29-
On January 24, 1968 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Fran- 
8 
cisco approving the appointment of Bryan G. Newman, 
Jr., as assistant examiner. 
By the Director of the Division of Personnel 
Administration 
• 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco approving the appointment of Donald E. 
Coile as Federal Reserve Agent's Representative 
at the Los Angeles Branch. 
% i, O ' 4 * \ •
s
 
i * c t 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to Port Byron State Bank, Port Byron, 
Illinois, approving an investment in bank 
premises. 
9 
10 

253 
Item No. 1 
1/24/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEII 
". ••• 
• .... - 
" 
: 
Washington, D . C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
NEW YORIC CORPORATION, 
S uffern. New York, 
approval of acquisition of 30 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
liberty National Bank and Trust Company, 
Buffalo , New York. 
Order on Petitions for Reconsideration 
This matter comes before the Board of Governors on petitions of 
New York Corporation, Suffern, New York, and Liberty National Bank and 
T r u s t Company, Buffalo, New York, requesting that the Board reconsider its 
C m 
d e * dated May 4, 1957, whereby the Board denied the application of BT 
York Corporation, filed pursuant to section 3(a) of the Bank Holding 
C o i QPany Act of 1956, for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent 
0 t ®or e of the voting shares of Liberty National Bank and Trust Company. 
A review of the material submitted in support of the petitions 
t e v e a l s that it includes certain evidence and factual assertions not earlier 
P t esented in support of the application. Although not wholly satisfied 
t h a t good cause has been shown for the failure to include such evidence in 
t h e aPplication, the Board (Governor Sherrill absent and not voting) finds 

- i* 
it appropriate that reconsideration be granted, in order that the record 
may be supplemented thereby and a decision rendered on the basis of all 
evidence which the Applicant views as supporting its application. 
The Board has reviewed the entire record in this matter, includin 
its Order of May 4, 1967, its accompanying Statement of the same date, and 
the evidence, factual assertions, and arguments submitted in support of 
the petitions for reconsideration. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, upon reconsideration and upon the entire 
r ecord now before the Board, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that the Board's Order of Hay 4, 1967, be affirmed, 
a n d that said application be and hereby is denied. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 25th day of January, 1960. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Votinj for this action: 
Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, and Brimmer. 
Not voting: 
Governor Maisel. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary, 

Item No. 2 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
1/24/68 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEII 
RECONSIDERATION OF 
APPLICATION BY BT NEW YORK CORPORATION FOR APPROVAL 
OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
LIBERTY NATIONAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
In an order dated May 4, 1967 (50 Federal Reserve Bulletin 769), 
1/ 
Board denied the application of BT New York Corporation ("Applicant") 
prior approval, pursuant to section 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t » of the acquisition of GO per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Liberty National Bank and Trust Company, Buffalo, New York ("Liberty 
National' 
'). The Board's decision was based on its finding that the 
Probable anticompetitive effects of the proposed acquisition would be sub-
stantial and would not be clearly outweighed by any probable effect of the 
t r a n s a c t i o n in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be 
^rved. 
On June 2, 1967, Applicant and Liberty National (hereinafter 
sometimes jointly referred to as "Petitioners") both formally requested 
t t l a t the Board reconsider its decision. 
On the same date, they filed 
S cParate 
appeals from that decision in the United States Court of Appeals 
i n the District of Columbia. The Court proceedinss have been suspended 
the Board's decision on the requests for reconsideration. 
ineffective September 15, 1967, Applicant's name was changed to Bankers 
U s t New York Corporation. 

-Si. 
1. 
Reconsideration 
Rule 262.2(f)(6) of the Board's Rules of Procedure which were 
. 
2/ 
effect at the time of the filing of the requests, 
provides that: 
"After action by the Board on an application, the 
Board will not ^rant any request for reconsideration of 
its action, unless the request presents relevant facts 
that, for good cause shown, were not previously presented 
to the Board, or unless it otherwise appears to the Board 
that reconsideration would be appropriate." 
Both Petitioners have submitted ejitensive material in support 
their requests for reconsideration. 
Part of these presentations con-
of 
new factual material not presently of record, which the Petitioners 
as providing additional support for assertions made in the application 
Qf a s contradicting findings or conclusions arrived at by the Board in its 
d Q cision. 
Although Petitioners have not fully justified their failure to 
e a rlier present such material for consideration, the Board has determined 
th 
it is appropriate and in the interest of justice to grant the requests 
reconsideration in this matter, in order that Petitioners might be 
S sured of a decision on the application which comprehends all facts believed 
b y them to be relevant. 
2, The Merits of the Application 
Statutory considerations. - As in the case of original 
n sideration of an application, the Board's decision on reconsideration 
s°verned by the provisions of section 3(c) of the Act, which provides 
-
te C e
 
s a m e provision is contained in Rule 262.3(f)(6) of the Board's 
ntly revised Rules. 

that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the transaction are 
clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the 
transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be 
served, 
in each case, the Board is required to take into consideration 
t^e financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
folding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant's proposal 
V;°uld affiliate Liberty National, the third largest commercial ban!; in 
ft 
3/ 
ttu£falo 
($341 million deposits) 
with Applicant's four present subsidiary 
Bankers Trust Company ($4.5 billion deposits; the sixth largest 
commercial bank in New York City), First Trust Company of Albany ($128 million 
d GPosits) , First State Bank of Spring Valley ($44 million deposits), and 
Bank and Trust Company, Poughlceepsie ($15 million deposits). 
^ As of June 30, 1966. "All banking data are as of this date, unless other-
^
i s e noted. There is no contention by Petitioners that any change in circum-
s tances since the filing of the application requires use of more current data. 
^ Now pending is a proposal to merge the last-named bank (now Fallkill 
g
a t i-onal Bank and Trust Company) with the $32 million State of New York National 
a n l :» Kingston, with the resulting bank to be a subsidiary of Applicant. 

-4-
258 
Liberty National's primary service area consists of Erie and 
Niagara Counties (hereinafter referred to as the
 : :Buffalo Metropolitan 
A r e a " ) , which lie in New York's Ninth Banking District. The City of 
Buffalo is the second largest in the State and the Buffalo Metropolitan 
A r e a ranks second among the seven metropolitan areas in the State in popu-
lation and employment, being nearly twice as populous as the next ranking 
*
r ea. The area is the Nation's leading center for flour milling, an 
important producer of animal feed, and a significant manufacturing center. 
the recent past, the economy of the area has been static. 
Presently, 
however, there are signs of a major economic resurgence of the area. 
The 
c°ftpletion of the St. Lawrence Seaway and the recently completed deepening 
the Buffalo Harbor place Buffalo in a position to become a major commer-
cial center. Large expenditures have recently been made in the area in the 
kj 
National field and for scientific research facilities. Many of the area's 
t J l 0 s t important businesses have recently announced expansion and modernization 
E j e c t s . 
The Do^mtown Redevelopment Project in Buffalo is well into the 
°
nstruction phase. All of these are among the factors characterized by 
r t y National as "indicating that the Niagara Frontier is about to break 
Out of 
°
r its stagnation and experience a major economic explosion." 
It is 
IQ f-L . 
"is context of a presently significant and even more promising economic 
that the probable competitive effects of Applicant's proposal must 
examined. 
^
 
S upplementary Data and Haterials Submitted by Liberty National, page 5. 

Commercial banking in the Buffalo area is characterized by a 
V e r y high degree of concentration, with 95 per cent of the area's deposits 
concentrated in its three largest banks. Neither Applicant nor Liberty 
National deny the existence of this high degree of concentration, but they do 
obj 
Get to describing concentration in terms of the three largest banks (thus 
including Liberty national), preferring to concentrate on the 50 per cent 
held by Marine Midland Trust Company of Western Hew York ("Marine") and/or 
the 30 per ccnt combined shares of Marine and Manufacturers and Traders 
T rust Company ("11 & T") . 
Despite these protestations, however, it would appear that there 
a particular relevance to the market share held by the three largest 
^anks because of Applicant's claim that the acquisition will promote decon-
C entration through a redistribution of this market share among the three 
kanks. Since one of the principal claims of public benefit advanced for 
acquisition is that it will aid Liberty National in expanding its 
matl:et share at the expense of its two larger rivals, it is important to 
n°
to that Liberty National's present market share (15 per cent) is by no 
^ a n s of de minimus proportions. Moreover, the maximum effect which an 
e ^ a l l 2 a t l o n 
o f the competitive capabilities of the three leading banks 
c°
uld have on concentration is to redistribute equally among the three banks 
th 
G market share which they presently possess in combination. 
Such 
This"" fact, which would appear self-evident in any event, is conceded by 
c
 b e r t y National,which states: 
"No doubt it is true that granting the appli-
a *
t i o n u°uld not significantly change the overall concentration of banking 
: s in the 9th District whether the reference be made to the top four or 

260 
redistribution, however, would still leave each of them with a market 
share of 31.7 per cent, an amount in excess of that which the Supreme 
Court, in United States v . Philadelphia National Bank, 374 U.S. 321 (1963), 
found to be such "an undue percentage share of the relevant market" that 
a merger which produces a firm controlling such a share is inherently likely 
to lessen competition substantially and must be enjoined in the absence of 
evidence clearly indicating that the merger is not likely to have such anti-
competitive effects. 
Id at 363. Such a market, therefore, can hardly be 
s aid to be a competitive ideal, even if it be assumed, arguendo, that it is 
Preferable to the structure presently prevailing in Buffalo. 
It would seem, therefore, that the long range goal of a supervisory 
agency concerned with improving the competitive climate of the Buffalo mar-
ket-
e c must be to preserve the opportunity and incentive for the development 
other institutions, thereby reducing the aggregate market share of the 
three leaders. Only insofar as the aggregate share is reduced is it possible 
^ a t any redistribution of the aggregate will result in a market in which 
institution possesses what the Courts have regarded as an undue or 
d o niinant market share. 
Applicant's proposal is not to be condemned simply because it 
is 
n°t a cure-all for the competitive ills of Buffalo Banking. 
But its 
P
robable effect of inhibiting the development of other, more efficacious 
^
C ° n t i n u e d ) 
the top three. This concentration has remained approximately 
tie ,
s a m e for many years. VJhat would happen, however, is that within the 
^ opened area of competition, viz, that for national demand accounts, 
ie 
b
e substantial shifting of the competition away from the two 
°rs, simply because of the increased effectiveness of Liberty as a 
c 
P
etitor with a formidable range of new services to be offered to potential 
s tomers." 
Liberty National Application for Reconsideration, page 30. 

263 
-7-
remedies must be regarded as a substantially adverse long-range competitive 
effect. 
If a competitive market is to be attained, it seems obvious that 
new and substantial competition must be introduced into the Buffalo market. 
Ordinarily, the prospect of a substantial increase in the commercial activity 
°f the area, and the significance of the market to the economy of the State, 
V;ould be sufficient to assure its attractiveness to those institutions which 
v°uld benefit from their ability to serve the banking needs of the area. 
Militating against the prospect of new entry into the market, however, is 
t t l e size and dominance of Marine and, to a lesser extent, M & T and Liberty 
N a t i o n a l . 
Also, of course, there is a regulatory inhibition upon new entry 
driving from the prohibition of inter-district branching in New York. 
What 
^ i s means, simply, is that the legal and economic barriers to new entry are 
already high. That being the case, it must be of regulatory concern to 
Preserve whatever incentive may exist for entry on the part of those potential 
c°
mPetitors who possess both the legal and financial capacity to surmount 
^ barriers. 
That concern dictates that entry through acquisition of 
l^erty National be limited to those organizations whose entry would other-
V i s 
e 
precluded, and denied to organizations whose potential for greater 
in the Buffalo market is not dependent upon acquisition of 
Ubert-
CV National and whose entry by that means would, by virtue of their 
cquisition size, dominance, 
or activity, be likely to raise the entry 
l e r s for others still higher. The Board views the proposed transaction 
as 
U strating these objectives. 
First, Applicant's entry into the Buffalo 
e t through acquisition of Liberty National would necessarily eliminate 
l t as „ 
potential fourth competitor. And the significance of its potential 
is c l e 
a r , since only a holding company, among existing potential competitors, 

-8-
is capable of Overcoming the legal barrier to entry and BT New York, as the 
State's largest holding company, is clearly able to overcome the financial 
Carriers to entry. This therefore, is not simply a case where one of a 
S core of possible competitors is seeking entry through acquisition rather 
th 
y 
n a n de novo, 
but rather a case where the most able of a probably very 
limited number is doing so by means of an acquisition which would eliminate 
t h e only route of entry available to smaller organizations. More, it is 
so in an important market In which concentration is already so high 
3s t~ 
to require extraordinary care in preserving potential courses of decon-
C entration. 
"[I]f concentration is already great, the importance of . . . 
Reserving the possibility of eventual deconcentration is correspondingly 
8 r e a t ' " 
United States v . 
Philadelphia National Bank, supra, at 365, n. 42. 
Not only would consummation of the proposal eliminate Applicant 
Potential fourth competitor, but it would also have the effect of 
e d u c i n g the likelihood that any other competitor might attempt entry. 
For, 
5 e C o
h l S > 
w o u l d 
a p p e a r , would answer Applicant's contention (Request for 
the
 n ®
i d e r a t i o n > P
a C
e 11) that the Board's decision "would render illusory 
ing
 
a b o r a t e statutory mechanism for the approval of mergers and bank hold-
acquisitions because the theoretical possibility of acquiring or 
tin p i n g some other bank almost always exists." 
It also serves to dis-
lt*Voi <
 
t h l s 
c a s e 
f r o m 
t h e 
r e c e n t United States District Court decision 
^irii
 
8 
C r o c k e r ~
A n C l ° National Bank. 
In that case, the Court, while sus-
pote ntf
 
t
h
e 
v
a
l
i
d
i
t y
 
o f 
a merger attacked by the Justice Department on 
the r e 
competition grounds, noted that: 
"This is not a situation where 
Petit
 a t e 
0 n l y
 
f o u r (£1 Paso) or six (Penn-Olin) actual and potential com-
of m e°
r s*
 
I n 
8 u c h cases the court might properly concern itself with effect 
mote
 t 8 e r s 
i n stifling internal growth. 
In this case, however, there are 
Stat
 p e o P l e knocking at the door than can possibly be admitted." 
United 
v* Crocker-Anglo National Bank, 
Ff Supp. 
(October 30, 

<9 
-9-
5/ 
^ the size and dominance of Marine and II & T is a deterrent to new entry, 
the prospect of facing the competition of subsidiaries of both of New York 
State's two largest holding companies as well as M & T would be a much 
greater deterrent, 
(IJhile this deterrent arguably would exist to some extent 
e ven if Applicant's entry were <de novo or by means of a smaller acquisition, 
that event Buffalo would at least be assured of the additional competition 
Provided by such entry.) 
Viewed as a part of the now-doveloping pattern of holding company 
M a n s i o n in the State of New York, the present application has other serious 
P l i c a t i o n s . 
If an organization of Applicant's size could lawfully acquire 
a n institution of the size of Liberty National in the most highly concen-
trated major banking market in the State, it could by the same logic continue 
its 
expansion by acquisition of one of the largest institutions in every 
t a e r banking market, with the only inhibition on expansion being that it 
not acquire two major institutions in the same geographic market. 
The 
UXtt 
m a t e result of permitting such expansion by the few large holding 
S a n i e s presently in existence in the State would be that within a very 
short time every significant banking market in the State would be dominated 
by 
n e same few banking organizations. 
Xn a 1962 decision denying an 
to form a bank holding company which would have affiliated a 
^ 
lamentary"Data and Materials Submitted by Liberty National, page 2^;: 
a t 
York bank, particularly a smaller New York City bank, could not reach 
as°nable business judgment to enter a market so dominated by two banks 
in \
 c°
mplete branch facilities and services in all areas, particularly one 
'hich the statewide holding company is centered." 

Aw 
-10-
large New York City ban!; with six of the largest banks in various banking 
markets in upstate New York, the Board had occasion to express its concern 
' 
1 / 
°ver a single proposal which would tend toward that result. 
Obviously, 
however, statewide concentration can be spawned as surely by a series of 
naj or acquisitions - each asserted to add but a small increment to existing 
concentration, and each relying on prior approval of a similar proposal as 
Precedent - as it could be by approval of a single application incorporating 
the total expansion plans of an applicant. The Board's responsibilities 
under the Act are not fulfilled by action calling a halt to further acqui-
s*tions by market leaders only when concentration has reached the danger 
Point. The Board is required to arrest any significant trend in that 
direction. 
The proposal by Applicant, already in control of two banks 
^ i c h are among the leaders in their respective markets, to acquire the 
^ird largest bank in the Buffalo area must be viewed in the light of that 
r e sPonsibility, as well as in the context of its immediate effects in markets 
sently served by Applicant's subsidiaries and by Liberty National. 
Not only is the acquisition of leading banks in significant 
dicing markets by an organization of Applicant's size of concern because 
-ft-
i C s effect in expanding the size of such organization, but also because 
it-
i C s concurrent effect of eliminating an institution which could instead 
^ * ^ S l l c a t i o n of IIorgan~New York State Corporation, 40 Federal Reserve 
1 0tin 567 (1962). 
Sec also Application of First Bancorporation 
^ ^ U d a ^ Inc., 43 Federal Reserve Bulletin 970 (1962).' 

o n t r 
-11-
serve as a source of future competition for such organizations, either 
by remaining independent or by becoming a participant in affiliation 
with one or more other institutions. 
Much of the evidence submitted by 
Petitioners in support of their requests for reconsideration is directed 
toward this point, their contention being that Liberty National is not 
Presently, and cannot, without assistance of the scope which affiliation 
with Applicant would provide, become in the future a significant com-
petitive factor in the Buffalo m a r k e t . 
A fortiori, it is argued, the 
bank is in no position to extend itself beyond the limits of its present 
market by becoming the .lead bank or a significant participant in a new 
holding company which would offer competition to Applicant or other large 
banking organizations in other markets. 
With respect to Liberty National's present competitive ability, 
^ e Board remains unconvinced of the existence of any inherent inability 
o f this sizable institution to provide essential banking services within 
i t s present service area, and reasonably beyond. 
This is not to say that 
i t s past competitive efforts have met with unqualified success, that it 
Presently offers promise of outstripping the growth of Marine and M & T , 
°
r even that it has succeeded in obtaining what it claims to be its share 
0 f 
fcbe large account business. 
It is simply to say that Liberty National 
i s Presently capable of offering to customers in its market area, both 
lar 
and small, an alternative source of the essential banking services, 
in tu 
n e same manner and to the same extent as other banks of its size and 
smai l 
i e r in banking markets throughout the country. 
The presence of Marine 

-12-
and II & T in the Buffalo market m a y , it is true, result in Liberty National's 
competitive efforts being less fruitful than if it were not faced with the 
pattern of established customer relations which those institutions have 
developed. 
But that condition will persist only for so long as the public 
chooses the services of Marine and M & T rather than those offered by 
Liberty National and does not detract from Liberty National's existence 
as an alternative source of such services. 
As the Supreme Court stated in 
United States v . El Paso Natural Gas Co., 376 U.S. 651, 661 (1964): 
"Un-
successful bidders are no less competitors than the successful one. 
The 
Presence of two or more suppliers gives buyers a choice." 
The fact that Buffalo area "buyers" of banking services, of the 
types offered by Liberty, choose, more often than not, to exercise their 
choice in favor of Marine or M & T rather than Liberty National does not 
justify the elimination of Liberty National's present competitive status, 
Particularly in the absence of any indication that Liberty National's limited 
S uccess is likely to have undue effect on its continued viability and 
' 
i 
~ 
' 
' 
• 
* .. 
\ 
e ffectiveness. 
Liberty National has no more of a vested right to a constantly 
i ncreasing share of the Buffalo market than do Marine and M & T , and a con-
t u s i o n that it lacks competitive effectiveness cannot be premised solely on 
i t s inability to substantially increase its 15 per cent market share. 
Be-
tween year-end 1960 and year-end 1966, Liberty National's deposits increased 
f rom $X6i million to $376 million. 
Its growth efforts have met with con-
8 id
 1 
G r a b l e sympathy on the part of the supervisory authorities, who approved 
thG 
~ r 
merger into Liberty National of eight banks in the Ninth Banking District 
U t i n 8 the period 1961-1965 in the belief that such mergers would place the 

f&ti/ 
-13-
hank in a position to offer more effective competition to its larger 
competitors. On the basis of a very limited and inconclusive experience 
since that time, the Doard is ashed, in effect, to find that all such efforts 
have been in vain; that the large increase in deposits, in number of officcs, 
a n d in the lending limit of Liberty National resulting from those efforts 
have completely failed to make it competitive; that a commercial bank now 
a?proaching $600 million in deposits, with good management and a reasonable 
C a rnings record, is incapable of competing for anything but "small individual 
a ccounts and such occasional industrial or commercial accounts where friend-
10/ 
ship or convenience outweighs 
the demand for multiple services"; 
and 
that it therefore \;ould be in the public interest if the resources which 
liberty National accumulated with the announced intention of providing 
competition to a large holding company were placed at the disposal of an 
ev°n larger holding company. Nothing in the record before this Board compels 
S u c h conclusions and its entire supervisory experience informs it otherwise. 
In attempted refutation of the Board's finding that Liberty 
N a tional is presently an able competitor and particularly of that portion 
the Board's earlior Statement which pointed to Liberty National's 
0 p G n i n g of seven de novo offices since 1956 as indicative of its competitive 
e ^ o r t S | Petitioners direct the Board's attention to the fact that the bank, 
^
U ring the same period, was forced to close three unprofitable branches, 
the extent that Petitioners underscore this fact in order to indicate a 
competitiveness on the part of Liberty National, the Board rejects 
a conclusion. The closing of unsuccessful offices indicates only a 
^ 
Supplementary D a t f l 
a n d 
M a t e r l a i s submitted by Liberty National, page 19. 

-14-
realization of a lack of sufficient customer demand in those areas to justify 
their existence; it does not detract from the point which the Board sought 
to m a k e , namely, that where such a demand was seen to exist Liberty National 
has endeavored to satisfy it and has had the financial and management re-
sources to permit it to do so. 
To the extent that the fact of the closing 
°f these offices is pointed to for the purpose of denying any implication in 
the Board's Statement that Liberty National has reduced the competitive edge 
°f Marine and M & T in branch office strength, the implication denied is not 
°ne which the Board intended to be drawn in any case. 
The growth record of 
the two larger banks does not provide a yardstick against which to measure 
the competitive ability of Liberty National. 
In a large and expanding market 
which there are few competitors, it is entirely predictable that all banks 
V
l
U 
f l o u r i s h , and to the probable greatest advantage., in absolute terms, of 
t h e largest. 
But Liberty National's present size and recent performance 
C e r t a i n l y provide no cause for pessimism concerning its future. 
Over the 
U
s
t 
1 0 years, the bank's total deposits have increased by 138 per cent; the 
increase in its market share during that period was the greatest of any bank 
i n the Ninth Banking District. Tills increase i n its size and coneequent im-
provement in its competitive position obviously provides a foundation for 
f u r t h e r expansion, even if it does not provide a basis for forecasting the 
a r n o u n t
 
o
f 
f u t u r e growth likely to be a c c o m p l i s h e d . " ^ 
Further even if no 
^ b i l i
t i t l 0 n e r S c o n t e n d 
t h a t 
i n 
u s i n 8 past growth as an index of competitive 
m e r
 
y 
o r P
r o b a b l e future growth, the portion of past growth attributable to 
C o m
2 e r s must be discounted, because such growth is not attributable to the 
by P^titive ability of the bank and because the potential for further growth 
inr>
 
a t 
r o u t e 
i s restricted by the limited number of independent banks remain-
tiay
 
t h e 
N i n t h 
D i s t l * i c t . 
While there may be limits on the implications that 
&rov;th
 d r a v m 
f r o m 
t h e 
f a c t 
o f growth, the effect of Liberty National's total 
tiv e 
regardless of source, has been to substantially increase the competi-
Pre s
 a b i l i t y
 
o f the bank and therefore is highly relevant to the issue of its 
a s s e
6 ^
 
a b i l i t y
 
a n d 
f u t u r e potential. 
Further, even accepting Applicant's 
rtion that Marine's market share has increased by a greater amount than 

263 
-15-
increase in Liberty National's present market share occurs, the anticipated 
growth of the market which it serves offers promise of good growth for the 
bank, and, as a corollary to such growth, and the increased demand of the mar-
ket for banking services, an increase in its ability to provide services the 
Profitability of which it now regards as marginal or less. 
In the Board's 
v i e w , the anticipated needs of the expanding Buffalo market fail to provide 
support for Applicant's proposal. Rather, such anticipation suggests oppor-
tunity for natural growth of Liberty National, thus making consummation of the 
Proposal unnecessary for the accomplishment of most of the beneficial results 
foreseen by Petitioners. 
Further, the anticipated expansion of the market 
a rgues even more strongly against the present concentration of banking re-
sources, which Applicant's proposal would serve to perpetuate by making entry 
°f new competitors more difficult and less likely. 
Petitioners take issue with the Board's failure to follow the recom-
mendation to the Board by the Comptroller of the Currency and the views re-
flected in the New York Superintendent of Banks' recommendation to the New 
^ork State Banking Board, both of which were favorable to the proposal. 
Liber-
ty National also argues that some support for its position may be implied from 
the fact that the Department of Justice did not submit an adverse comment on 
t h e application to the Board. 
The Board believes the latter argument to be disposed of by a letter 
w h i c h the Board has received from the Department of Justice (copies of which 
V7ere sent by the Department to counsel for Applicant and Liberty National), 
ii/ (Continued) 
Liberty National's over the last 10 years, if growth by mer-
°
er is discounted (.5 per cent increase in market share for Marine, compared 
^ith a .1 per cent increase for Liberty National), the Board finds in those 
igures no justification for the proposed elimination of Liberty National as 
a t l independent competitor and as a potential source of increased competition 
0 t l an even broader geographic scale. 

-16-
which takes note 
of the argument which Liberty National has made and states 
that "no inferences as to the Department's views regarding the competitive 
effects of a holding company acquisition can be drawn from the fact that the 
department did not submit to the Board comments or recommendations prior to 
Board action . . . ." 
The Department's letter concludes: 
"Moreover, as the 
Board is aware, the Department shares the Board's concern with the possible 
effects of acquisitions of this kind on potential competition in banking mar-
kets." 
The letter thus confirms the Board's view that no inference favorable 
to the subject proposal is to be drawn from the fact that the Department of 
Justice did not submit, prior to Board action, a written statement of the 
Department's views. 
IJith regard to the opinions of the Comptroller of the Currency and 
the New York Superintendent, it is obviously appropriate for the Board to take 
such views into consideration in arriving at its decision on the merits of a 
holding company acquisition. 
Equally obvious, however, is the fact that such 
views are to be weighed as part of the entire record, leading to a Board deter 
^ination premised upon the exercise of its experienced judgment. 
In making 
this determination, the reasoning underlying the recommendations submitted is 
significant, particularly insofar as it encompasses those issues of particular 
concern to the Board. 
There is nothing in the analysis of either the Comptroller or the 
York Superintendent which alters in any way the conclusions expressed 
herein or in the Board's earlier Statement. 
The recommendation of the 
Comptroller discusses the issue of potential competition only in the con-
text of the inter-district branching prohibitions in New York State, 
Without reference to possible alternative avenues of expansion available. 

-17-
to Applicant and Liberty National under the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Thus, the Comptroller's analysis, not treating with the implications that 
approval of the application would have as a precedent for future holding 
company expansion in the State, postures a recommendation which does not 
take into account those aspects of Applicant's proposal which are of 
greatest concern to the Board. 
With respect to the recommendation of the New York Superintendent, 
there is a broad area of agreement with respect to the relevant issues 
involved and even as to the resolution of those issues. The Board's con-
tusions differ from those reflected in the recommendation of the New York 
Superintendent to the State Banking Board, essentially because of a difference 
i n judgment as to the relative weight to be assigned to considerations which 
a r e , on the one hand, favorable to the application and those which are, on 
t-he other hand, adverse to it. This is best illustrated by quoting at 
some length from the recommendation made by the New York Superintendent: 
"In the consideration of this application, there 
appear to be two significantly adverse factors: 
(i) 
Liberty's size relative to the other independent banks 
upstate, and (ii) BT's present ownership of First Trust 
Company of Albany. 
"With respect to the first of these adverse factors, 
Liberty clearly has the potential to become either the 
lead bank in a regional bank holding company, as Security 
Trust Company of Rochester has become, or a participant 
with other banks among the thirteen in an upstate bank 
holding company, as the banks in Lincoln First Group 
have done. 
"With respect to the second of these adverse factors, 
BT's acquisition of a second major upstate bank would 
eliminate the possibility that Liberty in the future, 

-50-
either as an independent bank in an enlarged Banking 
District or as an affiliate in another holding company, 
become an active competitor of the four BT banks, parti-
cularly First Trust Company of Albany and Bankers Trust 
Company. 
Furthermore, the acquisition of a second major 
upstate bank by any large New York City bank in a holding 
company affiliation brings just so much closer the un-
healthy concentration of commercial bank assets and 
offices which the dispersion policy is designed to avoid, 
particularly in view of the limited number of major un-
affiliated banks remaining in the upstate area," 
The Board is in agreement with the conclusions thus expressed 
b y the Superintendent and with the expressed judgment that the factors 
discussed are "significantly adverse" to the application. 
Nor is there 
any disagreement with the facts stated in the succeeding paragraph of the 
Superintendent's recommendation: 
"Liberty, however, is in a unique position upstate. 
It is the only bank over $300 million in asset size which 
ranks a poor third to two much larger competitors, one of 
which is the largest Marine Midland bank upstate and one 
of which is the largest unaffiliated bank upstate. 
The 
Ninth Banking District, in which Liberty is headquartered, 
is the most heavily populated and most heavily industrialized 
of all the upstate Banking Districts, yet it has only two 
major banks offering medium to large business concerns a full 
range of specialized banking services. 
It is, moreover, the 
only Banking District upstate where the two leading banking 
systems control so large a percentage of the District's 
commercial bank assets and offices: 
70.27. and 55.7%, re-
spectively." 
It is with respect to the implications to be drawn from the 
facts recited in the last-quoted portion of the Superintendent's recom-
mendation, and in the weighing of any such implications favorable to the 
aPplication against the significantly adverse factors found, that the 
board's judgment departs from the views expressed by the Superintendent. 
I t : is the Superintendent's view, as it is the Petitioners, that the present 

-19-
concentration of banking resources in the two largest Buffalo banks 
provides justification for permitting the significantly adverse effects 
found likely to result from Applicant's proposal, in order to immediately 
provide locally "a third, meaningful bank alternative for the medium to 
large commercial and industrial concerns in the Ninth Banking District," 
While recognizing that that view is not completely without merit, 
it is the Board's judgment that the cause of competition in the Buffalo mar-
ket is better served by preserving the possibility that the market will, by 
virtue of its increasing attractiveness to potential entrants, evolve into 
a market in which no bank occupies a dominant position, than it would be by 
transforming Liberty National,which already is a large institution, into an 
arm of one of the nation's largest banking organizations, whose presence will 
operate to discourage such entry. Further, even aside from its disagreement 
ttith the proposition that Applicant's proposal postures a competitive struc-
ture which would be significantly more desirable than that presently existing 
in Buffalo, the Board is of the view that the claimed benefits to competition 
from Applicant's proposal fall far short of offsetting the significantly 
adverse factors which the Board, in common with the New York Superintendent, 
finds inherent in Applicant
1s proposal. 
For the reasons stated herein, the Board, on reconsideration and 
the entire record now before it, reaffirms its earlier conclusion that 
the effect of Applicant's proposal, if consummated, may be to substantially 
lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly in the Buffalo area, the 
Ninth Banking District of the State of New York, and other upstate areas. 

-20-
Convenience and needs of the area involved. - On reconsideration 
I 
and on the entire record now before it, the Board reaffirms the conclusions 
°f its earlier Statement regarding this factor. The record as now con-
stituted does not present any considerations bearing on the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served of such significance as to clearly 
°utweigh, in the Board's judgment, the substantial anticompetitive effects 
Ulcely to result from Liberty National's acquisition by Applicant. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - On reconsideration 
and on the entire record now before it, the Board reaffirms its conclusions 
l'ith respect to this factor, as reflected in its earlier Statement. 
Con-
siderations bearing on this factor, while consistent with approval of the 
application, provide little or no affirmative support therefor. 
Conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts in the record 
as supplemented, and in the light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) 
the Act, the Board, on reconsideration, reaffirms its judgment that 
Applicant's proposal may have the effect of substantially lessening compe-
tition or tending to create a monopoly, and that the probable anticompetitive 
ef£ects of the transaction are not clearly outweighed in the public interest 
» 
ky any probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
^ e d s of the community to be served. Accordingly, the Board affirms its 
^ o m e n t originally expressed that the application should be denied. 
January 25. 1963. 

fO 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
WASHINGTON 
OF THE 
OFFICE OF THE 
CHAIRMAN 
Item No. 3 
1/24/68 
January 25, 1968 
Dr. Wilson H . Elkins, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Dr. Elkins: 
Thank you very much for your January 11 letter contain-
ing the opinion of the Directors of your Bank that Eddie Wayne and 
Aubrey Heflin have provided superior leadership for the Bank. We 
at the Board also have high regard for them and particularly be-
lieve that Eddie Wayne has done a fine job, both in the Fifth 
District and on national committees. His retirement will be a 
real loss to the System. 
The Board of Governors approved today the appointments 
of Aubrey Heflin as President of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond and Robert P. Black as First Vice President, both effec-
tive April 1, 1968, at the respective salary rates of $37,500 per 
year and $27,500 per year to the end of 1968, with the understand-
ing that these appointments are for the unexpired portion of the 
five-year terms ending February 28, 1971. 
CiivJV.' (J. i>-.Co y . 
Please convey our appreciation to your Board of Directors 
for their contributions to the effective management of your Bank. 
Since rely yours 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
W m . McC. Martin, Jr. 

BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
1/24/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 24, 1968. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York 10045. 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment of salaries 
to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York listed below for 
the period January 4 through December 31, 1968, at the following rates 
fixed by your Board of Directors, as reported in Mr. Treiber's letter 
of January 5, 1968. 
Name 
Annual 
Title 
Salary 
Vice President 
$30,000 
Vice President 
28,000 
Market Adviser 
28,000 
Vice President 
30,000 
Assistant Vice President 
24,000 
Assistant Vice President 
22,000 
Assistant Vice President 
22,000 
Assistant Vice President 
23,500 
Assistant Vice President 
25,000 
Manager 
17,000 
Manager 
19,000 
Chief Examiner 
21,000 
Manager 
19,000 
Assistant Counsel 
18,000 
Peter Fousek 
Bruce K. MacLaury 
Spencer S. Marsh, Jr. 
Peter D. Sternlight 
David E. Bodner 
A. Thomas Combader 
Robert J. Crowley 
Richard G. Davis 
Edward J. Geng 
John T. Arnold 
Matthew C. Drexler 
Frederick L. Frey 
Benjamin Stackhouse 
Philip Van Orman 
The Board believes that it would be helpful and contribute 
to orderly procedure if, as a regular practice in the future, there 
could be informal discussion with the Board's Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans not only with regard to merit increases 
proposed for officers in the following year but also of such promotional 
increases as may be contemplated. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 5 
• F T H E 
1/24/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 24, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
M r . Carl J . Thomsen, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Dear M r . Thomsen: 
This refers to M r . Levine's letter of January 11, 1968, 
enclosing executed copies of a contract entered into between the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas and President Watrous H . Irons pro-
viding for a minimum retirement allowance for M r . Irons after his 
retirement under certain conditions. 
The Board of Governors approves the contract as entered 
into between the Bank and President Irons on January 11, 1968, and 
the Secretary of the Board of Governors has affixed his signature in 
the place indicated in the agreement. 
One executed copy has been retained for the Board's files; 
the original and other copy are enclosed with this letter. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C . Holland 
Secretary. 
Enclosures. 

STATE OF TEXAS 
0 
/ o 
0 
COUNTY OF DALLAS Q 
For and in consideration of the mutual promises of each party 
hereto, this Agreement is entered into between WATROUS H. IRONS and the 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS, DALLAS, TEXAS. 
Subject to all of the applicable provisions of law, WATROUS H. 
IRONS agrees to serve as an officer of the said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK as 
long as such service shall be mutually agreeable to the parties hereto. 
For and on account of such service, said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK 
shall pay said WATROUS H. IRONS as follows: 
x 
(1) Said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK shall pay to said WATROUS H. 
IRONS a salary at the rate of $U8,500 per annum during 
the period beginning January 1, 1968, and thereafter 
during his service as an officer of said FEDERAL RESERVE 
BANK and prior to his retirement his salary shall be as 
determined from time to time in accordance with appli-
cable provisions of law; 
(2) If, having attained the age of 65, said WATROUS H. IRONS 
shall retire with not less than 10 years of service 
creditable under the Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks, and if he is President of said FEDERAL 
RESERVE BANK at the time of his retirement, said FEDERAL 
RESERVE BANK shall pay to said WATROUS H. IRONS after 
such retirement and during the remainder of his life-
time an amount per annum which, together with his regu-
lar retirement allowance under the Retirement System of 
the Federal Reserve Banks (without regard to optional 
benefits or conversion, or additional voluntary contri-
butions), will aggregate a sum equal to 40 percent of 
the annual salary being paid to him at the time of his 
retirement; and 
(3) If, without haying attained the age of 65, said WATROUS H. 
IRONS shall retire with not less than 10 years of service 

creditable under the Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks, and if he is President of said FEDERAL 
RESERVE B A M at the time of his retirement, the aggregate 
sum equal to Uo percent of salary referred to in the pre-
ceding paragraph (2) shall be reduced by the application 
of the then current table of pension reduction factors 
of the Bank Plan of the Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks, and the portion of the aggregate that is 
payable by said FEDERAL RESERVE B A M shall be the dif-
ference between the dollar amount represented by such 
le 
sser percentage of salary and the regular retirement 
allowance payable at the attained age by said Retirement 
System. 
This Agreement does not obligate the said WATROUS H. IRONS to 
remain as an officer of the said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK, and does not con-
stitute an Agreement by the said FEDERAL RESERVE B A M or the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System that he will continue in such 
capacity; it does not obligate the said FEDERAL RESERVE B A M to appoint, 
reappoint, or continue him as an officer, nor does it obligate the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to approve his appointment or 
reappointment or his compensation. 
Witness our hands and seals this 11th day of January 1968. 
MfcC 
, 
WATROUS I1. IRONS 
ATTEST: 
FEDERAL RESERVE B A M OF DALLAS 
\ 
\ » | 
. 
f I 
{ 
, 
By 
/ 
• • > \
 
y 
•> c 
Secretary 
Deputy Chairman of the 
Board of Directors 
The above Agreement has been approved by the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System and in witness thereof, the seal of the said 
Board is attached and its Secretary has affixed his signature. 
January 24, 1968, 
Robert C . Holland 
(Date) 
Secretary 

B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S
 
6 
1/24/68 
D F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 23, 1968 
• / l - . .; 
• . 
• • 
M r . J . L. Hardin, 
Assistant Chief Examiner, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear Mr. Hardin: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of January 17, 1968, the Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
designation of each of the following employees as a 
special assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta: 
J. L. Cook 
Clinton Gene Kelley 
John B. Burtchaell 
Thomas Bruce Russell 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
P H I L A D E L P H I A , 
P E N N S Y L V A N I A 
1 9 1 0 1 
Item No. 7 
1/24/68 
January 23, 1968 
Mr. Howard C. Petersen, Chairman 
The Fidelity Bank 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19109 
Dear Mr. Petersen: 
Under date of Augus 
the Federal Reserve System 
Fidelity Bank of a branch of 
section of Baltimore Pike and 
Delaware County, Pen*gyTfcania, 
tablished within £>rfe vear\f the 
Unde 
Board of Gover 
for six months 
Fidel^^Spnk cou. 
locjrtion. 
Board of Governors of 
ablishment by The 
inity of the inter-
Springfield Township, 
the branch was es-
id date. 
Ly 1*1, 1 9 6 7 ^ ^ were advised that the 
Kler^l Reserve System had extended 
^ugust 1&, 1^67 the time within which The 
th& proposed branch at the subject 
Assistant Vios-Pfesident Aaronson of your bank, by letter 
jat\d Januar^tK 1968, has advised that there has been no change 
V \ i n 
the\zon\ng problems in the area and no changes to in-
did^teN^hat t c o n s t r u c t i o n of the planned research and develop-
m e n t ^ n ^ ^ i l j / b e g in in the near future. Mr. Aaronson states, 
howeve\. that^/indications have been received that developments of 
the siteNwerf begin in 1968 and, accordingly, requests an extension 
of time within which to establish the proposed branch. 
This is to advise you that on behalf of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, acting under delegated 
authority, the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia extends for 
six months from February 16, 1968 the time within which The Fidelity 
Bank may establish a branch in the vicinity of the intersection of 
Baltimore Pike and Sproul Road, Springfield Township, Delaware 
County, Pennsylvania. 
Sincerely yours, 
J w M- Cud* 
Joseph M. Case 
Assistant Vice President 

282 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
1/24/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TD T H E 
B O A R D 
January 25, 1968 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
Mr. Davenport's letter of January 19, 1968, the Director 
of the Division of Examinations on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the appoint-
ment of Bryan G. Newman, Jr., as an assistant examiner for 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. Please advise 
the effective date of the appointment. 
• 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 4 
1/24/68 
L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
HE B O A R D 
January 24, 1968 
Mr. S. Alfred Halgren, 
Deputy Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear M r . Halgren: 
Acting under delegated authority, the Director of the Divi-
sion of Personnel Administration has approved the request contained 
in M r . Pascual's letter of January 16, 1968, for the appointment of 
Mr. Donald E . Coile as a Federal Reserve Agent's Representative at the 
Los Angeles Branch to succeed M r . Elvin L . Baldwin. 
This approval is given with the understanding that M r . Coile 
will be solely responsible to the Federal Reserve Agent and the Board of 
Governors for the proper performance of his duties, except that, during 
the absence or disability of the Federal Reserve Agent or a vacancy in 
that office, his responsibility will be to the Assistant Federal Reserve 
Agent and the Board of Governors. 
When not engaged in the performance of his duties as Federal 
Reserve Agent's Representative, M r . Coile may, with the approval of the 
Federal Reserve Agent and the Vice President in charge of the Los Angeles 
Branch 
perform such work for the Branch as will not be inconsistent with 
his duties as Federal Reserve Agent's Representative. 
It will be appreciated if M r . Coile is fully informed of the 
importance of his responsibilities as a member of the staff of the 
Federal Reserve Agent and the need for maintenance of independence from 
the operations of the Bank in the discharge of these responsibilities. 
It is noted from your letter that with the approval of this 
aPP0intment by the Board of Governors, M r . Coile will execute the usual 
0 a t h of Office which will be forwarded to the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
'•f^n^sf:-' 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A 
TO Tl 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
Item No 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE S T R E E T 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60690 
(312) H A 7-2320 
1/24/68 
January 2k, 1968 
Mr. RoXlo J. Mullery, President 
Port fyron State Bank 
fort %ron, H I 1 noli 
Jfear Mr. Hillary: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
authority, this 
grants approval for an additional investment of 
f+0,000 in 
precises. It is our understanding this expenditure 
viU be made in connection with the remodelling of a building that 
Adjoins the bank building on the south, a portion of which building 
v U l be used by the bank vhen the remodelling has been completed. 
Very truly yours, 
Iceland Boss 
Vice President 
• l : 
LR:rk 
; C c - Mr. Robert C. Holland 
Examiner's f i l e 
\ 
O PY 
