MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 13, 1969 

t-'y^i 
OArf / 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, February 13, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:15 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
ni
<1*1 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 

528 
2/13/69 
-2-
Civil Rights. The Board unanimously approved a letter to the 
United States Commission on Civil Rights regarding the practices of 
the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to the Civil Rights Act. A copy 
of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Bank holding company legislative proposals. At today's meeting 
the Board continued the discussion begun yesterday looking toward a 
statement of principles regarding major provisions that should be included 
in proposals for amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act, especially 
relating to the expansion of the Act's coverage to include one-bank 
holding companies. Earlier documentation had been supplemented by a 
memorandum from the Legal Division dated February 12, 1969, emanating 
from yesterday's discussion. 
Although a number of points were discussed and majority agree-
ments reached, the statement was not fully developed at this meeting. 
It was understood that the Board would consider the subject further at 
an early opportunity. 
Mr. Cardon reported that he had received a telephone call from 
Ralph Nader, an activist for consumer interests, who had expressed con-
cern over the implications of bank holding company legislative proposals 
and dissatisfaction with what he understood to be the substance of the 
Administration's draft bill. He had indicated his intention to pursue 
the matter. 

529 
2/13/69 
-3-
Report on competitive factors. The Board unanimously approved 
a report, for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Jefferson 
Bank of Charlottesville, Charlottesville, Virginia, with Citizens Bank 
and Trust Company, also of Charlottesville. The conclusion stated that 
the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Fidelity Union-Montclair National merger. The Board authorized 
issuance of an order and statement reflecting its denial, on January 30, 
1969, of the application of Fidelity Union Trust Company, Newark, New 
Jersey, to merge with Montclair National Bank and Trust Company, 
Montclair, New Jersey. Copies of the documents are attached under 
Item No. 2. 
United Bank & Trust Company. Pursuant to the recommendation of 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation in a memorandum dated 
February 10, 1969, the Board unanimously approved the request of United 
Bank & Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut, that it not be required to 
file a report for the 1968 trust asset survey. A copy of the letter 
sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 3. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

530 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
• F T H E 
2/13/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
'•f^TteS^** 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BDAR D 
February 14, 1969 
Mr. Howard A. Glickstein, 
Acting Staff Director, 
United States Commission on Civil Rights, 
Washington, D. C. 20425 
Dear Mr. Glickstein: 
This acknowledges your letter of February 5, 1969, 
directing attention to a hearing conducted by the Commission on 
Civil Rights in San Antonio, Texas, in December 1968, inquiring 
into civil rights issues of concern to Mexican-Americans in the 
Southwest United States, and to the testimony given by officials 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas and its San Antonio Branch 
relating to the Reserve Bank's policy on the subject of equal employ-
ment opportunity for minority groups. 
Prior to receipt of your letter, the Board had obtained and 
reviewed a copy of the portions of the hearing transcript which were 
enclosed in your letter. The following observations relate to certain 
of the issues reflected in that transcript. By letter to the Presi-
dents of all Federal Reserve Banks, dated June 7, 1965, some three 
months prior to the issuance of Executive Order 11246, the Board set 
forth the System's position of full accord with the general objectives 
of the Civil Rights Act, noting specifically compliance by the System 
with the letter and spirit of the Act. The Board's letter also delin-
eated the Reserve Bank's legal responsibilities for enforcement of the 
provisions of Title VII of the Act as applied to member banks. In 
another letter of June 7, 1965, the Board advised the Bureau of the 
Budget of its conclusion that, for reasons set forth, Federal Reserve 
Banks are not subject to the provisions of Title VI of the Civil 
Rights Act. In transmitting a copy of the Board's letter to the 
Bureau of the Budget to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks 
the Board, acting in accord with its general supervisory authority 
over the Reserve Banks, stated "The Board assumes that, whether or 
not Executive Orders of the President relating to discrimination are 
deemed legally binding on Federal Reserve Banks, each Bank will con-
form to the spirit of such Orders". Copies of the June 7 letters 
are enclosed for your information. 

531 
Mr. Howard A. Glickstein 
-2-
The Board believes that the import of the enclosed 
correspondence, fairly construed, is that despite the nonapplica-
bility, as a matter of law, of certain provisions of the Civil Rights 
Act to the Reserve Banks, since the passage of the Act the System 
has, as a matter of policy, consistently conformed to the true spirit 
of the Act. System action in furtherance of the principles of the Act 
is reflected in a policy statement adopted by the Conference of 
Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks in December 1968 on the sub-
ject of Reserve Bank employment of the marginally unemployed. This 
statement, pertinent portions of which are enclosed, was formulated 
subsequent to a survey of the Reserve Banks made to determine the 
existence of, and need for, plans for positive action in the area of 
equal employment opportunity. The following excerpts from the Con-
ference statement bear directly, we believe, on the extent to which 
Reserve Banks and their Branches have assumed responsibility for 
affirmative action aimed at ensuring equal employment opportunity for 
minority groups. Addressing itself to the results of the above-
mentioned survey of Reserve Banks, this statement read: 
"It was apparent from replies to the questionnaire, 
he [a reporting member of the Conference] said, that a 
requirement of equal employment opportunity is accepted by 
the Reserve Banks; and that, in fact, some banks have moved 
aggressively in an attempt to achieve broader social progress. 
Persuasion and education of both black and white employees 
are necessary to make any program of equal opportunity succeed. 
"In response to the Board's suggestion of 'a positive 
plan of action,1 the Committee recommends that a policy state-
ment be agreed upon, recognizing that although significant 
progress has already been made within the System, the System 
has a continuing responsibility to test old ways and try new 
ones to keep a position of leadership. Therefore, the Com-
mittee on Personnel recommends that: 
"First, each Bank review the successful policies, 
practices and programs in effect at the other Banks to 
determine whether similar programs may be useful in 
their locales; 
"Second, each Bank, if it has not already done so 
should adopt a statement of its commitment to a policy 
of nondiscrimination in all personnel policies, and 
that such statement be given wide circulation within the 
Reserve Banks, especially to supervisory personnel; 
"Third, in order that the program of nondiscrimination 
may be effectively pursued, Reserve Banks should make 
active efforts to recruit members of minority groups, 
using methods deemed to be most effective in their 
communities; 

532 
Mr. Howard A. Glickstein 
-2-
"Fourth, it be recognized that many members of 
minority and other disadvantaged groups may need 
additional training to attain educational and cultural 
equality, and that Banks should seek out the persons 
within their staffs who need and want such training 
and use innovative methods to provide it, where 
possible; 
"Fifth, communications should be examined and, if 
necessary, improved so that each minority or other dis-
advantaged employee is aware of the training opportunities 
open to him within and outside the Reserve Bank. Special 
efforts should be made to insure that minority employees 
are aware that they will not be discriminated against in 
the administration of training programs; 
"Sixth, the Banks should participate in training 
or education programs for minority and disadvantaged 
persons within the community, whether or not they are 
principally aimed at present or prospective Bank em-
ployees, if the cost/benefit ratio appears reasonable 
within the discretion of each Bank's management; 
"Seventh, Reserve Banks should be encouraged to 
cooperate with community efforts to hire the 'hard core' 
unemployed; 
"Eighth, continued study should be given iu each 
Reserve Bank to the development of employment opportuni-
ties for handicapped persons; 
"Ninth, it must be recognized that such efforts by 
the Reserve Banks may entail additional costs, at least 
in the short run, but that reasonable costs of this kind 
must be accepted in view of the importance of attaining 
the objective of equal opportunity; 
"Tenth, recognition should be given to the importance 
of the equal opportunity program in each Bank through the 
designation of a senior officer who will report to the 
President or First Vice President with respect to that 
responsibility." 
Regarding Paragraph Tenth of the foregoing recommendations, 
each of the Federal Reserve Banks has designated a senior official 
who is responsible for recommending and implementing employment 

533 
Mr. Howard A. Glickstein 
-2-
policies and practices within the Bank and its branches that will 
ensure equal employment opportunity for minority groups. This 
official reports directly to the President or First Vice President 
in each of the Reserve Banks. 
Governor William J. Sherrill has been designated the 
Board's representative in the area of equal employment opportunities 
and in that capacity is responsible for System-wide implementation 
of equal employment opportunities. Governor Sherrill has advised 
that, pursuant to your request, he will be pleased to designate a 
System representative who will meet with you and representatives of 
the Secretary of the Treasury and the Office of Federal Contract 
Compliance at a mutually convenient time and place. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosures 

534 
Item No. 2 
2/13/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
i 
FIDELITY UNION TRUST COMPANY 
1 
i 
for approval of merger uith 
1 
Montclair National Bank and .Trust Company 1 
- - - - - - - - - 
i 
ORDER DENYING APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Fidelity 
Union Trust Company, Newark, New Jersey, a State member bank of the 
Federal Reserve System, for the Board!s prior approval of the merger 
into that bank of Montclair National Bank and Trust Company, 
Montclair, New Jersey, under the charter and title of Fidelity Union 
Trust Company. Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved 
by the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light 
of the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished 
by the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, and the Attorney General on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger, 

: 5M 
-6-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is denied. 
Dated at Washington, D.C. this 13th day of February, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Ilartin and 
Governors Robertson, Ilaisel, Brimmer, and 
Sherr111, 
Not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal. 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

536 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY FIDELITY UNION TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
MONTCLAIR NATIONAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Fidelity Union Trust Company, Newark, New Jersey ("Fidelity"), 
with total deposits of about $581 million, has applied, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval 
of the merger of that bank with Montclair National Bank and Trust 
Company, Montclair, New Jersey ("Montclair National"), which has 
total deposits of about $127 million.i/ The banks would merge under 
the charter and name of Fidelity, which is a member of the Federal 
Reserve System, As an incident to the merger, the 11 offices of 
Montclair National would become branches of Fidelity, increasing the 
number of offices operated by it to 28. 
Competition. - All of the offices of Fidelity and Montclair 
National are in Essex County in northeastern New Jersey. The county 
is the State's industrial and financial center, and has a population 
of almost 1 million. Newark, with a population of over 400,000, is 
1/ Deposit figures are as of June 29, 1968. 

: 5M 
-6-
the State's largest city, the seat of Essex County, and situated about 
10 miles west of New York City. Fidelity has 11 branches in Newark, 
Its 5 other branches are in East Orange, Irvington, and Belleville, 
conmunities to the north and west of Newark and contiguous to it. 
Montclair, with a population of over 44,000 and predomi-
nantly residential, is about five miles northwest of Newark. Montclair 
National has five branches in Montclair, three branches in Millburn 
(in the southwestern part of Essex County), and one branch each in 
Verona and West Caldwell (in the northwestern part of the county). 
Generally, the areas in which Montclair1s offices are located are 
parts of the area known as West Essex, which consists of 12 communities 
or muncipalities, and which is expected to be the fastest growing 
section of the county over the next decade. 
The nearest offices of Fidelity and Montclair National 
are about four miles apart. Numerous offices of other banks are 
located in the areas separating the offices of the two banks, but 
there is direct competition between them, principally in retail 
banking services and trust services throughout West Essex. Consum-
mation of the proposal would eliminate this existing competition. 
The revisions of the State's branch banking and merger laws 
that recently became effective divide the State, north to south, in 
three banking districts. Essex County is in the First District. 
The new law permits mergers between banks and the establishment of 
de novo branches by banks within the same banking district. Like the 

: 5M 
-6-
old lau, however, the revision does not permit a bank to establish 
a branch office in any community wherein the home office of another bank 
is located; but the new lau, for the first time, does permit a bank 
to establish a branch in communities of 7,500 or more in which are 
located only branch offices of other banks. 
Under the new law, Fidelity and Montclair National are 
permitted to e::pand operations in Uest Esse:: County, as well as other 
areas in the First District, through the establishment of de novo 
branches. At the same time, other banks headquartered anywhere in 
the First District could enter the same areas, either by merger with 
a local bank or through de novo branches. The new lax;, therefore, 
increases the potential for competition between Fidelity and Hontclair 
National. Consummation of the proposal would have an adverse effect 
on this increased potential. On the other hand, some increase in 
competition might be expected through the entrance by other banks into 
areas now served by Fidelity and Hontclair National as a result of 
the new law. 
The Greater Newark Market is the relevant area within which 
the principal effects of the proposal on competition would be expected to 
occur. 
This Market encompasses, in addition to Essex County, most 
of Union County to the south (in the Statefs Second District), three 
communities in Hudson County, and four communities in Morris County. 
The latter two counties are in the First District to the east and west 
of Essex County, respectively, and contiguous to it. The Greater 
Newark Market has a population of about 1.5 million. 

: 5M 
-6-
Fidelity ranks second, and Montclair National ranks sixth 
on the basis of deposit size among commercial banks in the Greater 
Newark Market. After the proposed merger, Fidelity would be the 
largest commercial bank in the State and the State's three largest 
commercial banks, each headquartered in Newark, would control about 
63 per cent of the deposits, and operate over 45 per cent of offices 
of all such banks in the Greater Newark Market. In addition to 
competing with commercial banks for real estate loans and savings 
accounts, New Jersey savings banks offer regular and special 
checking accounts, although on a limited basis. If savings banks in 
the Greater Newark Market are included in the figures for that Market, 
the above percentages would be about 42 and 39 per cent of the deposits 
and offices, respectively, of the banks in the Market. 
Fidelity and Montclair National compete throughout Essex 
County and particularly in West Essex, as noted above. Fidelity, 
which is the second largest commercial bank in New Jersey, is also 
the second largest of the 17 commercial banks headquartered in 
Essex County. Montclair National ranks fourth in the county and 
well ahead of the fifth ranking bank. Consummation of the proposal 
would eliminate a viable, important competitor and increase banking 
concentration in the county. The concentration in the countyfs three 
largest commercial banks would rise from about G2 to almost 88 per 
cent of the deposits of all such banks headquartered in the county. 

: 5M 
-6-
Over all, the competitive effect of the proposal would be 
adverse. It is not inappropriate to note, therefore, that there 
exist possible alternatives for Fidelity that might enable it to 
gain representation outside the Newark area, and especially in 
West Essex, through a merger that would be less anticompetitive than 
the proposed transaction. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors with respect to Fidelity are satisfactory. This is 
true also with respect to Montclair National, which has an exceptionally 
good growth record. Both are well-run institutions. Consequently, 
the banking factors, with respect to the resulting bank, would also 
be satisfactory. The application asserts that Montclair National 
faces a management succession problem. However, the record fails to 
establish this as a matter that could not be solved by means other 
than merger, particularly in view of the bank's size and favorable 
earnings record. 
Convenience and needs of the community. - The application 
lists a number of banking services not now being provided by Montclair 
National, and it is possible that the bank has some customers who 
would avail themselves of these and other services offered by Fidelity. 
However, there hac been no substantial need demonstrated which is not 
presently being net by Montclair National or by other financial 
institutions. There is no convincing evidence in the record that the 

-6-
: 
5
M 
needs and convenience of the comrnunites served either by one or 
the other of the two banks would be benefited materially by consum-
mation of the proposal. 
Summary and conclusion. - Consummation of the proposal 
would combine two well-run banks with favorable prospects that are 
important competitors, not only in Esse:: County in which their 
offices are located, but also in the Greater Newark Market. Further-
more, the proposal, if carried out, would increase the significant 
concentration in banking in both the county and the Market, and 
eliminate the direct competition existing between the two banks and 
the potential for -any increases in competition. In the Board's 
judgment, the adverse competitive effects of the proposed merger 
Xfould not be offset by any resulting benefits that might ensue 
relative to banking services or the financial and managerial resources 
or prospects of either of the banks. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
be denied, 
February 13, 1969. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20351 
Item No. 3 
2/13/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
Mr. James J. Preble, President, 
United Bank & Trust Company, 
Hartford, Connecticut. 06103 
Dear Mr. Preble: 
Reference is made to the Board's letter of February 6, 
1969, in which the Board granted your bank an extension to 
June 1, 1969, for filing your 1968 trust asset report form. 
It now appears that the processing of trust infor-
mation will be completed in May or June, in which event, the 
data filed by you might be too late to include in the tabulations. 
Under the circumstances, the Board will not require you to file 
a 1968 trust asset report form. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
