Minutes for J a n u a r Y 31, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
A 

413 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, January 31, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard and Mrs. Winkler of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members1 
Offices 
Messrs. Axilrod, Gramley, Williams, Wernick, 
Eckert, Keir, Weiner, Baker, Burns, Ettin, 
Kelty, and Kichline of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Ghiardi, Hersey, Norwood, Wood, Gemmill, 
Altmann, Bryant, Gekker, and Stem of the 
Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Today's review included reports by Mr. 
Keir on the Government securities market and the current Treasury 
financing, by Mr. Eckert on recent and prospective developments in 
the area of bank credit, by Mr. Ettin on the corporate and municipal 
bond markets, and by Mr. Stem on the foreign exchange and gold markets. 

414 
1/31/69 
-2-
Copies of the tables and charts distributed in connection with today's 
review have been placed in the Board's files, along with the staff 
papers. 
After a general discussion of current credit developments, 
members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Brill and Norwood 
withdrew and the following entered: 
Messrs. Hexter, O'Connell, Shay, and Lynch of the Legal 
Division 
Mr. Johnson of the Division of Personnel Administration 
Mr. Poundstone of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Wiles of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on January 27 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of New York and San Francisco on January 30, 1969, of the rates 
on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made 
available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective 
numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Bank of America National Trust and 
1 
Savings Association, San Francisco, California, 
granting consent to acquisition of the shares 
of a wholly-owned banking subsidiary to be 
established in Luxembourg. 

415 
1/31/69 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to National Bank of North America, 
2 
Jamaica, New York, granting permission to 
organize an Edge corporation pursuant to 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
to be known as North America International 
Corporation, New York, New York, and trans-
mitting a preliminary permit. 
Letter to Bamerical International Financial 
3 
Corporation, San Francisco, California, granting 
consent to the acquisition of 51 per cent of the 
stock of Financiera Comercial y Agricola, S.A., 
a finance company to be formed in San Jose, 
Costa Rica. 
Letter to Allied Bank International, New York, 
4 
New York, granting permission to establish a 
branch in London, England. 
Letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve 
5 
Banks advising of a meeting of representatives 
of Federal Reserve Bank Examination Departments 
to be held in St. Louis, Missouri, on April 14, 
1969, in connection with the annual convention 
of the National Association of Supervisors of 
State Banks. 
In connection with Item No. 5, the Board authorized attendance 
at the meeting by the Director of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation and two other Division representatives and approved payment 
of the registration fee ($40 in the past) for each representative. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Mechanics National Bank 
of Worcester, Worcester, Massachusetts, with Mechanics National Bank, 
Worcester, Massachusetts, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion stating that consumma-
tion of the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 

416 
1/31/69 
-2-
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Consultant on labor relations. Reference was made to the 
discussion at yesterday's meeting concerning the proposed retention 
of Mr. Sam R. Pierce, Jr., of New York to serve as a consultant in 
connection with System labor relations problems. 
had talked with Mr. Pierce, who had indicated that he could be avail-
able, if desired, to meet with the Board and the Reserve Bank Presidents 
on Tuesday, February 4, after which he would make a final judgment 
whether to accept the post as consultant. 
After some discussion it was suggested that the best procedure 
to follow would be to invite Mr. Pierce to come to the Board's offices 
on February 4 to meet at least with Governor Sherrill, but to leave 
open the question of his meeting with the Board or with the Presidents 
until the matter had been discussed further by the Board on February 3, 
when Governor Sherrill would be present. At that time consideration 
could be given to a more precise definition of the duties to be under-
taken by Mr. Pierce if he should definitely accept the assignment. 
Mr. Johnson reported that at Governor Sherrill's request he 
The meeting then adjourned. 

'wA-
R D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
1/31/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C 0 R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 31, 1969 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 12, L968, the 
Board of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M, for Bank of America 
National Trust and Savings Association (" B of A"), San Francisco, 
California, to purchase and hold all the outstanding shares of a 
proposed wholly-owned banking subsidiary to be established in 
Luxembourg, at a total cost of approximately $2,500,000, provided 
the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed holding of the shares 
of the subsidiary by B of A is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as practicable 
if the subsidiary shall in any manner engage in any activity 
or take any action whatsoever that would not be permissible 
if the subsidiary were a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in 
banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, B of A will 
furnish the Board with such reports regarding the activi-
ties of the subsidiary as it may require from time to time; 
and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by the subsidiary 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if the subsidiary were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

418 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is 
requested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, with copies of Articles of 
Association, Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of the subsidiary. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your institution, Bamerical International Financial Corporation and 
Bank of America, New York, and that due consideration is being given 
to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
t 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

'wA-
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 3 
1/31/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 31, 1969 
Mr. Sidney Friedman, 
Chairman of the Board, 
National Bank of North America, 
Jamaica, New York. 
Dear Mr. Friedman: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articl'es of Asso 
ciation and Organization Certificate dated November 8, 1968, of 
North America International Corporation, New York, New York, and 
there is enclosed a Preliminary Permit authorizing that Corporation 
to exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board 
will issue its final permit to commence business, the President, 
Treasurer, or Secretary, together with at least three of the direc-
tors, must certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United 
States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held 
and owned by citizens of the United States, by corporations the 
controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United 
States, chartered under the laws of the United States or of a State 
of the United States, or by firms or companies the controlling in-
terest in which is owned by citizens of the United States; and 
(3) that of the authorized capital stock specified in the Articles 
of Association at least 25 per cent has been paid in in cash and 
that each shareholder has individually paid in in cash at least 
25 per cent of his stock subscription. Thereafter the Treasurer 
or Secretary shall certify to the payment of the remaining instal-
ments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 
Your attention is called to the fact that North America 
International Corporation will have no separate base under the for-
eign credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or investments 
will need to be made under the ceiling of National Bank of North 

Mr. Sidney Friedman 
- 2 -
America. Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with the 
understanding that any foreign loans and investments of the 
Corporation will be made within the guidelines established under 
the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply 
to the foreign lending and investment activities of National Bank 
of North America, and that due consideration will be given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
January 31, 1969 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this 
day approved the Articles of Association dated November 8, 1968, 
and Organization Certificate dated November 8, 1968, of NORTH AMERICA 
INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION duly filed with said Board of Governors, 
and that NORTH AMERICA INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION is authorized to 
exercise such of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) 
as are incidental and preliminary to its organization pending the 
issuance by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
of a final permit generally to commence business in accordance with 
the provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations 
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(SEAL) 
By (Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

,OfGOU 
'wA-
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
1/31/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 31, 1969 
Bamerical International Financial Corporation, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 
94104 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of December 23, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for 
your Corporation ("BIFC") to purchase and hold 51 per cent of the 
common stock of Financiera Comercial y Agricola, S.A. ("FICASA"), 
a new finance company to be formed in San Jose, Costa Rica, at a 
cost of approximately $204,000, provided the shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of FICASA by BIFC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That BIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FICASA if FICASA at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if FICASA establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or under-
takes any operation in Costa Rica or elsewhere, in 
any manner, which at the time would not be per-
missible to BIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FICASA as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FICASA 
be reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if FICASA were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

423 
Bamerical International 
Financial Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by FICASA in Costa Rica 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco, with copies of Articles of Association, Memo-
randum of Association, and By-Laws of FICASA. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, Bank of America National Trust and Savings Asso-
ciation, and Bank of America, New York, and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4 ^ 4 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
1/31/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 31, 1969 
Allied Bank International, 
Hotel Commodore - Suite 1500, 
Lexington Avenue and 42nd Street, 
New York, New York. 10017 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Allied Bank International, New York, 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act, to establish a branch in London, England, and to operate and 
maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section 
and of Regulation K. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before February 1, 1970, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in location 
of the branch in London. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign 
assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In 
view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
with the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations, 
maximum reliance will be place on resources obtained outside the 

Allied Bank International 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your Corporation, and 
that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
425 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

'-•fjAL^y 
'wA-
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
1/31/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 31, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
As you know, it is customary to hold a conference 
of Reserve Bank representatives of bank examination 
departments in conjunction with the Annual Convention of 
the NASSB. The 1969 Convention is scheduled to be held in 
St. Louis, Missouri, from April 14 to April 17, 1969. A 
meeting of bank examination personnel is being scheduled 
from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on April 14, 1969, at the Chase-Park 
Plaza Hotel. 
The Vice Presidents in charge of examinations are 
being requested to submit topics to be included on the agenda 
for the meeting. When this agenda has been completed a copy, 
together with a list of those attending the convention, will 
be forwarded to you. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
