MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 18, 1969 

568 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, February 18, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 

578 
2/18/69 
-2-
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Correspondence with Senator Proxmire. 
Governor Robertson 
referred to the discussion at yesterday's meeting with regard to 
the reply to be made to a letter in which Senator Proxmire had 
requested inclusion in the truth in lending regulations of standards 
with respect to closing costs in connection with home purchases and 
had requested an investigation into the operations of title insurance 
companies. The draft of reply then discussed had been revised, and 
Governor Robertson read the revised version. 
The letter was approved unanimously; a copy is attached as 
Item No. 1. 
*v 
• • > t 
• 
i. . 
v" 
oraik.a, 
t>;tu;' 
- 
." J
r 
• i . 
Nassau branches. 
During 1968 the Board had had a series 
of discussions with regard to applications for branches to be located 
in the Bahamas or elsewhere in the West Indies, the offices typically 
to be "shell" facilities consisting of an address, a set of books, 
and a part-time manager supplied in most cases by some third party. 
Documentation included the following memoranda relating to various 
aspects of the problem (copies of which have been placed in the 
Board's files) : 
Memorandum dated 
From 
x 
July 16, 1968 
July 16, 1968 
July 16, 1968 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Legal Division 
Mr. Frederic Solomon 

l> i 0 
2/18/69 
-3-
July 29, 1968 
Messrs. Sammons and Reynolds 
July 30, 1968 
Legal Division 
August 5, 1968 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
October 1, 1968 
Staff 
October 23, 1968 
Office of the Secretary 
October 24, 1968 
Mr. Furth 
October 25, 1968 
Mr. Gemmill 
November 1, 1968 
Office of the Secretary 
February 14, 1969 
Legal Division 
February 12, 1969 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Also, a letter from the Assistant Attorney General dated 
February 4, 1969. 
Pursuant to a request by Governor Brimmer during one of the 
more recent discussions, the distributed material included amplifi-
cation of a rationale for denying the applications. 
Mr. Robert Solomon reviewed the main issues presented, as 
covered in the various staff memoranda, after which Mr. Hexter 
commented on the response the Department of Justice had made to the 
Board's inquiry regarding the implications of the applications. 
Although the Department's letter reflected a somewhat adverse 
position, it seemed not to present a strong argument against autho-
rizing the branches. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the pending 
applications should be approved, although preferably with a prohi-
bition against accepting deposits from U.S. nationals. Some funds 
might be used in a way that would be hostile to the Voluntary Foreign 
Credit Restraint Program, but no more so than in the case of the use 
by U.S. banks of Euro-dollars. If a reserve requirement should be 

2/18/69 
-4-
placed on Euro-dollars, the adverse effect on the program would be 
mitigated. Although he felt uneasy about the Bahamian bank secrecy-
law, he did not believe the Board could insist on piercing the veil 
of secrecy in the Bahamas since it had not done so with respect to 
Swiss branches. He suggested a weekly report by the branches to give 
some idea not only of the owners but also the use of deposits. 
Governor Daane stated that he would go along with the 
judgment of the majority of the staff and approve the branches, 
although with no great enthusiasm. However, he recommended that a 
careful surveillance system be devised. 
Governor Maisel indicated that he would approve the appli-
cations, though he would like to require that duplicate records be 
kept at the head offices. He believed that such a requirement 
would minimize problems of enforcing criminal statutes, which had 
concerned the Department of Justice, and would also disclose any 
tendency on the part of banks to transfer deposits to the Nassau 
branches in order to avoid Regulations D (Reserves of Member Banks) 
and Q (Payment of Interest on Deposits). 
It might be possible 
also to require that all customers agree that the Bahamian secrecy 
law would not apply to their accounts. 
There ensued a discussion of problems that might result 
from the Bahamian bank secrecy law and the effect of imposing 
conditions such as Governor Maisel had recommended. 
It was 

2/18/69 
-5-
observed, among other things, that such conditions might result 
in inequities for new Nassau branches as compared with branches 
already operating there. 
Governor Brimmer said he would vote against the appli-
cations, for reasons he had expressed during earlier discussions. 
He subscribed to all of the negative arguments the staff had men-
tioned. He was concerned about the Board's image, for he did not 
believe the Board should administer a program to improve the U.S. 
balance of payments and then deliberately approve a device that 
would undercut it. It appeared to him that the banks would use 
the proposed branches as a depositary for some funds that would 
otherwise come to the U.S., and to manage those funds without 
reference to the Foreign Credit Restraint Program or to Regula-
tions D and Q. He would acknowledge that a mistake had been 
made in permitting the establishment of the Nassau branches now 
in operation and would require them to close. 
Governor Sherrill said that he would approve, although 
with misgivings, because he could not find a clear distinction 
between the proposed offices and other foreign branches. He would 
impose the same restrictions that were placed on other foreign 
branches, plus any other limitations that were reasonable and were 
not impossible to meet from a practical standpoint. He believed 
that the purposes behind these applications went beyond the 

2/18/69 
-6-
Foreign Credit Restraint Program and avoidance of Regulations 
D and Q. It was not entirely apparent what further purposes the 
applicants might have in mind. It would seem prudent to exercise 
care that approval be announced in terms that it would not be 
necessary to retract when the complete role of the branches later 
became more apparent. 
Governor Robertson stated that he would oppose the appli-
cations. He did not regard the proposed offices as branches, but 
merely as vehicles to perform a pass-through function. He did not 
believe the Board should be a party to any device to circumvent 
the Foreign Credit Restraint Program or Regulations D and Q. If 
the Board approved these applications, he did not see how it 
could refuse to approve any foreign branch application regardless 
of whether or not it would further the foreign commerce of the 
U.S. Moreover, approval of these applications would surely bring 
forth many more such applications. Although a surveillance system 
would be helpful, it would not correct the basic problem. While 
he did not rest his position on the operation of the bank secrecy 
law in the Bahamas, he thought that law was important, and he did 
not believe it was feasible to follow the New York Reserve Bank's 
suggestion that a condition be imposed to insure full access to 
branch records. He believed that the Board should admit that it 
had made a mistake with respect to the shell branches already in 

t" 1 1 
O * 1 
2/18/69 
-7-
existence. However, while it should watch the operations of those 
branches carefully, it should not require that they close until the 
need for such action became more evident. 
Chairman Martin commented that, while he found the problem 
difficult because of its cross-currents, the applicants included 
reputable people who were doing a first-class banking business. 
He could not believe that their purpose was merely to avoid 
Regulations D and Q and the restrictions of the Foreign Credit 
Restraint Program, which incidentally he hoped would be abandoned 
as soon as possible. While he could see hazards in approval of 
the pending applications, he believed that experiments of this 
kind would tend to promote foreign commerce, and it would be 
undesirable for the Board to hinder anything that held promise in 
that respect. It was difficult to judge what restrictions should 
be placed upon these operations. He believed that a close watch 
should be kept, perhaps even to the extent of sending people to 
the Bahamas periodically to review the situation. If such 
surveillance should disclose improprieties, that would put another 
light on the matter. 
There ensued a general discussion of methods of dealing 
with the Bahamian secrecy law, during which reference was made 
to the manner in which a problem regarding Swiss secrecy laws 
had been met. Suggestions were made for methods of insuring the 
availability of adequate records and other terms of surveillance. 

2/18/69 
-8-
The meeting then recessed (because the Board was meeting 
with the Federal Advisory Council) and reconvened at 3:40 p.m. with 
all members of the Board present and approximately the same staff 
attendance. 
A further discussion of Nassau branches was devoted 
principally to the conditions that might be applied, if the 
pending applications were approved, to insure that adequate 
information would be available regarding the operation of such 
branches to enable the Board to discharge its supervisory 
responsibilities. 
Language suggested by the staff for inclusion 
in approval letters was regarded by some members of the Board as 
less specific than would be desirable. However, other members 
favored retaining sufficient flexibility so that supervisory 
requirements could be adjusted if circumstances warranted. 
In addition, the staff responded to questions regarding 
progress on a reporting system being developed for operations of 
foreign branches generally. A draft press release on approval of 
the pending Nassau branch applications was distributed and dis-
cussed, and it was understood that statements regarding the 
positions of Governors Robertson and Brimmer would be added to it. 
1 
IV 
The applications of the following institutions to 
establish branches in Nassau, Bahamas, were then approved, 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting, it being understood 

2/18/69 
-9-
that letters reflecting these actions would be sent at the time 
public announcement was made: 
National Shawmut Bank, Boston, Massachusetts; 
New England Merchants National Bank, Boston, Massachusetts; 
State Street Bank and Trust Company, Boston, Massachusetts; 
Franklin National Bank, Mineola, New York; 
National Bank of North America, New York, New York; 
Sterling National Bank and Trust Company, New York, New York; 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, 
New York, New York; 
Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, New York, New York; 
The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; 
Central National Bank, Cleveland, Ohio; 
The National City Bank of Cleveland, Cleveland, Ohio; 
The Citizens and Southern National Bank of Georgia, 
Atlanta, Georgia; 
Mercantile Trust Company National Association, St. Louis, 
Missouri; 
The Bank of California National Association, San Francisco, 
California. 
/ 
(Secretary's Note: Final action on the press release and 
the letters sent to the applicants is reflected in the minutes of 
February 20, 1969.) 
One-bank holding companies. Today's discussion carried 
forward the efforts made at previous meetings to develop a state-
ment of principles with reference to legislation covering one-bank 
holding companies. The Treasury was sending to the Board a revision 
°f its legislative proposal, and comparisons were drawn between what 
were understood to be the terms of the revision, earlier Treasury 
Proposals, and the statement of principles the Board was formulating. 
There was discussion of procedural points, and support developed for 

578 
2/18/69 
-10-
a suggestion that the Board's statement of principles be made 
public. There was also discussion concerning whether the Board 
should advance its own bill, in contrast to commenting on legis-
lation proposed by others, and the Chairman gave several reasons 
why he felt that that would be undesirable, including the fact that 
the Board was not unanimous in its views, the fact that a Board 
bill would become a target for criticism, and the fact that the 
Board might appear uncooperative with the Administration. 
It was then understood that the statement of principles, 
most currently drafted in a memorandum of February 14, would be 
revised to reflect views that had been expressed and that further 
consideration would be given to the matter tomorrow. 
B. N. Y. Company. Various documentation had been dis-
tributed, including a memorandum dated February 6, 1969, from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation, regarding the application 
of The B. N. Y. Company, Inc., New York, New York, to become a 
bank holding company through acquisition of shares of the following 
banks: 
The Bank of New York, New York, New York; 
The County Trust Company, White Plains, New York; 
Endicott Bank of New York, Endicott, New York, to 
be converted from The Endicott National Bank; 
The Exchange Bank of Olean, Olean, New York, to be 
converted from The Exchange National Bank of Olean; 
Mechanics and Farmers Bank of Albany, Albany, New York; 
Metropolitan Bank of Syracuse, Syracuse, New York, 
to be converted from Metropolitan National Bank 
of Syracuse; and 
Niagara Frontier Bank of New York, Buffalo, New 
York, a proposed new bank. 

578 
2/18/69 
-11-
The Division recommended approval of the application, and of the 
related applications of the converted banks in Endicott, Olean, 
and Syracuse and the proposed new bank in Buffalo for membership 
in the Federal Reserve System. 
Discussion reflected a favorable attitude on the part of 
all members of the Board except Governor Robertson. Although he 
had no doubt that the proposal would benefit the small upstate 
banks involved, the effect on competition from inclusion of the 
White Plains bank would in his opinion be at least adverse and 
he saw no offsetting public benefits. 
The application was then approved, Governor Robertson 
dissenting, with the understanding that an order and statement 
reflecting this decision would be prepared for the Board's con-
sideration and that a dissenting statement also would be prepared. 
The four related applications for membership in the 
Federal Reserve System also were approved, the banks to be 
notified when the holding company decision was announced. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

0OfCOj£ 
BOARD OF GOVERN • R 5 
Item No. 
• F T H E 
2 / 1 8 / 6 9 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
February 18, 1969. 
The Honorable William Proxmire, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Senator Proxmire: 
Thank you for your letter of February 5, regarding 
closing costs in connection with purchases of homes. Apparently 
the data furnished to you by FHA tend to confirm our earlier 
impression that such charges vary widely in different parts of 
the country. 
The legislative history of the Truth in Lending Act 
is, of course, clear that the Congress sought by the Act not to 
regulate what creditors could charge for credit, but merely to 
require disclosure of these charges. As you know, in Section 
106(e) the Congress provided that closing costs in real estate 
transactions shall be excluded in computing the finance charge. 
However, in drafting Regulation Z to implement the Act the Board 
was concerned that the exclusion of closing costs from the 
finance charge might be used by unscrupulous creditors to 
circumvent the requirements of the statute. Accordingly, it 
provided in Section 226.4(e) of the Regulation that closing 
costs must be "reasonable in amount" to be excluded. The 
intent of the provision is to serve as a warning and barrier 
to those who otherwise might entertain thoughts of evading the 
disclosure requirements by inflating closing costs. 
We do not see this as authorizing any agency to 
regulate generally the cost of title insurance. It is our 
intention that reasonableness will be determined by comparing 
the charges of a particular creditor with the prevailing 
practices of the industry in his locality. In this way it will 
be possible to spot those creditors who are failing to make 
proper disclosures. 
In view of the application of the Act and the Regulation 
solely to the disclosure of finance charges, I do not feel we 
have any basis for obtaining from title insurance companies, 

The Honorable William Proxmire 
-2-
580 
lawyers, and others who impose settlement charges the information 
that would be needed to determine whether such charges are 
reasonable in relation to the service performed. And as a 
practical matter, apart from legal considerations, I seriously 
doubt whether there is any way to evaluate the necessary 
information in time to make this kind of change in the Regulation 
effective July 1. 
More importantly, there is a serious question about the 
extent to which assignment of additional duties to the Board in 
regard to the protection of consumers is consistent with effective 
performance of the Board's primary responsibilities in the field 
of monetary policy. The Board has accepted responsibility for 
prescribing Truth in Lending regulations. In my judgment, however, 
the legislative history of the Consumer Credit Protection Act 
clearly established that the Board's role should be a limited 
one, and that its acceptance of responsibility for developing 
regulations under that Act should not be taken as a precedent 
for assigning to the Board wide-ranging duties in the general 
area of consumer protection. Knowing of your continuing interest 
in the System's role in fostering flows of money and credit 
appropriate to facilitate orderly economic growth, I hope that 
you will give serious thought to this question, which concerns 
me deeply. 
For the reasons I have mentioned, it would be inappropriate, 
in my judgment, for the Board's staff to undertake an investigation 
such as that proposed in your letter. It may be, however, that the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development could be of assistance 
in this regard, in view of its broad statutory responsibility to 
conduct studies, and make available findings, with respect to the 
problems of housing and urban development. 
Sincerely, 
