Minutes for 
March 28, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Friday, March 28, 1969 
The meeting was held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bernard, Miss Eaton, and Mrs. Winkler of 
the Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Sigel, 
Williams, Eckert, Keir, Baker, Beck, 
Burns, Ettin, Fry, Kelty, and Kichline, 
and Miss Stockwell of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Reynolds, Hersey, Norwood, Gemmill, 
Pizer, Altmann, Bryant, Gekker, and Stem 
of the Division of International Finance 
Actions taken at this meeting were subject to ratification 
at the next meeting of the Board at which a quorum was present. 
Money market review. Today's review consisted of reports 
by Mr. Keir on the Government securities market, by Mr. Eckert on 
bank credit, by Mr. Ettin on the corporate and municipal bond market 
and by Mr. Stem on the foreign exchange and gold markets. Copies 

3/28/69 
-2-
of the documentation prepared for the purpose of today's review 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Brill 
and Solomon then withdrew and Messrs. Hexter, General Counsel, 
Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation, 
and Ducy and Cleaver, Economists, Division of Research and Statistics, 
entered. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the compet-
itive factors involved in the proposed merger of Albany State Bank 
and Trust Company, Albany, Indiana, with Industrial Trust & Savings 
Bank, Muncie, Indiana, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion reading 
as follows: 
The proposed merger of Albany State Bank and Trust 
Company with Industrial Trust & Savings Bank, Muncie, 
would eliminate some competition which exists between 
them. Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition 
would be slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Old Line National Bank, Rockville, Maryland, into 
University National Bank, College Park, Maryland, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, 
the conclusion reading as follows: 
There is little competition now existing between 
The Old Line National Bank, Rockville, and University 
National Bank, College Park, although there is potential 
for greater competition through de novo branching. 
Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition would 
be slightly adverse. 

11 
3/28/69 
-3-
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rates. Mr. Holland noted receipt by the Board 
of advice that the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond 
and Kansas City had established, subject to review and determination 
by the Board of Governors, a discount rate of 6 per cent. The 
directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had established a 
rate of 6-1/4 per cent, with indication, however, that they would be 
prepared to accept a rate of 6 per cent if the Board was not willing 
to approve the higher rate. The directors of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas, who had previously established a rate of 5-3/4 per 
cent, had now established a rate of 5-1/2 per cent on an executive 
committee basis, but their basic view that a higher rate was warranted 
remained unchanged. 
It was understood that action on the rates other than 5-1/2 
per cent that had been established by several Reserve Banks would 
be deferred until after the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee next Tuesday. 
The establishment without change by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston on March 24, by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on 
March 25, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland and Dallas 
on March 27, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 

1131 
3/28/69 
-4-
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
