MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 21, 1971 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, January 21, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
* v f 
, • 
, 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr.' Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Metzger and Miss Wolcott of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended. 

i 89 
1/21/71 
-2-
Implementation of holding company legislation. 
Discussion 
continued at today's meeting of proposed amendments to Regulation Y 
(Bank Holding Companies) that would represent a first step toward 
implementation of the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970. 
A list of proposed permissible activities under section 4(c)(8) of the 
Act, revised in accordance with the discussion on January 19, 1971, had 
been distributed, and insofar as it involved retention or acquisition 
°f a company engaged solely in one or more of the following activities, 
there was no additional comment: 
Making, for its own account or for the account of others, 
loans such as would be made, for example, by a mortgage, 
finance, or factoring company; 
Servicing loans; 
Acting as fiduciary; 
Acting as investment or financial adviser, including for 
a mortgage investment trust or a real estate investment 
trust; 
,!•{ 
.
.
.
.
. 
Leasing personal property, where the initial lease provides 
for payment of rentals that will reimburse the lessor for 
the full purchase price of the property; 
Making equity investments in community rehabilitation and 
development corporations engaged in providing better housing 
and employment opportunities for low-income and moderate-
income population. 
In connection with procedures relating to section 4(c)(8) cases, 
-•it 
.. . 
" 
l t : was agreed that applications should be accepted only if notice relating 
t o the proposal had been published in a local newspaper, thus providing 

197 
1/21/71 
-3-
reasonable notification to competitors in the area. Notice also would 
be published in the Federal Register. 
Reservations were expressed as to the extent that hearings 
appeared to be encouraged by the proposed regulations as presently 
worded. Suggestions were made for language changes that would tend to 
confine expressions, through hearings if appropriate, to the question 
whether performance of the activity proposed by the holding company 
could reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public. 
Comments were then directed to the proposal that a bank holding 
company might acquire an interest in a savings bank, savings and loan 
association, industrial bank, or other institution performing similar 
functions. Governors Mitchell and Maisel reported that the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board was disturbed over possible adverse competitive 
effects if bank holding companies were permitted to enter the savings 
a n d loan business either de novo or by acquisition. During the ensuing 
discussion the authority of the Home Loan Bank Board over holding com-
panies of savings and loan associations was considered in terms of the 
listing legislation. 
It was noted that, in any event, if acquisitions 
savings and loan associations were accepted as permissible for bank 
Adding companies, applications would not be approved automatically by 
t-he Federal Reserve Board. Competitive effects would be explored thor-
tjghly a n ci evaluated before approval would be granted in any case. 

1 S 1 
1/21/71 
-4-
Governor Mitchell then said it was his understanding that in 
developing the first list of permissible activities for bank holding 
companies the Board was attempting to come forward with a group of 
activities that were relatively noncontroversial. 
In all the circum-
stances he suggested that savings and loan associations be omitted 
from the list at this time. Other members of the Board concurred, 
although Governor Maisel observed that holding companies that had 
already acquired an interest in a savings and loan association should 
Sot be required to divest themselves of that interest prior to final 
disposition of the problem. 
Question was raised as to the time envisaged for publication 
°f a second list, and it was agreed that,although consideration of 
Proposals for inclusion on a second list should be deferred pending 
^option by the Board of the initial list, there should not be undue 
Discussion also developed a preference on the part of the Board 
removing savings banks from the first list. There was general agree-
ment that industrial banks should be retained, either as a separate 
C a tegory or blanketed in with institutions making loans, such as would 
e made by mortgage, finance, or factoring companies. 
j••> u 
Discussion then turned to the proposals that a bank holding 
°
mpany might acquire an interest in a company (1) acting as insurance 
r r 
i t'i 
c 

1/21/71 
-5-
agent or broker principally in connection with extensions of credit by 
the holding company or any of its subsidiaries and (2) acting as insurer 
for the holding company and its subsidiaries, their customers, and 
employees. In an exchange of views as to the degree of restrictiveness 
intended, it was generally agreed that it was not the intent to be more 
restrictive than in cases decided by the Board under the law in effect 
prior to December 31, 1970. The proposed language was examined in that 
light, and certain suggestions for changes were agreed upon. There was 
also some discussion of possible interpretations of the word "principally. 
It was agreed that "principally" described what had been permitted in the 
Past and provided a desirable element of elasticity. 
Question was raised whether the proposal should be expanded to 
Permit dealing, through a holding company device, with the problem cur-
rently being faced with respect to insurance on Government securities. 
However, the view was expressed that such situations should be dealt 
with individually rather than by way of general rules. 
In connection with another proposal, that it would be a permis-
sible activity for a holding company to act as an insurer for small 
business loans made by correspondents of bank subsidiaries of the holding 
c°nipany, there was agreement with a suggestion that, in the interest of 
S l ! nPlicity, the proposal should be omitted from the first list of permis-
S i h 1 
l e activities, with specific cases to be dealt with on an individual 
basis 

197 
1/21/71 
-6-
Discussion next focused on the proposal that a bank holding 
company might acquire an interest in a company providing bookkeeping 
or data processing services for (i) the holding company and its sub-
sidiaries, (ii) other financial institutions, or (iii) others, provided 
that the amount of services performed by the company for such persons 
does not exceed one-third of the amount of services described in (i). 
There was a suggestion that it might be preferable to omit any 
Proposal regarding data processing services from the first list of 
Permissible activities, since there were indications that any such pro-
posal would be controversial. However, it was the consensus that some 
Proposal in this area should be offered for comment, and there followed 
several suggestions for modification of the draft that was before the 
Board, principally with regard to the proviso attached to "others." 
^ reformulation was tentatively agreed upon, as a basis for further 
drafting that would be presented to the Board for final approval. 
It was then noted that under section 4(c)(12) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act a one-bank holding company covered by the 1970 
-^ndments could retain or acquire any shares or engage in any activities 
U n t i l January 1, 1981, if the holding company complied with conditions 
Prescribed by regulation of the Board. In its memorandum dated January 13, 
1971 
-» the Legal Division recommended that the Board exercise its regula-
°
ry authority to require Board approval before a company made an acqui-
si'fci 
ion or commenced an activity on the basis of this exemption. 
Attached 

I S 4 
1/21/71 
-7-
to the memorandum was a draft paragraph that would implement the Board's 
authority under section 4(c)(12), effective upon adoption by the Board, 
without offering the public an opportunity for comment. An alternative 
would be for the Board to offer the amendment for comment as a proposal 
with an indication that, if adopted, it would be effective as to acqui-
sitions made after the date the proposal was offered for comment. 
The Board decided upon the alternative approach. 
Additional comments were directed principally to clarification 
°f various points. Unanimous approval was then given in principle to 
the publication for comment of the proposed amendments to Regulation Y 
a form reflecting suggestions agreed upon during today's discussion. 
It was understood that the draft press release relating thereto would 
he reworked in light of those changes for the Board's consideration, 
accompanied by the revised regulatory language. 
Mercantile Bancorporation. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated December 30, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of Mercan-
t H e Bancorporation, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, for permission to become 
a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of Mercantile 
Trust Company National Association, St. Louis, Mercantile-Commerce Trust 
Company, St. Louis, and The Southern Missouri Trust Company, Springfield, 
in Missouri. 

197 
1/21/71 
-8-
An objection had been filed by First Union, Incorporated, of 
St. Louis, a recently-approved bank holding company, and in a memoran-
dum dated January 12, 1971, the Legal Division discussed the issues 
raised. 
Governor Robertson indicated that in his opinion the relationship 
that had existed between Mercantile Trust Company and Mercantile-Commerce 
Trust for over 40 years, although it raised some questions, would not in 
itself be grounds for denying the application. However, he would want 
to specify that approval of the holding company application did not 
amount to condoning transactions that had occurred in the past. He 
would want the Board's statement worded in such a way as to maintain 
a neutral position with respect to any litigation that might develop 
• 
r I 
. . 
- • 
from the present application. Other members of the Board agreed that 
the point made by Governor Robertson should be borne in mind in prepar-
l u 8 the statement, although there were some differences of view as to 
the extent to which reference should be made therein to the history of 
the matter. 
The application was then approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration. 
-
New Orleans Branch. In a memorandum dated January 8, 1971, the 
£ 
division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended that permission 
granted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta to assemble and acquire 
t.\ ; .... 

19G 
1/21/71 
-9-
property adjoining the New Orleans Branch building site at a cost of 
approximately $1,000,000. Attached was a draft letter that would 
interpose no objection. 
The question of justification for payment of a premium for 
properties not needed immediately for operating purposes was raised by 
Governor Maisel, and there was general agreement that premiums should 
not be paid to obtain property in such circumstances. If unusual 
circumstances were believed to justify the acquisition of parcels at 
prices above current appraisals, such proposals should be taken up 
with the Board on a case-by-case basis. However, the view was also 
expressed that acquisition of the property in question would be desirable 
from the standpoint of future expansion and for security purposes. It was 
agreed that the matter should be discussed with President Kimbrel to 
ascertain whether the proposed Board position would afford sufficient 
flexibility for negotiations. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the proposal, subject to 
ri\..j 
further discussion by Governor Maisel with President Kimbrel. 
(Note: 
A copy of the letter subsequently sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta is attached as Item No. 1.) 
tv. 
Retirement System. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
the Secretary of the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks 
r equesting the transfer of $91,030 from the Reserve Against Investments 
Recount to the Retirement Reserve Account for the purpose of covering 
• 1 
the unfunded liability resulting from the 5 per cent supplement in 

197 
1/21/71 
-10-
annuities of retired Board Plan members, including survivor annuitants, 
effect ive November 1, 1969. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. For this discussion, Messrs. Hersey and Gemmill of the 
Division of International Finance joined the meeting. 
Euro-dollars. 
In a staff memorandum dated January 11, 1971, 
which the Federal Open Market Committee discussed on a preliminary 
basis at its meeting on January 12, there was outlined a possible 
Federal Reserve program of matched sale-purchase transactions with 
member banks to help moderate Euro-dollar repayments. In view of the 
m a n y factors that would have to be taken into account before deciding 
whether such a program should be implemented, and in view of the need 
t o coordinate plans and operations with other Government agencies, 
Chairman Burns had proposed a three-stage approach to decision-making. 
l t l e f i r s t 
stage was to determine whether a majority of the Open Market 
Committee agreed in principle with the proposed program as a useful 
c°ntingency plan, to be acted on finally at a subsequent time if deemed 
n e cessary. 
On January 19 a telegram was sent to the Reserve Bank Pres-
idents who were voting members of the Open Market Committee asking 
whether they would agree in principle, as a basis for contingency 
Planning, to an amendment of the Committee's continuing authority 
ective along the lines set forth in the telegram. A similar request 

1 9 8 
1/21/71 
-11-
ijl • •• 
was made of the members of the Board, acting in their capacity as members 
of the Open Market Committee. 
Mr. Holland and Mr. Solomon had discussed this matter with each 
President to whom a telegram had been sent, to provide further background 
on procedures and substance. At today's meeting Mr. Holland reported on 
the reactions of the five Presidents, and members of the Board also 
expressed their views. 
(Governor Robertson had spelled out his position 
a memorandum of January 20, a copy of which has been placed in the 
files.) 
(Note: On the basis of the views expressed by the Committee 
members, including comments made at today's meeting, Mr. Holland prepared 
a memorandum under date of January 29, 1971, summarizing the positions of 
the respective members and indicating the nature of the instructions 
given to the staff by the Chairman in light of those views. A copy of 
U s memorandum is attached as Item No. 3.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

-i o o 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
1/21/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 27, 1971 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Atlanta, Georgia 
30303 
; Dear Mr. Kimbrel: 
This refers to the request in your letter of 
November 24, 1970, for approval to assemble and acquire property 
adjoining the New Orleans Branch building site to improve security 
and to hold for future expansion. 
The Board will interpose no objection to the Bank's 
purchase of the proposed property in New Orleans, as described 
your letter, at a cost not to exceed the estimated market value 
°f the properties when considered as separate parcels. 
Since there is no pressing need to acquire the property 
for construction purposes, the Board is of the opinion that a 
Premium should not be paid for any individual land parcel in order 
f°r the Bank to gain possession of the remaining available property. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

B D A ^ D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
1/21/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 21, 1971 
Mr. Martin W . Bergin, Secretary 
Retirement System of the 
Federal Reserve Banks 
33 Liberty Street 
New York, New York 
10045 
f ., , , 
| 
Dear M r . Bergin: 
The Board of Governors requests that $91,030 be trans-
ferred from the Reserve Against Investments Account to the 
Retirement Reserve Account for the purpose of covering the unfunded 
liability which resulted from the 5 per cent supplement in the 
annuities of retired Board Plan members, including survivor-
annuitants, effective November 1, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
A : , 
the.. 
y 
ui 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

2 0 1 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item N o . 3 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 2 0 5 5 1 
• 
1/21/71 
CORRECTED COPY 
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
. 
January 29, 1971 
• 
. 
• 
To: 
Federal Open Market Committee 
Subject: 
Expression of views 
. 
.on MSP contingency 
From: 
Robert: C. Holland, Secretary^yjjj.- 
plan. 
At the direction of Chairman Burns, all voting members of the 
Federal Open Market Committee were contacted on or around January 19, 
1971, to ascertain their views with regard to the possible contingency 
Plan for Federal Reserve matched sale-purchase transactions with 
member banks to help moderate Euro-dollar repayments. 
That plan had 
« 
been outlined in a staff memorandum dated January 11, 1971, and had 
been discussed by the Committee on a preliminary basis at its 
January 12, 1971, meeting. 
In response to my telegram of January 19, 1971, seeking their 
V l °
w s ) nine of the twelve voting Committee members indicated that 
G y agreed in principle with the proposed amendment of the contin-
u e authority directive as a useful contingency plan, to be acted 
finally at a subsequent time if deemed necessary. 
Governor 
°bertson, Governor Brimmer and President Hayes indicated they dis-
Q&reed in principle with this type of approach. 

The Committee members agreeing with the proposal generally felt 
that the contingency plan should be in readiness so that the Federal 
Reserve System would be prepared to do whatever it could if circum-
stances became compelling and all preferable courses of action were 
unavailing. However, these members felt strongly that sales of 
securities by the Treasury Department (or by the Export-Import Bank 
or other Government agencies) designed to moderate Euro-dollar repay-
ments would be a much better method of dealing with the problem. 
Some of the members of the Committee who approved in principle 
expressed various reservations concerning the MSP proposal. 
Question 
raised about the legality of the transactions, and the possibility 
was noted that litigation might be brought by some bank not included 
in the arrangement. 
It was observed that the operation was easy to 
misinterpret and thus vulnerable to criticism if and when exposed to 
public view. 
Concern was also expressed that the Federal Reserve 
might be drawn into MSP's up to the full $8 billion of Euro-dollar 
liabilities presently outstanding at U.S. banks to their foreign 
R a n c h e s . 
Several Committee members believed that the scheme for 
reduced reserve requirements against an amount of deposits equal to 
Euro-dollar liabilities might be preferable both politically and on 
substantive grounds. 
Finally, the view was expressed and agreed to 
bV Board
1 members of the Committee that if the MSP proposal were to 
b G implemented, the duration of the Federal Reserve liability should, 
Principle, be limited to one year. 

203 
• 
. 
-3" 
^ 
* 
Committee members Hayes, Robertson and Brimmer, in disapproving 
of the plan, expressed several points of disagreement in principle. 
They believed that the problems associated with Euro-dollar repayments 
were primarily a Treasury responsibility. They were also very much 
concerned that if the FOMC began to engage in MSB transactions, there 
Would be pressure for the System to finance more and more of the U.S. 
balance of payments deficit in this fashion, and for an indefinite 
sPan of time. 
If events developed in a way that compelled Federal Reserve 
action, 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer much preferred resort to the 
Proposal for reduced reserve requirements mentioned above. 
Additionally, Governor Robertson emphasized that, in his view, there 
Was no justifiable legal foundation for either the purpose of the pro-
Posed System MSP transactions 
or the means chosen. 
Governor Brimmer added that he felt the probable size of further 
^
uro-dollar repayments was not large enough to warrant the kind of 
e*
t r a°rdinary action that MSP transactions would represent, given the 
like1ihood that U.S. banks and their foreign branches would want to 
r e t a i n some of their Euro-dollar liabilities for operating purposes, 
•fete -i 
sident Hayes also objected to the idea of a central bank in effect 
°
r£owing back its own currency and at a premium. 
the light of these expressions of views by the members of the 
Co •ittee, the Chairman instructed the staff to proceed with further 

-4" 
204 
development and refinement of contingency plans on both the MSP and 
the reduced reserve requirement proposals. 
In particular, the staff 
was directed to explore procedures that might help to limit the dura-
tion of any such Federal Reserve MSP operations to one. year or less. 
