Minutes for 
June 4, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 1/ 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
1/ Meeting with the Federal Advisory Council. 

1 3 8 5 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room 
of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, Do C., at 10:30 a,m„ 
on Tuesday, June 4, 1968^ 
PRESENT: Mr- Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr, Mitchell 
Mr, Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr, Sherrill 
Mr, Holland. Secretary 
Mr„ Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr.. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mrs, Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Simmen, Moore, Still, Mayer, 
Wilkinson, Craft, Fox, Nason, Stewart, 
and Larkin, Members of the Federal 
Advisory Council from the First, Second, 
Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, 
Ninth, Eleventh, and Twelfth Federal 
Reserve Districts, respectively 
Mr. Grady Harris, President, Fidelity 
National Bank and Trust Company, 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 
Mr* Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr, Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of the 
Council 
The Council member from the Seventh District, David M, Kennedy, 
was unable to be present at this meeting, and in his absence the District 
was represented by Mr. Prochnow.. Also unable to be present was the 
member from the Tenth District, Jack Tu Conn, and in his absence the 
District was represented by Mru Harris, 

13H7 
6/4/68 
- 3 -
to 6 per cent (annual rate) in the first half of 1968, might drop 
to something in the neighborhood of 2-1/2 or 3 per cent? 
President Mayer said that some quantification had been 
attempted. In general, he estimated that GNP in current dollars 
would increase about $20 billion in the second quarter, but only 
about $10 or $12 billion in the third and fourth quarters. How-
ever, Mr. Moore's figures were a little different. 
Mr. Moore said he thought the second quarter increase in 
GNP would be nearer $25 billion, with a drop to about $13 or 
$14 billion in the third and fourth quarters. 
Governor Brimmer then inquired about unemployment expecta-
tions, in response to which Messrs. Mayer and Moore indicated that 
they had not made estimates. Mr. Simmen said he would expect an 
increase in the unemployment rate from 3-1/2 to around 4-1/2 
per cent. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether, in light of the pro-
spective tax legislation, bank customers appeared to be concerned 
about their level of sales and the outlook for expansion. 
Mr. Nason said they appeared to be more concerned about 
the size of recent labor settlements than about the tax bill, 
while Mr. Wilkinson commented that his bank's lending officers 
had detected no tendency to change plans for capital improvements, 
particularly labor-saving projects. 

1988 
6/4/68 
- 4 -
2. What is the Council's assessment of the probable 
strength of business loan demands over the next 
six months? What are the recent and prospective 
trends in bank loan commitments, particularly 
commitments for which a fee is paid? 
In recent weeks business loan demands — especially for 
term and revolving credits — have been strong, reflecting in part 
concern over possible credit restrictions. Bank loan commitments, 
particularly those for which a fee is paid, have expanded sharply 
in most areas. Present loan trends and loan commitments already 
made indicate a sustained strong demand over the next six months. 
This demand may be intensified by tax borrowing by business firms 
if the proposed surtax is approved. 
Governor Sherrill inquired whether, if tax borrowing proved 
to be substantial, the Council would not expect other borrowing to 
taper off, and President Mayer said he thought that a number of the 
outstanding commitments might never be called upon. Some parties 
might well cancel their commitments in the next few months in order 
to save the commitment fee. 
Governor Sherrill then requested comments on the extent to 
which loan commitments had been sought for protective purposes. 
President Mayer replied that the commitments represented 
insurance in many cases, and Mr. Moore attributed part of the recent 
demand to a backing away from the capital market. If that market 
improved, some of the pressure on the banks might be relieved. 
Mr. Craft said his bank had experienced an upsurge in com-
mitments to finance construction of multifamily residential units. 
He thought those commitments would be used and that, though there 
would be pay-offs, of course, the next few months would see a notable 

199 
6/4/68 
- 5 -
increase in outstandings, In reply to a question, he said his 
bank was making commitments for construction loans only on the 
basis that long-term financing was available from other sources. 
Mr0 Moore said his bank followed the same general 
policy. However, in some cases recently the bank had agreed to 
make construction loans for longer periods than usual due to 
difficulty experienced by the customers in arranging take-outs 
at mutually agreeable rates,, 
Mr. Craft observed that in recent months a decline had 
been noted in construction of single-family dwellings. However, 
there continued to be a good demand for credit at going rates to 
finance multifamily units. 
3. How does the Council assess the current and 
prospective demand for large-denomination 
CD's? For consumer-type CD's and savings 
deposits? 
The members of the Council report a lessening demand 
by the public on banks for large-denomination CD's as well 
as for consumer-type CD's and savings deposits. This 
largely reflects the growing attractiveness of rates and 
yields on alternative market-type investments. As long 
as this rate relationship exists, the members of the 
Council believe that disintermediation will continue. 
6. What would be the reaction to (a) complete 
removal of the Regulation Q ceiling on 
negotiable CD's in amounts of $100,000 and 
up, and (b) raising the ceilings from the 
present 4 per cent on savings accounts and 
from the present 5 per cent on other time 
deposits below $100,000? 
(This question 
was suggested by the Council.) 

199 
6/4/68 
-6-
The members of the Council favor the complete 
removal of the Regulation Q ceiling on negotiable CD's 
in amounts of $100,000 and up, as it is not logical to 
have a ceiling on a money market instrument. There was 
considerable difference of opinion among the districts 
on the question of changing the present Regulation Q 
ceilings on savings deposits and on other time deposits 
below $100,000. Individual members of the Council will 
comment orally at the meeting with the Board of Governors. 
President Mayer commented, in regard to the question sug-
gested by the Board for discussion, that in the future any similar 
question might more appropriately be phrased in terms of the ability 
of the banks to compete rather than in terms of demand. As to the 
question raised by the Council, he said there was roughly an even 
split within the Council on raising the ceilings on savings deposits 
and on other time deposits below $100,000. Among those who would 
not, there was again a split when it came to the question of the 
4 per cent and the 5 per cent ceilings. It would seem appropriate, 
therefore, that the members of the Council comment individually. 
Mr0 Nason remarked that in the Council's discussion he 
had received the impression that each member, from the point of 
view of his own bank, would like to see the interest ceiling 
removed from consumer-type CD's. It had been over-all policy 
considerations, including the problems of the savings and loan 
associations and of the smaller banks that had a substantial pro-
portion of their deposits in time instruments, that had engendered 
views in favor of retaining the ceiling, however reluctantly. 

1991 
6/4/68 
- 7 -
President Mayer agreed that throughout the Council's 
discussion there had been recurrent references to political 
realities and to the danger that if substantial funds were lost 
by the savings and loans, they would be provided with ammunition 
for a renewed campaign to obtain additional banking powers. 
There followed a go-around in which the individual 
members of the Council presented their views. 
Mr. Simmen noted that the financial structure of the 
First District included a strong segment of mutual savings banks, 
which were highly competitive with the commercial banks, especially 
in Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut. In those States 
the rate that was crucial was 5 per cent, While there was no 
appreciable disintermediation going on, some savings were moving 
from commercial banks paying 4 per cent to mutual savings banks 
paying 5 per cent. The commercial banks had prevented some 
change-over by offering features such as the 90-day notice 
account, savings bonds, and investment-type accounts. For the 
most part, the small passbook savings accounts — under $1,000--
had been maintained, apparently because of the attraction to the 
depositor of holding a passbook and being able to withdraw the 
money whenever needed. Both the commercial banks and the mutual 
savings banks fixed minimum amounts ranging from $1,000 to $5,000 
for other types of consumer time deposits. 

1 9 9 2 
6/4/68 
- 8 -
Governor Mitchell observed that a few years ago a 4 per 
cent rate on savings had been fairly competitive. In the current 
situation, with an entirely different pattern prevailing, he 
wondered what Mr. Simmen would regard as a similarly competitive 
rate« Mr. Simmen expressed the view that 5 per cent would 
probably be such a rate. 
Mr. Moore stated that in New York City the large banks 
had been experiencing a net loss in passbook savings. The loss 
recently had amounted to about twice the amount of interest 
credited, and it was increasing. However, if the ceiling were 
removed from that category of deposits, he did not believe city 
banks would increase their rates as high as 5 per cent. They 
probably would not go beyond 4-1/2 per cent, at which point they 
could hold their own with the mutualsu 
The situation upstate was 
different. While some of the larger banks would like to move to 
4-1/2 per cent, in many smaller cities the banks did not have the 
same competitive problem and could live with the 4 per cent rate. 
Not all of them were paying even that rate. The over-all range 
of consumer CD's, including the several varieties such as the 
golden passbook account, had been enabling the city banks to 
remain competitive and show some over-all increase, but it seemed 
unlikely that that trend would continue unless the 5 per cent 
ceiling on such accounts was raised. 

1993 
6/4/68 
- 9 -
Governor Mitchell asked whether a 4-1/2 per cent passbook 
rate would be competitive, and Mr. Moore said that the smaller 
banks would object because of the adverse effect on their profit 
and loss statements. In the case of the large New York City banks, 
that would be a less vital factor. 
Governor Mitchell then asked what would be likely to 
happen if the ceiling were lifted completely for the large CD's 
($100,000 and over) with no other change, and Mr. Moore expressed 
the opinion that the volume and the rates paid would work upward. 
Matters were right at the breaking point at present, with banks 
reaching into the Euro-dollar market to replace funds lost through 
CD runoffs. If the ceiling were removed, banks would bid up 
cautiously. They would be reluctant to do so, because the interest 
costs would be expensive, but they could obtain 7-1/2 or 8 per cent 
on loans when compensating balance requirements were taken into 
account. 
Governor Mitchell remarked that the negotiable CD's had 
been an important element in the growth of banks since 1962. They 
had been issued in a volume as high as $21 billion. He inquired 
whether Mr. Moore believed the volume might grow to as much as 
$40 b illion or more, say in the next five years. 
Mr. Moore responded that he did not envisage growth of 
such a magnitudeu 
His own bank would not want to see the proportion 

1994 
6/4/68 
-10-
of negotiable CD's in its portfolio increase too substantially, 
because the CD's were too volatile and the great demand now was 
in the term-loan category. If the ceiling were lifted, his bank 
would take advantage of the situation only to protect present 
liquidity requirements. It would not reach out for a sizeable 
increase in large CD's. 
Mr. Still said that in general the totals of time and 
savings deposits in his area had not reached the levels projected 
earlier in the year or late last year. Difficulty in rolling 
over large-denomination CD's had resulted in some attrition. 
Passbook savings at 4 per cent seemed to go along at about an 
even keel. It appeared that most customers regarded passbook 
savings as segregated accounts, to put aside a little money for 
special purposes such as vacations or taxes, and therefore they 
did not care too much about the rate of interest. The story 
was different, however, with respect to 5 per cent certificates, 
for which there was fierce competition. There continued to be 
v.-
growth in this category of deposits, but the rate had slowed 
down greatly from 6 months or a year ago. Most of the city banks, 
he believed, would like to see the ceiling removed on large-
denomination CD's. There was reluctance to removal of the 
ceilings on the deposits for which 4 and 5 per cent was paid, 
although a couple of banks had indicated that if the tax bill 

199 
6/4/68 
-11-
was not passed they thought it would be necessary to raise those 
ceilings,, The general reluctance toward increases in such ceilings, 
or their removal, was based not so much on unwillingness of the 
large Philadelphia banks to pay more as on concern about the effect 
of higher rates on small, outlying banks and on the thrift institu-
tions. 
President Mayer agreed with Mr. Moore that banks would 
be averse to moving the component of large-denomination CD's in their 
portfolios much higher. If the ceiling rate on those instruments 
was removed, the banks would not be likely to increase the CD's 
substantially. On the other hand, they would not like to see 
their large CD's go down appreciably; they needed room to move. 
There seemed to be no question but that, if authority were given, 
large banks in his area would increase their rate on consumer-
type CD's to 5-1/2 per cent in order to avoid disintermediation0 
He would be reluctant to increase the 4 per cent rate on passbook 
savings until the longer-term results of the tax increase could 
be appraised. The 4 per cent rate was well accepted and any 
increase would have a real impact on profit and loss where, as 
in his case, savings deposits represented a substantial percentage 
of total deposits. Of course, if any one of the leading banks 
took the initiative in raising that rate, others would have to 
follow to remain competitive. However, once that rate was moved 

1936 
6/4/68 
-12-
up it would be hard to bring it back down. Only if it became 
evident that the general interest rate structure was going to 
remain high for a protracted length of time, and that passbook 
savings were likely to suffer, would he be inclined to think 
that the rate should be moved up. 
Governor Brimmer said he was uncertain whether Messrs. 
Moore and Mayer would dislike to see an increase in the amount or 
the proportion of large CD's in their deposit structures; an 
amount target was quite different from a proportion target. 
Another point he would like to have clarified related to the 
comments that had been made that an increase in interest rates 
on passbook savings and consumer CD's would be adverse. His 
question related to the degree to which adverse effects would 
be experienced in terms of profit and loss. 
Mr. Mayer responded that his bank had set a dollar 
amount target for negotiable CD's and was trying to adhere to 
that in the absence of any dramatic increase in total deposits. 
That target would be adjusted upward, of course, if there should 
be a dramatic increase in other deposits; under those circum-
stances the bank might not be so cautious. His apprehension 
about adverse effects if interest rates paid on passbook savings 
and consumer CD's were increased related to the impact on the 
profit and loss statement in a year when banks were going to have 
to absorb a tax increase. That combination of circumstances 
could amount to a bit of a blow. 

6/4/68 
-13-
Mr. Moore expressed agreement with Mr. Mayer's comments 
adding that his bank had a dollar target for large CD's and was 
running close to that level. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether there would be merit 
in having a higher ceiling on longer-term CD's--perhaps those 
with maturity of 6 months or more, 
Mr. Moore replied that his bank was avoiding longer-
term CD's because it was guessing that rates would be lower next 
year. It did not want to have too much high-cost money in its 
portfolio. 
Governor Sherrill inquired whether, if rates were equal 
Mr„ Moore would prefer Euro-dollars or negotiable CD's, and 
Mr. Moore indicated that his bank felt somewhat safer with the 
CD's. However, there could be a shift back and forth with even 
small rate differentials. 
President Mayer asked Mr. Moore if he did not think 
that some banks were taking a substantial risk in getting into 
the Euro-dollar market when their names were not well known, 
and Mr, Moore agreed. He said it was a cause for concern that 
some banks were making 8-year term loans with 7-day money. It 
would seem appropriate for bank examiners to look into that 
question. In response to a question, President Mayer said the 
concern he had expressed about banks whose names were not well 

1<¥JQ 
6/4/68 
-14-
known arose from the risk that if the whole Euro-dollar market 
got smaller those banks would be squeezed out first. 
Mr. Wilkinson remarked that mutual savings banks were 
not prominent in the Fifth District, except in Baltimore, but 
the district was honeycombed with savings and loans. He recog-
nized that there was a philosophical contradiction in advocating 
a free market and still favoring rate controls. Yet, while the 
members of the Council were agreed on the desirability of removing 
the ceiling on CD's of $100,000 and over, there was a substantial 
body of sentiment against removing or increasing the ceilings on 
passbook savings and savings certificates. It was elementary to 
point out that pressure to pay a higher rate on such deposits 
would have a much more severe impact on a bank with 60 to 80 per 
cent of its money in time deposits than on a bank with only 
20 per cent. Add to that impact the fact that a bank in which 
time deposits predominated typically would have a different kind 
of portfolio from that of a bank not so oriented, and the pinch 
of increased cost of time money--in whatever form--was intensified. 
Also, from the point of view of timing it did not seem 
to Mr. Wilkinson to make sense to increase the ceilings on pass-
book savings and consumer CD's right now. The prospective surtax 
and expenditure cuts, taken together, should tend to ease interest 
rates. Therefore, while he would like to see the ceilings removed 
I 

1939 
6/4/68 
-15-
on those instruments, he believed this would be a poor time to 
do it. In conclusion, an observation he had heard from bankers 
in two different States in his district might be of interest, 
namely, that if types of accounts such as the golden passbook 
continued to flourish the result would be the death of the 
regular passbook account. 
Mr. Craft remarked that he would have liked to have 
the capacity to retain large CD's at about the level of three 
or four months ago, but some had been lost. In a canvass of 
about a dozen banks in his District he had found that those in 
the eastern part of the District were almost uniformly in favor 
of removing the ceiling rate on larger CD's, but those in the 
western part, with one exception, were not. In both sections 
of the district he had heard strong views that the ceilings 
on savings accounts and smaller CD's should not be touched, 
although in the eastern part of the district the possibility 
of increasing those ceilings by 1/2 of 1 per cent had been men-
tioned. He believed the latter view was generally held by banks 
in Atlanta, who would also favor removal of the ceiling on large 
CD's. Relatively few banks in the Sixth District held CD's in 
large denominations. 
Mr. Prochnow said he would favor removing the ceiling 
on CD's of $100,000 and over. He also would favor increasing 

2000 
6/4/68 
-16-
the ceiling rate on 4 per cent passbook savings, even though 
that would be costly to banks such as his own that held a large 
volume of such deposits, since he did not feel that the 4 per 
cent rate represented adequate payment in the present market. 
Mr. Prochnow believed there was some merit in 
Mr. Wilkinson's View that any change in the rates on pass-
book savings and consumer CD's should be deferred until there 
had been an opportunity to observe the effects of the tax 
increase, but aside from that consideration an increase seemed 
to him desirable. For the time being, his bank was just about 
holding its own against the immediate competition, which came 
principally from savings and loans, but there might be some 
loss around the July interest-crediting date. 
Governor Daane referred to the comments about the tax 
legislation putting a damper on interest rates and asked what 
the expectation was in terms of the package contained in the 
pending bill. 
Mr. Prochnow said that if one assumed a continuation 
of the present degree of monetary restraint he did not believe 
any very significant rate effect would develop for some time, 
and President Mayer added that that was probably the general 
feeling of the Council. 

6/4/68 
-17-
Governor Daane inquired whether the Council believed 
the tax increase had already been discounted, and President 
Mayer again expressed the view that there might not be any 
significant effect on interest rates. Certainly no dramatic 
/ 
effect was expected. Mr. Moore agreed that the rate structure 
probably would remain about the same as at present for some 
time. 
Mr. Prochnow then remarked that while he would favor 
an increase in the ceilings on passbook savings and consumer-
type time deposits, once the rates offered by banks were 
increased it would be difficult to move them down again. 
Therefore, it would probably be well to wait for a while. 
Mr. Mayer agreed that a bank probably was not paying 
enough on savings at 4 per cent„ On the other hand, small pass-
book accounts really were not used purely as savings instruments 
for the most part. 
Mr„ Fox, after pointing out that the Eighth District 
was largely a unit banking area, said he would favor removing 
the ceiling on large CD's. They were not, he noted, a major 
element in the deposit structure of area banks. He would also 
favor an increase in the ceiling on consumer CD's. As to pass-
book savings, he regarded them as a hybrid and not true time 
deposits at all. Therefore, if the Board was going to continue 

6/4/68 
-18-
to prescribe different maximum rates for different types of 
deposits, he would like to see a lower maximum set for pass-
book savings* He did not believe there was justification for 
rewarding the passbook saver who, if a higher rate was desired, 
could easily switch to another type of time deposit. This was 
a personal view, Mr. Fox added, and other bankers in his area 
might not subscribe to his philosophy. 
Mru Nason agreed with removing the ceiling on large 
CD's and said that from a selfish standpoint he would also 
favor increasing the maximum rate payable on consumer CD's, or 
possibly removing the limitation. However, he would not 
advocate a higher maximum rate on passbook savings. There had 
been a strong effort in the Ninth District to induce savers 
to move from passbook accounts to low-denomination CD's, and 
as a result many of the banks had more deposits in consumer 
CD's than in passbook savings. However, the District was 
essentially a unit banking area, with country banks having a 
high proportion of time money. The newly-enacted par clearance 
bill in Minnesota had created concern about earnings, and the 
large banks were concerned about maintaining the good will of 
their correspondents. Therefore, even if a higher maximum 
rate was established on passbook savings, he doubted that the 
major correspondent banks in the Twin Cities would increase 

2003 
6/4/68 
-19-
their rates. The banks might move up their rates on consumer 
CD's, however. While they had made some significant gains in 
the last few years in competition with savings and loans, they 
were not doing so well at present. 
Mr0 Harris said there appeared to be no need in the 
Tenth District to change the ceiling rate on passbook savings 
or on consumer CD's. In the first four months of this year 
there had been an increase in time deposits throughout the 
district, mostly in consumer CD's. The increase, while not 
as great as the increase during the comparable period of 1967, 
was larger than in any of the five years prior to 1967. It was 
not until late 1966 and early 1967 that commercial banks in the 
district had made a real effort to compete with the savings and 
loans; since then there had been large inflows from the savings 
and loans, and the growth of bank time deposits had been healthy 
and steady,, 
Mr. Harris agreed with comments by earlier speakers on 
the nature of the passbook account; it had more the character 
of a seldom-used checking account than a savings device. His 
own bank was at a standstill on passbook savings, principally 
because it had been trying to persuade those depositors to 
choose consumer CD's instead. He agreed in theory with the 
view that the ceiling should be lifted for large CD's. If it 

2004 
6/4/68 
-20-
were, however, he doubted that institutions like his own would 
strive to increase the volume of such deposits, because to do 
so would merely increase their costs, 
Mr c Stewart noted that Eleventh District banks did 
not have ready access to the Euro-dollar market. Dallas and 
Houston banks also had more trouble getting funds through large 
CD's than the New York City banks, They were encountering strong 
loan demand, and therefore they would like to see the ceiling 
rate lifted on large CD:s to increase their ability to attract 
such funds„ They would also like to be able to increase their 
rates on consumer CD's and passbook savings, which in combina-
tion were running about level. Bankers in Fort Worth, San Antonio, 
and other areas probably would not share those views, but banks 
in Dallas and Houston were having problems in getting money, with 
strong competition from the savings and loans. They were presently 
trying to adjust their positions through the Federal funds market 
and through borrowing from the Federal Reserve. 
Mro Larkin said he thought the general feeling in the 
Twelfth District was that banks should have relief from the rate 
limitations on large CD's as a protective measure in order to 
avoid a large amount of disintermediation in a short period of 
time. As far as the 4 and 5 per cent deposits were concerned, 
he had to admit prejudice because his own bank had such a large 

2005 
6/4/68 
-21-
volume of them that the impact of a rate increase would be sub-
stantial. Over the past few years the volume of passbook savings 
had declined somewhat and the volume of 5 per cent certificates 
had increased, with a substantial net gain. This year deposits 
had increased in the early months and then dropped, perhaps more 
than seasonally, with the California State income tax exerting 
quite an impact; this had been felt by the savings and loans as 
well as by the banks. That trend now seemed to have flattened 
out, however. 
There did not appear to be any particular need to 
increase the ceilings on the 4 and 5 per cent deposits, Mr* Larkin 
said. If there should be a change, it should be limited to the 
5 per cent category. There were several reasons for this feeling, 
the principal one being that an increase of even 1/2 of 1 per cent 
in the ceiling for deposits on which 4 and 5 per cent was now 
paid could have an important impact on the position of savings 
and loan associations, which was crucial in his area. They could 
not raise their dividend rates without being hurt badly, because 
the rates on their outstanding real estate loans were fixed, and 
it would be undesirable to create disintermediation, not only 
because of adverse effects on the building industry but also 
because such a development could lead to legislation that would 
allow the savings and loans to expand into banking areas. With 

2006 
6/4/68 
-22-
respect to the deposits on which 4 per cent interest was paid, 
he agreed with the idea of waiting to see what would result 
from the tax-spending legislation. His judgment was that no 
major surge in rates was in prospect if the tax legislation was 
enacted. If it did not go through, all bets were off. As 
others had remarked, if the rate on passbook savings were 
increased, it would be hard to bring it back down. That was 
not so true with respect to the consumer CD's„ 
4. What are the Council's views on monetary 
and credit policy under current circum-
stances? 
The Council approves current monetary and credit 
policy. If the fiscal package currently being debated 
in the Congress becomes law, the Council believes that 
the present restrictive monetary and credit policy should 
be continued until there is evidence that the inflationary 
trend has moderated. 
Governor Robertson inquired whether the Council meant 
that monetary policy should continue to be restrictive for some 
time, say 3 to 6 months, after the tax bill was passed. 
President Mayer said the Council meant that the foot 
should not be taken off the brake at once, because there was going 
to be a lag before the fiscal legislation took hold. The Council 
had not discussed the matter in terms of months. 
Mr. Still observed that some people believed the tax 
bill would provide a panacea for all ills, that as soon as it was 
enacted the Federal Reserve would loosen up and monetary problems 

2007 
6/4/68 
-23-
would disappear. In the Council's opinion, that was not true. 
The Federal Reserve should continue a restrictive monetary policy 
until there had been an opportunity to observe what effect the 
tax measure was going to have on the economy. 
President Mayer brought out that the balance of pay-
ments problem must be taken into consideration. He added that the 
Council had not reached any conclusion as to the point in time at 
which it appeared that a change in monetary policy could appro-
priately be made. 
Mr. Prochnow noted that it was difficult to be specific. 
If the present inflationary trend were to accelerate, it appeared 
that monetary restraint would have to be fairly firm. If the rate 
remained stationary or receded, there might be an opportunity for 
the System to give some evidence of easing. 
Governor Robertson asked if it was felt, then, that any 
easing should be deferred until the rate of inflation dropped to 
a certain point, and Mr. Prochnow replied that while the rate of 
inflation was one of the significant guideposts, it was not the 
only one. Mr. Moore expressed the opinion that it was premature 
to talk about easing as of any particular point. In his view the 
whole economy needed to be cooled down first. The economic growth 
rate probably should subside by about 50 per cent, at least, 
before monetary policy eased significantly, in light of the balance 

2008 
6/4/68 
-24-
of payments problem and other factors that must be taken into 
account. President Mayer remarked that an impression had been 
received by the Council yesterday that the Board's staff was 
confident about the economic impact of the tax legislation and 
foresaw the possibility of overkill by next year. The Council, 
in its own discussion, did not have the same feeling. 
Governor Mitchell referred to a recent article by 
Professor Friedman in which the question was raised whether the 
Federal Reserve would be willing to maintain a posture of restraint 
long enough to retard inflationary trends to a sufficient degree, 
at risk of a small increase in unemployment and a reduction in 
the rate of economic expansion, or whether it would react to the 
emergence of such phenomena by premature easing. He inquired 
what the Council members thought of the idea that in order to 
find a cure for inflation it might be necessary to condone some 
degree of recession. 
Mr. Prochnow expressed the view that it would be nec-
essary to exercise caution to avoid easing too fast, given the 
present economic forces; it might be necessary to go close to 
the brink of recession. 
Mr. Moore commented that from a social aspect he was 
distressed at the thought of a recession. Yet the tax increase 
had been too long delayed and the balance of payments problem 

6/4/68 
-25-
was extremely serious. The balance of payments figures would be 
bad this year in spite of the fiscal action finally in prospect. 
Mr. Still said he was extremely concerned regarding the 
social impact. He thought the reaction of society to substantially 
more unemployment would be a great deal worse than to permit some 
degree of inflation to continue. 
Mr. Prochnow agreed that that was the fundamental issue. 
It was admittedly risky to go to the brink of recession in order 
to be sure of being tight enough to contain the inflationary 
trend. However, a continuation of that trend would ultimately 
present more difficult social problems. It might lead eventually 
to a serious recession. 
Governor Brimmer said he believed it was possible to 
quantify the reaction of the economy in the coming months, within 
certain ranges, since a number of the influences were known. The 
pending legislation provided for an additional $10 billion in 
taxes, with some retroactive features, and cuts in governmental 
expenditures equal to $6 billion over the next fiscal year. 
Another given factor was the present degree of monetary restraint, 
and there was sufficient experience to have some idea about the 
lags associated with the impact of such a policy. Another reasonably 
well known quantity was the scheduled increase in social security 
taxes next January. At the present time there appeared to be some 

2010 
6/4/68 
-26-
questiori regarding the Government pay bill, set for July, but 
if that was put aside from the calculations it could be seen 
that the other factors were all restrictive. Assuming no 
change in monetary policy, it looked to him as though by the 
second quarter of 1969 the rate of growth, in terms of real 
output, might be around 1 or 1-1/2 per cent, compared with the 
present 5-1/2 to 6 per cent, and as low as 3 per cent by the 
fourth quarter of this year. When it came to prices, it looked 
as though enactment of the pay bill might result in an increase 
in the GNP deflator of one-half point, thus raising the rate in 
the third quarter to well over 4 per cent; without the pay bill 
the rate would be just over 4 per cent. In the second quarter 
of 1969, the rate might be 3 per cent or a little less. The 
unemployment rate, now 3.7 or 3.8 per cent, would be 4 per cent, 
perhaps close to 4-1/2 per cent. He believed this quantification 
suggested the choices open to the monetary authorities in terms 
of the timing and amounts of their actions. The beneficial 
effects of a slowdown in the rate of inflation on the balance 
of payments probably would be postponed well into next year; 
there would not be much effect this year in terms of imports. 
In view of the interplay of circumstances that he had described, 
he wondered if it might not be possible to be more specific in 
responding to a question such as had been posed. 

2011 
6/4/68 
-27-
Governor Robertson observed that the discussion today 
had emphasized the kind of problem the System would be facing 
in the period ahead. The views expressed by the Council had been 
based on as accurate an appraisal as they believed could be made 
on the basis of presently-available evidence. It seemed certain 
that the same type of question would be addressed to the Council 
again at the next meeting, and by then there would have been some 
opportunity to assess the impact of the tax legislation. 
President Mayer agreed that at the time of the next 
meeting the Council should find it possible to answer such a 
question in a more precise manner. 
5. The Board would appreciate reactions to 
the Final Report of the Steering Committee 
for the Fundamental Reappraisal of the 
Discount Mechanism, copies of which were 
sent to the members of the Council on 
May 9, 1968. 
The Council would like to express its apprecia-
tion to the Board of Governors for the opportunity of 
previewing the Steering Committee's Report on the Reap-
praisal of the Discount Mechanism. In general, the members 
of the Council were impressed with the thoroughness of the 
report, its candid appraisal of conditions as they exist, 
and the willingness to consider fresh approaches to the 
administration of the discount mechanism. 
The Council approves the objective of encouraging 
the increased use of the discount window by the establish-
ment of a "basic borrowing privilege" for each bank. How-
ever, some members questioned whether the proposed arrangement 
would achieve the objective of encouraging greater use of the 
discount window by smaller banks. When it becomes legally 
possible, a desirable change in the proposal would be the use 

W ! 1 
6/4/68 
-28-
of premium rates for borrowings rather than adminis-
trative actions to achieve appropriate restraint. It 
would be helpful also to provide information on the 
possible effects of the proposal on the market for 
Federal funds and on the money market in general. 
The Council believes that the Report of 
the Steering Committee should be reviewed by a com-
mittee of technical, experts which might be appointed 
by the American Bankers Association. 
Governor Robertson noted that copies of the report 
had now also been sent to the directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks on a confidential basis, so the Council members could 
undertake discussion of the document at directors' meetings. 
President Mayer stated that generally speaking the 
Council regarded the concept of the basic borrowing privilege 
as a step forward, although, of course, it would be more helpful 
to some banks than to others. Certainly it would help to have 
a dialogue started between the Reserve Banks and the member banks, 
particularly the smaller banks, in order to achieve clear under-
standings. This process of communication was one that the Council 
would urge as being highly constructive. 
The provisions for emergency and for adjustment credit 
seemed to the Council members to be very little different from 
the present arrangements, President Mayer said, but here again 
the initiation of an educational process should be useful. Some 
question had been raised regarding the setting of the basic bor-
rowing privilege according to the number of reserve computation 

J 2 G 1 3 
6/4/68 
-29-
periods in which a bank was in debt to the Federal Reserve and 
those in which it was not. If a bank borrowed a nominal amount 
for a period shorter than a reserve computation period, it seemed 
unfortunate to have the entire period counted. This was a point 
to which some further consideration might be given. 
Mr. Moore expressed regret that the report contained 
practically no reference to the specialized position of the money 
market banks. 
President Mayer commented that the provisions for seasonal 
credit no doubt would be helpful to some smaller banks, especially 
in agricultural areas, but probably would not be of particular 
consequence to most banks, including the larger banks. 
Governor Mitchell remarked that a study by the Chicago 
Reserve Bank had indicated that quite a substantial percentage 
of the very small banks in that district should be eligible for 
seasonal credit. The benefits apparently would flow almost 
exclusively to small banks, particularly in areas where unit 
banking was prevalent. 
Mr. Wilkinson said his bank had concluded, after study, 
that the seasonal eligibility contemplated by the report would 
be found only in a smaller bank that was quite static and not 
experiencing secular growth. 
Mr. Simmen remarked that if the provisions described in 
the report had been in effect in the spring of 1966 about one-third 

6/4/68 
-30-
of the First District banks would have been borrowing in excess 
of their basic borrowing privilege. That raised a question 
whether something was actually being taken away from the banks. 
He understood that the answer was in the negative; that a bank 
could continue to borrow to satisfy its needs without falling 
under undue surveillance. The banker opinions he had gathered 
indicated good relations in the past between the member banks 
and the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston; during the 1966 period 
of credit stringency questions had been asked by the Reserve 
Bank, but they were limited to ascertaining the plans of the 
member banks for making adjustments. He understood that the 
Steering Committee's report was not intended to suggest any 
particular change. 
Governor Robertson replied that essentially the same 
rules as now applied would continue to prevail after the basic 
borrowing privilege was exceeded. 
Governor Mitchell remarked that the Council members had 
been somewhat at a disadvantage in not having available the 
research study that had gone into the discount mechanism project. 
That study had indicated a great deal of diversity in lending and 
borrowing practices throughout the System, and also among banks 
in the same district. It had seemed to the Committee that the 
problem was essentially one of lack of communication between the 

2015 
6/4/68 
-31-
discount officers and with the member banks„ One way of dealing 
with this lack of certainty was to have a very specific statement 
on what the basic borrowing privileges were. If a bank borrowed 
beyond that line, it would be subject to the same kind of rules, 
surveillance, and counseling as at present. If one accepted the 
idea that a bank should not be continually in debt to the Federal 
Re serve, then some way must be found for assuring that the bank 
was out of debt part of the time. The other option would be 
continual surveillance, as in some European countries. If a 
bank was not continuously in debt, it should have to explain only 
the plan for adjustment. While a majority of the Steering Com-
mittee was sympathetic to the idea of using premium rates as a 
control mechanism, that was not possible under present law. 
Mr. Moore commented that banks were disciplined by their 
profit and loss statements. Even small variations in the rates 
they had to pay would cause them to respond promptly, and the 
grounds for misunderstanding would be diminished. Therefore, he 
hoped that legislation would be pushed. 
Covernor Daane inquired whether the Council had any views 
to express, beyond favoring the concept of the basic borrowing 
privilege, on the design of the discount window suggested by the 
report, particularly in terms of impact on the money market. 

20X6 
6/4/68 
-32-
President Mayer replied that the Council in general believed 
that the basic borrowing privilege established a formula that should 
provide greater flexibility. On this and other parts of the design, 
however, the Council felt that an educational job was needed. The 
Board should encourage the Federal Reserve Banks to carry on a 
dialogue with the member banks so that the latter would be familiar 
with the groundrules before rather than after the fact. At present, 
after a bank was indebted for a period of time the Reserve Bank 
began to ask questions. The member bank was sensitive to such a 
communication and resentment built up. Mr. Moore added that 
despite the Council's general approval of the program, he thought 
none of its members believed that anything significantly different 
was going to happen in terms of use of the discount window by member 
banks. President Mayer and Mr. Craft said they were not sure they 
agreed with Mr. Moore's comment. 
Governor Mitchell remarked that it was estimated that maxi-
mum exposure, with the basic borrowing privilege in effect, would 
be about $3.5 to $4 billion, and the probable actual borrowings 
would be relatively small. However, because of the possibility of 
wide and unpredictable swings that could be destabilizing and 
costly in terms of monetary control, the Committee had been 
reluctant to go too far. 
Mr. Still said that as he read the report he had received 
the impression that the proposed arrangements were too complicated 

2017 
6/4/68 
-33-
and cumbersome to attract member banks to use the discount window. 
It appeared to him that borrowing banks would be subject to more 
administrative surveillance than at present, and that alone might 
discourage many of the banks, particularly the smaller ones. 
Assuming that the real objective was to attract banks to the 
window, he wondered why the basic facility must be called a 
privilege instead of a right. If banks were in fact discouraged 
from using the window, some of them might question whether con-
tinued membership in the System was worth while. 
Governor Mitchell observed that it had seemed to the 
Committee that the basic borrowing privilege involved a very 
simple formula. If the basic privilege was liberalized, he 
noted, the fewer the questions that would be asked, but the 
greater the risk of a weakening of monetary control. 
Mr. Moore commented that the amount limitation circum-
scribed the usefulness of the basic privilege to a bank such as 
his own. If the ranges were not higher, the facility would be 
of virtually no use to such a bank. 
Governor Mitchell replied that the proposed ranges might 
well be too low and that they could be extended if the need was 
made evident. In order to judge this and other questions, it 
would be necessary to obtain and study the views of the banking 
industry. 

52018 
6/4/68 
-34-
In further discussion Mr. Prochnow referred to portions of 
a memorandum that had been sent to him by the bank whose chief 
executive officer, Mr. Kennedy, was the Council member from the 
Seventh District. Among other things the memorandum referred 
to the fact that the money market had been relied upon to carry 
out the reserve allocation process. The Steering Committee's 
report suggested that a larger part of this process was to be 
effected through the discount window. Some reservations were 
expressed about shifting the locus of control from the Open 
Market Desk to the discount window. The idea was not opposed 
fundamentally, but it was felt that more information was needed. 
President Mayer observed that banks in New York, and 
perhaps in Chicago, obtained prompt benefits from open market 
operations. He was not sure that the rest of the banks did; 
it took quite a while for the effects to filter through the 
banking system. 
Mr. Nason asked why the Steering Committee had chosen 
capital and surplus as the basis for establishing the basic 
borrowing privilege instead of total capital funds, and Governor 
Mitchell indicated that the simplicity of the formula had appealed 
to the Committee. Mr. Larkin noted that in making allocations in 
its financing operations the Treasury had shifted to capital, 
surplus, and undivided profits, and Governor Mitchell said that 
the point should perhaps be reexamined. 

2019 
6/4/68 
-35-
Governor Robertson then requested comments from the Council 
regarding ways and means of obtaining reactions to the report. 
President Mayer said that two possibilities had occurred 
to the Council. The first was submission of the report to the 
research committee of the American Bankers Association, or perhaps 
to an ad hoc committee, of specialists designated by the Association. 
Such an approach seemed to have merit because the committee members 
would be closer to day-to-day banking operations, from which the 
Council members were somewhat removed. A second approach might 
be to encourage the discount officers at the Reserve Banks to 
initiate discussions in depth with the member banks in their 
districts* 
Question was raised whether the discount officers were 
brought together periodically, and Governor Mitchell said that 
telephone conferences were now held about every 3 weeks. Governor 
Robertson pointed out that this would be helpful in implementing 
policies once they were established, but that the more immediate 
question was how to complete the review of the report and enable 
the System to reach policy decisions. 
Governor Mitchell observed that the report had had rather 
full review within the System. It would soon be desirable to make 
it generally available. While he agreed that groups such as 
President Mayer had mentioned should be brought into the picture, 

6/4/68 
-36-
5f i 
he wondered if they would adequately represent the small banks 
and provide geographic coverage0 
Mr. Moore expressed the view that the ABA could be 
expected to bring in representation of the small banks. Mr. Still 
reiterated the suggestion that field meetings should be held by 
the respective Reserve Banks, and President Mayer agreed that that 
would be desirable in starting a dialogue between the System and 
its member banks. 
Mr. Nason asked if the report in its present form would 
be used for this next stage of discussion, and Governor Mitchell 
indicated that it had already been found that some changes would 
be necessary for purposes of clarification. To facilitate the 
work of special study groups, a digest of the research papers 
prepared in connection with the discount study could also be 
furnished. 
Question was raised whether there were people at all of 
the Reserve Banks who could explain clearly the features of the 
report such as the basic borrowing privilege and its implications. 
The reply given was that competent advice would be available from 
each Reserve Bank at least by the time the report was distributed 
and discussions of it were desired. 
Mr. Moore commented that he anticipated U.S. banks would 
improve this year on their targets under the foreign credit 
restraint program, and by a sizable figure. 

'.<-<67} 
6/4/68 
-37-
Governor Robertson agreed that such a result seemed in 
prospect. He then asked Mr. Moore whether the latter expected 
that Eurodollar borrowings would increase dramatically over the 
next few months, and Mr. Moore replied that there were too many 
uncertainties to make any prediction. Much would depend on what 
happened domestically. Governor Robertson inquired whether 
, 
i ., 
Mr. Moore foresaw limitations on the ability of the banks to bring 
in Eurodollars, and the latter replied that this would depend on 
whether world markets stayed as calm as at this particular moment. 
The Eurodollar market was presently more calm than it had been. 
As 
a guess, he thought that U.S. banks were likely to bring in 
more Eurodollars. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Federal Advisory 
Council would be held on September 16-17, 1968. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
2021 
