FR 609 
„. 
. „ r 
November 1, 1968 
Minutes for 
' 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, November 1, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Eaton and Mrs. Winkler of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Eckert, Keir, Shull, Beck, Ettin, Fry, 
Kelty, and Kichline of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Ghiardi, Hersey, 
Bradshaw, Gekker, Gemmill, Pizer, and 
Stem of the Division of International 
Finance 
' •, 
" , , •••!« . • -v..-N;,v.:!; v . 
Money market review. Today's review consisted of a report by 
Mr. Kelty on the Government securities market, with special comment on 
the Treasury refunding, by Mr. Beck on recent and prospective develop-
ments in the area of bank credit, and by Mr. Stem on the foreign 
exchange and gold markets. Copies of the several charts and tables 

3867 
11/1/68 
-2-
distributed for the purpose of today's review have been placed in the 
Board's files. 
At the suggestion of Governor Maisel it was agreed that the 
staff would obtain from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for infor-
mation purposes a memorandum explaining certain financial statistics 
included in the Open Market Account Manager's weekly report. 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Brill and 
Shull then withdrew and the following entered: 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Cleaver, Hanweck, and Wiles, Economists, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Fed-
eral Reserve Banks of New York, Cleveland, Atlanta, and San Francisco 
on October 31, 1968, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of South Shore National Bank, 
Quincy, Massachusetts, into Shorebank N.A., Quincy, Massachusetts, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Cur-
rency, the conclusion stating that consummation of the proposed merger 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The First National Bank of Nuremberg, Nuremberg, Pennsylvania, 

u O u 
11/1/68 
-3-
into The Hazelton National Bank, Hazelton, Pennsylvania, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
conclusion stating that the proposed merger would have no adverse com-
petitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The First & Citizens National Bank of Elizabeth City, 
Elizabeth City, North Carolina, into First Union National Bank of 
North Carolina, Charlotte, North Carolina, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion 
reading as follows: 
There is no competition existing between The First & 
Citizens National Bank of Elizabeth City and First Union 
National Bank of North Carolina, Charlotte, and potential 
for increased competition is somewhat limited. The pro-
posal would, however, increase slightly the concentration 
of banking resources in the State. The overall effect of 
the proposal on competition would be slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Manti City Bank, Manti, Utah, into First State Bank of Salina, 
Salina, Utah, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion stating that consummation 
of the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of United States National Bank of Oregon, Portland, Oregon, into 
Unit National Bank of Oregon, Portland, Oregon, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion stat-
ing that consummation of the proposed merger would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 

38G9 
11/1/68 
-4-
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland 
and Kenyon. 
Retention of Mr. Bilby as consultant. Governor Robertson 
referred to conversations that had been held with Mr. Harold A. Bilby, 
who was retiring from the position of Vice President and Senior Adviser 
at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York at the end of this year, look-
ing toward the possibility of obtaining Mr. Bilby's services thereafter 
as a consultant to the Board on a temporary contractual basis for the 
purpose of developing a program of instruction on the administration 
of a redesigned discount window if the current study should result in 
adoption of a revised Regulation A, Advances and Discounts by Federal 
Reserve Banks. 
Members of the Board expressed the view that such an arrange-
ment would be advantageous. 
It was understood that the possibility of 
working out such an arrangement would be kept in confidence for the 
time being at Mr. Bilby's request and in view of the fact that public-
ity concerning the proposed assignment might seem to be prejudging a 
determination by the Board on the recorrmendations embodied in the 
discount study. It was noted, however, that in order for such a pro-
gram to be helpful it would have to be put in motion in advance of the 
effective date of a revised Regulation A. 
Staff transfer. Governor Sherrill related that Lee W. Langham, 
Assistant Director of the Division of Data Processing, had requested 

3870 
11/1/68 
-5-
transfer to the position of Federal Reserve Examiner on the field staff 
of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations, and he recommended 
that the request be approved. 
Accordingly, Mr. Langham's transfer to the position of Federal 
Reserve Examiner, with basic annual salary at the rate of $21,466, was 
approved unanimously, effective as of the date of entrance upon his 
new duties. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
