MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 16, 1972 

679 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 16, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
• 
Mr. Daane 
!|V 
if 
Mr. Brimmer 
f 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
i: 
ll 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
i? 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
if-
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Si 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
|
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
& 
V 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
fi 
fir. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
1 
Finance 
1 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Chairman Burns and Governor Daane reported on the discussions 
that took place early this week in Basle, Switzerland. 
The following members of the staff then entered the meeting: 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 

680 
3/16/72 
-10-
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Asssistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott and Mr. Wilbanks, Technical 
Assistants, Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Debs of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
r, '•' 
i »i ;-< V". 
:
. 
; --1 '' 
* ' "'.'" 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
Minneapolis, and Dallas on March 9, 1972, of the rates on discounts 
and advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with 
i a : 
>.;.'»<• d "rgVCv. I' dp;-..* c •„*ur.f...iu 
the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to Gaylord State Bank, 
Gaylord, Michigan, approving the issuance of capital notes. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to United California 
Bank, Los Angeles, California, granting permission to establish a branch 
in Tokyo, Japan. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously a report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed consol-
idation of The Peoples National Bank, Greenville, South Carolina, and 

6S1 
3/16/72 
-3-
Bankers Trust of South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina. The conclusion 
read as follows: 
There is a small amount of competition existing between The 
Peoples National Bank, Greenville, and Bankers Trust Company of 
South Carolina, Columbia, but there is potential for a substantial 
increase in competition between them. The proposed transaction 
would combine South Carolina's fourth and sixth largest banks and 
the resulting institution would rank third among the State's 
commercial banks. The overall competitive effect of the consoli-
dation would be adverse. 
The Board approved unanimously a report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of American Bank and Trust Co. of Pa., Reading, Pennsylvania, with 
Lebanon County Trust Company, Lebanon, Pennsylvania, the conclusion being 
Li',', 1 > v' 
1 
' 
' 
' 
< 
• 
• ' . ' . ' 
< 
' 
" 
stated as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of American Bank and 
Trust Co. of Pa., Reading, and Lebanon County Trust Company, Lebanon, 
would eliminate existing competition between the two banks and limit 
potential for increased competition between them. The proposal 
would increase the degree of deposit concentration of banks in the 
Lebanon market and eliminate one alternative source of banking services. 
The overall effect of the proposal on competition would be substan-
tially adverse. 
The conclusion that the effect of the proposed merger would be substan-
tially adverse (based on facts presented in an amended application) 
reaffirmed the conclusion reached by the Board on October 5, 1971, in a 
report on the proposal previously transmitted to the Corporation. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order reflecting approval 
February 22, 1972, of the application of Colorado National Bankshares, 
xnc., Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of Boulevard National Bank, 

I 
682 
3/16/72 
-4" 
Denver, Colorado. Copies of the order and the dissenting statement of 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer are attached under Item No. 3. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of Midlantic Banks 
Inc., Newark, New Jersey, to acquire shares of Midlantic National Bank, 
Parsippany-Troy Hills, New Jersey, a proposed new bank, and authorized 
the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of Belleville 
Bancshares, Inc., Belleville, Illinois, for the formation of a bank 
holding company through acquisition of shares of Bank of Belleville, 
Belleville, Illinois, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of Palmer Bank 
Corporation, Sarasota, Florida, to acquire shares of Village Plaza Palmer 
National Bank, Sarasota County, Florida, and authorized the issuance of 
an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 6. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of First at 
Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire shares of First National 
Bank of Palm Bay, Palm Bay, Florida, a proposed new bank, and authorized 
the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 7. 

683 
3/16/72 
-5-
The Board approved unanimously the applications of First at 
Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire shares of the following 
Florida banks: Riverside Bank, Miami; Midtown Bank of Miami, Miami; 
and Bank of Coral Gables, Incorporated, Coral Gables. Issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision was authorized; a copy is attached as 
Item No. 8. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of Florida 
Commercial Banks, Inc., Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Florida 
Commercial Bank of Hollywood, Hollywood, Florida, a proposed new bank, 
and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A 
copy of the order is attached as Item No. 9. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
United Missouri Bancshares. By order dated January 6, 1972, the 
Board denied the application of United Missouri Bancshares, Kansas City, 
Missouri, to acquire shares of Bank of Jacomo, Blue Springs, Missouri. 
United Missouri Bancshares subsequently filed a request for reconsideration. 
In a memorandum dated March 7, 1972, the Legal Division stated that United 
Missouri Bancshares had furnished new relevant facts that warranted recon-
sideration of the application, and recommended approval of the request. 
However, in a memorandum dated March 15, 1972, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation indicated that it did not concur in the Legal Division's 
recommendation, and summarized the reasons for its conclusion that United 
Missouri Bancshares had not met the statutory requirement for reconsideration. 

684 
3/16/72 
-10-
During discussion divergent views were expressed by members of 
the Board as to whether sufficient new information had been presented to 
warrant a reconsideration of the application. Varying views were also 
expressed with respect to Board criteria for reconsideration. 
Several 
other aspects of the application were also considered, including the 
Premium being offered, and it was understood that the staff would provide 
further information regarding the proposed acquisition. 
Chase Manhattan Corporation. The Chase Manhattan Corporation, 
New York, New York, had filed an application (1) to acquire shares of 
Mitsubishi-Chase Manhattan Corporate Services Limited, a consulting 
company to be formed in Tokyo, Japan, and (2) to make similar investments 
in foreign-chartered companies without prior Board consent. In a memo-
randum dated March 3, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
recommended approval of the first part of the request, and denial of 
the second. 
Following discussion, during which the application was viewed in 
terms of possible anticompetitive implications, the Board approved 
unanimously the staff recommendation, with the understanding that the 
transaction would not be consummated for thirty days, in order to allow 
time for the Department of Justice to evaluate the situation. It was 
also understood that the competitive aspects of the proposed venture would 
be subject to continuing Board observation"and review. A copy of the 
letter subsequently sent to The Chase Manhattan Corporation is attached 
Item No. 10. 

685 
3/16/72 
-10-
Conference of Business Directors. In a memorandum dated Febru-
ary 25, 1972, Mr. Holland recommended that a Council of Business Directors 
be established to meet with the Board periodically to discuss business 
subjects of current interest. Membership would be on a rotating basis, 
with selection to be made by each Reserve Bank of the director or direc-
tors in the District having the greatest knowledge of the subject matter 
announced for each conference. Meetings would be along the lines of that 
held on September 20, 1971, when views on the existing Phase I and upcoming 
Phase II economic programs were obtained from Reserve Bank directors who 
were business executives. 
Discussion developed general support for the concept of regular 
meetings with representatives of the business community as suggested. It 
was the consensus that two meetings this year would serve a useful purpose, 
but there was agreement that overall benefits should be evaluated at the 
end of the year. A preference was also expressed for the use of the term 
"conference" in the group's designation, which was regarded as less formal 
than "council." 
The Board then approved unanimously the establishment of a System 
Conference of Business Directors. 
Pennsylvania State Lottery. The Secretary of Revenue of the 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania had requested the Board's views on a proposal 
f°r banks to provide safekeeping facilities for the State lottery. In a 
memorandum dated March 8, 1972, the Legal Division recommended that the 

686 
3/16/72 
-10-
Board interpose no objection to the performance by State member banks of 
the services described by the Secretary of Revenue in his letter of Janu-
ary 26, 1972. 
Following discussion, the Division's recommendation was approved 
unanimously. A copy of the letter sent to the Secretary of Revenue is 
attached as Item No. 11. 
Proposed amendments to Regulations D and J. At the meeting on 
March 9, 1972, consideration was given to several aspects of the proposals 
to amend Regulation D, Reserves of Members Banks, so as to restructure 
Member bank reserve requirements and to amend Regulation J, Collection of 
Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks, so as to require payment 
o f cash items on the day of presentment. Tentative agreement was reached 
certain issues, but the staff was requested to furnish additional 
^formation to assist the Board in further deliberations. Documentation 
subsequently prepared included the following: 
Memorandum dated March 14, 1972, from the Office of Executive 
Director, summarizing the areas in which tentative agreement 
had been reached and identifying for further consideration 
other issues involved. 
Memoranda dated March 15, 1972, from the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations, estimating changes in required 
reserves and the impact on various bank categories that would 
result from differing provisions in the proposals to amend 
Regulations D and J. 
Memoranda dated March 15, 1972, from the Legal Division (1) 
relating to Governor Robertson's suggested modification of 
the proposed amendment to Regulation D that would broaden 
the category of deposits to cover gross liabilities and apply 

687 
3/16/72 
-10-
lower reserve requirements for a lower class interval, 
i.e., 7 per cent for the first $5 million of a bank's 
demand deposits; and (2) submitting a revised draft 
notice of proposed rule making relating to the proposal 
to amend Regulation J. 
Memorandum dated March 14, 1972, from the Educational Task 
Force, outlining a revised contingency information program. 
Revised draft press releases describing each of the proposals 
individually, as well as alternative versions of a covering 
release emphasizing the complementary nature of the changes. 
At today's meeting initial discussion centered on size breakdowns 
for changes in reserve classes. Comments indicated that the majority 
favored raising the top demand deposit class to $400 million, with addi-
tional graduations at the lower end of the scale. Questions were raised 
as to the impact of the proposed reserve changes and reductions in time 
schedule float on various classes of banks, and it was stressed that an 
effort should be made to match gains on the reserve side with losses on 
^ e float side as nearly as possible for all classes of banks. The need 
for additional statistical information in this area was suggested. 
Further discussion developed a consensus in favor of basing 
reserve requirements on net demand deposits, and Governor Robertson indi-
cted that, in the circumstances, he would withdraw his proposal for 
^ e use of a gross liability base at this time. Several members of the 
B°ard spoke in favor of making such a base the subject of long-term 
consideration, and it was also suggested that the use of such a base might 
given prompt consideration if, during the comment period, reaction to 
tbe proposed amendments was sharply critical. 

688 
3/16/72 
-10-
Additional remarks were directed to the draft press releases, 
and several suggestions were made for changes in emphasis. 
Certain 
Points deserving of particular mention were also noted, and it was 
suggested that the draft releases should be reworked on the basis of 
comments made. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that 
additional information would be developed as a basis for further consid-
eration of the proposed amendments. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
' 
/ 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
• r-- THE 
Item No. 1 
3/16/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
H O A R D 
March 16, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Gay lord State Bank 
Gaylord? Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to sec tion 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $500,000 
in subordinated capital notes by Gaylord State Bank, Gaylord, 
Michigan, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago. This approval is given on the condition that the capital 
notes cannot be called for redemption prior to maturity without the 
approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. Approval is granted with 
the understanding that the sale of these capital debentures will 
b e consummated within six-months from the date of this letter. It 
is further understood that any advertising with respect to the 
obligations will, in addition to being in compliance with the 
Provisions of section 217.6 of Regulation Q, clearly distinguish 
the nature of the obligation from a deposit, including by setting 
forth in bold face type that the obligation is subordinated to the 
claims of depositors and not insured by the Federal Deposit Insuran 
Corporation 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A0 Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

of cow: •. 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
6 S 0 
Item No. 2 
3/16/72 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 16, 1972 
United California Bank 
600 South Spring Street 
Los Angeles, California 90054 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors grants its permission to United 
California Bank, Los Angeles, California, pursuant to the provisions of 
Sections 9 and 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in 
Tokyo, Japan, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the 
provisions of such Sections and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before April 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of the 
branch in Tokyo. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
vances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
°f the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board s concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of pay-
ments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the con-
duct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on re-
sources obtained outside the United States. 

63i 
United California Bank 
-2-
Accordinglyj it is understood that any investment required 
will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they 
apply to your bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 1 
3/16/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
COLORADO NATIONAL BANKSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Colorado National Bankshares, Inc., Denver, Colorado, a 
ba*k holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(3-2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Boulevard National Bank, Denver, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant has seven subsidiary banks controlling aggregate 
dePosits of $335 million and is the third largest banking organization 
Colorado controlling 7.2 per cent of deposits in commercial banks 
the State.—^ Acquisition of Bank ($13 million in deposits) by 
Applicant would not increase the percentage share of deposits held by 
applicant to a significant extent and would not alter its Statewide 
tanking. 
Bank is located about four miles from downtown Denver near 
largest medical complex in the Rocky Mountain region and the largest 
Banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect all holding 
c*npany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
January 31, 1972. 

633 
- 2 -
Suburban office building and retail shopping complex in the Denver area 
Bank> controlling .5 per cent of market deposits, does primarily a 
local, consumer oriented business with the majority of its accounts 
b e i n8 individual accounts of employees of the medical complex. Appli-
C a n t presently has five banking subsidiaries in the Denver area. Four 
of these are small suburban banks whose service areas do not overlap 
to any significant extent with that of Bank. However, Applicant's 
leac* bank, Colorado National Bank ($290 million in deposits), is located 
n downtown Denver and serves the entire Denver area. Despite these 
°Verlapping service areas, consummation of the proposal would eliminate 
^ttle competition between the institutions involved. Colorado National 
Batlk specializes in providing corporate banking services and Bank does 
n°t Participate in this market to any significant extent (it has none 
°f the institutional accounts from the medical center). It does not 
aPPear likely that Bank would develop into a competitor for Colorado 
National in this area. 
Acquisition of Bank would add only one-half percentage point 
° ^PPlicant 
fs share of deposits in the Denver banking market. The 
t*. 
0 larger organizations' share of market deposits would be respectively 
7,5 and 10 percentage points larger. Additionally there would be 45 
banklng organizations remaining in the market, of which 26 are larger 
th 
a n Bank. Consummation of the proposal would have only a slightly 
e r se effect on present and potential competition. 

6S4 
Considerations relating to the financial condition, managerial 
^sources and prospects of Applicant and its subsidiary banks are satis-
factory and consistent with approval. Bank's growth since its establish-
ment in 1963 has continually placed it in the position of seeking capital 
funds to support this growth. Affiliation with Applicant would likely 
provide a source of capital to support continued growth of Bank, This 
Co*sideration lends some weight toward approval of the application. It 
aPPears that the area served by Bank has reasonable access to most banking 
8 e r n c e s . However, affiliation with Applicant will allow Bank to make 
larger loans through a more ready access to participations and will pro-
V i d e a more convenient source for more specialized banking needs. These 
c°nsiderations lend weight toward approval of the application. It is 
the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
be ^ the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
t e as 0 n s summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— 
March 16, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
(SEAL) 
__ 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
^ T ^ i n g for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Sheehan. Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
Sent and not voting: Governor Maisel. 

635 
DISSENTING STATEMENT 
OF 
GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
The majority's approval of this application permits the 
third largest banking organization in the Denver area to acquire a 
direct competitor in that area. Applicant's lead bank, Colorado 
National, and Bank have overlapping service areas, while two other 
subsidiaries of Applicant have offices within five miles of Bank. 
Colorado National alone derives 3 per cent of its demand deposits and 
1 0 Per cent of its time and savings deposits from Bank's service area. 
Su<* figures are, respectively, 67 per cent and 333 per cent of the 
amount derived by Bank from the area. Consummation of the proposal 
*ould eliminate existing direct competition between the two institutions 
would have adverse effects. Additionally, Applicant would have 
six banking subsidiaries in the Denver area, two more than any other 
banking organization. 
Against these actual substantial anticompetitive effects, 
t h e majority weighs the probability that affiliation with Applicant will 
8 l ve Bank a more ready access to capital funds and thus enable it to 
^ e larger loans. The majority asserts that affiliation with Applicant 
enable Bank to service large commercial accounts. There is no 
sh°wing in the record that any such accounts are going unserved in the 
Denver area. Furthermore, whatever need the Bank has for more capital 
func*3 has arisen from Bank's growth and the rapid expansion of its 
dePosits. Such growth in deposits makes it likely that Applicant's 

696 
-2-
subsidiaries and Bank would be even more substantial competitors in 
the future, absent the proposal. Consummation of the proposal would 
therefore have an adverse effect on potential competition. 
The record in this case establishes beyond any doubt that: 
1. The proposed acquisition would have an adverse 
effect on competition in the Denver metropolitan area. 
2. The acquisition would eliminate present competition, 
and some possibly greater competition in the future 
between Colorado National and Bank. 
3. The Applicant would acquire an additional bank in a 
market area in which it controls more banking sub-
sidiaries than any other holding company. 
4. Consummation of the proposal would foreclose an 
opportunity for possible entry into the Denver 
banking market by other bank holding companies or 
individuals. 
5. The proposed acquisition would result in only a 
slight improvement in convenience and services 
a convenience too slight to outweigh the adverse 
effects on competition. 
On the basis of this record, we think that, at a minimum, 
the majority should have required at least some evidence that Bank's 
^pital problem (which we think has been exaggerated) could not be 

637 
-3-
*°ived by some less anticompetitive alternative means. We find none. 
For 
ourselves, we would be reluctant to permit any bank which had real 
aPital problems to be acquired by a holding company whose own capital 
structure includes a debt to equity ratio of 78 per cent. 
In the absence of any showing on the record of public benefits 
h l C h Woul<l outweigh the adverse competitive effect of consummation of 
the 
Proposal, we believe the provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act 
ect the Board to deny the application, and hence we dissent from the 
acti°* taken. 
* * * W , 1972. 
•1 r- - v r n 
" ''J, hv, 

698 
Item No. 
11 
3/16/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MIDLANTIC BANKS INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Midlantic Banks Inc., Newark, New Jersey, has applied for 
t h e Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
U.S.c. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent (less directors' qualify-
in8 shares) of the voting shares of Midlantic National Bank, Parsippany-
Tt 
Hiiis, New Jersey ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
au 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
^ e Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls five banks with aggregate deposits of 
ab ° u t $783 million, representing 5 per cent of the commercial bank 
eposits in New Jersey and is the third largest banking organization 
ill th 
n e State. 
Since Bank is a proposed new bank', no existing compe-
t e 
would be eliminated, nor would concentration be increased in 
Relevant area. Applicant presently operates two banks in the 
ater Newark Market, which includes Parsippany-Troy Hills, which 
^ 
anking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company 
l9^-ations and acquisitions approved by the Board through February 29, 

639 
-2-
t 
°8ether control about 16.2 per cent of area deposits. 
However, 
neither of these banks draws a significant amount of deposits or loans 
the proposed service area of Bank. Moreover, there are two larger 
0r8aniZations in the Greater Newark Market than Applicant so that 
applicant does not dominate the area. Additionally, approval of this 
aPPUcation should have procompetitive consequences since Parsippany-
Tt°y Hills is presently closed to branching because of the home office 
Pr°visions of New Jersey law. The establishment of a de novo institution 
8Uch a s Bank is an effective way of providing competition in such closed 
aCeas« 
For these reasons and other facts of record, the Board concludes 
^ t consummation of the transaction will not adversely affect com-
petition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are generally satisfactory 
Qh J 
u consistent with approval of the application. Considerations re-
to the convenience of the community to be served lend some 
e*8ht to approval of the application since the service area of Bank 
9PPears to be relatively underbanked and would benefit from an additional 
of services. The Board finds that the proposed application is 
tri th 
Ile public interest and should be approved. 
the 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
of *ne Greater Newark Market consists of all of Essex County and parts 
nion, Hudson, and Morris Counties. 

-3-
700 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order; and 
( c) Midlantic National Bank, Parsippany-Troy Hills, New Jersey, shall 
opened for business not later than six months after the date of this 
Order. Each of the periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended 
f°r good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 16, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
y Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Governors 
Maisel and Sheehan. 
h: 

Item No. 1 
3/16/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BELLEVILLE BANCSHAR2S, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Belleville Bancshares, Inc., Belleville, Illinois, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
CoT*Pany Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding 
0ltlPany through acquisition of 51 per cent of the voting shares of 
B a n k of Belleville, Belleville, Illinois ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
aCcordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
^ v* e w s has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
Of Lr*e Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Bank ($20.7 million in deposits) is the fourth largest of 
stx t anks competing in the Belleville market area and holds 8.1 per 
c®Ht f 
i/ 
°t the deposits in commercial banks in the area. 
Applicant is 
ewly organized corporation formed by members of a family for the 
PurPo e of effecting a reorganization of their individual ownership 
of g 
nlc s shares. Members of this family also control the smallest 
bar^ i 
n the area ($7.9 million in deposits) and consummation of the 
P*0pOs , 
would tend to perpetuate the family's control of two banks 
* * 11 2 Per cent of area deposits. This would be an adverse cir-
°e were it not for the fact that Bank was acquired in early 
l9?l at 
a time when it was in very serious financial condition, and 
A l 1 banking" datfl aro as of June 30, 1971. 

702 
-3-
Ut^der the family's management it has shown a marked improvement, 
as discussed below. Under these circumstances, the Board does not 
believe that the anticompetitive effects of the proposal are significant. 
As noted above, Bank's financial condition was marginal when 
the 
e family acquired Bank. Since that time, Bank's capital position 
been significantly improved, loan losses have been minimized, and 
^Ualified management has been brought into the Bank. Since the present 
pr°Posal will continue this support for Bank, considerations relating 
the financial and managerial resources and prospects of Bank lend 
eight toward approval of the application. Consummation of the proposal 
have no immediate effect on the convenience and needs of the 
0tnmunity involved; however, the original acquisition of the Bank, at 
a tin, 
when it was experiencing financial difficulties, was instrumental 
*-he continuation of Bank as a viable competitive force in the area 
and 
> a s a subsidiary of Applicant, Bank should be able to continue to 
offer a wide range of banking services. Thus, considerations relating 
to th* convenience and needs lend weight toward approval. It is the 
Bony.J I 
8 judgment that consummation of the proposal would be in the public 
e r e st and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
as°ns summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
' later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
W 

639 
-2-
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
ank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
-V'-'i; 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
March 16, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
ISEAI.] 
j^^ting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Ma,C 
' ^aane, and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Governors 
l8cl and Sheehan. 

Item No. 
3/16/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PALMER BANK CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Palmer Bank Corporation, Sarasota, Florida, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1042(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of the voting shares of Village 
Palmer National Bank, Sarasota County, Florida ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given 
itl accordance with 5 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing 
c°nm\ents and views has expired. The Board has considered the 
^Plication and all comments received in the light of the factors 
S e t forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1042(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant has three subsidiary banks, all located in 
th 
e Sarasota area, with aggregate deposits of $113.5 million 
^Presenting .1 per cent of total commercial bank deposits within 
State. (Banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect 
company formations and acquisitions approved through 
^ u a r y 31, 1972.) Acquisition of Bank which opened on 
SePteTnber 29, 1971, would not significantly increase Applicant's 
of total deposits within the State. 

705 
-3-
Applicant is the second largest of seven banking organi-
s t ions in the relevant banking market which is approximated by 
Sarasota and surrounding areas with 34,6 per cent of market 
deposits. Because Bank had not been chartered at the time of 
palmer Bank Corporation's application to become a bank holding 
c°mpany it was not included within that application. Nevertheless, 
Ba 1 
n k was organized by principals of Applicant with the intention 
o f including it in the holding company. (It should be noted, however, 
a t Applicant 
does not directly or indirectly own any shares of 
Bank.) a s s ^ ^ t h l g appiication essentially involves the establish-
m e n t o f a de novo institution by Applicant. In the light of the 
t o v e facts, although all of Applicant^ subsidiary banks are located 
Within 
in seven miles of Bank, it does not appear that there is any 
C t U a l ° r potential competition between Applicant and Bank. Neither 
doe§ J . appear that consummation of the proposal would confer a 
P08i«-j 
i 0n of market dominance to Applicant to the detriment of com-
p^^ in 
nS banks. Competitive considerations are, thus, regarded as 
C o^iste n t -with approval. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
pPlicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank, appear to be generally satis-
f actr» v 
y and are consistent with approval. .However, Bank has been and will 

29 
-3-
c°ntinue to be dependent upon Applicant for support. Bank is located 
in a growing suburban area two miles from the nearest banking office 
a n d 5.5 miles from Applicant's lead bank and closest subsidiary. 
Bank is providing area residents with a convenient source of full-
3ervice banking. Direct affiliation with Applicant assures Bank 
Applicant's continuing support. Thus, considerations related 
t o financial and managerial resources and the needs of the community 
involved lend some weight toward approval. It is the Board's judgment 
that the transaction would be in the public interest, and that the 
aPplication should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
£o 
r the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
^nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
th 
e Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to 
delGgated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 1/ March 16, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
(sea1 1
 
T y n a n S m i t h 
J 
Secretary of the Board 
S i t i n g 
this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, and Brinmer. Absent and not voting: Governors 
3el and Sheehan. 

Item No. 1 
3/16/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, a bank 
hiding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act> has applied for the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(3) of the 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), to acquire 100 per cent of the voting 
stares (less directors' qualifying shares) of First National Bank 
0 f palm Bay, palm Bay, Florida ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
a H comments received in the light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3<c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the fifth largest bank holding company in 
*0rida on the basis of deposits, controls 23 banks with aggregate 
ep°sits of approximately $711 million, representing 4.8 per cent 
of th 
n e total commercial bank deposits in the State. (Banking data 
3 8 of j u n e 30, 1971, and reflect holding company formations 
acquisitions approved through February 29, 1972.) Applicant's 
^Isition of 
Bank, a proposed new bank, would not increase the 
n of banking resources nor have any significant ad-
effect on any competing bank, in any relevant area. 

-2-
708 
Applicant's office closest to Bank's proposed site in Palm 
Bay is the Melbourne subsidiary located 3.2 miles to the north of 
the site. Each of Applicant's other subsidiaries is located at 
lea s t 24 miles from Bank and derives little if any business from 
Bank1 8 proposed service area. The relevant market, which is the 
s°uthern portion of Brevard County, encompasses Melbourne, a portion 
o f West Melbourne, all of the City of Palm Bay, and the communities 
o f Grant, Valkaria and Micco, as well as other unincorported areas 
o f South Brevard County. Applicant's Melbourne subsidiary is the 
8econd largest bank in this market, and controls approximately 
^ Per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in that market. 
Th 
market's largest bank holds approximately 31 per cent of total 
dePosits in the area and is located between Bank and Applicant.'s 
Melb 
Bank 
°urne subsidiary. No present competition exists between 
» a proposed new bank, and any of Applicant's subsidiaries; 
ancl it appears that Applicant's acquisition of Bank would not sub-
8t3titially lessen future competition in the market area nor raise 
y significant barrier to entry by others into the area. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and 
subsidiary banks are regarded as satisfactory and prospects 
the group appear favorable. Bank has no financial or operat-
e s history. However, as a subsidiary of Applicant, Bank's pros-
pects appear favorable. Banking factors are consistent with 
U s 
for 
aPpr °val of the application. The major banking needs of the area 
r r 
ik 

aPPear to be presently satisfied by existing banking facilities. 
However, Bank will provide a convenient alternative source of bank-
ing to the area. Considerations relating to the convenience and 
needs of the community are consistent with approval of the applica-
tion and lend some weight thereto. It is the Board's judgment that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public in-
terest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
f°r the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
this Order; and (c) First National Bank of Palm Bay, Palm Bay, 
Florida, shall be opened for business not later than six months 
after the date of this Order. Each of the periods described in 
0 0 and (c) may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 16, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
I SEAL] 
iTvoting for this action: Chairman B u m s and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Governors 
Maisel and Sheehan. 

Item No. 
1 
3/16/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, a bank 
Elding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
filed separate applications for the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(3) 
, , 
! 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), to acquire 90 per cent or more of 
the 
e voting shares of each of the following banks in Florida: Riverside 
Barik> Miami; Midtown Bank of Miami, Miami ("Midtown Bank"); and Bank 
0 f Coral Gables, Incorporated, Coral Gables ("Coral Gables Bank"), 
Notices of receipt of the applications have been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the times for filing comments 
views have expired. The Board has considered the applications and 
aU rrs 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
° f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls 22 banks with aggregate deposits of 
Proximately $693 million, representing 4.7 per cent of the total 
0tnmercial bank deposits in the State and is the fifth largest banking 
or&a . 
Nation and bank holding company in Florida. (All banking data 
ate 8 °f June 30, 1971, and represent all holding company formations 
d acquisitions approved through February 29, 1972.) The acquisition 
of Rl 
overside Bank ($57.4 million in deposits), Midtown Bank ($16.9 
in deposits), and Coral Gables Bank ($9.5 million in deposits) 

71 
-2-
w°uld increase Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits in 
^°rida by 0,6 percentage points, and Applicant would become the fourth 
*arg«st banking organization in the State. 
Riverside Bank, Midtown Bank, and Coral Gables Bank serve the 
^iami banking market which is defined by the boundaries of Dade County. 
^summation of the subject proposal would represent Applicant's first 
e n t ry into the Miami banking market which has 70 competing banks, with 
a8gre g a t e deposits of $3.4 billion, representing 41 banking organiza-
tio 
na» 
The largest bank holding company in the State holds over 27 per 
e n t of the total deposits in the Miami banking market, whereas the 
thre« 
bank 
thr 
e e subject banks collectively hold 2.5 per cent of total commercial 
deposits in that market and represent the market's tenth largest 
ankitig organization. It appears that the affiliation of subject banks 
Applicant would increase their ability to compete in the highly 
^Petitive Miami banking market without adversely affecting any of the 
COtnP*ting banks. 
Riverside Bank's officers and directors organized Midtown Bank 
ill IQC-I and Coral Gables Bank in 1969. The percentage of common owner-
P among the three banks is slightly higher at the present time than at 
times the banks were organized; 77 per cent of the shareholders of 
^iver a 
1<le Bank own 82 per ccnt of the stock of Midtown Bank; and 75 per 
thft shareholders of Riverside Bank own 70 per cent of the stock 
Coral Gablns Bank. The bnnko «r«i nlso closely flssoolatdJ through 

712 
-3-
their officers and directors, and their personnel have been interchanged 
from time to time. It appears that the close management and shareholder 
affilia tions have resulted in an absence of any significant present 
competition between or among the three proposed subsidiaries in spite of 
an overlap of the banks' service areas. Disaffiliation of the three banks 
is considered unlikely, and it appears that no significant potential 
c°mpetition between or among them would be foreclosed by the proposed 
acquisitions. 
Applicant's subsidiary bank closest to Dade County is located 
miles to the north, and Applicant's main offices in Orlando are 
Seated 230 miles north of Dade County. It appears that there is no 
meaningful present competition by any of the banks in Applicant's group 
vith any of the three proposed subsidiary banks; and that, on the facts 
of r 
record, particularly in view of the distances separating the banks, 
0 significant 
amount of potential competition between any subsidiary 
°f A p p n c a n t a n d a n y o n e of the proposed subsidiaries would be eliminated 
consummation of the proposal. On the basis of the record before it, 
the 
e Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisitions 
A U not have a significantly adverse effect on competition in any 
L e v a n t area. 
Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and the three banks Applicant 
Poses to acquire are considered to be in satisfactory financial 
0ri<Htion, their managements are deemed to be capable, and their prospects 
Ppear favorable. Banking factors are regarded as consistent with approval 
the applications. 

ii^j 
i 
i 
, 
.1 
I 
: 
tt appears that the banking needs of the relevant areas are 
being adequately served by present banking facilities operating in the 
Miami banking market. However, Applicant states that it plans to provide 
new services for each of the three subject banks which will include trust, 
international, and credit card services. The provision of additional 
Purees for such services should be of benefit to the community involved* 
Considerations under convenience and needs aspects of the proposal are 
insistent with approval and lend some slight weight thereto. It is the 
Sard's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisitions would be 
i n the public interest and that the applications should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, each of the three subject applications 
is approve(j f o r th e reasons summarized above. None of said transactions 
shall be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
°tder, unless such period is extended for good cause by. the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
March 16, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
y Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^itchell, Daane, and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Governors 
Maisel and Sheehan. 

714 
Item No. 9 
3/16/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FLORIDA COMMERCIAL BANKS, INC, 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Florida Commercial Banks, Inc., Miami, Florida, a bank 
hiding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), to acquire 80 per cent or more of the 
Votlng shares of Florida Commercial Bank of Hollywood, Hollywood, 
Pl°rida ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and 
views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
and ai i 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth, in 
§ 3<c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls five banks with aggregate deposits 
of 
PProximately $188 million, representing 1,3 per cent of the 
ercial bank deposits in Florida, and is the sixteenth largest 
kanki 
organization and bank holding company in the State. (All 
*
>a°ktng 
d a t a are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company 
fo *mati °ns and acquisitions through February 29, 1972.) Acquisi-
° n 
Bank will not increase the percentage of deposits held by 
^Ppli 
cant since Bank is a proposed new bank. The proposal would 
eliminate existing competition nor significantly increase the 
Centration of banking resources in any relevant area. 

715 
-3-
The proposed site of Bank is in the western section of the City 
o f Hollywood. The relevant banking market is the Hollywood metropoli-
an area. Bank would compete in this market with 12 banks, six of 
vhich are subsidiaries of three multi-bank holding companies, control-
ling approximately 47 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits 
ln that market. Each of Applicant's five subsidiary banks is located 
0utside the Hollywood metropolitan area, and the subsidiary nearest 
to Bank's proposed site is located in Miami, approximately 14 miles 
s°uth of Bank's site. On the facts of record and particularly in 
V l e w of the density of population and the number of banking offices 
Seated in the intervening areas, it appears that consummation of 
the Proposal would not foreclose any significant amount of future 
competition between Bank and any of Applicant's present subsidiar-
les* On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
^at consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have a 
Si8<UfiCant adverse effect on competition in any relevant area, 
n°r have a significant adverse effect on any of the area's com-
i n g banks. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and 
i t 8 subsidiary banks are deemed satisfactory, and projected growth 
*nd earnings for the group appear favorable- 
Bank, as a proposed 
nev; bank, has no financial or operating history; however, its 
Pr°spects under Applicant's management appear favorable. Banking 
ct°rs as they concern Applicant's group and the proposed new bank 

716 
-3-
a r e consistent with approval of the application. It appears that the 
toajor banking needs of the area are being adequately served at the 
Present time. However, Bank would provide an additional source of con-
venient banking services to the area. Considerations under convenience 
A N J 
needs aspects of the proposal are consistent with approval and lend 
S° m e WGight thereto. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the 
proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that the appli-
Cation should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
tlle reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
°c 0>) later than three months after the date of this Order; and (c) 
Pl°rida Commercial Bank of Hollywood, Hollywood, Florida, shall be opened 
f o 
r business not later than six months after the date of this Order. Each 
of t h 
u e periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 16, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
Sit K t l n 8 f o r 
a c ti° n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
HaiC 
» Daane, and Brimmer. Absent a.nd not voting: Governors 
8el and Sheehan. 

r 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE: 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
717 
Item No. 10 
3/16/72 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE QOARO 
March 23, 1972 
Chase Manhattan Corporat 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 10005 
ion 
Centl emen: 
s 
Reference is made to your letters of August 3 and 
®Ptember 27, 1971, and to supplementary material contained 
h
 
2f0ur letter of January 21, 1972. As requested and on the 
as is Of the information submitted, the Board of Governors 
lants consent, pursuant to the provisions of section 4(c)(13) 
S e
 t h e B a n k H o l d i n S Company Act of 1956, as amended, and 
c
 c t i°n 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for The Chase Manhattan 
rPoration ("CMC") to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly 
Ha }t0 4 ° P e r C G n t ° f t h G 
o u t s t a r i d i n 8 shares of Mitsubishi-Chase 
be 
Corporate Services Limited, a consulting company to 
0 r § a n i z e d under Japanese law ("Mitsubishi-Chase"), at a cost 
aPproximately ¥ 144 million (about $470,000), provided 
t h P « c e n t 
t h e shares are acquired within one year from 
o f t h i s letter. It is understood that the shares 
a vl 
J a p a n e s e- consulting company may be acquired through 
un?l0lly"0wllecI subsidiary of CMC to be formed for that purpose 
r New York law. 
is • 
T h e B o a r d determined that the proposed investment 
Po3
 
t h e P u b i l c interest and not at variance with the pur-
ConsL° f t h e B a n k H o l d l n S Company Act. In this connection, 
Ca£ deration was given to possible anticompetitive impli-
itsX°US.°f t h e r e s u l t i n 8 association of your Corporation and 
P a n - a f f i l i a t e s a n d T h e M i t s u b i s h i Bank and associated com-
the^08* 
T h e B o a r d d e c i d e c l that the competitive aspects of 
C o n t
P l 0 p o s e d j°in(: venture should be subject to review in the 
fOre?Xt ° f a 8 G n e r a l review of the effect of this and similar 
uPoi 1 S n j° i n t ventures of U.S. banks and their affiliates 
UUcJ ^Petition in U.S. banking. It should therefore be 
«JentrSt°°d C h a t t h e a P P r o P r l a t e n e s s of the proposed invest-
' m ay be reviewed at a later date. In addition, the 

7 1 8 
'fht; Chase Manhattan Corporation 
-2-
Board has directed that the transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
letter and has sent details of the transaction to the Department 
Justice for its evaluation. 
The foregoing consent is also granted on the condition 
fchat until such a time as the Board makes a determination pur-
8want to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act regard-
ing management consulting, Mitsubishi-Chase shall confine its 
management, consulting activities with respect to the United 
States market to services relating to the entry of foreign com-
panies into that market. 
The Board has denied your further request that CMC 
b e Permitted to make other similar investments without the 
Prior approval of the Board in consulting companies formed under 
foreign law to engage in business in foreign countries. It has 
c°ncluded that it should not make individual exceptions to the 
general consent limitations in section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y. 
It is understood that the investment will be made 
Within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply 
c° The Chase Manhattan Bank National Association and its 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
719 
Item No. 11 
3/16/72 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO TH£ BOARD 
March 16, 1972 
Mr. Robert P. Kane 
Secretary of Revenue 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 16527 
D ear Mr. Kane: 
This acknowledges your letter of January 26, 1972, 
enclosing an outline of procedures for the safekeeping of 
Personal property of the Department of Revenue, Bureau of 
State Lotteries, by State and national banks, and requesting 
a ruling as to the applicability of the provisions of 12 U.S.C. 
' § 339 to the performance of such services for the State Lottery 
% 
Pennsylvania State member banks. 
Upon review of the proposed procedures, the Board of 
Governors interposes no objection to performance of activities 
o f the nature described in your letter by the State member banks 
f°r the Bureau of State Lotteries. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
