Minutes for 
January 31, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 

370 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, January 31, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Gramley, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Noble, Sanders, and Shuter of 
the Legal Division 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant to the Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Lyon, Supervisory Review Examiner, 
Division of Examinations 
Mr. Rowe, Chief, Economic Graphics Section, 
Division of Data Processing 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 

371 
1/31/68 
-5-
Item No. 
Letter to the State of New York Banking 
1 
Department interposing no objection to the 
establishment by Banco do Brasil S.A., 
Brasilia, Brazil, of a branch in New York 
City. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
2 
approving the payment of salary to Roy E. 
Bohne as Vice President and Cashier at the 
rate fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. 
In discussion of Item No. 1, Governor Brimmer raised the ques-
tion of reciprocity, pointing out that according to the memorandum 
from the Division of Examinations, dated January 25, 1968, Brazil was 
effectively closed to branches of U.S. banks not already established 
there. He asked whether there was any general U.S. Government posi-
tion on the matter. 
Mr. Dahl replied that on this particular application he under-
stood no Government agency was expressing any objection to the New York 
State Banking Department. He pointed out that two U.S. banks had branch 
networks in Brazil, while another had a banking subsidiary in that 
country. 
Governor Brimmer commented that although the particular case 
was not of major importance the basic issue of reciprocity was impor-
tant, and Chairman Martin agreed that any situations should be watched 
carefully where there was discrimination against U.S. banks. 
Application of Northwest Bancorporation (Items 3 and 4). There 
had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 

372 
1/31/68 
-5-
Board's approval on January 10, 1968, of the application of Northwest 
Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, to acquire 85 per cent or more 
of the outstanding voting shares of The First National Bank of Ely, 
Ely, Minnesota. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 3 and 4. 
Payment of interest. There had been distributed a memorandum 
from the Legal Division dated January 29, 1968, relating to a request 
from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco for the Board's views 
on whether computing the payment of interest on a 360-day year basis, 
as opposed to a 365-day year basis, was permissible under Regulation Q, 
Payment of Interest on Deposits. The question was raised on behalf of 
the Regional Administrator of National Banks and the Secretary of the 
California Savings and Loan League. 
If the 360-day basis was used, the annual yield on a time 
deposit bearing interest at 5 per cent and compounded quarterly would 
be 5.166 per cent, and at least one member bank in California was 
understood to be advertising accordingly. Most banks in the area were 
advertising a maximum annual yield of 5.127 per cent, computed on a 
365-day basis and compounded daily. 
After analyzing the situation, the Legal Division recommended 
that in view of what appeared to be a fairly well recognized banking 
Practice of considering 360 days as a full year, and in view of the 

373 
1/31/68 
-5-
fact that the difference in annual yield was slight, the Board not 
object to the practice in question. Attached to the memorandum was a 
proposed reply to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco that would 
interpose no objection. However, the Legal Division recommended that 
such an interpretation also be furnished the other Federal Reserve 
Banks, and that the proposed interpretation be submitted to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the Comptroller of the Cur-
rency, and probably the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, for comment prior 
to final action by the Board. 
Governor Brimmer stated that the matter had been called to his 
attention by interested parties in California, including the California 
Savings and Loan League, particularly in terms of whether advertisement 
of the annual yield of 5.166 per cent was permissible within the frame-
work of the advertising guidelines established by the Federal super-
visory agencies. He expressed the view that the matter should be 
referred to the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 
There was general agreement that the question relating to 
advertising should be taken up with the Coordinating Committee. While 
members of the Board appeared to be inclined to accept the Regulation Q 
interpretation proposed by the Legal Division, it was agreed also to 
refer that matter to Governor Robertson for determination whether the 
interpretation should be brought to the attention of the Coordinating 
Committee. 

374 
1/31/68 
-5-
Film of chart show. Pursuant to the understanding at the Board 
meeting on January 11, 1968, the film based on the April 6, 1967, chart 
show presented by the staff at a monetary symposium sponsored by the 
American Bankers Association had been shown at meetings of two groups 
of System personnel interested in education and public relations at 
which each of the Reserve Banks was represented. In a memorandum 
dated January 30, 1968, from the Divisions of Research and Statistics 
and Data Processing, it was recommended that a single copy of the film 
be sent to each Reserve Bank, with the understanding that additional 
copies could be ordered subsequently should experience demonstrate the 
need. It was also recommended that three additional copies be ordered 
for Board use. Cost of the 15 copies would total approximately $4,650 
(about $310 a print). This expenditure would include initial costs that 
would have to be incurred in order to make additional prints possible 
in the future. The cost of such additional prints (in lots of 11 to 25) 
would be about $190 each. 
Following comments by Mr. Gramley, unanimous approval was given 
to the purchase of prints of the film on the basis recommended. The 
resultant overexpenditure in the pertinent account of the 1968 budget 
of the Division of Research and Statistics was authorized. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1/31/68 
-6-
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
a memorandum from the Division of Bank 
Operations recommending the transfer of 
Patricia E. Chewning from the position 
of Secretary in the Division of Personnel 
Administration to the position of Secre-
tary in the Division of Bank Operations, 
with an increase in basic annual salary 
from $6,123 to $6,547, effective upon 
assuming her new duties. 
On January 31, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
approving the appointment of Richard A. Barrett, 
Bruce H. Crawford, and Gerard E. Dahowski as 
assistant examiners. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
Letter to First State Bank of Olmsted, Olmsted, 
Illinois, waiving the requirement of six months' 
notice of withdrawal from membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 

lof GOwT •. 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
1/31/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 31, 1968. 
Mr. Alexander R. Billington, 
Deputy Superintendent of Banks, 
State of New York Banking Department, 
100 Church Street, 
New York, New York. 
10007 
Dear Mr. Billington: 
This refers to your letter of January 12, 1968, 
requesting the views of the Board of Governors regarding 
the application of Banco do Brasil S. A., Brasilia, Brazil, 
for a license to establish a branch in New York. 
The Board of Governors interposes no objection 
to establishment of the proposed branch. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

377 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 2 
• F T H E 
1/31/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 31, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Robert H. Boykin, Secretary, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 75222 
Dear Mr. Boykin: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salary 
to Mr. Roy E. Bohne as Vice President and Cashier at his cur-
rent rate of $20,000 per annum for the period February 1 through 
December 31, 1968. This is the rate fixed by your Board of 
Directors as reported in your letter of January 11, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
. Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

378 
Item No. 3 
1/31/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
NORTHWEST BANCORPORATION, 
' 
Minneapolis, Minnesota, 
for approval of acquisition of G5 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
The First National Bank of Ely, Ely, 
1 
Minnesota. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1042(a)(3)),and section 222.4(a)(2) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.4(a)(2)), an application by Northuest Bancorporation, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
of 85 per cent or more of the outstanding voting shares of The First 
National Bank of Ely, Ely, Minnesota. 
In accordance with section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the 
Currency and requested his views and recommendation thereon. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. Notice of receipt 
of the application was published in the Federal Register on September 19, 

1967 (32 Federal Register 13241), which provided an opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views with respect to the 
proposed transaction. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
Department of Justice for its consideration. Within the time provided, 
"comments and views" were filed by the Independent Bankers of Minnesota, 
urging denial of the application. 
Acting in its discretion, the Board ordered that an oral pre-
sentation of views be conducted before the Board, in order that the 
Independent Bankers of Minnesota would have an opportunity to fully state 
and support its opposing views, and that Applicant would have the oppor-
tunity to respond thereto. Notice of oral presentation was published in 
the Federal Register (32 Federal Register 16452), and, in accordance 
therewith, an oral presentation was held at the Board's offices on 
December 6, 1967. Both parties were afforded full opportunity to support 
their positions by oral statement and documentary evidence, and were per-
mitted an opportunity, following the oral presentation, for the filing 
of briefs. 
Having considered all matters properly before the Board in this 
proceeding, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 

- 3 -
than three months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 31st day of January, 196G. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
e 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Sfv, 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
; 
• 
r-fv 
- -.v.: > •••x-;-.-;--., .-vin-1: 
. •. •• 
• : 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
(SEAL) 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
s c 

381 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY NORTHWEST BANCORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
OF THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF ELY 
STATEMENT 
IS 
Northwest Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 85 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of The First National Bank of Ely, Ely, 
Minnesota ("Ely Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller of the 
Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views and re-
commendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval of the 
application. 
Oral presentation. - On September 19, 1967, there was published 
in the Federal Register (32 Federal Register 13241) a notice of receipt 
« 
of the application by the Board. The notice provided that within 30 days 
of publication comments and views on the proposed acquisition could be 
filed with the Board. Opposition to the proposal was filed on behalf of 
Item No. 4 
1/31/68 

-2-
the Independent Bankers of 'Minnesota ("Independent Bankers"), accompanied 
by a request for a public hearing. 
In view of the fact that the Comptroller of the Currency did 
not recommend disapproval of the application, no hearing on the appli-
cation was required by the Act, and no formal hearing was ordered by 
the Board. However, the Board found it appropriate in the public interest 
that an opportunity be provided for the Independent Bankers to fully state 
and support its opposing views, and for Applicant to respond thereto. 
Accordingly, the Board, acting in its discretion, ordered that an oral 
presentation of views be conducted before the Board. Notice of the oral 
presentation was published in the Federal Register (32 Federal Register 
16452), and, in accordance therewith, an oral presentation was held at 
the Board's offices on December 6, 1967. Applicant and the Independent 
Bankers appeared and were afforded full opportunity to support their 
positions by oral statement and documentary evidence, and were permitted 
to file written briefs follox^ing the oral presentation. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other 
proposed acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, 
may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a 

\ 
-3-
monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. In each case the Board is required to take into 
consideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
<r 
of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the community t;o be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Two of the 609 
banking organizations in the State of Minnesota (First Bank Stock Corpor-
ation and Applicant) control 54 per cent of commercial bank deposits in 
1/ 
the State. 
Applicant is slightly the smaller of the two organizations 
and controls 47 banks with total deposits of $1.6 billion, or 25 per cent 
of the total deposits in the State. 
Against this background of present concentration, any proposed 
acquisition by one of the largest organizations warrants careful consid-
eration of the effect t/hich consummation of the proposal would have in 
further expanding the size and scope of such organization, in addition to 
consideration of the probable effect of the proposal on competition in 
markets which presently are served or potentially could be served by the 
•i 
" 
. . 
c 
organization1s£subsidiary banks or by the bank involved. 
1/ As of June 30, 1967. All banking data are as of this date unless 
otherwise noted. 

- 4 -
e • 
—, 
3 s a 
Ely Bank has deposits of $7 million, an amount equal to less 
t. 
than .1 per cent of the total deposits in the State. The proposed 
acquisition therefore postures no significant effect on Applicant's 
overall size, either in absolute or relative terms. 
The town of Ely (population 7,000) is located in the northern 
section of St9 Louis County, Minnesota, and represents the only concen-
tration of population in Superior National Forest, an area of about 
5,000 square miles extending along the Canadian border. Ely is relatively 
isolated from other communities, the nearest towns being Babbitt, 18 miles 
to the south, and Tox/er, 22 miles to the southwest. It is approximately 
115 miles north of the nearest major metropolitan center and the county 
seat, Duluth, and lies almost midway between two principal arterial 
highways, one about 65 miles to the east and the other about 40 miles to 
the west. There is no major arterial highway through the community, and 
public transportation service to and from Ely is rather limited. The econ-
omy of the town is dependent on mining, logging, forestry, and tourism. 
IS-
Ely Bank is the only commercial bank in Ely, and 92 per cent of its deposits 
of individuals, partnerships, and corporations ("IPC deposits") and 83 per 
cent of its loans originate therein. 
Applicant's subsidiaries nearest to Ely Bank are the First 
National Bank of Hoyt Lakes (deposits of $3 million) and the State Ban^ of 
Virginia (deposits of $21 million), each located about 50 miles from Ely. 
The Virginia subsidiary has less than $100 thousand of deposits that 
originate in Ely and the Hoyt Lakes subsidiary has none; neither derives 

meaningful loan business from Ely. Conversely, Ely Bank derives almost 
i. 
c 
no business from Hoyt Lakes or Virginia. Further, it appears that the 
same locational factors which serve to thus limit present competition 
between Ely Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries likewise make improbable 
the development of significant competition between them in the future. 
It does not appear that the proposed acquisition will have any 
significant immediate or prospective effect on the competitive position 
of the bank in Tower or the bank in Babbitt, each the only bank in its 
community. A small amount of business, principally time certificates of 
deposit, is derived by each bank from the Ely area. Consummation of 
Applicant's proposal raises the possibility that Ely Bank will compete 
more aggressively for such business, particularly for time deposits. 
Ely Bank's rates on such deposits are not presently competitive. Any 
increase in aggressiveness of Ely Bank, however, is unlikely to have any 
undue effect on the Babbitt bank, which is a subsidiary of First Bank 
Stock Corporation, or on the Tower bank, most of whose business origin-
s 
ating in Ely apparently results from relationships established by its 
chief executive officer, a former employee of Ely Bank. These relation-
ships are unlikely to be disturbed by the proposed change in ownership 
of Ely Bank. 
K 
The principal competitive issue posed at the oral presentation 
conducted by the Board centered upon the choice of the relevant geographic 
area, or "section of the country" within which the competitive effects of 

3 S S 
- 6 -
Applicant's proposal should be measured. It is the contention of the 
Independent. Bankers that the relevant-competitive area is the "Iron 
Range Area", which includes, at a minimum, the entirety of St. Louis 
County, Minnesota* It is argued that the city of Duluth, 115 miles from 
Ely, is the hub of banking activity in this area, and that, because of 
Applicant1 s presently extensive /.commercial banking holdings in this area, 
no further expansion through acquisition of area banks should be permitted 
it. 
It is the Board's conclusion, however, based upon the geographic 
isolation of Ely, the relatively small size of Ely Bank, and the very smal,l 
percentage of its loans and deposits presently originating outside of Ely, 
that the actual and potential market area of Ely Bank is much more limited 
than the area proposed by Independent Bankers as the relevant competitive 
area. Conceivably, the bank's trade area, which presently is limited to 
the area immediately surrounding the town of Ely, could be expanded to 
encompass Tower and Babbitt. It is highly unlikely, however, that Ely 
Bank would ever be, regarded as a convenient alternative source of banking 
services by depositors or borrowers in areas served by any of Applicant's 
present subsidiaries, or that its acquisition by Applicant would have any 
significant effect on Applicant's competitive position in any area in 
which Applicant's subsidiaries presently compete or are likely to compete 
in the future. 

-8-
387 
In the Board1s judgment, consummation of Applicant's proposal 
would not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any combination 
or conspiracy to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the 
United States. Further, in spite of the large share of Minnesota banking 
resources presently held by Applicant, it does not appear reasonably 
probable that consummation of the instant proposal would substantially 
lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly, or that it would in any 
other manner be in restraint of trade. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The financial 
condition, management, and prospects of Applicant and its present subsid-
iaries are regarded as satisfactory. 
The Ely Bank is presently in sound financial condition but needs 
additional experienced management personnel. Illness has forced retirement 
of the bank's president from active management. The bank is presently 
subiect to management by a committee of its board of directors. 
The Ely Bank's president is also its majority shareholder, and 
his present physical incapacity has led to a desire to liquidate his 
interest. With a view toward protecting the bank's minority shareholders, 
he has stipulated that any prospective purchaser must be willing to extend 
an identical offer per share to all shareholders of the Ely Bank. Though 
conversations were held with several potential buyers, only Applicant and 
First Bank Stock Corporation were willing to purchase every shareholder's 
interest. It is possible that an indication of willingness to sell the 

388 
-8-
controlling interest in the bank, without regard to the interests of 
ti 
minority shareholders, would have facilitated a sale to interests unre-
lated to either of the two large holding companies. However, the Board 
has recently had occassion to express its concern over the effect which 
such a sale may have on the future harmonious operations of the bank 
2/ 
involved,- and therefore, in the absence of significant overriding com-
petitive considerations, does not view as adverse to approval of the 
proposal the majority owner's requirement that an offer to purchase be 
extended to all stockholders of Ely Bank. 
Applicant proposes to utilize its considerable personnel resources 
to strengthen the bank's management, and it is believed the infusion of 
additional experienced personnel will enhance the bank's future prospects,. 
In addition, identical offers to majority and minority shareholders give 
greater assurance that the bank's future prospects will not be jeopardized 
by the disaffections of minority shareholders. These considerations lend 
weight toward approval of the proposed acquisition. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - The scope of 
services provided by the Ely Bank is fairly broad, and Applicant plans no 
major expansion of services at present. However, there is evidence that 
the Ely Bank pursues a very conservative loan policy, failing to meet many 
r. 
reasonable loan requests from local individuals and businesses. The Ely 
Bank's gross loans range generally from 40 to 45 per cent of total deposits. 
(5 
1/ Applications of The First National Bank of Tampa and Union Security & 
Investment Companya 53 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1567, 1570~(1967). 

.383 
-9-
'i 
Under Applicant's control the bank will likely accept the business now 
turned away and more actively solicit new business, thereby contributing 
significantly to the convenience of the Ely community. In addition, the 
prospective change in ownership offers the possibility of an adjustment 
t. 
in Ely Bank's time deposit rates toward more competitive levels. These 
considerations are consistent with, and lend some weight toward, approval 
of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
1 
January 31, I960. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
item No. 5 
D F T H E 
1 / 3 1 / 6 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 1, 1968 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
January 26, 1968, the Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointment of Richard A. Barrett, Bruce H. Crawford and Gerard E. 
Dahowski as assistant examiners for the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York. Please advise effective dates of the appointments. 
It is noted that Mr. Dahowski owns 15 shares of County 
National Bank, Middletown, New York, and that he will dispose of the 
stock upon employment by your Bank. Accordingly, the appointment of 
Mr. Dahowski is given on the condition that he dispose of the stock 
no later than 30 days from the effective date of his appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
f*AL 
RE^ 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK O F ST. LOUIS 
P. O. BOX 442 
ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI 
63166 
Item No. 6 
1/31/68 
391 
January 31, 1966 
Board of Directors 
F i r s t StAtt Bank of Olsttted 
Olweted, 
I l l i n o i s 
Oentl 
\ 
This w i l l acknowledge a l e t t e r 4sted Jermery 27, 1966, 
signed by Ceahler Jemee Robertson, J r . , 
t o g e t h e ^ y i t h the eccoo-
panying r e s o l u t i o n , 
s i g n i f y i n g your i n t e n t i o n to 
v i l h d r ^ r o a 
•isatiarslilp I n tha Federal R u t r v e 9yetew and request infcwefcrer 
of tha s i x Months' not lea of auc^ withdridKal. 
^ 
Ve, of couraa, regret your decieijon. 
However, on bahalf 
of tha Board of Governors, aOting under dflegated a u t h o r i t y , 
thia 
Bank valvaa tha requirement 
o f s i x w o n t 
Under tha provisions of 8aetIon 2Q$.1 
H, your 
i n a t i t u t i o n 
at any t i a a w i t h i n eight 
tention t o withdrew 
frdn 
t h i s Federal Reserve Bank o 
your i n a t i t u t i o n * such 
fund w i l l be made thereon. 
notice of withdrawal, 
of tha Board1a Regulation 
ion of i t a mtmbtrshlp 
te that notiea of 
i n -
Upon surrender to 
adaral Ueaervo stock issued to 
e canceled and appropriate 
r e -
Ifistructiong i n respoet to e f f e c t i n g withdrawal of Che 
bank from lusdhSrshlp a r e d e t a i l e d i n l e t t e r addressed to your 
c a a h i * r . 
s v ' 
' 
Very t r u l y yours, 
0 . 0 . Wyrick 
Vice President 
EHC:Jr 
CC: Mr. Robert C. Holland, Secretary, Bd. of Governors, Washington, D.C. 
