MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 13, 1970 

88 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, January 13, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. .Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions 

8 9 
1/13/70 
-10-
Bankers International Corporation. Unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to Bankers International Corporation, New York, 
New York, granting consent to acquire, directly or indirectly, the 
stock of Bankers Trust Finanziaria S.p.A., a merchant banking institu-
tion to be formed in Rome, Italy. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
Marine Midland Trust Company. After agreement upon a change 
to strengthen language relating to conformance with the guidelines of 
the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program, a letter to Marine 
Midland Trust Company of Western New York, Buffalo, New York, 
approving the establishment of a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, was 
approved, Governor Robertson dissenting and Governor Brimmer 
abstaining. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
Report on competitive factors. A draft report to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of Bank of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii, 
and Hawaiian Trust Company, Ltd., also of Honolulu, would state 
that the over-all effect of the transaction on potential competition 
would be adverse. 
The Banking Markets Section concluded that "substantially 
adverse" would be the more accurate term, because the proposed merger 
would combine the most likely entrant into the banking market and 
the leading potential entrant into the market for trust services. 
Governors Robertson and Maisel agreed with the Section's view. 

9 0 
1/13/70 
-10-
The report was approved, Governors Robertson and Maisel 
dissenting, for transmittal to the Corporation in a form in which 
the conclusion read as-follows: 
Consummation of the merger of Bank of Hawaii and Hawaiian 
Trust Company, Ltd., both of Honolulu, Hawaii, would eliminate 
no meaningful present competition. However, it would foreclose 
the potential for competition that would develop were either 
of the subject institutions to enter the field of operations 
of the other by one of the available alternative means, par-
ticularly the entry of Bank of Hawaii into the trust field by 
means of establishment of its own trust department. The over-
all effect of the transaction on potential competition would 
be adverse. 
Peoples-Liberty Bank and Trust Company. The Board 
authorized the issuance of an order and statement reflecting approval 
on December 22, 1969, of the application of The Peoples-Liberty Bank 
and Trust Company, Covington, Kentucky, to merge with Bank of Inde-
pendence, Independence, Kentucky. Copies of the documents, as issued, 
are attached under Item No. 3. 
Atlantic Bancorporation and Atlantic National Bank. The 
Board unanimously approved the applications of Atlantic Bancorporation 
Jacksonville, Florida, and The Atlantic National Bank of Jacksonville 
to acquire shares of Aloma National Bank of Winter Park, Winter Park, 
Florida. It was understood that an order and statement reflecting 
this decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Reporting of purpose loans. On January 5, 1970, after 
consideration of a staff proposal for expanded reporting requirements 
of bank loans to purchase and carry securities, the Board requested 

M l 
1/13/70 
-4-
that revised proposals be submitted that would reduce the reporting 
burden. Such revised proposals were contained in a memorandum dated 
January 7, 1970. 
Annual reports would be required of all banks, with more 
detailed reports being required of a smaller number of banks deter-
mined by application of a minimum cutoff according to the volume 
of purpose loans outstanding. The staff recommended a cutoff of 
$100,000. It was also recommended that 70 banks (reduced from 100 
banks in the original proposal) with the largest totals of security 
loans on June 30, 1969, be required to report monthly. 
Governor Mitchell observed that a cutoff of $250,000 would 
allow several hundred banks to be relieved of the reporting burden, 
which he believed would be worth while and would lose little. He 
suggested also that banks not be informed of the total purpose loan 
figure ($10 million) that would bring them into the 70-bank panel 
that would be required to report in detail monthly. He also expressed 
concern that the 70-bank panel might include several without computer 
systems. 
Governors Maisel and Sherrill also favored a $250,000 cut-
off, whereas Governors Robertson and Brimmer favored a $100,000 
cutoff, especially in the early stages when relatively little was 
known about the statistical pattern. 
Other elements of the discussion dealt with reporting details 
and problems such as misclassification of loans and the understand-
ability of the reporting instructions. 

1/13/70 
-5-
At the conclusion of the discussion the revised reporting 
system was approved, with a $250,000 total purpose loan cutoff 
(Governors Robertson and Brimmer would have preferred a $100,000 
cutoff) and detailed monthly reports from a 70-bank panel. It was 
understood that the question of the minimum cutoff would be 
reviewed by the staff after a year's experience. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Banks 
pursuant to this action is attached as Item No. 4. Also, as 
recommended by the staff, the Board authorized the printing of 
35,000 copies of an instruction manual at a cost up to $3,500. 
Security National Bank. The Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations, in a memorandum dated January 7, 1970, recommended 
approval of the application of Security National Bank of Long Island, 
Huntington, New York, for permission to continue to carry reduced 
reserves in the event the bank opened an office in the Borough of 
Queens, New York City. 
The bank was not active in correspondent banking; it main-
tained relatively large balances with other banks; it did not invest 
or trade in bankers' acceptances or certificates of deposit, and 
activity in Treasury bills was limited to bids on original offerings; 
demand deposit turnover was low compared with that of reporting banks 
in the metropolitan New York City area; and consumer and real estate 
loans were a relatively high percentage of total loans. Also, prior 

93 
1/13/70 
-10-
to the 1959 amendment to the Federal Reserve Act, Queens was one of 
two New York City boroughs designated by the Board as "outlying" 
for purposes of granting reserves on a country bank basis. 
On the other hand, the bank had more demand deposits than 
the largest bank previously granted permission to carry reduced 
reserves; it maintained required reserves through purchasing Federal 
funds; and the establishment of the office in Queens would bring the 
bank into greater competition with the major New York City banks. 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Sherrill expressed willing-
ness to accept the recommendation, while Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer took an adverse position. Governor Robertson expressed the 
view that granting the request would merely add to existing problems. 
Governor Brimmer commented that the mistakes he believed had been 
made in recent California cases would be repeated here. Security 
National did not have to go into Queens, and he thought the bank's 
use of Federal funds was significant. 
There was general agreement that the fundamental move to 
avoid problems such as here presented would be to shift reserve 
requirements to a graduated basis, and the staff was urged to 
expedite its study of that possibility. 
The application was then approved, Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer dissenting. A copy of the letter sent to Security National 
Bank is attached as Item No. 5. 

1/13/70 
-5-
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Questions under Regulations D and Q. At its meeting on 
January 8, 1970, the Board requested the staff to prepare additional 
material bearing upon the application of Regulation D, Reserves of 
Member Banks, and/or Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, to commercial 
paper issued by bank affiliates. Accordingly, memoranda dated 
January 12 had been furnished by the Division of Research and Statis-
tics, which discussed the economic issues involved, and by the Legal 
Division, which submitted draft amendments to the regulations and 
discussed the policy considerations presented. 
Also before the Board was the question of adjustment of 
interest rate ceilings under Regulation Q. Mr. Partee had commented 
on the possible restructuring of such adjustments in a memorandum 
dated January 6, and there had been preliminary discussion at the 
January 8 meeting. 
Although views were expressed at today's meeting regarding 
the question of regulating commercial paper of bank affiliates, much 
of the discussion was directed toward crystallizing views regarding 
the pattern of ceiling rate adjustments thought to be most appro-
priate, in preparation for a conference scheduled to be held 
tomorrow with the directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration and the members of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. 

9 5 
1/13/70 
There was also discussion of the feasibility of reaching 
toward an objective advocated by Governor Brimmer of treating money 
market certificates of deposit, commercial paper, and Euro-dollars 
comparably for regulatory purposes, on the theory that they were 
alternative sources of bank funds. Some reservations were expressed 
by members of the Board concerning the extent to which the instruments 
were in fact interchangeable. 
At one point in the discussion Governor Robertson spoke in 
favor of postponing action on commercial paper for sixty days, with 
a statement that the interval should not be used for the expansion 
of outstanding totals. His thought was that the interim period could 
be used in developing an over-all pattern of regulation geared to 
eliminating distinctions between commercial paper and large-denom-
ination CD's. 
There was also discussion of recent flows of savings and 
other deposits, the prospects for the period ahead, and the probable 
impact on thrift institutions of adjustment of the ceiling Regula-
tion Q rates on time and savings deposits, with particular reference 
to the maximum rates payable on consumer-type CD's. 
From the views exchanged during the discussion, it developed 
that a majority of the Board members present were inclined toward 
prompt action on commercial paper through the reserve requirement 
route only, along lines suggested in the memorandum from the Legal 

1/13/70 
-5-
Division. Two members (Governors Robertson and Brimmer) felt that 
an approach to the commercial paper problem through the Regulation Q 
vehicle, presumably in combination with Regulation D, would be 
preferable or at least should not be ruled out of consideration. 
With regard to the question of adjustment of Regulation Q 
ceiling rates, it appeared to be the unanimous view that some adjust-
ment was in order, although reservations were expressed by some Board 
members in terms of precise timing. A number of variations on the 
schedules presented by Mr. Partee were mentioned, but in general 
they did not deviate significantly from the suggested pattern. 
Question was raised as to the posture that might most 
appropriately be adopted at the interagency meeting, in light of the 
reactions that could be expected, and it was the view of the Board 
members present that, while the Board should not adopt a posture of 
rigidity, it might be advisable to have available, for the purpose 
of focusing the discussion, alternative schedules of maximum rates 
for consumer-type deposits. It was noted that the Comptroller of the 
Currency and the Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion, particularly, no doubt would also be interested in knowing what 
the Board might have in mind with regard to large-denomination CD's. 
i 
It was agreed that the substance of today's discussion 
should be summarized for Chairman Martin and Governor Daane prior 
to the interagency meeting. 

97 
1/13/70 
-10-
A suggestion also was made that consideration of the over-
all situation should include consideration of questions relative to 
the issuance of short—term subordinated notes such as those currently 
being issued by a Philadelphia bank. If it seemed likely that such 
notes would become seriously competitive with other instruments for 
the attraction of savings funds, the need for regulatory action 
should be discussed in connection with any general move to tidy up 
the rate situation. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

..•^OVGO^' 
m
m 
• M m m y 
ICO 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
or THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
1/13/70 
AODRfSS OFFICIAL CQSRESPQNDHNCI. 
TD THE BOARD 
January 13, 1970. 
Bankers International Corporation, 
1.6 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of December 20, 1969, the Board of Governors grants consent for 
your Corporation ("BIC") to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly 
through your wholly-owned Delaware subsidiary ("DS") authorized in 
the Board's letter of March 10, 1969;, or Bankers International 
(Luxembourg) S.A. ("BILSA"), all of the outstanding shares of Bankers 
Trust Fir-.anziaria S.p.A, ("BTF"), a merchant banking institution to 
be formed in Lome, Italy, at a cost of approximately $477,000, pro-
vided the: shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
The Board's consent to .the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of BTF by BIC, DS, or BILSA is granted subject to the 
following conditions: 
(1) That BIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in BTF if BTF at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if BTF establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Italy or elsewhere, in any manner, which at 
the time would not be permissible l.o BIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of BTF as it may require from time 
to time; and 

9 9 
Bankers International Corporation -2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BTF 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if BTF were a corporation or-
ganised under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject, to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by BTF in Italy in ths 
currency of thit country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandun 
of Associ ation*, arid By-Laws of BTF. 
Shot Id BIC acquire the stock of BTF under the foregoing con-
sent, the Board also approves the subsequent sale of such stock to DS. 
The Board has noted that your letter of August 1, 1969, in-
cluded requests for permissions under and waivers from certain of the. 
standard conditions for subsidiaries which are set forth above. How-
ever, in response to your letter of December 26, 1969, the foregoing, 
consent has been considered and granted without any consideration of 
those additional requests (including any underwriting or dealing in 
stocks of companies doing business in the United States), and,- there-
fore, is not to be taken as indicative of the Board's attitude or 
possible position on those questions. You will be informed of the 
Board's decision on your additional requests in due course. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
establish d unc er the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, Bankers Trust Company, and Bankers Company of New 
York, and that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. Furthermore, it is understood that any investment 
by DS under the foregoing consent will be governed by the principles 
set forth in Governor Brimmer's letter of January 3, 1969, to Mr. 
Alfred Brittain III, President of Bankers Trust Company. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon. 
Deputy Secretary. 

ICO 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N • R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
1/13/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ACDRLSS OFFICIAL CORRE9PC1NOENCE 
TO THE EJCJARD 
January 13, 1970 
Marine Midland Trust Company 
of Western New York, 
2.41 Main Street, 
Buffalo, New York. 14203 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Marine Midland Trust Company of Western 
New York „ Buffalo, New York, pursuant to the provisions of Sec«* 
tion 25 nf the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in 
Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and maintain such branch subject 
to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it ic understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no con-
tact with the local, public at the branch, and that its quarters, 
staff, and bookkeeping may, at least i:i part, be supplied under 
contract by another party. In view of the unusual character of 
this operation, the foregoing permission is granted subject to con-
tinuing special observation and review by the Board and after due 
notice may be withdrawn or modified. 
Che foregoing permission is 
also granted on the condition that adequate information covering 
the branch's operations will be maintained at your head office and 
will be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the 
branch's methods of operation, including changes in any contract 
under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before February 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 

Marine Midland Trust Company 
of Western Nei% York 
101 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Fed-
eral Reserve Bar.}; of New York, when the branch is opened for busi-
ness. The Boarc should also be promptly informed of any future 
change in location of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits 
payable only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the 
States of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt 
from any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 
and Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Sec-
tion 213.7 of Regulation M). The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allcw foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for 
purposes cf the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the 
Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments 
on the balance cf payments, the above consent is given with the under-
standing that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reli-
ance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United States. 
The Board has noted that as of December 31, 1969, foreign loans and 
investments of >our bank, together with those of Marine Midland Inter-
national Corporation, exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under 
the foreign credit restraint program now in effect.. The foregoing 
consent is given with the understanding that die opening of the Nassau 
branch will result in the reduction of those foreign loans and invest-
ments to a level consistent with the guidelines; and that due con-
sideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. ICtnyon, 
Deputy Secretary* 

ICO 
Item No. 
2 
1/13/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D, C* 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
THE PEOPLES-LIBERTY BANK AND TRUST COMPANY* 
for approval of merger with 
1 
Bank of Independence 
1 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1323(c)), an application by The Peoples-
Liberty Bank and Trust Company, Covington, Kentucky, a State member bank 
°f the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the 
Merger of that bank and Bank of Independence, Independence, Kentucky, 
under the charter and name of The Peoples-Liberty Bank and Trust Company. 
an incident to the merger, the two offices of Bank of Independence 
would become branches of the resulting bank. Notice of the proposed 
merger, in form approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to 
s*id Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
factors 
set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed merger, 

103 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set fo^tti iri the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order unless such 
period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C, this 13th day of January 1970, 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
Daane, Maisel and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting; Chairman Martin and Governor Sherrill. 
/signed/ Kenneth A. Kenyon 
. I . 
Kenneth A. ICenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

104 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY THE PEOPLES-LIBERTY BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
Bank of Independence 
1 
STATEMENT 
The Peoples-Liberty Bank and Trust Company, Covington, 
Kentucky ("Peoples Bank"), with total deposits of $36.7 million, has 
applied pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1823(c)), for the 
Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank with the Bank of 
Independence, Independence, Kentucky ("Other Bank"), which has 
deposits of $5.2 million.-^ The banks would merge under the charter 
and name of Peoples Bank, which is a member of the Federal Reserve 
System, As an incident to the merger, the tx-7o offices of Other Bank 
would become branches of Peoples Bank, increasing the number of its 
offices to six. 
Competition, - All of the offices of both of the ba n.cs are 
in ICenton County, Kentucky (population of about 127,000), a part of 
the Cincinnati, Ohio, metropolitan area. Covington, the location of 
Peoples Bank's head office and two branches, has a population of about 
60,000 and is situated directly across the Ohio River from Cincinnati, 
^ e bank's other branch is southwest of Covington in Elsmere, near the 
boundary between Kenton and Boone Counties. 
i/ Figures are as of June 30, 1969, 

105 
-2-
Independence, the location of Other Banlc*s mairl office, has 
a population of about 500 and is situated about 12-1/2 miles south of 
Covington. The bank's only branch is at Taylor Mill, a community 
3 miles northeast of Independence. 
The nearest offices of Peoples Bank and Other Bank are about 
seven miles apart. There is no overlap of the Independence-Taylor Mill 
area served by Other Bank and the Kentucky area served by Peoples Bank, 
which constitutes a corridor across northern Kenton County extending 
eastward into Campbell County and into Boone County on the west. 
Between the nearest offices of Peoples Bank and Other Bank are offices 
of other banks, including two branches of The First National Bank of 
Covington, which is second in size to Peoples Bank in the three-county 
area. There is little, if any, direct competition existing between 
Peoples Bank and Other Bank. 
Under Kentucky law, a bank may establish de novo branches 
only within the county in which its head office is located, except that 
it may not establish a branch in a community where another bank has its 
main office. An application by Peoples Bank to establish a branch in a 
shopping center not far from Independence and Taylor Mill was approved 
by the Kentucky Commissioner of Banks who, however, has advised that 
such approval will be withdrawn if the proposed merger is consummated. 
It is understood that an application for a branch at that location has 
now been made by The Covington Trust and Banking Company, Covington, 
Kentucky (deposits about $15.8 million). 

In terms of deposits, Peoples Bank is the largest of the 
23 banks located in the three northern Kentucky counties of Kenton, 
Boone and Campbell. Consummation of the proposal would increase 
Peoples Bank's share of the total deposits of these banks from about 
IS per cent to 21 per cent. Important competition in the northern 
Kentucky area, however, would continue to be provided by The First 
National Bank and Trust Company of Covington (deposits about $28 
million), and by two nearby banks in the area of Campbell County 
contiguous to Kenton County, i.e., the Fort Thomas-Bellevue Bank, 
Fort Thomas, and The Newport National Bank, Newport, with deposits, 
respectively, of about $23 million and $22.5 million. 
The three northern Kentucky counties are within the Cincinnati 
metropolitan area. Cincinnati has been a predominating influence with 
respect to the three counties, due not only to its proximity but to its 
labor opportunities. Approximately 60 per cent of the employable work 
force in the northern Kentucky area is said to commute to Cincinnati. 
Definite inter-action occurs between banks in Cincinnati and banks in 
the three northern Kentucky counties, and the Cincinnati banks provide 
important competition to the banks headquartered in the counties, 
including the five Cincinnati banks having deposits ranging from 
million to $502 million with the 23 banks located within the 
three northern Kentucky counties, the bank resulting from the proposed 
merger would have only about 2 per cent of the total deposits held by 
the 2G institutions. Thus, while the proposal, if consummated, would 

107 
-4-
result in some further concentration of resources in the largest 
northern Kentucky bank, when viev;ed realistically in the light of the 
relationship of that area to Cincinnati, it would have no more than a 
slightly adverse effect on competition. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors with respect to each of the banks proposing to merge 
are satisfactory, as they would be with respect to the resulting 
bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - The effect of 
the merger on banking convenience and needs would be limited to the 
area south of Covington served by Other Bank, which has been operated 
unaggressively as a small, rural bank. With the completion of 
Inters tate Route 75 southward from the Covington area, and the scheduled 
construction of a Cincinnati beltway which would bisect the area 
served by Other Bank, it is anticipated that there will be substantially 
increased development in the area and need for banking services beyond 
the ability of Other Bank. The entry of Peoples Bank into the area 
would aid materially in this expected growth and, in the meantime, 
would provide banking services not presently available at offices of 
°ther Bank. 
Summary and conclusions. - The proposed merger would benefit 
the present and expected banking needs and convenience in the area 
served by Other Bank. In the Board!s judgment, these benefits would 

1C8 
offset the slightly adverse effect of the proposal on banking 
competition. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
be approved. 
January 12? 1970. 

*< > i1' VO • 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
109 
Item No. 4 
1/13/70 
ADDRESS OKFICIAL CDRRESPilNOENC 
TO THE GUARD 
January 13, 1970 
Dear Sir: 
7.11 order to carry out more effectively its statutory respon-
sibilities under Regulation U, the Board of Governors has determined 
that it must obtain more detailed information en the Report of 
Condition (Call Report ) item, "other loans [than to brokers and 
dealers] for the purpose of purchasing or carrying stocks, bonds, 
and other securities." -(item 3(b) of Schedule A). This information 
will be obtained through form FR U-4 (copies enclosed), issued 
pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(15 USC §7Sq(b))r.nd Section 221.3(j) of Regulation U, to be filed 
£*-nually by all banks covered by the regulation, and monthly by a 
&roup of commercial banks extending the freponclerance of credit' 
governed by the -.regulation. 
* 
The Board is sensitive to the turden v?hich this additional 
report will placc on banks and has endeavored to balance this burden 
gainst the. need for more detailed and meaningful information to 
support policy decisions on changes in tie level of margin require-
ments and i.i Regulation U itself. This need iu not new but has 
become more urgent by reason of passage cf the Ovar-the-Counter Margin 
Act (P.L.90-437, approved July 2.9, 1968) which was implemented by 
the Board in mid-1969. As a result of two separate field tests of 
the form, adjustments in both the detail of reporting and the compre-
hensiveness of the report specifications have been made in an attempt 
to minimize the reporting burden. 
The statistic on security loans now being collected from 
banks has always been distorted for regulatory decision-making purposes 
by the inclusion of credit not covered by Regulation U, both in the 
form of loans on government securities and corporate debt and in the 
forva of. unregulated loans to purchase or carry over-the-counter stocks. 
Successive changes in the regulation, which have assigned special loan 
values to convertible bond collateral and brought under regulation a 
selected group of over-the-counter stocks, have compounded these 
distortions. 

-2-
110 
Ihe new report eliminates many of these distortions by 
requiring essentially that loans in which the collateral is not 
covered by the. regulation (Category 3 in the report) be separated from 
loans in which the collateral is so covered (Categories 1 and 2). 
Furthermore, the report separates loans in which the collateral is 
covered by the regulation so that loans whose purpose is to purchase 
or carry securities not presently covered (Category 2) are classified 
apart from loans whose purpose is to purchase or carry securities 
which are so covered (Category 1). Finally, Category 1 loans are to 
be subclass!fied according to their eligibility for different initial 
maximum loan values under the regulation. 
These classifications will previde the Board with the 
minimum information on specific loan categories needed to make data 
furnished by banks comparable with that already collected in 
similar detail from brokerage firms lending under Regulation T. 
Each of the required classifications will contribute importantly to 
decisions on the level of margin requirements and to assessing the 
impact of any fu;ure proposals for changes in the coverage of the 
regulation itself. Adequately detailed bank data are particularly 
important in implementing the Board's authority over heretofore 
unregulated lending to purchase over-the-counter stocks, since 
brokers cannot lend on such stccks. 
The annual report (FR U-4A), a copy of which is enclosed, 
will be required of all banks including State member banks, National 
banks, insured State non-member, and uninsured non-member commercial 
banks; FDIO-insured mutual savings banks and other mutual savings 
banks; and all branches and agencies of foreign banks that are classi-
fied as "banks" by the State in which the branch or agency resides. 
The first reporting date will be June 30, 1970 (the date of the June 
Call), and reports will be required as of each June call date 
thereafter. The report is to be submitted to the Federal Reserve 
Bank within twenty days after the reporting date. 
Only banks whose loans to purchase or carry securities 
(other than to brokers and dealers) aggregate $250,000 or more on the 
reporting date need report the detail requested in items 1, 2, and 
3 of the report form. All other banks would indicate on the appro-
priate part of the form either that no such loans are carried or that 
such loans total less than the established cutoff. Thus, while ail 
banks covered by Regulation U will be required to file a signed report 
annually on fora U-4„ only those banks with substantial security 
loans outstanding need classify loans for detailed reporting. 

The monthly report (FR U-4M), a copy of which is also 
enclosed, V v i l l be required of a group of banks selected on the basis 
of their importance in the total amount of security credit lending. 
A list of the banks in your district which will be required to 
complete the monthly report is enclosed. The first reporting date 
for the morthly report will be January 31, 1971; monthly reports 
are to be submitted within ten days of the reporting date. Since 
the data required on the'monthly report sre identical to that on the 
annual report, bf.nks selected to report monthly will be required to 
file form FR U-4A in 1970 only; thereafter, their annual reporting 
requirement will be met by the monthly report on FR U-AM for each 
June. 
Draft copies of four letters are enclosed, one of which is 
suggested for use in notifying banks selected to report monthly, one 
for those commercial banks reporting only annually, one for all 
mutual savings beaks, and one for all agencics and branches of foreign 
banks classified as "banks" by State law. You may, of course, send 
different letters than those suggested or make any changes in the 
draft forms you deem appropriate. Since the longest possible lead 
time prior to the reporting date is desirable to minimize the burden 
of classifying loan records, it would be appreciated if you would 
immediately notify both annual and monthly reporting banks of this 
new regulatory reporting requirement. A manual including instruction 
and sample report forTis is in the process of being printed at the 
Board; sufficient copies of this manual should be enclosed with 
your letter to each bank to provide a copy for each branch manager. 
A 
In order to expedite the notification of banks, it would 
be appreciated if you would wire the Board as soon as possible the 
name of the officer at your Bank who will be in charge of the new 
reporting requirement.. He will then receive, as soon as copies are 
available, he number of manuals which he indicates will be needed 
for your district. He will also be provided with a technical memo-
randum regarding the preparation and summarizing of reported data 
ior transmittal to the Board. 
The Board very much appreciates your cooperation in 
instituting and servicing this new reporting requirement. Any 
questions which arise should be directed to Mr. Edward Ettin or 
Mr. John Stoffels of our Capital Markets Section. 
Very truly yours, 
fer&uM 
6 / 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
/ 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosures. 
ro THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

ICO 
'•f'^LRE^. 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N G R S 
• F T H L 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 205S1 
Item No. 2 
1/13/70 
A D D R E S S 
C J F F I C I A L 
R:A R N E :>MCI N OF. N P E 
T D 
T H E 
B D A R I ) 
JAM 1 3 1970 
Board of Directors, 
Security National Bank of Long Island, 
Huntington, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the Board of Governors, 
acting under the provisions of Section 19 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, grants permission to the Security National Bank 
of Long Island to maintain the fame reserves against deposits 
as are required to be maintained by member banks not in a 
reserve city, effective as of the date the proposed branch in 
the Borough of Queens is opened. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such per-
mission is subject to revocation by tne Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
((Signed) Kenneth A/ Ken/OB 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
