Minutes for January 26, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
adv ise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
°nly that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
U £ 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, January 26, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Axilrod, Williams, Eckert, Bernard, 
Ettin, Fry, Kelty, and Kichline of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Hersey, Katz, Baker, 
Gekker, Ruckdeschel, and Stem of the Division 
of International Finance 
Money market review. Today's review consisted of comments by 
Mr. Bernard on the Government securities market, by Mr. Fry on bank 
credit projections, and by Mr. Ruckdeschel on gold and foreign exchange 
market developments. In addition, Mr. Reynolds presented statistics 
indicative of the deterioration in the U.S. foreign trade balance in 
the fourth quarter of 1967. Copies of the tables and charts distrib-
uted in connection with today's review have been placed in the Board's 
files. 

307 
1/26/68 
-9-
Members of the research staff other than Messrs. Brill, Sammons, 
and Reynolds then withdrew and the following entered: 
Messrs. Hexter, Shay, and Doyle of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Dahl, Goodfellow, and Pounds tone of the 
Division of Examinations 
Messrs. Irvine and Maroni of the Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Fed-
eral Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Kansas City, and Dallas on January 25, 1968, of the rates on discounts 
and advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Deltec matter. Consideration was given to applications by 
State Street Bank Boston International, New York, New York, and 
Philadelphia International Investment Corporation, Philadelphia, Penn-
sylvania, for permission to acquire shares of convertible preferred 
stock of Deltec Pan America, S. A., Nassau, Bahamas. 
At the Board's request, Mr. Dahl reviewed various questions 
involved in the applications, described the staff conclusions with 
respect to them, as stated in a memorandum of January 12, 1968, and 
summarized the staff recommendations reflected in the letters proposed 
to be sent to the applicant corporations. 
During the discussion that followed, Governor Maisel suggested 
that at such time as changes might be made in Regulation K (Corpora-
tions Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing under the Federal 

4 
1/26/68 
-9-
Reserve Act) consideration be given to conforming the language of 
sections 211.5(b) and 211.8(c) of the regulation. It was understood 
that this suggestion would be borne in mind by the staff. 
Governor Brimmer then referred to the President's Executive 
Order of January 1, 1968, relating to capital transfers abroad and 
raised the question whether approval of the current applications would 
be consistent with the over-all Government program, particularly in 
relation to the controls over direct investments by corporations being 
administered by the Department of Commerce on a mandatory basis. He 
suggested that the Board's foreign credit restraint program be placed 
°n a comparable footing. He and Governor Maisel recalled that follow-
ing the announcement of the President's new balance of payments program 
the Board had agreed that consideration should be given to the policies 
that it would be appropriate for the Board to follow in considering 
applications by Edge and agreement corporations to make direct invest-
ments abroad. 
Governor Robertson stated that the subject had been under study 
by the staff and that a memorandum would be available for the Board's 
consideration within the next few days. He suggested that action on 
the current applications, and on any other similar pending applications, 
be deferred until after the Board had reviewed the forthcoming memo-
randum and reached a decision. There was general agreement with 
Governor Robertson's suggestion. 

1/26/68 
-4-
In reply to a question by Governor Maisel, Governor Robertson 
stated that the Board would be furnished a list of pending applica-
tions by Edge and agreement corporations, with indication whether such 
applications had been filed with the Federal Reserve before or after 
January 1, 1968. 
Gold collateral loans (Item No. 1). By letter dated November 3, 
1967, the Board transmitted to Senator Morse, Chairman of a Subcommittee 
°f the Committee on Foreign Relations, certain requested information 
with respect to loans extended by the Federal Reserve to the central 
bank of Colombia against the collateral of gold held under earmark at 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
In a letter dated December 8, 1967, Chairman Fulbright of the 
Committee on Foreign Relations referred to the material that had been 
sent to Senator Morse and requested information on loans extended by 
the Federal Reserve to other countries since January 1, 1961. 
There had now been distributed under date of January 22, 1968, 
a draft of letter to Senator Fulbright and a draft of accompanying 
memorandum covering 23 loans made to seven countries during the period 
in question. 
Governor Brimmer suggested a number of language changes in the 
Proposed letter and memorandum that he considered desirable, for reasons 
that he mentioned. Those suggestions were accepted, and unanimous 
approval then was given to the transmittal to Chairman Fulbright of a 
letter in the form attached as Item No. 1. 

310 
1/26/68 
-9-
Foreign official time deposits (Item No. 2). The Budget Bureau 
had requested yesterday, through Mr. Hackley, an expression of the 
Board's views with respect to a draft bill recommended by the Treasury 
Department that would make permanent the provision of section 19 of 
the Federal Reserve Act exempting foreign official time deposits at 
member banks from interest rate limitations until October 15, 1968. 
In a memorandum of January 25, Mr. Hackley pointed out that 
under the temporary authority contained in the Act of September 21, 
1966, the Board had recently amended Regulation Q, Payment of Interest 
on Deposits, to exempt foreign official time deposits from interest 
rate ceilings if they were received or extended prior to the termina-
tion of the temporary authority, which was now scheduled to expire 
September 20, 1968, and if they had maturities of not more than two 
years. If the temporary authority should be extended or made perma-
nent, it could be argued that the special statutory exemption for 
foreign time deposits would not be necessary, because the exemption 
would then be within the Board's discretion. 
After a statement by Mr. Hackley on the problem involved and 
alternative views that might be expressed to the Budget Bureau, sev-
eral members of the Board indicated that in their opinion the Board 
should not concur in the draft bill. Their preference was to have the 
exemption authority available for use in the Board's discretion rather 
than to have the exemption made permanent by statute. 

31 
1/26/68 
-9-
Governor Robertson, one of the members who indicated that 
he would oppose permanent legislation, pointed out that there might 
be conditions under which the exemption of foreign official time 
deposits from interest rate limitations would not be desirable. How-
ever, there was the possibility that the authority contained in the 
Act of September 21, 1966, would not be extended. Therefore, he would 
suggest recommending to the Budget Bureau that draft legislation extend-
ing the present provision of section 19 with respect to foreign official 
time deposits for a period of, say, two or three years be held in read-
iness in the event it should appear that an extension of the Act of 
September 21, 1966, was not going to be obtained. 
Mr. Cardon noted that it would be unusual for the Administra-
tion to submit proposed legislation to the Congress with a proviso 
that its enactment was not recommended if certain other legislation 
was passed, and Governor Robertson clarified his earlier remarks by 
saying he would recommend to the Budget Bureau that draft legislation 
to extend the statutory exemption of foreign official time deposits 
be held in readiness for submission to the Congress only if necessary. 
Other members of the Board indicated that they would favor 
transmitting to the Budget Bureau views along the lines proposed by 
Governor Robertson. Governor Sherrill, who earlier during the dis-
cussion had expressed some reservations about not concurring in the 
current draft bill because of the possibility that the Act of 

1/26/68 
-4-
September 21, 1966, would not be extended, indicated that he felt the 
solution outlined by Governor Robertson was satisfactory. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to the transmittal 
to the Budget Bureau of a letter in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Sandra Odell Logan as Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative 
Services, with annual salary at the rate of $2,014 (4-hour day), effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Lucia F. Magnini as Charwoman, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,776, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. (The appointment was to a budget position for which 
dual occupancy was authorized due to illness.) 
Horace Lee Pierce as Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,776, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases, effective January 28, 1968 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Research and Statistics 
Ruth K. Bradford, Statistical Clerk 
$ 5 ,161 
$ 5,327 
Judith S. Bretz, Economist 
10 ,301 
10,623 
Levon H. Garabedian, Chief, Division 
12 ,225 
13,507 
Administration Section 
Mary Ann Graves, Economist 
10 ,301 
10,623 
Marguerite Hudgins, Research Assistant 
6 ,959 
7,184 
Mary F. Weaver, Statistical Assistant 
8 ,534 
9,130 

<J 
1/26/68 
-8-
Salary increases, effective January 28, 1968 (continued) 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Examinations 
Diane Dzik, Stenographer 
$ 4,995 
$ 5,161 
Administrative Services 
Herman C. Bounds, Chauffeur 
6,074 
6,386 
Thresia Elting, Cafeteria Helper 
4,406 
4,532 
Clifford H. Wallace, Guard 
4,764 
4,913 
Office of the Controller 
Eunice M. Boyd, Secretary 
8,084 
8,309 
Data processing 
Hadley G. Nelson, Chief, Analysis and 
18,404 
19,017 
Programming Section 
Ray M. Reeder, Computer Operations 
8,323 
8,592 
Supervisor 
Leave without pay 
Betty Howard Martin, Charwoman, Division of Administrative Ser-
vices, for the period January 15 through March 10, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Constance D. Hall, Research Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business January 26, 1968, rather 
than the close of business February 2, 1968, as previously approved. 
Elizabeth P. Hodges, Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative 
Services, effective the close of business January 22, 1968. 
On January 26, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 

314 
1/26/68 
-9-
By the Director of the Division of Bank Operations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Comptroller of the Currency 
3 
submitting a supplemental printing order 
for Federal Reserve notes for fiscal year 
1968. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
4 
Pennsylvania, approving the establishment of 
a branch in Abington Township, Montgomery 
County, and an investment in bank premises 
incident thereto. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F TH E 
Item No. 1 
1/26/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN 
January 29, 1968 
The Honorable J. W. Fulbright, Chairman, 
Committee on Foreign Relations, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510. 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In your letter of December 8, 1967, you referred to the 
information which the Board made available to Senator Morse con-
cerning Federal Reserve gold secured short-term loans to Colombia, 
and you requested information on similar loans extended by the 
System to other countries since January 1, 1961. 
In compliance with this request, you will find enclosed 
a memorandum prepared by our staff covering 23 loans made to 7 
countries during the period in which you are interested. This 
includes the 8 loans to Colombia described in the staff memorandum 
enclosed with my letter of November 3, 1967, to Senator Morse. For 
each of the loans, the new memorandum deals with six of the seven 
numbered points raised in your letter. The remaining point (on 
coordination with other agencies) is discussed below, as is your 
question concerning the legislative authority for making these 
loans. 
As I wrote Senator Morse on November 3, 1967, these loans 
represent a form of cooperation among central banks. They are made 
to help foreign monetary authorities meet dollar requirements of a 
temporary nature. They are not a part of any long-term aid program 
to foreign countries. Each of these loans is fully secured by gold 
owned by the borrower but held under earmark in the vaults of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or occasionally in the vaults of 
another Federal Reserve Bank acting as agent for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York. The legislative authority for the making of these 
loans through the System is Section 14 (a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
(12 U.S.C. 354), as amended, which states in part that every Federal 
Reserve Bank shall have power "To deal in gold coin and bullion at 
home or abroad, to make loans thereon . . 
(underlining supplied). 

O l O 
The Honorable J. W. Fulbright 
-2-
The Board's decisions to make these loans are coordinated 
orally with U. S. Government agencies. Before 1966, the Departments 
of State and Treasury alone were consulted. Beginning in 1966, the 
practice was instituted of coordinating through the National Advisory 
Council on International Monetary and Financial Policies (NAC), thereby 
broadening the consultation to include also the Export-Import Bank and 
the Department of Commerce. Under this procedure, the Board notifies 
the NAC agencies of each request for a loan. If these agencies have 
any comment, they may express them within 48 hours. It is understood 
that, if no comment is received in this interval, the Board may assume 
that the NAC agencies have no objection to the loan. In a few cases, 
some of the agencies have made specific comments, and where appropriate 
these comments have been included in the enclosed memorandum in the 
paragraph dealing with the basis for Federal Reserve approval of the 
loan. 
We have also followed the practice of exchanging information 
informally with the staff of the International Monetary Fund, so that 
our decisions will be made in full knowledge of the Fund's relations 
with the borrowing country. In particular, we have tried to ascertain 
in each case that our proposed loan would not conflict with the Fund's 
objectives. In no case have any objections been raised by the Fund. 
Not all of the System's gold collateral loans to foreign 
countries have been publicly disclosed by the borrowing central banks. 
Moreover, even where the loans have been disclosed, it may not be 
generally realized in these countries that these loans were secured 
by gold, although this could be deduced from published sources by 
careful research. In these circumstances, publication of some of 
the facts contained in the enclosed memorandum might possibly have 
repercussions on the political scene in these countries as well as 
on the System's relations with their central banks. For this reason, 
I would request that you treat the memorandum as information for the 
exclusive use of the Committee on Foreign Relations. 
I trust that you will find this material helpful. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure. 

Federal Reserve System Short-term Loans 
to Foreign Countries since 1961 
Answers to Questions by Senator Fulbright 
Colombia--Loan ffl (Approved December 1961) 
1. Amount. $15 million. 
2. Terms. 
To mature in three months with option to repay 
at any time before maturity, both the drawings and repayments to be in 
multiples of $1 million. To bear interest at the discount rate of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York in effect on the date on which each 
drawing is made. To be available for drawing until December 27, 1961. 
3. Other conditions. None. 
4. Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The Board approved 
the loan as a means of meeting a temporary shortage of exchange in 
Colombia. The Board also took account of the fact that the amount of 
the loan requested was small in relation to Colombia's total annual 
exports of about $500 million. 
5. Security pledged. Gold held under earmark in the vaults 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, in such amount that the amount 
°f the loan would not exceed 98 per cent of the value of the gold 
pledged. 
6. Repayment. The loan was drawn in December 1961. At the 
request of the Bank of the Republic, the maturity date was extended in 
February 1962 for another three months. The loan was repaid in June 
1962. 

-2- M S 
£glombla--Loan #1 (Approved August 1962) 
1. Amount. $10 million. 
2. Terms. Same as for Colombia loan #1, except that the 
Pliability period was made to extend until August 31, 1962. 
3' Other conditions. The loan was made non-renewable. 
4 ' 
B^is for Federal Reserve Approval. In view of the fact 
th*t Colombia had been indebted to the System continuously since Decern-
er 1%1, the System was reluctant to accede to the request for an 
Colombia--Loan #2 (Approved February 1962) 
Amount. $15 million. 
2. Terms. 
Same as for Colombia loan #1, except that the 
maturity date was set at six months and the availability period was 
made to extend until February 28, 1962. 
Other conditions. None. 
Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The Board was in-
formed that the Colombian authorities had given assurances that, after 
mid-year, they intended to adopt policies which would strengthen their 
balance of payments. With a view to obtaining external long-term 
financial assistance, these policies were being discussed with U. S. 
Government agencies. The Board felt that approval of this loan would 
an appropriate cooperative measure facilitating these efforts by 
Providing needed foreign exchange. 
5- 
Security pledged. Same as for Colombia loan #1. 
6. Repayment. The loan was drawn in February 1962 and 
rePaid in August 1962. 
:

additional loan. However, in view of the Colombians' previously 
stated Intention to adopt policies to improve the balance of payments, 
and as a means of helping Colombia phase out its borrowings from the 
System, a $10 million loan maturing in three months, not renewable, 
appeared appropriate. 
Security pledged. Same as for Colombia loan #1. 
6. Repayment. The loan was drawn in August 1962 and was 
repaid in November 1962. 
Colombia--Loan #4 (Approved January 1963) 
Amount. $30 million. 
2* Terms• 
Same as for Colombia loan #1, except that the 
availability period was made to extend until February 26, 1963. 
3. Other conditions. None. 
Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The Colombian Govern-
raent had just begun to implement the long anticipated stabilization 
Program in cooperation with the International Monetary Fund, and had 
Just been granted a standby credit by the Fund and a program loan by 
AID. The System felt that the requested loan would be appropriate to 
help Colombia carry out its stabilization program. 
5* 
Security pledged. Same as for Colombia loan #1. 
6. Repayment. The loan was drawn in February 1963 and was 
repaid in May 1963. 

.Colombia--Loan #5 (Approved August 1963) 
I. Amount. $30 million. 
2* Terms. Same as for Colombia loan #1, except that the 
maturity was set at six months and the availability period was made 
to extend until September 3, 1963. 
3. Other conditions. None. 
4. Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The Board felt that 
Colombia's close cooperation with the International Monetary Fund in 
carrying out a stabilization program and other measures, its diffi-
culties in obtaining necessary legislative authorization to take 
further corrective measures, and the key role of Colombia at this 
time in the Alliance for Progress, all formed an adequate basis for 
sympathetic consideration of the loan request. 
5. Security pledged. Same as for Colombia loan #1. 
Repayment. The loan was drawn in August 1963 and was 
repaid in February 1964. 
Colombia--Loan #6 (Approved December 1964) 
Amount. $30 million. 
*• Terms. 
Same as for Colombia loan #1, except that the 
availability period was set at 30 days beginning with the date of 
acceptance of the terms by the Bank of the Republic. 
t. Ml & I!'*4* " • ' C* f* 
t ft --•* 
' <-1 \ & 
3. Other conditions. None., 
— — — — — — — — — — — — 
4. Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The Board was in-
formed that disbursements of an AID program loan granted in July 1964 

were being delayed because of Colombia's failure to meet some of the 
conditions of that loan. Negotiations with Colombia to overcome 
these difficulties were then underway. State Department officials 
believed that extension of the loan would not interfere with nego-
tiations with the Colombians. AID itself was considering releasing 
some of the program loan funds prior to reaching full agreement with 
Colombia. The Board approved the loan on the ground that this would 
be consistent with the action that AID was preparing to take on its 
own loan. 
5. Security pledged. Same as for Colombia loan #1. 
6. Repayment. The loan was drawn in December 1964 and was 
• 
repaid in March 1965. 
Colombia--Loan #7 (Approved September 1965) 
1. Amount. $21 million. 
2. Terms. 
Same as for Colombia loan #5. 
3. Other conditions. None. 
4* 
Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The loan was 
approved in consideration of the fact that Colombia had recently 
improved its foreign exchange system. It was anticipated that as a 
result of this Colombian action, financial assistance would soon 
become available from the International Monetary Fund and other 
sources. It was felt that granting the requested loan would be 
helpful in tiding Colombia over until the expected long-term assistanc 
materialised. 

5. Security pledged. Same as for Colombia loan #1. 
6. Repayment. The loan was drawn in October 1965 and 
was repaid in January 1966. 
Colombia--Loan #8 (Approved September 1966) 
1. Amount. $13 million. 
T e r m s • Sar.e as for Colombia loan #1, except that the 
availability period was made to e<tend until September 30, 1966. 
3. Other conditions. The loan was made non-renewable. 
Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The Board was in-
formed that Colombia's reserves were under pressure in part because 
of a deficiency of coffee export receipts. This appeared to form an 
appropriate basis for Federal Reserve short-term assistance, since it 
resulted in part from a temporary factor: the Colombian Coffee Feder 
ation had to surrender export proceeds in advance in the second 
quarter to help the authorities meet a bulge in imports occasioned 
by the rebuilding of inventories after import restrictions were eased 
The Board also gave weight to the views of the Department of State 
which thought that the extension of the loan would help the Colombian 
authorities in their efforts to adopt further stabilization measures. 
5- 
Security pledged. Same as for Colombia loan #1. 
6. Repayment. The loan was drawn in three installments 
during September 1966. Late in November, the Colombian authorities 
requested a 90-day renewal of the loan. This was denied early in 
December. The Colombian authorities then requested that the maturity 

dates of the first two drawings be postponed to coincide with that 
of the third drawing. This was approved and the full amount was re-
paid in one installment before the end of December 1966. As a result, 
part of the loan was outstanding 107 days, another part 100 days and 
the rest 90 days. 
Costa Rica--Loan #1 (Approved August 1961) 
1. Amount. $2 million. 
Terms. 
To mature in three months with option to repay 
at any time before maturity, both the drawings and repayments to be 
made in multiples of $100,000. To bear interest at the discount rate 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in effect on the date on which 
each drawing is made. To be available for disbursement for one month 
beginning with the date of acceptance of these terms by the Central 
Bank of Costa Rica. 
3. Other conditions. None. 
4. Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The System was in-
formed that the Costa Rican authorities were about to introduce various 
measures to deal with balance-of-payments difficulties and a loss of 
reserves, and that they were discussing increased credit facilities 
with the International Monetary Fund and the United States Treasury. 
The 
movement of coffee from the new crop into export channels was ex-
pected to begin in November. The proposed loan was approved as a means 
of buttressing Costa Rica's reserves until additions to reserves could 
be received from exports or from the aforementioned credit sources. 

324 
- 8 -
5. Security pledged. Gold held under earmark in the vaults 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, in such amount that the amount 
Of the loan would not exceed 98 per cent of the value of the gold 
pledged. 
6. Repayment. The loan was drawn in September 1961 and 
repaid in December 1961. 
Costa Rica--Loan #2 (Approved October 1963) 
1. Amount. $2 million. 
2- ISEES. 
Same as for Costa Rica loan #1, except that the 
drawings under the loan were to be made in multiples of $500,000. 
3. Other conditions. None. 
4' -^sis for Federal Reserve Approval. The strong season-
ality of Costa Rica's exports, which are normally low in the fall 
months, and the temporary damage to the coffee crop caused by volcanic 
ash and crop disease, formed an appropriate basis for temporary assis-
tance. It was anticipated that repayment would be made from season-
ally enlarged proceeds of coffee exports after December. 
5. Security pledged. Same as for Costa Rica loan #1. 
6. Repayment. The loan was drawn in November 1963 and 
repaid in February 1964. 
Costa Rica--Loan #3 (Approved September 1964) 
1. Amount. $2 million. 
2. Terms. 
Same as for Costa Rica loan #2. 
3. Other conditions. None. 

301" 
4. Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The loan was 
approved in view of the r.trong seasonality of Costa Rica's exports, 
which are normally low in the fall months. It was anticipated that 
repayment would be made from seasonally enlarged export proceeds which 
would become available beginning in December. 
5* 
Security pledged. Same as for Costa Rica loan #1. 
6. Repayment. The loan was drawn in September 1964 and 
repaid in December 1964. 
Costa Rica--Lcan #4 (Approved September 1965) 
1. Amount. $2 million. 
2* Terms. 
Same as for Costa Rica loan #2. 
3. Other conditions. None. 
Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The loan was 
approved in view of the strong seasonality of Costa Rica's exports, 
which are usually at a low level in the fall months. It was anti-
cipated that export earnings would rise beginning in November, making 
possible the repayment of the loan. 
5» 
Security pledged. Same as for Costa Rica loan #1. 
6. Repayment. The loan was drawn in September 1965 and 
repaid in December 1965. 
Costa Rica--Loan #5 (Approved August 1966) 
Amount. $2 million. 
2. Terms. 
Same as for Costa Rica loan #2. 
3. Other conditions. None. 

4. Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The strong season-
ality of Costa Rica's exports, which are normally low in the fall 
months, was thought to constitute an appropriate basis for temporary 
assistance. It was anticipated that exports would rise seasonally 
beginning in November, making possible the repayment of the loan. 
5* 
Security pledged. Same as for Costa Rica loan #1. 
Repayment. The loan was disbursed in August 1966 and 
repaid in November 1966. 
Costa Ric a--Loan #6 (Approved January 1967) 
Amount. $2 million. 
T e r m s > 
Same as for Costa Rica loan #2. 
3. Other conditions. Non-renewable. 
4. Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The System was aware 
that the first part of the year is normally one of seasonal strength 
for Costa Rica's exports, that Costa Rica was in the throes of a 
serious fiscal and balance-of-payments crisis, that the U. S. Govern-
ment and the international lending agencies were withholding approval 
of new loans pending adoption of fiscal reforms, that the Costa Rican 
authorities had just instituted exchange controls on current transac-
tions and an interim multiple exchange rate system, and that Costa 
Rica was not maintaining prompt payment on some of its obligations 
to the Export-Import Bank. At the same time, the System was informed 
that efforts were being made by the Costa Rican authorities to secure 
adoption of the fiscal reforms, that there was a good chance that the 

-
Costa Rlcan authorities would modify their recently introduced 
exchange measures, and that the State Department viewed a denial of 
the proposed loan as hindering the Costa Rican authorities in their 
efforts to resolve the crisis. The loan was approved to give the 
Costa Rican authorities time to make other arrangements for longer-
term financing which would better meet their needs. 
5. Security pledged. Same as for Costa Rica loan #1. 
6. Repayment. The loan was not utilized. 
El Salvador--Renewal of loan originally approved in December 1960 
(Approved March 1961) 
1. Amount. $3 million. 
I. Terms. 
To mature three months after the original 
maturity dates (March and April 1961), with option to repay at any 
time before maturity. To bear interest at the discount rate of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York in effect on the dates on which the 
extensions take effect. 
3. Other conditions. None. 
Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The original loan 
was approved in view of the fact that the start of the seasonal upturn 
in coffee shipments from El Salvador was delayed beyond the usual Nov-
ember date because of adverse weather conditions. The extension was 
considered appropriate in view of the situation created by the con-
tinuing lag in coffee shipments associated with a cut in coffee export 
quotas under the international coffee agreement. 

-ui'ZQ 
5. Security pledged. Gold held under earmark in the vaults 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, in such amount that the amount 
of the loan would not exceed 98 per cent of the value of the gold pledged. 
6. Repayment. The original loan of December I960 was for $5 
million. It was drawn in four installments, two in late December I960, 
one in January and one in early March 1961. The extension applied to 
the first three drawings. No extension was requested by the Central 
Reserve Bank of El Salvador for the fourth drawing (of $2 million). 
One of the renewed installments, for $1 million, was repaid ahead of 
schedule, in May. The other two, as well as the installment which 
had not been extended were repaid on schedule in June and July 1961. 
Guatemala--Loan #1 (Approved October 1962) 
Amount. $10 million. 
T e r m s • 
To be drawn in units of $1 million at any time 
on or before October 26. To mature in three months with option to 
repay at any time before maturity in units of $1 million. To bear 
interest at the discount rate of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
in effect on the date on which each drawing is made. 
3. Other conditions. None. 
4. Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The loan was 
approved as a means of providing temporary assistance in a period 
when Guatemala's exports are normally at a seasonally low level. 

-13-
5. Security pledged. Gold held under earmark in the vaults 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, in such amount that the amount 
of the loan would not exceed 98 per cent of the value of the gold 
pledged. 
6. Repayment. The Bank of Guatemala drew only $1 million 
under this loan. This drawing occurred in October I' 62 and was repaid 
in January 1963. 
Guatemala--Loan #2 (Approved September 1965) 
1. Amount. $10 million. 
* 
2* Terms. 
Same as for Guatemala loan #1, except that 
availability period was to extend for 30 days beginning with the date 
. 
of acceptance of the terms by the Bank of Guatemala. 
3. Other conditions. None. 
Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The strong season-
ality of Guatemala's exports, which are normally at a low level in the 
fall months, formed an appropriate basis for temporary assistance. It 
was anticipated that the loan would be repaid from export earnings 
which were expected to begin rising in November. 
5« 
Security pledged. Same as for Guatemala loan #1. 
6. Repayment. The loan was drawn in full in two installments 
in September and October 1965. These installments were repaid in 
December 1965 and January 1966. 

330 
14-
Haltt—Loan #f (Approved August 1962) 
1. Amount. $650,000. 
2. Terms. To mature in three months with option to repay 
at any time before maturity, repayments to be in multiples of $100,000 
except for the last repayment. To be drawn on or before August 30. 
1962. To bear Interest at the discount rate of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York in effect on the date on which the drawing is made. 
3« 
Other conditions. None, 
4 ' ? a s l« ^ r Federal Reserv. Appr^.i 
T h e l o a n w a s 
approved as a means of temporarily bolstering Haiti's reserves at a 
time of seasonally low exports and enabling the authorities to deal 
With temporarily swollen remittances abroad by the Haitian private 
sector. 
5. Security pledged. Gold held under earmark in the vaults 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in such amount that the amount 
the loan would not exceed 98 per cent of the value of the gold 
Pledged. 
6. Repayments. The loan was drawn in August and repaid in 
November. 
Indonesia-Loan #1 (ArproVed January 
1. Amount. $11,550,000. 
2. Terms. 
To mature in three months with option to repay 
any time before maturity, both the drawings and repayments to be in 

-15^ 
M l 
multiples of $1 million. To bear interest at the discount rate df 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in effect on the date on which 
each drawing is made. To be available for drawing until January 31, 
1962. 
3. Other conditions. None. 
Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. While it was recog-
nized that the Indonesian crisis was due mainly to difficulties of a 
long-run nature, the solution of which would require strong and decisive 
actions, the loan was approved in view of the representations made by 
the Bank Indonesia that the proceeds were needed to meet a temporary 
shortage of foreign exchange and the fact that the amount was relatively 
small for a country whose normal export earnings were as large as those 
of Indonesia. 
5. Security pledged. Gold held under earmark in the vaults 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, in such amount that the amount 
of the loan would not exceed 98 per cent of the value of the gold pledged. 
6* 
Repayment, The loan was drawn in full in January 1962. 
At the request of the Bank Indonesia, the maturity date wan extended 
in April for another three months, with the explicit understanding 
that no further renewal would be requested or granted. This exten-
sion was granted in the light of measures adopted by the Indonesian 
authorities in March, enabling exporters to use 15 per cent of their 
export earnings freely, and thereby releasing a backlog of exports 
previously held back because of the unfavorable exchange rate. The 
loan was repaid in July 1962. 

332 
-16-
Phlllpplnes- -Loan #1 (Approved .fonuary 1962) 
1. Amount. $23,250,000. 
2. Terms. To mature in three months with option to repay 
at any time before maturity, both the drawings and repayments to be 
in multiples of $1 million except for the final $250,000. To bear 
interest at the discount rate of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
in effect on the date on which each drawing is made. To be available 
for drawing until January 31, 1962. 
3. Other conditions. None. 
4* 
Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The loan was 
approved as a means of supporting implementation of a stabilization 
Program developed with the assistance of the International Monetary Fund. 
5- Security pledged. Gold held under earmark in the vaults 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, in such amount that the 
amount of the loan would not exceed 98 per cent of the value of the 
gold pledged. 
6. Repayment. The loan was drawn in full in January 1962. 
At the request of the Central Bank of the Philippines, the maturity 
date was extended in April for a further three months. The extension 
vas approved in view of the sustained effort being made by the Philippine 
, authorities to correct their country's balance-of-payments problem, 
including the liberalization of export-import controls and exchange 
rate adjustments. Repayments were made largely ahead of schedule: 
$15 million in June 1962 and $6,250,000 in July 1962. 

333 
-17-
2hllippinefl--rn«n #2 (Approved December 1964) 
1. Amount. $15 million. 
2. Terms. 
Same as for Philippine loan #1, except that 
the clause relating to the final installment of the drawings or repay-
ments was omitted as inapplicable, and that the availability period 
was made to extend for 30 days beginning with the date of acceptance 
the terms by the Central Bank of the Philippines. 
3* Other conditions. None. 
— — — — — 
Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The loan was 
approved as a means of providing temporary assistance in view of the 
seasonal increase in the demand for imports, the exceptional build-up 
imports in anticipation of tariff increases scheduled to take effect 
January 1, 1965, and speculation against the peso (related to the possi-
bility that the exchange rate might be unified). 
5. Security pledged. Same as for Philippine loan #1. 
6. Repayments. The loan was drawn in January 1965. At the 
request of the Central Bank of the Philippines, the maturity date was 
^tended in March for another three months. The extension was approved 
in view of continued pressures on reserves which were thought to be of 
a temporary nature. Part of the loan was repaid in advance, $1 million 
ir* Hay and $3 million in June. The remaining $11 million was repaid in 
July. 

Ul> 
-18-
1 
_Philippine8--Loan #3 (Approved November 1965) 
1. Amount. $20 million. 
2. Terms. Same as for Philippine loan #2, except that the 
availability period was made to extend until January 15, 1966. 
3. Other conditions. None. 
4. Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The loan was 
approved as a means of providing temporary assistance during the period 
when imports are seasonally high and exports seasonally depressed, to 
help the authorities deal with a speculative movement of funds expected 
to be of a short duration, and to bolster reserves in case an impending 
exchange rate adjustment should prove unsettling to the market. 
5. Security pledged. Same as for Philippine loan #1. 
6. Repayment. The loan was drawn in two installments, in 
December 1965 and January 1966. At the request of the Central Bank of 
the Philippines, the maturity dates were extended in March 1966 for a 
further three months. The extension was approved in view of continued 
pressures on reserves which were thought to be of a temporary nature. 
The loon was repaid in two installments in June and July 1966. 
Philippines—Loan #4 (Approved March 1967) 
1. Amount. $25 million. 
2. Terms. 
Same as for Philippine loan #2. 
0 
3. Other conditions. The loan was made non-renewable. 

335 
-17-
Basis for Federal Reserve Approval. The persistent 
decline in Philippine reserves was creating a situation in which a 
weakening of confidence in the peso threatened to develop by the end 
of March unless reserves could be bolstered. However, these difficul-
ties did not appear to be of a short-run nature. Discussions of the 
loan request with U.S. Government agencies and the IMF revealed some 
feeling that the Philippines' needs would be more appropriately met 
by their obtaining longer-term financing rather than a short-term gold 
loan. The Board therefore approved the loan with the proviso that the 
Philippine authorities would be informed that it was being made avail-
able to them only to afford them time to make other arrangements for 
longer-term financing and that it would not be renewable. 
5- Security pledged. Same as for Philippine loan #1. 
6. Repayment. The loan was drawn in four installments in 
March and April. It was repaid in June and July. 
ra'bl -31 hy • tljs-. Ho.' 
• 
Board of Governors 
Federal Reserve System 
January 29, 1963 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
1/26/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 26, 1968 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assi stant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Attention: Mr. Burrus 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to a telephone request from Mr. Burrus 
of your office on January 25, 1968 for an indication of the Board's 
views with respect to a draft bill submitted by the Treasury Depart-
ment that would make permanent the provision contained in the last 
sentence of section 19(j) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371b) 
which exempts foreign official time deposits from the provisions of 
that paragraph regarding rates of interest payable by member banks 
on time and savings deposits. 
The Board does not favor the proposed legislation. It 
strongly urges instead that legislation be enacted to make permanent 
the provisions of sections 19 and 14 of the Federal Reserve Act that 
were amended by the Act of September 21, 1966, subject to certain 
modifications considered desirable by the Board. Under those pro-
visions, the Board is authorized to prescribe different interest rate 
limitations, or no rate limitation, for different classes of deposits 
according to the nature or location of the depositors in member banks 
or according to such other reasonable bases as the Board may deem 
desirable in the public interest. Acting under that authority, the 
Board amended its Regulation Q effective January 18, 1968, to exempt 
from interest rate limitations foreign official time deposits made 
prior to the expiration of the Board's temporary authority in this 
area and having maturities not exceeding two years. This temporary 
authority of the Board will expire September 20, 1968, unless further 
extended or made permanent. The Board believes that, in the interest 

337 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
-2-
* * « , 
of flexibility, the authority should be made permanent. In that event, 
a special statutory exemption of foreign official time deposits from 
interest rate limitations would be unnecessary. 
- •' 
If the temporary regulatory authority of the Board, as 
described above, should not be extended or made permanent, the Board 
would favor continuation of the special statutory exemption of 
foreign official time deposits from interest rate limitations. In 
that event, however, the Board would not favor legislation making 
such exemption permanent, but instead would favor an extension of 
the statutory exemption for a limited period such as two or three 
years. 
The Board wishes to exphasize its belief that, with certain 
modifications, the amendments made to the Federal Reserve Act by the 
Act of September 21, 1966, should not be allowed to expire but should 
be enacted as permanent law. The Board hopes that draft legislation 
for this purpose will be promptly prepared and considered by the 
Bureau of the Budget. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

338 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
Of Gov, 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
1/26/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 29, 1968 
The Honorable William B. Camp, 
The Comptroller of the Currency, 
Treasury Department, 
Washington, D. C. 20220 
Dear Mr. Camp: 
It is respectfully requested that you place an order 
with the Bureau of Engraving and Printing for printing 22,400,000 
Federal Reserve notes (single units) of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of San Francisco in the $1 denomination during the fiscal year 
ending June 30, 1968. This is a supplemental printing approved 
by the Director of the Division of Bank Operations acting under 
delegated authority on behalf of the Board of Governors and amends 
the quantities requested in the Board's letter of June 27, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF 
PHILADELPHIA 
P H I L A D E L P H I A . 
PENNSYLVANIA 
1 9 1 0 1 
Item No. 2 
1/26/68 
January 26, 1968 
h. It is believed the establishment of the pro-
posed branch -will not tend to create an un-
desirable competitive situation (either actual 
or potential). 
5. It is believed there are good prospects for 
profitable operations of the proposed branch 
within a reasonable time and the bank's earn-
ings are adequate to sustain the operational 
losses of the proposed branch until it becomes 
profitable. 
Board of Directors 
The Fidelity Bank 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19109 
Dear Sirs: 
On behalf of the Bodfrd oT Govdrndrs of the 
Reserve System, acting underMel^gated^authlority, the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia atorJy^! th^/establishment by 
The Fidelity Bank, FhU ad elphia\ Pennsylvania, of a branch 
at 1111 North Old Ypjflt RoVd, Abin&tonxTownship, Montgomery 
County, Pennsylva*rfa-,p^ovr^ed the\ranHh is established with-
in one year from thtf'ua-tX.of\fchis lerfcer0 
This Vtlfcn is t 
and factors: 
n fn view of the following opinions 
ital o\ yd&f bapit presently is regarded as 
of your bank is regarded as adequate. 
the convenience and needs of the 
will be better served if the proposed 
h is established. 

ENo. 
RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
! 
To Board of Directors 
340 
1/26/68 
6. Your bank's investment in bank premises after 
the expenditure for the proposed branch will 
be reasonable. 
7. Counsel for this Reserve Bank conside, 
establishment of the branch would be 
formity with the provisions of sectio 
of Regulation H and section 515 
vised Statutes. 
8. Establishment of the branch was approve 
the Pennsylvania Departmeni^of Banking 
date of January 2b, 1 
In connection with 
templates an expenditure of 
your bank's investment in b 
your bank's capital stock it 
proval for this expenditure. 
Under the 
serve Act (12 U.S 
delphia, on beh 
serve System and 
approves an invest^ 
delphia, Pennsylvania}^!!! 
establishuJent^faf the su 
view of/the^folibving 
anch your bank con-
premises. Since 
:ceeds the amount of 
feesary to obtain ap~ 
yA of the Federal Re-
feserve Bank of Riila-
Governors of the Federal Re-
,ted authority from said Board, 
ly The Fidelity Bank, Phila-
iises in connection vith the 
This approval is granted in 
The can£rt&JJ.zation of The Fidelity Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, at present is 
:onsider/sd adequate in relation to the 
cn^rac>er and condition of its asset® and 
:o ras deposit liabilities and other corpo-
rHej-^ponsibilities, including the volume 
of it 'S risk assets and of its marginal and 
inferior quality assets, all considered in 
relation to the strength of the bank's manage-
ment. 
2. Upon completion of the proposed Investment, 
the bank's aggregate investment (direct and in-
direct) in bank premises plus the indebtedness 
of any wholly-owned bank premises subsidiary 
will not exceed bo per cent of the bank's total 
capital funds (including capital notes and deben-
tures) plus valuation reserves. 
Yours very truly, 
Joseph R, Campbell 
