MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 10, 1971 

3338 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, December 10, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
AMfei-Xeavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
i/ Withdrew from meeting and reentered at points indicated in minutes. 

3339 
12/10/71 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved an application 
of Marine Midland Bank-New York, New York, New York, for an extension of 
time within which to dispose of shares of Banco de Guayaquil, Guayaquil, 
Ecuador. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
.Item No. 1. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Franklin National Bank. The Board unanimously approved an 
application of Franklin National Bank, Mineola, New York, to establish 
a branch in London, England. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
is attached as Item No. 2. 
Chairman Burns and Mr. Holland then withdrew from the meeting. 
Bamerical International Financial Corporation. The Board 
unanimously approved an application of Bamerical International Financial 
Corporation, San Francisco, California, jtouacquire shares of Metro-
America C.A., Sociedad Financiera, a finance company to be formed in 
Caracas, Venezuela. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
Property management by holding companies. On September 7, 1971, 
the Board published for comment a proposal to add property management to 
fche list of permissible activities for bank holding companies under 
section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
In a memorandum dated November 5, 1971, the Legal Division 
summarized comments received. Five requests for a hearing had been 

3340 
12/10/71 
-3-
received, and the Division recommended that a hearing be held. A draft 
notice of hearing was attached to the memorandum. 
Discussion indicated agreement with the recommendation; however, 
Governor Maisel suggested that a list of the issues to be explored at 
the hearing be included in the notice. 
The Board thereupon agreed that a hearing would be held before 
available members of the Board, and that the notice would be revised to 
incorporate Governor Maisel1s suggestion. A copy of the notice published 
in the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 4. 
Requests for hearings. In a memorandum dated December 9, 1971, 
the Legal Division presented requests for formal hearings on two bank 
hold ing company cases. 
The Minnesota Commerce Commission, which is comprised of the 
State Banking Commissioner, the State Insurance Commissioner, and the 
State Securities Commissioner, recommended denial of the application of 
Northwest Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, to acquire shares of 
Merchants State Bank of Stillwater, Stillwater, Minnesota, and requested 
a formal hearing on the case. At its meeting November 9, 1971, the 
Board had agreed that an oral presentation on the case would be held in 
Minneapolis, and the presentation had been scheduled for December 15, 1971. 
Discussion indicated a general unwillingness to grant the request 
for a formal hearing, and it was suggested that the oral presentation 
might be postponed in order to give the Commerce Commission additional 

3341 
12/10/71 
-4-
time to prepare its comments. The staff was requested to confer with 
the Commission to determine if the proposed course of action would be 
i 
satisfactory. However, it was agreed that if the Commission continued 
its request for a formal hearing the request would be granted. 
(Note: 
The Minnesota Commerce Commission continued its request for a formal 
hearing and an order for hearing was subsequently issued in the form 
attached as Item No. 5.) 
In the December 9 memorandum the Legal Division also discussed 
requests for a formal hearing on the application of NCNB Corporation, 
Charlotte, North Carolina, to establish a de novo corporation in Camden, 
South Carolina, to engage in trust business. The application had been 
filed with the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, and after publication 
°f the proposal the Reserve Bank had received several requests for a 
hearing. 
The Legal Division noted that Regulation Y provides that in de 
novo cases the Board is not required to grant a hearing upon receipt of 
adverse comments. The Division recommended that the Board not have a 
formal hearing. However, if the Board felt that an informal hearing 
w°uld be appropriate, the Division recommended that an oral presentation 
b e held before staff of the Richmond Reserve Bank. 
After discussion, the recommendation was approved. A copy of 
the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond is attached as 
ItemNo. 6. 

3342 
12/10/71 
-5-
Chairman Burns and Mr. Holland returned to the meeting at this 
point. 
Simplified procedures, Regulation Y. At its meeting on 
December 7, 1971, the Board considered a petition of the National 
Association of Insurance Agents for a stay of an amendment to Regula-
tion Y, Bank Holding Companies, that established simplified procedures 
for a bank holding company applying to engage de novo in certain insur-
ance agency and other activities. The amendment was adopted by the 
Board in August and became effective on September 1, 1971. The Associa-
tion claimed that the procedure followed by the Board in promulgating 
the amendment violated the requirements of the Administrative Procedure 
Act and the Bank Holding Company Act. The Legal Division recommended 
denial of the petition for a stay for reasons set forth in a memorandum 
°f November 24, it being the Division's opinion that the procedures 
followed with respect to the amendment met all statutory requirements 
and were not unfair to the petitioner, even though the amendment, as 
adopted, had not been published for comment. 
At the December 7 meeting, Governor Maisel took exception to 
the procedures that had been followed. The revisions of the proposed 
rule making had not been published for comment, on the ground that the 
changes were liberalizing. 
It was true that they were liberalized as 
far as bank holding companies were concerned, but from the point of view 
°f competitors in the insurance business they were more restrictive in 

3 3 4 3 
12/10/71 
-6-
that they deprived those competitors of local notification of a pros-
pective entry into the market. He suggested the desirability of 
reconsidering the simplified procedures to avoid such inequities. 
The Legal Division had now explored alternative courses of 
action that the Board might follow upon reconsideration and presented 
its findings in a memorandum dated December 8, 1971. 
Discussion at today's meeting developed a consensus for publish-
ing for comment section 225.4(b)(1) and (3) with revisions that would 
require holding companies engaging de novo in insurance activities: 
(1) to publish notice of the proposed activity in a local newspaper and 
(2) to furnish the appropriate Reserve Bank with copies of the notice 
Within 30 days of publication. It also was suggested that the simpli-
fied procedures be revised: 
(1) to require holding companies acquiring 
small finance companies to publish notice of the acquisition within 30 
days after consummation of the transaction and (2) to allow a holding 
company to acquire under simplified procedures a finance company whose 
insurance involvement is limited to making available to its borrowers 
(at each borrower's option) credit life and/or credit disability 
insurance covering the balance on the borrower's debt, through a group 
insurance policy in which the finance company is the assured policyholder. 
It was thereupon agreed that section 225.4 would be revised as 
suggested and published for comment and that the existing simplified 
Procedures would be suspended pending consideration of the proposed 

3344 
12/10/71 
-7-
changes. It was understood that a notice of proposed rule making would 
be prepared and that it would be issued after clearance of suggested 
changes with Governor Maisel and other interested Board members. 
Mortgage banking. On October 12, 1971, the Board considered 
the applications of (1) BTNB Corporation, Birmingham, Alabama, to 
acquire Cobbs, Allen & Hall Mortgage Company, Inc., Birmingham, and 
(2) First Chicago Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to acquire I. J. 
Markin & Co., Chicago. It was decided that a hearing on mortgage cases 
then before the Board would be held, and the hearing was held on 
November 8, 1971. The Division of Supervision and Regulation now 
presented four mortgage banking cases for the Board's consideration, 
With its recommendations and those of the Banking Markets Section taking 
account of the information presented at the hearing. The four cases are 
described in the following entries. 
1. First Union National Bancorp. In a memorandum dated 
December 8, 1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval of the application of First Union National Bancorp, Inc., 
Charlotte, North Carolina, to acquire Reid-McGee & Company, Jackson, 
Mississippi. The Banking Markets Section also recommended approval. 
During discussion of the application Governor Brimmer raised 
a question about the public benefit of the proposed acquisition. He 
noted that the Board is required by law to disapprove such an applica-
tion unless the possible adverse effects on competition are outweighed 

3345 
12/10/71 
-8-
by benefits to the public, and he said that in this case he felt that 
there would be adverse effects on competition that would not be outweighed 
by increased benefits to the public. 
In expressing agreement with Governor 
Brimmer, Governor Robertson said he felt that it was the Board's respon-
sibility to promote competition, and that approval of this application 
Would impede competition. 
Governor Brimmer also pointed out that one of the applicant's 
subsidiaries, Cameron-Brown Company, ranked as the ninth largest mortgage 
company in the nation, and that Cameron-Brown clearly possessed the requi-
site expertise and resources to enter de novo any mortgage banking market 
in the United States. 
Continuing discussion indicated that the members of the Board 
Present were about evenly divided on the case, and action was deferred 
until a later meeting. 
2. BTNB Corporation. In a memorandum dated October 5, 1971, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of the 
aPplication of BTNB Corporation, Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire Cobbs, 
Allen & Hall Mortgage Company, Inc., Birmingham, on grounds that the 
acquisition would have possible anticompetitive effects that would not 
outweighed by significant public benefits. The Banking Markets 
Section also recommended denial. 
The Board thereupon unanimously denied the application, with 
the understanding that an order reflecting that decision would be pre-
pared for consideration. 

mm 
0-2/10/71 
-9-
3. First Chicago Corporation. In a memorandum dated October 4, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of the application of First Chicago Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to 
acquire I. J. Markin & Co., Chicago. It was the opinion of the staff 
that in this case there were few anticompetitive effects and few public 
benefits. 
Discussion indicated that the members of the Board present were 
about evenly divided on the case. Chairman Burns said that he felt the 
staff was understating the public benefit in that commercial banks were 
doing a smaller mortgage business than they should be doing. By acquir-
ing mortgage companies commercial banks could do more mortgage lending, 
and he felt this would constitute a public benefit that had not been 
considered by the staff. However, Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
thought that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed acquisition had 
n°t been given enough emphasis and that the benefits to the public would 
be very slight. They felt that in this case, as in the First Union 
National Bancorp case, the applicant should enter the market de novo 
father than through acquisition. 
The Board thereupon deferred action on the application until a 
later meeting. 
4. Central National Chicago Corporation. In a memorandum dated 
De 
cember 8, 1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
aPproval of the application of Central National Chicago Corporation, 

3347 
12/10/71 
-10-
Chicago, Illinois, to acquire Union Realty Mortgage Co., Inc., Chicago. 
It was the opinion of the Banking Markets Section that the competitive 
effect of the proposed acquisition would be slightly adverse, but that 
the acquisition might benefit the public by increasing the amount of 
financial resources available to Union Realty and thus enabling it to 
compete more effectively with larger Chicago mortgage companies. 
The Board unanimously approved the application, with the under-
standing that an order reflecting that decision would be prepared for 
consideration. 
H. R. 11235. The Office of Management and Budget had requested 
the Board's views on H. R. 11235, a bill to subsidize the cost of home 
improvement credit. A draft reply had been prepared endorsing the 
general objective of the bill, but pointing out certain specific 
features of the bill that would affect its ultimate scope. 
The Board unanimously approved the letter. A copy is attached 
a s Item No. 7. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Smith, and Burke. 
Reserve Bank officer salaries. The Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans had distributed a memorandum dated 
December 8, 1971, proposing certain modifications in the guidelines 
f°r salary increases for Presidents and First Vice Presidents contained 
i n the Board's letter of December 10, 1968. In order to conform with 

3348 
12/10/71 
-li-
the policy under Phase II, as set forth in the Board's letter of 
November 18, 1971, the Committee suggested some reduction in the 
amounts of the increases provided under the earlier guidelines. The 
Committee recommended that Reserve Banks be advised that while it was 
hoped that proposed increases would be 5 per cent or less, the Board 
Would be willing to consider recommendations for increases of up to 
$3,000 for the year 1972 for eligible Presidents and increases of up 
to $2,000 for eligible First Vice Presidents. 
The Committee's recommendation was approved. A copy of the 
letter sent to the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston is 
attached as Item No. 8; similar letters were sent to the Chairmen of 
other Reserve Banks where the President and/or First Vice President 
would have been eligible for an increase under the 1968 guidelines. 
Mr. Burke then withdrew and Messrs. Bernard, Molony, and 
Axilrod returned to the meeting. 
Discount rate. On December 9, 1971, the directors of the Federal 
Reserve Banks of St. Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco had established, 
subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, a rate of 
4-1/2 per cent (a decrease from 4-3/4 per cent) on discounts for and 
advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal 
Reserve Act; a rate of 5 per cent on advances to member banks under 
Action 10(b) of, the £ct;vand a sate :of 6-1/2 pes cent on advances to 
individuals, partnerships, and corporations other than member banks 
under the last paragraph of section 13 of the Act. 

3319 
12/10/71 
-12-
It was reported by the staff that most short-term interest 
rates had declined on balance since November 10 when the previous 
reduction in the discount rate from 5 to 4-3/4 per cent was announced. 
Three-month Treasury bills currently were trading at around 4.10 per 
cent, down about 10 basis points over the interval, and rates on other 
short-term market securities typically had fallen 1/8 to 1/4 percentage 
Point. Some commercial banks, which had adopted a floating prime rate, 
had reduced that rate to 5-1/4 or 5-3/8 per cent from the 5-1/2 per 
cent level prevailing on November 10. The largest short-term rate 
declines had occurred in the Federal funds market where recent trading 
had been at rates of around 4-3/8 to 4-1/2 per cent, down about 50 
hasis points from a month earlier. 
According to the staff reports, growth in the narrowly defined 
money stock (M^) and in total member bank reserves had remained sluggish 
in recent weeks and on balance these monetary aggregates had grown only 
slighly since mid-summer. On the other hand, the broadly defined money 
stock (M2) and the bank credit proxy had continued to expand at a more 
substantial pace in recent weeks, as inflows of bank time and savings 
deposits had remained large. 
Chairman Burns indicated that he was inclined to approve the 
Proposed reduction in the discount rate at this time. In his view the 
Present stance of monetary policy was not satisfactory in the light of 
the current economic situation. He was particularly concerned about 

3350 
12/10/71 
-13-
the sluggish growth in bank reserves in recent months and he also wanted 
to see more rapid expansion in M^ whose growth had been well below the 
target path desired by the Federal Open Market Committee. He added that 
he had received many communications expressing apprehension about the 
state of the economy and the stance of monetary policy. Views regard-
ing the outlook for the economy were markedly more pessimistic among 
businessmen than among economists. 
Governor Mitchell said he saw a slight advantage in reducing 
the discount rate at this time. Such a reduction might have a marginally 
salutary effect on spending decisions if it helped to foster a view that 
interest rates were likely to remain at lower levels for some length of 
time. He was convinced, however, that an aggressive change in monetary 
Policy would be needed to alter to any significant extent the pessimistic 
views currently prevailing among businessmen regarding the outlook for 
the economy. Chairman Burns indicated that he agreed with that 
assessment. 
Governor Maisel said he felt the current stance of monetary 
Policy was wrong. In particular, he did not feel that reserves had 
been supplied as amply in recent weeks as the Federal Open Market 
Committee had intended at its November 16 meeting. In this situation 
he felt a 1/4 point reduction in the discount rate would be of marginal 
benefit at best. 

335i 
12/10/71 
-14-
Governor Brimmer said he saw some advantages in delaying any 
reduction in the discount rate. On the international side, the foreign 
exchange markets were still unsettled and there were major uncertainties 
regarding the size and timing of dollar reflows in the event of an agree-
ment on foreign exchange parities among the Group of Ten nations. With 
regard to the domestic financial situation, he hoped monetary policy 
Would not be equated with the performance of M^ whose sluggish growth 
was related to weakness in demand rather than to any curtailment in 
supply. The other monetary aggregates were behaving well in his view 
and he was not sure he would necessarily want to push for a more aggres-
sive monetary policy at next Tuesday's meeting of the Federal Open 
Market Committee. In any event, he would be inclined to wait until 
after that meeting and also until the directors at additional Reserve 
Banks had had an opportunity to consider a reduction in the discount 
rate before the Board took any action. 
Governor Robertson said he would favor approving the proposed 
discount rate change today. In his view the Federal Open Market Committee 
Would be in a better position on Tuesday to move to a more appropriate 
Policy if the Board had already acted to lower the discount rate. 
In subsequent discussion Chairman Burns observed that a reduc-
tion in the discount rate today would serve to signal the Board's concern 
about the present stance of monetary policy and would set the stage for 
consideration of a move to a more aggressive monetary policy at the 

33S2 
12/10/71 
-15-
meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on Tuesday. 
In his view 
the Manager of the System Open Market Account had interpreted the 
directive issued at the November 16 meeting of the Committee too con-
servatively and had not eased money market conditions sufficiently in 
the light of continued shortfalls in the growth rates of bank reserves 
and Mi below the target paths desired by the Committee. 
Governor Mitchell agreed that if the Committee was tending 
toward a more aggressive policy, it would be desirable to reduce the 
discount rate today. Governor Maisel said he would prefer to wait until 
after the meeting on Tuesday before taking any action, but he would vote 
in favor of the proposed reduction today if that was the preference of 
the other members of the Board. Governor Brimmer indicated that he 
would not cast a dissenting vote despite his preference for taking 
action at a later date. 
Accordingly, the Board approved unanimously, effective Monday, 
December 13, 1971, the following rates for the Federal Reserve Banks of 
St- Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco and for any other Reserve Bank 
whose directors acted today to establish such rates: 4-1/2 per cent on 
advances to and discounts for member banks under sections 13 and 13a of 
the Federal Reserve Act; 5 per cent on advances to member banks under 
Section 10(b) of the Act; and 6-1/2 per cent on advances to individuals, 
Partnerships, and corporations other than member banks under the last 
Paragraph of section 13 of the Act. 
(Note: Advice was received later 

335 
12/10/71 
-16-
during the day that the directors of the Boston Bank had established 
the same rates.) 
The Secretary was authorized to advise other Reserve Banks 
whose directors acted after today to establish the rates on advances 
and discounts approved by the Board today of the approval of such 
action. 
(Note: Pursuant to this authorization, the Secretary advised 
Reserve Banks of the approval of such rates as follows: New York, 
Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Chicago, effective December 17, 1971; 
Atlanta and Minneapolis, effective December 23, 1971; and Richmond 
and Dallas, effective December 24, 1971.) 
The staff was requested to prepare a draft of press release 
°n the discount rate action for Board consideration at a meeting to 
he held at 2:00 p.m. this afternoon. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Holland then withdrew and 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations, 
entered. 
Governor Robertson presented a draft letter to Mr. John K. 
Carlock, Fiscal Assistant Secretary, Department of Treasury, proposing 
that unfit currency be cut longitudinally immediately after cancella-
tion. After a brief discussion, the proposed letter was approved. A 
c°Py is attached as Item No. 9. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
2:00 p.m. with Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, 

3354 
: »•« U \<l-.i 
12/10/71 
-17-
and Brimmer present and the following staff members: Messrs. Holland, 
Smith, Bernard, Broida, Molony, and Axilrod. 
Discount rate. Consideration was given to the text of the press 
release announcing today's action on the discount rate. It was agreed 
that 
the announcement should be worded in less neutral fashion than the 
press releases issued on the occasion of previous reductions in the 
discount rate over the past year. After discussion, the Board authorized 
the issuance of a press release in the form attached as Item No. 10. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
1 
• t • <i'. <>-.•; 
• ••/. . I---? " 
c 
> 
(Note: The White House today announced that it had accepted 
yh;-:; : n i Ij.inCf 
G'.ay-v\ ! , •''••• /:.••,. 
: • !•;>;•_, • ;' • 
the resignation of Governor Sherrill as a member of the Board, effec-
Of 
' it lor. H. 
tive November 15, 1971. Attached under Item No. 11 are copies of 
v.--,' 
yes - s . 
Governor Sherrill's letter of resignation and the President's letter 
accepting the resignation.) 

c: 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
12/10/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 10, 1971 
Marine Midland Bank-New York 
140 Broadvay 
New York, New York 
10015 
? *, • • . i 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of November 8, 
1971, the Board of Governors extends until December 1, 
1972, the time within which your bank may dispose of the 
shares of Banco de Guayaquil, Guayaquil, Ecuador, which 
were acquired pursuant to the provisions of Section 213.4(a) 
of Regulation M. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3356 
B D A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
12/10/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
STres^?. 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 10, 1971 
Franklin National Bank 
Second Street 
Mineola, New York 
11501 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission for Franklin National Bank, Mineola, New 
York. pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act to establish a branch in London, England, and to 
°Perate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of 
Such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened 
£°r business on or before January 1, 1973, all rights granted 
hereby shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority 
hereby granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
In passing upon your application for this branch, the 
Board considered the over-all condition of your bank, particularly 
the large volume of assets classified and specially mentioned by 
examiners in recent reports of examination in relation to the bank'; 
relatively low capital position. It is the Board's understanding 
that strenuous efforts are being made by the bank to reduce the 
v°lume of problem assets and that the bank's parent holding company 
has recently contributed $30,000,000 to the bank's surplus account. 
is also understood that the proposed branch in London will be 
m°derate in terms of staffing, quarters, and the volume of business 
be conducted. The Board will have a continuing special interest 
i n the operation of the branch and of the progress made by the bank 
reducing the volume of problem assets and in otherwise improving 
the condition of the bank. 

3357 
Franklin National Bank 
-2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in London. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
Capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the 
' oard's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments 
°n the balance of payments, the above consent is given with the under-
standing that in the conduct of the branch's operations, maximum reli-
ance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United States. 
Ccordingly, it is understood that any investment required will be 
'^ade within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply 
t o your bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3358 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
item No. 3 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
12/10/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
D r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 10, 1971 
Bamerical International Financial Corporation 
California Street - 2nd floor 
san Francisco, California 
94104 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of September 15 and 
October 20, 1971, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("BIFC") to purchase and hold up to 40 per cent of the 
stock of Metro-America C.A., Sociedad Financiera ("METAM"), a finance 
company to be formed in Caracas, Venezuela, at a cost of approxi-
mately Bolivares 4.000,000 (about $888,889), provided the shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
It is noted that while BIFC will not hold a majority of 
the stock of METAM, nor appoint a majority of METAM's directors, 
lt will appoint the director manager, who will have control of the 
daily operations of METAM. 
In view of this, the Board's consent to the proposed pur-
chase and holding of shares of METAM by BIFC is granted subject to 
the following conditions: 
(1) That BIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in METAM if METAM at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permis-
sible to a corporation in which a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if METAM establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Venezuela or elsewhere, in any 
manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to BIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of METAM as it may require from time 
to time; and 

A 
Bamerical International 
Financial Corporation 
-2~ 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by METAM 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if METAM were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
Subiect to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions f
^
^
r
^ 
^ 
of the immediately preceding paragraph o£ this letter 
£ 
™5 y 
relate to restrictions (i) on loans granted by METAM in 
in the currency of that country and (ii) on the issuanceofobUga 
tions with maturities in excess of one year, provided the..biiga 
tions are not issued in the United States or guaranteed by BirC or 
any of its affiliates. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished 
through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-laws of METAM. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment will be'made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
Association and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
12/10/71 
[12 CFR PART 225} 
[Reg. Y] 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Notice of Hearing Regarding Property Management Activities 
By notice published in the Federal Register on September 14> 
(36 F.u. 18427), the Board of Governors proposed to add to the 
u e t 
activities that it has determined to be closely related to 
^.king p r managing or controlling banks (§ 225.4(a) of Regulation Y) 
following; "performing property management services." 
The National Association of Real Estate Boards has asked 
$ a bearing on this matter. The Board has directed that such a 
n8 be held before available members of the Board in the Board 
0rn -Of its building on 20th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W., 
^ttgton, D. C. on January 26, 1972, beginning at 10:00 a.m. 
Among the issues that will be explored at the hearing is 
tyer hi 
u et uank holding company activities in the area of property 
a8epient should be limited to any one or more of die following: 
(a) properties held in a fiduciary capacity; 
(b) properties owned by the holding company or its 
subsidiaries for conducting its own bank and 
bank related operations; 
(c) properties acquired by the holding company or a 
subsidiary as a result of a default on a loan; 
0 0 
farm management; 
(c) properties that are part of a land redevelopment, 
program; 

-2-
3361 
H*) „ 
(f) management of office buildings and other 
business or industrial properties; 
(g) management of single and multi-family 
apartment, buildings; or 
(h) management of the air rights above, or the 
oil and mineral rights below a parcel of land. 
Interested persons are invited to participate by presenting 
f|$ir views on all issues raised by the pending proposal. Interested 
fjfpons need not participate in the hearing through oral presentation 
j 
9 
to have their views considered. All views previously expressed 
Written comments on the pending proposal are under consideration by 
Board and are available for inspection and copying in Room 1020 of 
board's building, 
Persons interested in participating in the hearing by 
Pr<tU<?.nting material orally should inform the Secretary of the Board 
•siting not later than January 7, 1972. Each person admitted as a 
to the proceeding will be given up to 30 minutes to present: his 
} J'-;. „ 
Anyone wishing to submit written comments on issues raised 
at +.1 hearing may do so at any time before the close of business 
*ebri •Ua*y 16, 1972. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 21, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SE 
EAL] 

• I ,i | 
Item 
V 
FEDERAL feESERVfe SYSTEM 
12/10/71 
i 
h i . ' . 
NORTHWEST BANCCkPCteAlloil 
O R D M bit iliSAidild 
On August 3, 1971, there was published in the Federal 
Agister (36 Federal Register 14285) a notice of receipt by the 
p,°ard of Governors of an application filed pursuant to section 
3 ( a> 
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)) 
b y Northwest Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, for prior 
aPProvaI by the Board of action whereby Applicant would acquire 
90 
Per cent or more of the voting shares of Farmers and Merchants 
Stif-
G gank of Stillwater, Stillwater, Minnesota. The notice advised 
thafc the application was available for study at the office of the 
of Governors and the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
and designated a period within which comments and views on the 
°Posed acquisition could be filed with the Board. 
In view of the numerous comments on the proposal received, 
it; appeared to the Board that it was in the public interest that 
th5lr , 
e be conducted a public oral presentation at which views and 
"erifg w i t h respect to this application might be presented. 
Cc°tdingly, on November 18, 1971, there was published in the 
r a l Register (36 Federal Register 22027) notice of a public 
presentation to be held in Minneapolis. 
Subsequently, the 
Cqj-
Commission of the State of Minnesota unanimously recommended 
that ^ e Board deny the application and requested a formal hearing. 

The Board has concluded that, such a request id in the 
Public interest and, pursuant to section 262„3(f) of the Board's 
Ru*es of Procedure (12 CFR 262.3(f)) a public hearing will be held 
V;ith respect to this application and the factors specified in § 3 
the Holding Company Act, commencing at 10:00 a.m. on February 28, 
1 9 7 2> at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 73 South Fifth 
Minneapolis, Minnesota, before Mr, Dent Dnldy, who has been 
j 
ef5ignated hearing examiner. 
Any person desiring to give testimony, present evidence, 
otherwise participate in these proceedings should file with the 
Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Ashington, D. C. 20551, on or before January 14, 1972, o written 
teque^j. c o n t a £ n £ n g a statement of the nature of the petitioner's 
erest in the proceedings, the extent of the participation desired, 
summary of the matters concerning which petitioner wishes to give 
estimon.y or submit evidence, and the names and identity of 
ty.it n 
"esses who propose to appear. Requests will be presented to the 
examiner for his determination, and persons submitting them 
V 
be notified of his decision. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 20, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

336-1 
3S58&-
u 
board df gdverndrs 
• R T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 6 
12/10/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 15, 1971 
Mr. Aubrey N. Heflin, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Richmond, Virginia 
23261 
Dear Mr. Heflin: 
This refers to the letter of November 12, 1971 from 
Mr. Nosker, Vice President, to the Board concerning the appli-
cation under § 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act of NCNB 
Corporation, Charlotte, North Carolina, to establish a 
corporation in Camden, South Carolina, to engage in the trust 
business. 
The Board has considered the various profBsts f:Lied in 
connection with that application and believes it desxrablethat 
such officials of your Bank as you may find appropriate conduct 
a public oral presentation to explore the nature of the objections 
raised. The Board intends to decide the application and would 
appreciate a report on the presentation together with your anal-
ysis of and recommendation on the application. 
Please direct questions, if any, to Mr. Greenspan of 
the Board's Legal Division (ext. 265). 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

km 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 7 
12/10/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
o r r i c i A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 10, 1971 
Mr. Wilfred 11. Rommel 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Romme1: 
This is in response to the recent request of the 
Office of Management and Budget for priority treatment of 
the Board's views on H.R. 11235, "to further achievement of 
the national housing goal by providing a source of credit 
for home improvement loans within the financial means of 
families of middle income." 
To conserve, as well as to enhance, the quality of 
our national resource represented by the vast stock of exist-
ing housing is obviously an important objective for public _ 
policy. However, in the absence of any comprehensive analysis 
of credit gaps in this area and costs of, and results from, 
on-poing programs, the Board is not in a position to judge 
the need for an additional program of the potential scope 
that would be authorized by H.R. 11235. 
The Board would like to point out issues raised 
by two features of the draft bill that would affect its ulti-
mate scope. One concerns the definition of potential bene-
ficiaries of interest-rate assistance. By basing eligibility 
solely on the test of whether income is no higher than the 
median, the bill would qualify more than one-half of the 
nation's owner-occupant families for assistance, without 
posing any additional tests of eligibility such as a s s ^ 
holdings/condition or suitability of present dwelling accommo 
dations, or ability to maintain satisfactory quarters without 
benefit of Federal assistance. This proposed broad definition 
i 

Wilfred H. Rommel 
- 2 -
eligibility for loans at bo low-market interest rates stands in 
contrast to the limited amount of resources that will inevitably 
b e available for subsidy payments. 
Also, the bill provides no definition of eligible home 
^-improvement l° a n s o r 
eligible families. Nor does it set any 
special limit on the maximum size or maturity of subsidized home 
improvement loans not insured by the Federal Housing Administration, 
° r on the minimum age of dwelling units eligible for such assistance. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3387 
CHAIRMAN O F THE BOARD O F G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
12/10/71 
December 15, 1971 
Dear Jim: 
Under the outstanding letter of December 10, 1968, from 
Chairman Martin to each Chairman, certain Presidents and First Vice 
Presidents would be eligible for a pay increase this year. The 
Board of Governors, as you know and as we have discussed, has taken 
a position strongly in support of the Phase II program and in effect 
limited expenditures for wages and salaries to 5 percent of the 
salary base as earlier defined. Perhaps you will recall the remarks 
at the recent Conference of Chairmen and Deputy Chairmen in which 
Governor Maisel characterized the thinking within the Board of 
Governors as to the importance, at this critical time, of the public 
Posture of the System in relation to the Phase II program. Pursuant 
then to these kinds of considerations, the Board of Governors has 
determined that the current guidelines on salary increases for 
Presidents and First Vice Presidents should be modified. 
The Board will look to each Chairman for salary recommen-
dations for men at these levels as in the past. While it is hoped 
that such proposals would be 5 percent or less, the Board is willing 
to consider recommendations of up to $3,000 for the year 1972 for 
President Morris. The First Vice President in your Bank would not 
be eligible this year under the existing guidelines. 
This modified approach is effective for this review period 
only and will be reassessed next year. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
Mr. James S. Duesenberry, Chairman 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
30 Pearl Street 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 

'^LKSSf.'' 
3368 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
or THE 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
Item No. 9 
12/10/71 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 10, 1971 
John K. Carlock 
Fiscal Assistant Secretary 
department of the Treasury 
Washington, D.C. 20220 
Dear John: 
Thank you for your prompt response to my letter concerning 
the joint Federal Reserve-Treasury study of the currency verification 
and destruction operation. I am advised that the study is now under 
W ay and that all aspects of the operation are being thoroughly 
reviewed. Understandably, it will be sometime before this effort 
can be completed and the resulting recommendations are implemented. 
As was mentioned to you previously, the Board is deeply 
concerned over recent developments, particularly since it has now 
e en demonstrated that cancelled notes can be circulated outside 
ne Federal Reserve Banks. In the interest of strengthening our 
existing operation, and until such time as a better method can be 
ound, the Board requests that the Reserve Banks and Branches be 
irected by the Treasury Department to begin cutting unfit currency 
o n g i t u d i n a l l y immediately after cancellation and that they be 
erected to do so promptly where facilities are available and else-
wher e as soon as the necessary arrangements can be made. 
I also understand that the Treasury Department is consider-
ing requiring a member of the Audit Staff to witness all currency 
cancellation, verification, and destruction operations as an interim 
Measure. We would find this measure acceptable on that basis. 
rcquests. 
I would appreciate your prompt consideration of the above 
I 
Sincerely, 
(signed)J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

; 
IPx A 
ft 
'«&'" r ^ ir 
Ki-V/v-' • / 
it.v i• 
•»« 
, 
• • ' 
1 • 
- •..".' 
Item No. 10 
12/10/71 
If 
For immediate release. 
December 10, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
today approved actions by the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks 
o f Boston, St. 'Louis, Kansas City, and San Francisco, reducing the 
discount rate of those banks from 4-3/4 per cent to 4-1/2 per cent, 
fective Monday, December 13. 
The action was taken in recognition of the prevailing 
levels of market interest rates and to assist the progress of 
economic expansion. 
-0-

3370 
Of- COV> 
BOARD DF G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
O F T H F . 
Item No. 11 
12/10/71 
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20551 
i 
W I L L I A M 
W . 
S H E a n i l L 
K E M B E D 
O F T H E 
B O A R D 
November 15, 1971. 
My dear Mr. President: 
I respectfully submit my resignation as a Member of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
It has been 
a privilege to serve in this position, and my decision to leave 
has been reached after careful consideration and with much 
reluctance. 
It has been a genuine pleasure serving with Dr. Arthur Burns 
and my other colleagues, all men of unusual competence, and I 
shall miss their association. Dr. Burns' appointment as Chairman 
of the. Federal Reserve Board will be marked, I believe, as one. of 
the best appointments made by any President. 
May I say that your courageous leadership in moving the 
nation toward economic stability has been a source of inspiration 
to me, Mr. President. As a private citizen, I hope to provide you 
continuing support as you carry the heavy burdens of your office. 
You may be sure that government service has made me recognize more 
clearly than most citizens how' very much we all depend upon you. 
Faithfully yours 
William W. Sherrill 
The President 
of the United States 
The VJhite House 
Washington, D. C. 

j 3371 
TIIK W H I T E H O U S K 
WASHINGTON 
9 .EC 101971 
Dear Mr. Sherrill: 
Your letter of November 15 has come to my 
attention, and as you have requested, I accept 
your resignation as a Member of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, ef-
fective November 15, 1971. 
Your distinguished service in government, 
first as Director of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation and then for four 
years as a Member of the Board, has justly 
earned you the gratitude and admiration of 
every American. 
You have discharged your 
exacting responsibilities with great skill and 
dedication, and I have especially valued your 
important contributions and support during 
the past few months in our efforts to revitalize 
the nation's economy. 
As you return to private life, you may be 
certain that I am pleased to join with your 
many friends and colleagues here in ex-
tending my warm wishes for continued 
success and happiness in the years ahead. 
Honorable William W. Sherrill 
1011 Savilc Lane 
McLean, Virginia 
22101 
