PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
January 26, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
k'f 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, January 26, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Q v 1 * 
rtJti 
Crv; ; 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
i d.ts 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant to the Board 
V 
Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

231 
1/26/71 
-2-
i*'• , 
• . , 
•;' 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Report on competitive factors. The Board unanimously approved 
a report, for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The Union 
National Bank of Westminster, Westminster, Maryland, with Westminster 
Trust Company, also of Westminster. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is a considerable amount of competition existing 
between The Union National Bank of Westminster and Westminster 
Trust Company and there is potential for increased competition 
between them. Consummation of the proposed transaction would 
reduce the number of banking alternatives in Westminster from 
three to two; the overall competitive effect of the proposed 
merger would be substantially adverse. 
Branch applications. Unanimous approval was given to the 
following letters, copies of which are attached under the item numbers 
indicated: 
t" " - . , 
. : 
, 
^etter to The Brand Banking Company, Lawrenceville, 
eorgia, approving the establishment of a branch in 
bnellviUe. 
Item No 
J^ t t e r to Bank of Idaho, Boise, Idaho, denying 
2 
s aPplication to establish a branch in Burley. 
Interpretation of section 23A. The Legal Division, in a memoran-
j 
m dated January 20, 1971, presented a question transmitted by the 

1/26/71 
-3-
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco on behalf of Union Bank, Los 
Angeles, California, whether Unionamerica Mortgage and Equity Trust, 
a real estate investment trust, was an affiliate of the bank as defined 
in section 2(b) of the Banking Act of 1933. A positive finding would 
wean that loans made by the bank to the trust would be subject to 
restrictions specified in section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act and 
therefore that a $5 million unsecured line of credit the bank proposed 
to extend to the trust would be prohibited. 
The Legal Division, having noted that this was the first time 
the question had been presented, set forth a rationale in support of 
l t s recommendation of a positive finding. A draft of letter in those 
terms was attached. However, the Division called attention to the fact 
that the recommended position might have implications for types of 
situations involving real estate investment trusts but not presented by 
the immediate case. For example, section 23A limits loans to individ-
Uals secured by the stocks,- bonds, or debentures of an affiliate to 10 
Per cent of the capital stock and surplus of the bank and the value of 
L n e collat 
eral must be at least 20 per cent more than the amount of the 
Further, the provisions of section 23A might also be applicable 
0 Purchases by the bank of securities or obligations under repurchase 
<-nients from the trust and to the acquisition by the bank of promis-
sory 
* notes, bills of exchange, and conditional sales contracts from the 
tru st. 

236 
1/26/71 
-11-
Since other real estate investment trusts had been organized 
recently by major banks, the Legal Division recommended that the matter 
first be discussed with the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank 
Regulation and, if the other agencies concurred in the proposed position, 
that the substance of the interpretation be published without further 
Board action. 
Discussion indicated that the Board, while inclined to concur 
with the recommended position relating to the immediate case, was con-
cerned regarding the possible wider impact. Comments were made regarding 
the bearing of the new amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act, espe-
cially in those situations in which a national bank was itself a bank 
holding company and jurisdictional questions might arise. There was 
general agreement that the broader question related not just to loans 
but to any transfer of assets from a bank to an affiliate. 
It was agreed that, before the question was placed before the 
J
• 
. 
•„.,, 
• , > ...... 
Coordinating Committee, members of the Board's staff would consult with 
I 
• 
their counterparts in other agencies represented on the Committee. It 
was understood that, pending a staff report on the negotiations, the 
Ul\.. 
. . 
- 
..... .. 
question raised by Union Bank would be held in abeyance. 
Block-positioning exemption. On October 27, 1970, the Board 
c°nsidered a staff proposal to publish for comment draft amendments to 
G§ulations T and U, relating to securities credit, that would provide 

6 
1/26/71 
-11-
an exemption from margin requirements for so-called "block-positioning" 
firms, revise provisions dealing with specialists and market makers in 
over-the-counter stocks, and revise an earlier proposal for an exemption 
for third market makers. Publication had been deferred until it could 
be ascertained whether the Securities and Exchange Commission was pre-
pared to take the necessary related actions. 
In a memorandum dated January 20, 1971, the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation summarized correspondence leading to a 
statement by Commissioner Owens in a letter of January 13, 1971, that 
"While the Commission is not at this time taking a position as to the 
ultimate merits of the matter, we will, pursuant to your request, under-
take to draft the necessary implementing rules contemplated by your 
Proposed amendments to Regulation U." 
The publication of the proposed amendments for comment was 
improved unanimously. A copy of the pertinent press release is attached 
as Item No. 3. 
Violation of Regulation U. Unanimous approval was given to a 
letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco expressing no 
objection to a plan proposed for liquidating credit extended by Valley 
Bank of Nevada, Las Vegas, Nevada, and found to be in violation of the 
margin requirements of Regulation U. A copy of the letter is attached 
m 
Item No. 4. 

1/26/71 
-7-
PEFCO. In a memorandum dated January 25, 1971, Governor Brimmer 
stated that subsequent to the Board's consideration of the proposed 
creation of the Private Export Funding Corporation, and approval (in 
October 1970) of procedures for processing requests by Edge corpora-
tions for permission to invest in PEFCO, the Department of Justice had 
informed the Export-Import Bank that its arrangements to insure PEFCO 
capital exceeded its authority. Subsequently, Eximbank, in consulta-
tion with the Justice and Treasury Departments, had worked out a 
substitute agreement with PEFCO that was being submitted to the National 
Advisory Council for concurrence. Governor Brimmer expressed the view 
that the Board should continue to concur in the creation of PEFCO and 
should maintain its favorable position regarding investments in that 
organization by Edge corporations. 
There was unanimous agreement with Governor Brimmer's conclusion. 
Open market policy article. With a memorandum dated January 4, 
1971, Mr. Partee submitted a second draft of a proposed article describ-
l n8 the role of monetary aggregates and money market conditions in the 
^liberations and directives of the Federal Open Market Committee. The 
revisions from the first draft reflected views and suggestions made by 
the Board during discussion on October 27, 1970. 
Further suggestions were made during today's discussion for 
changes in emphasis, tone, and degree of specificity. Other comments 

239 
1/26/71 
-11-
had to do with procedural questions involved in the timing and manner 
of publication. A view was expressed that it would be desirable to 
make the article available to the public at or shortly before the 
time of Chairman Burns' coming testimony before the Joint Economic 
Committee and the release of the policy record entries for the last 
two meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee in 1970. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that, with 
revisions to implement the suggestions made today, and after circula-
tion to the President-members of the Federal Open Market Committee with 
a brief time allowed for any comments they wished to make, the article 
would be published. 
Retirement System proposals. In a memorandum dated January 25, 
1971, Governor Maisel referred to the agreement in principle expressed 
by the Board on August 17, 1970, with a proposal of the Joint Board-
Presidents' Conference Committee on the Retirement System that a con-
tract be sought under which a group of insurance companies would perform 
certain functions for the Retirement System. The Committee was to 
investigate the feasibility, costs, and terms of a contract that the 
Federal Reserve might enter into with insurance companies for performing 
a t least the investment function and perhaps also the underwriting, 
actuarial, and administrative functions essential to sound operation of 
the pension system. 

240 
1/26/71 
-11-
Governor Maisel's memorandum described steps taken in obtaining 
and analyzing bids, and stated that the Board of Trustees of the Retire-
ment System, at its meeting on November 18, 1970, approved recommenda-
tions that the basic record-keeping and disbursement services for the 
Retirement Plan be continued in the Retirement Office, on grounds of 
service and eff iciency; that the Plan continue to use the actuarial 
services of the George B. Buck firm; and that pensions for retirees 
and their beneficiaries be provided through the Retirement Plan and 
n o t through individual annuities purchased from an insurance company. 
At the same time, the Trustees requested the Joint Committee, in con-
junction with the Investment Committee, to make a further study of 
certain aspects of the investment procedures and to submit recommenda-
tions for consideration by the Trustees. A meeting of the Trustees 
had now been called for January 26, and among matters to be taken up 
were four ithat would require the approval of the Board of Governors 
before they were made effective. 
Governor Maisel recommended that the Board inform the Trustees 
that it approved the following proposals, subject to their adoption by 
Trustees, and, where necessary, to their approval by the Internal 
Revenue Service: 

241 
1/26/71 
-11-
1. A recommendation by the Joint Committee and 
the Investment Committee that the Trustees enter into 
contracts with the Prudential Insurance Company of 
America and The Equitable Life Assurance Society of 
the United States under which the Retirement System 
would pay to each of those companies on March 1, 1971, 
$60,000,000, in return for which they would agree to 
pay to the Retirement System beginning on March 1, 
1972, and continuing through March 1, 1991, annual 
sums as specified in the contracts sufficient to 
provide the amounts projected by the actuary to 
cover the aggregate pensions and benefits payable 
to all members who have retired prior to March 1, 
1971, and to their beneficiaries during the remain-
der of their lives. 
(The projected payments totaled 
$226,882,000. The bids of Prudential and Equitable, 
which provided an 8.5 per cent interest return, were 
valid only through January 31, 1971.) 
2. Approve in principle a tentative proposal of 
the Joint Committee and the Investment Committee that 
the Trustees enter into contracts with a group of 
insurance companies for investment management services 
covering the remainder of the Retirement System's 
investment funds (about $250,000,000) under which the 
funds would be invested at the discretion of the com-
panies, with periodic reviews of investment performance 
by the Trustees. Final approval of such contracts would 
be subject to the Board's approval. 
3. Adoption of an amendment to the Retirement Plan 
that would authorize the Trustees to enter into investment 
management contracts of the type described under (2) above. 
Such an amendment would be subject to approval by Internal 
Revenue Service. 
# it 
4. Adoption of a revision proposed by Counsel of the 
language now in the Plan regarding liability of Trustees 
in connection with actions taken in such capacity. 
Governor Maisel's recommendation was approved unanimously. 
The Board of Trustees took affirmative action later in the day; 
(Note: 

242 
1/26/71 
-io-
attached as Item No. 5 is a copy of the letter then sent to the Chairman 
of the Board of Trustees.) 
Governor Robertson withdrew from the meeting after discussion 
of the first proposal covered by Governor Maisel's recommendation. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Salary of staff member. Upon recommendation by Governor Sherrill, 
the Board approved the payment of salary to Joe M. Jackson, Assistant 
Director, Division of Data Processing, at the annual rate of $30,500 
effective January 10, 1971. 
Appointment of off icer. The Board authorized negotiations with 
Samuel B. Chase looking toward his appointment as Associate Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics, effective about midyear, with annual 
salary at the rate of $35,000. 
Presidential Commission. Governor Maisel reported on an inter-
agency meeting he had attended yesterday, at which consideration was 
given to possible methods of financing the President's Commission on 
financial Structure and Regulation. The costs of the Commission were 
Gstimated at $720,000 through the end of 1971, including $215,000 for 
Panting and distribution of the Commission's report, and it was 
^Ported to the meeting that no appropriated funds were available. 

243 
1/26/71 
-11-
Governor Maisel now suggested certain types of contributions 
that the Board might want to consider, in addition to the modest 
contributions already approved through providing space in the Seattle 
Branch building and underwriting the cost of four special studies on 
subjects of interest to the Board. 
It was the consensus that the most likely areas for consider-
ation would be contributions toward the cost of publication of the 
Commission's report and toward the underwriting of any additional 
papers that might be determined by the Board to be related to its 
responsibilities. 
In view of the unfortunate circumstances that had 
developed, most members of the Board felt that proposals for assistance 
along those lines, up to a total of about $75,000, might be warranted. 
Governor Brimmer, however, felt that the Commission should be financed 
°ut of appropriated funds, that it had been inadvisable even to agree 
to underwrite the four studies earlier, and that no further financial 
assistance should be extended. 
It was understood that Governor Maisel would study the matter 
further in the light of the views expressed and that a more specific 
Proposal would be submitted to the Board for consideration. 
The Board agreed, in connection with its earlier decision to 
underwrite the four special studies, to pay also certain travel expenses 

244 
1/26/71 
-12-
incurred by the authors in the total amount of approximately $770. The 
Board also authorized the Secretary to approve the payment of additional 
such expenses, if they should be incurred, subject to consultation with 
Governor Maisel. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

^OfCOw'.. 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
245 
Item No. 1 
1/26/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 26, 1971 
Board of Directors 
The Brand Banking Company 
Lawrenceville, Georgia 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment of a branch by The Brand Banking 
Company, Lawrenceville, Georgia, on U. S. Highway 78 opposite 
the Snellville Plaza shopping center, Snellville, Georgia, 
provided the branch is established within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
In approving this application, it has been determined 
that your bank's management and capital are adequate and that 
establishment of the branch will serve the convenience and 
needs of the community without creating undesirable competitive 
effects. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

246 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
item No. 2 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
1/26/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 26, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Bank of Idaho 
Boise, Idaho 
Gentlemens 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
has denied the application of Bank of Idaho, Boise, Idaho, to 
establish a branch in the vicinity of the intersection of Main 
and Overland Streets, Burley, Idaho. 
In 
view of the number of banking facilities now serving 
the community of Burley and the immediate area, and with no immediate 
prospects for substantial economic growth for the area, it appears 
establishment of the branch would result in an overbanked situation 
in the 
community of Burley. Accordingly, it does not appear that 
establishment of the branch would be in the public interest. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

Item No. 3 
1/26/71 
For immediate release 
January 26, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
issued for comment a proposal to exempt from margin requirements credit 
^tended by banks, brokers, and dealers to so-called "block positioners." 
Board fixed March 17 as the deadline for the receipt of comment. 
Block positioners are securities firms that stand ready to hold 
®ubstantial blocks of stock for their own account to facilitate the sale 
°r Purchase by their customers—primarily institutions—of quantities of 
st°ck too large to be absorbed by ordinary trading mechanisms. 
The minimum block of stock that could qualify for the proposed 
Exemption would have a market value of $200,000. A block would also have 
to be sold by the block positioners within 15 business days, although 
ll^ited extensions of 5 days at a time could be allowed by the stock ex-
changGs a n d the ^ a t i o n a i Association of Securities Dealers. 
The Board also re-issued for further comment a proposal to 
eXemPt so-called "third market makers" from margin requirements for credit 
t h e y obtain from banks to carry on their market making activity. Third 
^ k e t makers are firms that make a market off the exchanges in stocks 
that 
a re listed for exchange trading. 
The new proposals would subject credit for block positioning 
vities by all market makers to the same restrictions as those on 
Positioners. The restrictions would apply to specialists,' to over-
b V k 
c°unter firms that make a market in OTC Margin Stocks, and to third 

J r'f 
-2-
^rket makers. If any of these firms took a single position with a 
Market value of $200,000 or more, the block would have to be sold within 
15 business days, or the credit w&uld cease to be eligible for exemption, 
same limited extensions of time could be allowed, however. 
Copies of the proposed amendments are attached. 
-0-

. BOARD D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
24 o 
Item No. 4 
1/26/71 
A D D R E S S 
a r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 27, 1971 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, 
Senior Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank 
of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
94120 
This refers to your letter of December 14, 1970, to 
Mr. Frederic Solomon, in connection with the proposed settlement in 
the matter of Securities and Exchange Commission v. Parvin Dohrmann 
Company et al., 69 Civil Action No. 4543, in the United States District 
Court for the Southern District of New York. Among the defendants in 
the action are Valley Bank of Nevada, which has extended credit to 
defendant Harold Butler for the purpose of purchasing stock in Parvin 
Dohrmann. The credit was collateralized by stock of Denny's Restaurant. 
Plaintiff had alleged that the credit was extended in violation of the 
Provisions of the Board of Governors' Regulation U "Credit by Banks 
for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Margin Stocks". Under the 
scheme provided by Congress in the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, 
the Commission has the duty of enforcing the Board's margin regulations. 
A letter of December 11, 1970, from Mr. Kenneth J. Sullivan, 
Executive Vice President of Valley Bank, a copy of which was enclosed 
with your letter, states that as of that date the loan to Mr. Butler, 
originally in the amount of $3 million, has "been paid down to $1,991,033.36, 
with the Bank of America paid down to $791,033.36 and Valley Bank of 
Nevada carrying $1.2 million." The credit was secured as of that date 
by 350,677 shares of Denny's Restaurants, Inc., common stock, with a 
current market value of $2,673,912. 

Mr. Irwin L. Jennings 
- 2 -
Your letter states that the parties have agreed to stipulate 
and consent to entry of final judgment of a permanent injunction in 
this matter, and that as part of the settlement, the credit, which 
has already been substantially reduced, will be liquidated according 
to an agreed schedule. 
Under the proposal, the indebtedness would be 
extended to January 30, 1972, $300,000 would be repaid to Valley Bank 
in the spring of 1971, and the balance by January 30, 1972. It has 
been stipulated by the parties that this agreement for liquidation 
of the credit shall be acceptable to the Board of Governors. The 
Board has been informed that the proposed schedule for liquidating 
the credit is acceptable to the Commission. 
It would be appreciated if you would inform Mr. Sullivan 
that under the circumstances, the Board has no objection to the 
proposal. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

251 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N • R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
. 
D F 
T H E 
Item No. 5 -
1/26/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R D 
January 27, 1971 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., Chairman, 
Board of Trustees, 
Retirement Plan for Employees of the 
Federal Reserve System, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55440. 
Dear Hugh: 
On January 26, Governor Maisel presented to the Board of 
Governors a number of the proposals that were to be considered by 
the Trustees of the Retirement Plan for Employees of the Federal 
Reserve System at a meeting to be held later the same day. It is 
understood that Governor Maisel subsequently informed the Trustees of 
the actions taken by the Board, and this letter will confirm those 
ac.tions as follows: 
1. 
The Board approved a proposal that the Trustees enter 
into contracts with the Prudential Insurance Company 
of America and the Equitable Life Assurance Society 
of the United States under which the Retirement System 
would pay to each of those companies on March 1, 1971 
$60 million in return for which the companies would 
agree to pay to the Retirement System beginning on 
March 1, 1972 and continuing through March 1, 1991 
- annual sums as specified in the contracts sufficient 
to provide the amounts projected by the actuary to 
cover the aggregate pensions and benefits payable to 
all members who have retired prior to March 1, 1971 
and to their beneficiaries during the remainder of 
their lives. It is understood that these payments 
will aggregate $226,882,000 and that the investment 
return is at the rate of 8.5 per cent per annum. 
The Board approved in principle a tentative proposal 
that the Trustees enter into contracts with a group 
of five or more insurance companies for investment 
management services covering the remainder of the 
Retirement System's investment funds (about $250 
million) under which the funds would be invested at 
the discretion of the companies, with periodic reviews 
of investment performance by the Trustees. This action 
was taken with the understanding that final approval 
of the terms of such contracts would be subject to 
approval of the Board of Governors. 

-2-
3. 
The Board approved a proposed amendment to the Retirement 
Plan set forth on pages 4 and 5 of the draft resolutions 
material accompanying a memorandum dated January 21, 1971 
from the Secretary to the members of the Board of Trustees, 
tentatively numbered as section 15.12, authorizing the 
investment of funds received by the Trust wholly or partly 
through the medium of a group deposit administration 
annuity contract issued to the Trustees by an insurance 
company or companies utilizing general, commingled separate, 
or individual separate investment accounts or invested in 
other means set forth in the draft section referred to. 
4. 
The Board approved a proposed amendment to the Retirement 
Plan tentatively designated as section 15.10 and set forth 
on pages 3 and 4 of the memorandum dated January 21, 1971 
from the Secretary to the members of the Board of Trustees 
having to do with the service and liability of members of 
the Board of Trustees or of the Executive Committee or 
officers or employees of the Plan in connection with their 
actions taken in such capacities. 
5. 
The Board approved a resolution which it is understood 
was adopted by the Trustees on January 26 authorizing the 
officers of the Plan to direct the actuary to use a valua-
tion interest rate of up to 8.5 per cent per annum (in lieu 
of 4 per cent per annum) for purposes of determining the 
liabilities in the Retirement Reserve Account on account of 
retired members and beneficiaries on the rolls as of 
February 28, 1971, and also authorizing the officers to 
transfer to the Reserve Against Investments any excess 
funds in the Retirement Reserve Account including those 
resulting from such revaluation. 
In taking these actions, the Board of Governors understood 
at where necessary and appropriate the actions taken or proposed to 
taken bv thp. Trustee?? would bo submitted to thp Tntprn^l Rpupnuo 
CoPies to: 
JJartin W. Bergin, Secretary 
Marcus Harris, Chairman 
the Retirement Committee 
s to: 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary of the Board. 
