MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Special meeting at which the Comptroller of the 
Currency sat as a member of the Board 
August 1, 1972 

2028 
A special meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System was held in the Board Room at 2:30 p.m. on Tuesday, 
August 1, 1972. Chairman Burns, Vice Chairman Robertson, and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan were present (Governor Bucher 
being absent); also present was Mr. William B. Camp, Comptroller of 
the Currency, who participated as a member of the Board pursuant to 
the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 1966, which provides 
such participation by the Comptroller during consideration of 
possible disciplinary actions to be taken under the Act involving a 
national bank. Mr. Camp was accompanied by Mr. Robert Bloom, Chief 
Counsel, and Mr. Philip Roache, formerly Chief of the Antitrust 
Section, of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. 
(Mr. Roache 
W a s now in private law practice, but had been retained by the Comptrol-
ler of the Currency for the case to be presented today.) The following 
W e r e Present from the Board's staff: 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Marinaccio, Adviser, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Mr. Wood, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Ryan, Supervisory Review Examiner, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 

20Z3 
8/1/72 
- 2 -
In 1969 the Comptroller of the Currency, pursuant to the 
Provisions of section 202(e)(2) of the Financial Institutions Super-
visory Act of 1966, certified to the Board charges and facts to support 
the removal of Louis J. Roussel as an officer or director of National 
American Bank of New Orleans, New Orleans, Louisiana. Mr. Roussel 
was also the principal stockholder of the bank. 
(Other officers of 
the bank also named in that certification subsequently resigned.) 
After inter-agency conferences, the Office of the Comptroller undertook 
additional investigation, and a supplemental certification was filed 
with the Board in April 1971. If the Board, after evaluation of the 
facts presented, instituted proceedings for removal, Mr. Roussel would 
he served with a written notice of intention to remove him from office 
and/or to prohibit him from participating in any manner in the conduct 
the affairs of the bank, and arrangements would be made for a hearing 
before a hearing examiner. 
In a memorandum of January 10, 1972, the Legal Division recom-
mended that removal proceedings be instituted. 
In a letter of January 25, 1972, Governor Robertson informed 
Roussel that he intended to recommend to the Board that it issue 
a written notice of intention to remove him as a director of the bank, 
hut that, in order to minimize any adverse consequences to the bank 

2030 
8/1/72 
-3-
from such a proceeding, he was affording Mr. Roussel an opportunity 
to resign. Mr. Roussel declined to do so. 
In a memorandum of June 15, 1972, Governor Robertson stated 
that on balance, considering the weaknesses and the complexity of 
the removal case against Mr. Roussel, the manpower required to prose-
cute such action, and the demonstrated ability of the Comptroller of 
the Currency to obtain corrective action against National American 
Bank by virtue of his authority to commence cease and desist proceed-
ings, he recommended against going forward with a removal action 
against Mr. Roussel. In support of his recommendation Governor Robertson 
Mentioned that there were major credibility problems with respect to 
°ne of the chief witnesses against Mr. Roussel; the proceeding would 
be protracted and complex and the ultimate benefit of Mr. Roussel's 
removal might be doubted; the allegations concerned transactions that 
had occurred principally in the 1964-1966 period, and were thus subject 
to the criticism that they were old charges, no longer even subject to 
criminal prosecution, because the statute of limitations had run on 
them; and that National American Bank had complied with the terms of a 
cease and desist order issued by the Comptroller of the Currency calling 
for collection of insider loans involving Mr. Roussel's interests and 
restrictions on future loans to those interests. 
(Discussion at today's 

2031 
8/1/72 
-4-
weeting brought out that the staff, for substantially the same reasons 
Mentioned by Governor Robertson, now counseled that the Board not 
institute removal proceedings.) 
The Comptroller of the Currency, in a memorandum to the 
Board of July 27, 1972, strongly urged that these already long-delayed 
Proceedings go forward without further delay and cited arguments to 
counter the reasons Governor Robertson had given for his negative 
recommendation. 
The following paragraphs summarize the views expressed at 
today's meeting with respect to the principal circumstances at issue. 
The problem of credibility of a witness related to Mr. Sam J. 
decile, a real estate dealer and developer in New Orleans who had 
engaged in a number of transactions with Mr. Roussel in connection 
Wlth loans from National American Bank, and who had gone into bankruptcy. 
The bankruptcy proceedings had disclosed apparent confirmation of many 
occasions of suspected personal dishonesty and self-dealing on the part 
of Mr. Roussel, which had been reported to the Department of Justice. 
The Department conducted investigations before the grand jury in 
New Orleans in 1968 and 1969 regarding charges against Mr. Roussel, but 
n° indictment was returned. It was understood that the Federal prosecutor 
failed to present the grand jury with an indictment during the 1969 

r •*< ~s <• ) * y 
8/1/72 
-5-
investigation because he doubted the testimony of Mr. Recile. It 
was not possible to determine whether Mr. Recile's 1969 testimony 
differed from that of 1968 because grand jury proceedings were kept 
secret unless an indictment was brought. 
The Board's staff expressed the opinion that the credibility 
of Mr. Recile was a major problem, and that if he was not believed, 
the case would be lost. It was observed that Mr. Recile's complaints 
against Mr. Roussel arose at the time of Mr. Recile's petition for 
bankruptcy. Prior to that time, he had expressed in writing favorable 
views regarding Mr. Roussel. 
The Comptroller and his representatives pointed out that Mr. Recile 
was not the only important witness; there were others, whose testimony 
had raised no question of credibility. Moreover, even with respect 
t o Mr. Recile's dealings with Mr. Roussel, the facts relating to the 
barges against the latter were well substantiated. It was believed 
that even without weight given to Mr. Recile's testimony, there was 
ample documentation regarding Mr. Roussel's pattern of conduct to 
satisfy a hearing examiner, who would enter the situation with a detached 
Point of view, of the truth of the allegations. The view was expressed 
that the question of credibility of a witness should not be prejudged; 
that was the function of the hearing examiner. 

203 
8/1/72 
-6-
Attention was given also to the significance of the fact that 
although there had been two grand jury investigations of Mr. Rousselfs 
activities, no indictment had been brought against him. Discussion 
brought out that there was no information available to indicate that 
the United States Attorney had not been successful in obtaining testi-
mony from the witnesses he wanted. Comment was made that the environ-
ment in New Orleans in 1968 was such that it was not likely that an 
indictment could have been obtained against Mr. Roussel. 
The Comptroller and his representatives expressed the view 
that the lack of an indictment for violation of criminal law was not 
an argument against proceeding against Mr. Roussel. One of the basic 
Purposes of the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act was to provide 
a mechanism for removing an individual who had not been indicted. In 
fact, even after trial and a finding of not guilty on criminal charges, 
the Act provided authority for the Federal supervisory authorities to 
institute removal proceedings. 
If Mr. Roussel had been indicted and 
convicted, the Act gave the Comptroller of the Currency authority to 
institute proceedings himself rather than to certify facts to the Board. 
The Act was intended to reach to circumstances involving something short 
°f criminal acts. 
The Board's staff assented that the lack of indictment did not 
Prohibit the Board from instituting removal proceedings. However, it 

2034 
8/1/72 
- 7 -
was observed that removal imposed a burden of proof with respect to 
three elements: 
(1) that the offending person had violated law or 
regulation or a cease and desist order or had engaged in unsound prac-
tice; (2) that the institution concerned had suffered or probably would 
suffer substantial loss or other damage or that the interests of its 
depositors would be seriously jeopardized; and (3) that personal 
dishonesty was involved on the part of the person charged. The grand 
Jury investigations undoubtedly had involved charges of dishonesty, 
ar*d it might be contended that since no indictment ensued with respect 
to those criminal charges, dishonesty with respect to the same trans-
actions could not be proved in the civil proceeding for removal. 
Another theme of discussion was the improvement effected in 
National American Bank pursuant to disciplinary action taken by the 
Comptroller. 
In 1968 the Comptroller's General Counsel had obtained 
from the directors of the bank a written agreement that all loans to 
affiliates of the bank that were Mr. Roussel's interests would be 
collected. Mr. Roussel did not sign the agreement. Inadequate response 
was made to carry out the agreement, and in 1970 the Comptroller issued 
a cease and desist order requiring that the insider loans be collected, 
in the amount of $5.4 million, and that any future extensions of credit 
to any affiliate of the bank be within statutory limitations. The loans 
were then collected, and the bank's examination rating improved. 

203 
8/1/72 
-8-
The Comptroller and his representatives commented that although 
unsound practices in National American Bank were at present held in 
check because of the cease and desist order regarding insider loans, 
the position of the Comptroller as a supervisory authority remained 
uncomfortable as long as Mr. Roussel remained a director and majority 
stockholder of the bank. There was always the possibility that he 
might resort to some final and large-scale peculation and then remove 
himself from the Comptroller's jurisdiction. A removal order could be 
accompanied by sanctions that would preclude him from using the bank 
to further his personal interests. In the absence of such sanctions, 
there remained the possibility that he could work through third parties, 
such as correspondent banks, to circumvent the effectiveness of the 
Present cease and desist order. It was noteworthy that the Department 
°f Justice was at present investigating Mr. Roussel*s activities with 
respect to an insurance company in Alabama, and there was at least 
ground for suspicion that that company had been the source of the funds 
with which the insider loans at National American Bank were repaid. 
Mr. O'Connell expressed the view that one of the circumstances 
the Board must weigh in its decision whether or not to institute removal 
proceedings was that the bank was at present operating in a reasonable 
way under a cease and desist order, and that thus there was in force 
a procedure that might insure against the very ills that were feared 

2036 
8/1/72 
-9-
from Mr. Roussel's Influence. However, as had been noted, means of 
circumventing the order probably could be found. There was no doubt 
that from a public interest point of view it would be desirable to 
remove Mr. Roussel from all opportunity of using the bank to his own 
ends, but there was also a possibility that if the effort to remove 
him should fail, his position with the bank might thereby be reinforced. 
The continuing discussion turned upon the responsibility to 
use whatever authority was available to remove Mr. Roussel in order 
that he might not be able to employ alternate avenues for using the 
bank for self-dealing, with potential damage to the institution and 
its depositors. Governors Daane and Sheehan in particular spoke of 
the need to remove a wrong-doer, and the Comptroller's representatives 
emphasized that before certifying Mr. Roussel for removal they had 
carefully weighed the consequences of that course against the risk 
continuing the present circumstances. 
Discussion of the probable time, expense, and manpower required 
for a removal proceeding brought out that it was to be expected that 
Mr. Roussel would resort to every delaying tactic possible. However, 
it was observed that while Mr. Roussel might be successful in delaying 
the proceedings, such would not necessarily be the case. For example, 
he might file with the hearing examiner a motion to dismiss on the 
ground of jurisdictional defects, but a court or examiner frequently 

2037 
8/1/72 
-10-
took such a motion under advisement and proceeded with the case on the 
merits. Jurisdiction had been one of the principal problems the Board's 
staff had found with respect to the 1969 certification by the Comptroller, 
but the staff was now satisfied that a challenge to jurisdiction would 
be defeated and that the complaint did state a cause of action under 
the law. 
Estimates of time involved ranged from a year to three or four, 
the latter being probable if appeals were carried all the way to the 
Supreme Court. A minimum of three trial lawyers would be necessary, 
W:i-th supporting staff. While there was no doubt that expense xvas 
involved in the over-all proceedings, it was observed, that the Office 
the Comptroller had already gone to considerable expense to bring 
the matter to its present posture. Comments were made also on manpower 
Problems for the Board's staff, which was already overburdened. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the understanding that the process 
was discrete, in which the Board could decide at each of several steps 
whether or not to go forward. Staff comments verified that understanding. 
Question was raised as to what would be lost if a hearing exam-
iner gave an adverse recommendation, response being made that the expense 
and effort of the hearing process would not be lost because during the 
Proceedings Mr. Roussel was likely to be on good behavior. Moreover, if 

2038 
8/1/72 
-li-
the proceedings stretched out for a considerable time, the experience 
gained might result in the development of ideas for new remedies and 
Possibly additional legislation. 
References were made also to the letter Governor Robertson 
had written to Mr. Roussel in January 1972 saying that he intended 
to recommend that the Board institute removal proceedings but was 
affording an opportunity for Mr. Roussel to resign. The view was expressed 
that unless the Board instituted removal proceedings, it was left in the 
Position of issuing idle threats. It was observed that no new facts 
had become available since the letter was sent. Another view indicated 
that while some weight should be given to the letter, it was not decisive 
in the question whether or not a hearing should be held. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that it might be possible to exercise 
continuing restraint on Mr. Roussel by strengthening the present cease 
and desist order; for example, all loans to Roussel interests could be 
Prohibited rather than merely restricting such loans to statutory limits. 
Ensuing comments indicated doubt that that course was feasible. The 
present order had been issued on a consent basis, and it seemed improb-
able that consent could be obtained to an expanded order. In the 
absence of consent, it would be necessary to go through the hearing 
procedure. 

2039 
8/1/72 
-12-
Governor Robertson stated that after reviewing the documenta-
tion he had concluded that there was a good prima facie case against 
Mr. Roussel, and that the best procedure would be to try to get him 
0 ut of the bank without publicity. That was why he had sent the 
letter offering him an opportunity to resign, but also offering to 
discuss the matter. Mr. Roussel's attorney had visited Governor Robertson 
for such a discussion. It was Governor Robertson's view that even if 
there was a case that would hold up and in due time the problem could 
be corrected, it would be counter-productive to institute removal 
proceedings at this time, because the Comptroller's cease and desist 
order with respect to the unsound practices had been effective. Even 
if the hearing were private, it was probable that the public would 
learn of it, and there might ensue a large-scale withdrawal of deposits 
from the bank. Also, even if in the course of years the removal effort 
was successful, it would be a Pyrrhic victory because by then Mr. Roussel 
Probably would have retired. If removal proceedings were started now, 
there would be three strikes against them: (1) the lapse of time since 
the transactions in question; (2) credibility of a witness; and (3) 
expense and manpower. Therefore it seemed to Governor Robertson that 
the best course would be to try to correct the defects in National 
American Bank through careful and frequent examinations. 

2 0 
8/1/72 
-13-
In response to a question by Chairman Burns whether he was 
directing a fundamental criticism against the statutory provision for 
removal proceedings, Governor Robertson expressed the view that that 
Part of the statute was in practical effect unusable, as demonstrated 
by the lack of resort to it. He believed that when the cease and 
desist machinery had been provided, the power of removal should have 
been deleted from the law. 
After further discussion, Chairman Burns having called for 
statements of position, the Comptroller of the Currency voted to insti-
tute removal proceedings. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that it was not feasible 
to issue a strengthened cease and desist order, partly because of lack 
°f knowledge of current unsound transactions by Mr. Roussel that could 
be cited. Although he was keenly aware of the problems of large out-
Pourings of resources, he believed that the letter in which Governor 
Robertson had indicated an intention to recommend that removal proceed-
ings be instituted virtually obligated the Board to do so. Therefore 
Governor Mitchell would subscribe to taking this additional step, but 
would reserve judgment as to what should be done after receipt of the 
hearing examiner's report. He would be disposed to keep the hearing 
Private if possible, in order to safeguard the interests of depositors 
who might be adversely affected. 

2 9 - 1 1 
8/1/72 
-14-
Governor Daane also expressed reluctance to burden the staff 
further, but since there seemed to be general agreement that the 
public interest required the removal of Mr. Roussel, the issue seemed 
to be clear. He would vote to hold the hearing, which should be private, 
and would reserve judgment as to what the next step should be. 
Governor Brimmer voted against holding a hearing. He conceived 
the principal objective to be that of protecting the bank, and thought 
that the best course for that purpose would be the use of a cease and 
desist order. He would like to exhaust that possible remedy before 
going forward with a hearing. 
Governor Sheehan expressed the view that even a small percen-
tage of probability of eliminating control of National American Bank 
by Mr. Roussel would point to the desirability of holding a hearing. 
Governor Robertson stated that he would vote against holding 
a hearing for the reasons he had mentioned earlier. 
Chairman Burns commented that although he recognized the 
merits of the staff position and the additional manpower burden that 
would be assumed, the fact that counted most heavily with him was that 
the Comptroller of the Currency, who had lived with this case for years 
and knew its ramifications better than the Board could, had asked that 
a hearing be held. He had asked for only this one step, without commit-
ment for future ones, and Chairman Burns thought that that request should 
b e granted. 

2 0 < 
8/1/72 
-15-
Th e institution of removal proceedings against Mr. Roussel 
was thereupon approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting. 
Chairman Burns suggested, in view of the manpower problem, 
that as heavy reliance as possible be placed on outside counsel and 
assistance from the Comptroller's staff. However, Governor Brimmer 
recommended against the use of outside counsel, because he believed 
that matters such as these were uniquely the responsibility of super-
visory authorities and the use of outside counsel would raise the ques-
tion of conflict of interest. Chairman Burns agreed that it would be 
important to avoid any such question; there should be careful explora-
tion of the nature of business and the earlier connections of persons 
considered for the task. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
