MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Meeting with Federal Advisory Council 
November 6, 1974 

3 0 9 9 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room 
of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D. C., at 10:30 a.m. 
on Friday, November 6, 1970. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Wheeler, Meyer, Brown, Mayer, Harvey, 
Craft, Graham, Nason, Conn, Gray, and 
Clausen, members of the Federal Advisory 
Council from the First, Second, Third, 
Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Ninth, 
Tenth, Eleventh, and Twelfth Federal 
Reserve Districts, respectively 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of the 
Council 
Mr. Morgan, member of the Council from the Eighth District, 
was unable to be present and in his absence the District was repre-
sented by Edward M. Penick, President, Worthen Bank & Trust Company, 
Little Rock, Arkansas. 
Chairman Burns noted that a number of the members of the 
Council would conclude their service at the end of this year. He 
expressed the hope that they would continue their interest in the 
Federal Reserve System, and in this connection he mentioned plans 

3100 
11/6/70 
-2-
that were under consideration for renewing contacts with former Council 
members periodically. 
The Board had inquired whether there were any special problems 
in the areas of monetary policy or banking regulation that Council 
members would like to call to the Board's attention, and the Council 
had responded that it would like to discuss certain matters orally. 
President Nason said that the principal matter the Council 
wanted to bring forward was a proposal for expanded acceptance financ-
ing. He suggested that Mr. Meyer summarize the paper on that subject 
that had been prepared by Morgan Guaranty Trust Company. 
Mr. Meyer stated that the proposal was related to an 
expectation, based on forecasts and projections, that over the next 
few years there would be heavy demands for loans and that it was going 
to be difficult to find the lendable funds. One route to improved 
lending capacity, of course, was increased capital. However, a recent 
ruling by the Internal Revenue Service held that, while capital notes 
issued in accordance with recommendations of Federal or State regula-
tory authorities were entitled to favorable tax treatment, notes 
issued in the absence of such recommendations would not be granted 
such tax treatment if the bank was carrying tax-exempt municipals in 
its portfolio. A recommendation by supervisory authorities that capital 
be increased could carry an adverse implication and in any event it 
seemed unlikely that the amount of additional capital that could be 

3i«i 
11/6/70 
-3-
raised either by sale of stock or issuance of capital notes would be 
sufficient in relation to the expected surge of loan demand. 
The search for alternative means to improve lending capacity 
had resulted in a proposal to enlarge the role of marketable time 
drafts; that is, promissory notes of bank customers, underlying work-
ing capital loans, that the lending bank endorsed and sold in the 
market or to another investor. Such acceptances were ineligible for 
discount at the Federal Reserve Banks or for purchase by the Open 
Market Desk. Morgan Guaranty had been using this mechanism for the 
past year or two, and at present had a fair amount of these instru-
ments outstanding. 
Two principal drawbacks had been encountered, Mr. Meyer said, 
the first of which was the difficulty of tailoring the maturity of 
the note to the needs of the investor. The term for which the borrower 
needed the money was likely to be longer than the term for which the 
investor was willing to immobilize his funds. Therefore, it was sug-
gested that the Board consider allowing banks to negotiate their own 
repurchase agreements against such paper. 
A related question concerned the present limitation on the 
amount of acceptances a bank could have outstanding--50 per cent of 
the bank's capital and surplus. This limitation had been imposed in 
the early days of the System, and although research had failed to 
disclose clearly the underlying rationale, presumably it had reflected 

, 3 1 0 2 
11/6/70 
-4-
a desire to induce prudence in dealing with what was then a new market 
instrument. However, the Morgan Guaranty staff believed it could be 
argued that the limitation should apply only to eligible acceptances. 
One argument in support of that position was that, although there 
were restrictions in relatively narrow areas of bank lending, such 
as the amount that could be lent to any one borrower, there was no 
over-all limit on the amount of loans a bank could make. The fact 
that the ineligible acceptances were limited to underlying notes 
representing loans for working capital was felt to be another jus-
tification for not applying the limitation to them. Also, prudence 
of management might be expected to operate as a limitation. 
Consideration had been given to the effect the proposed 
broadened use of marketable time drafts might have on the commercial 
paper market. While only experience could provide a conclusive 
answer, Morgan Guaranty believed that the result would be a return to 
the banks, and thus to the ambit of monetary policy, of at least some 
of the business that had been lost to the commercial paper market. 
Question also had been raised whether the proposal, which was 
obviously to the advantage of large banks, would do any serious injury 
to smaller banks. It was believed that it would not. Banks outside 
the money centers had developed regional or local markets for their 
CD's and were selling them on the basis of regional loyalty rather 
than at nationwide competitive rates. 

3103 
11/6/70 
-5-
President Nason commented that the Council, after studying the 
Morgan Guaranty proposal, had arrived at general support of the idea. 
Of course, some details were still either vague or undeveloped. The 
market in eligible acceptances was working, and the development of a 
market for ineligible acceptances should not interfere with it to any 
extent. 
There ensued a discussion of the nature and terms of the 
proposed instrument, and the claim the holder would have against the 
bank and the original borrower. 
Governor Mitchell then observed that if repurchase agreements 
were permitted on business loans for working capital, they would 
thereby be accorded the same privilege as U.S. Government and Federal 
agency issues. As a matter of social priority, it would seem that 
mortgages and State and local government securities should have a 
greater claim to the privilege. 
In response to questions by Governor Mitchell regarding the 
bearing of the Internal Revenue Service ruling that had been mentioned, 
Mr. Meyer indicated that his bank, while strongly capitalized at 
present, would like to be able to issue notes to insure an even 
stronger position in the future without having to assure favorable 
tax treatment through a recommendation by regulatory authorities that 
new capital be provided. 

3 1 0 1 
11/6/70 
-6-
Governor Brimmer commented that he would prefer to reserve 
reactions until he had read the paper prepared by the Morgan Guaranty 
staff. It appeared to him, however, that the proposed instrument 
would enhance the availability of bank credit to the business com-
munity compared with other borrowers. 
President Nason commented, in response, that it might be 
argued that if this device provided money to satisfy many of the 
needs of industry, deposit money might thereby be saved for lending 
to others. 
After a further exchange of views, President Nason said that 
the intent had not been to reach any decision at this time but only 
to stimulate thinking. (Secretary's Note: Copies of the memorandum 
regarding marketable time drafts prepared by the Morgan Guaranty 
Trust Company staff were subsequently furnished to the members of 
the Board.) 
1. Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the outlook for 
general economic activity and resource use to 
mid-1971? To what extent has this outlook been 
affected by the automobile strike? 
The economic outlook has been materially affected by the 
automobile strike. While it is impossible to quantify the effect 
precisely, it is likely that whatever gains in real output might 
have been achieved in the fourth quarter will be lost because of the 
strike. Once auto production is resumed, however, some pickup in 
activity is anticipated, reflecting the rebuilding of automobile in-
ventories and the stockpiling of steel as a hedge against a possible 
steel strike. Despite this, it is our expectation that the nation 

11/6/70 
-7-
will be operating at substantially less than capacity and no significant 
long-term improvement is likely in this situation until the consumer 
adopts a more positive attitude. 
The operating rate of manufacturing plants will not improve 
significantly because of new production facilities. In addition, 
because of the growth in the labor force and the delay in adding 
workers to payrolls, unemployment is not likely to decline and may 
even edge up between now and mid-1971. 
Doubt was expressed that the loss in real output occasioned by 
the strike would be recovered for some time, if at all. Although 
historically a large portion of the potential economic gain lost 
during a strike had been recaptured, the present strike had unique 
characteristics. 
B. What is the Council's appraisal of business inten-
tions with regard to capital spending in 1971? 
Are there marked differences by industry category? 
Is it the Council's impression that spending plans 
are being significantly altered in the course of 
the fall budget meetings of businesses? 
The slowdown in general economic activity, including lackluster 
sales, reduced production and operating rates, and the decline in 
profits, has led many businessmen to display caution with regard to 
their capital spending plans for 1971. While there are some differ-
ences as between industries, the hesitancy to expand capital expendi-
tures seems to be fairly widespread. It is the impression of the 
Council that spending plans are being significantly altered in the 
course of the fall budget meetings of businesses. Exceptions to the 
foregoing would be the utilities and communications industries and 
expenditures for environmental projects. A new McGraw-Hill plant and 
equipment spending survey should be available shortly which will 
provide additional insight into these trends. 
Comments by Council members suggested that caution with respect 
to capital spending was attributable not so much to financing costs 
as to factors such as the profits squeeze, unused productive capacity, 

a i O G 
11/6/70 
-8-
and unwillingness of many corporations to borrow more money until their 
present short-term indebtedness had been funded. 
C. From contacts with businessmen and others, what 
are the impressions gathered by Council members 
with regard to wage and other cost developments 
and the over-all outlook for prices? Does the 
Council believe that inflationary expectations 
are as significant as earlier in spending and 
investment decisions? 
Businessmen are greatly concerned with the continued upward 
trend of employment and other costs. As a consequence, they are not 
persuaded that inflationary pressures will be meaningfully curbed. 
Labor cost-cutting efforts, however, have resulted in some gains in 
productivity—in output per man hour. Notwithstanding these gains, 
inflationary expectations persist on the part of many businessmen, 
but factors such as declining sales and profits are today the more 
significant determinants in spending and investment decisions. 
Although some Council members believed that inflationary 
expectations had subsided somewhat over the past several months, 
their business customers reportedly were skeptical that inflation 
would be brought under control. Businessmen noted that prices were 
still rising in the face of an unemployment rate of 5-1/2 per cent. 
However, they were not attempting to out-race rising costs because 
of the countervailing pressures of economic sluggishness. Fear of 
inflation and fear of recession were co-existent. In a sense, infla-
tion seemed almost to have become accepted as a way of life. Factors 
contributing to that attitude included doubt that the Federal budget 
would be balanced in the near future, the impact of constantly rising 
wage costs, and sluggish business conditions, with corporate profits 
almost flat. Despite rising prices, consumers were exercising caution. 

3107 
11/6/70 
-9-
2. Financial developments. 
A. How do Council members appraise the strength 
of business loan demand this fall and the 
prospects for the months ahead? 
Although business loan demand continues fairly strong in some 
Districts, most members of the Council report that there has been an 
easing in demand. It now appears that demand in the months ahead in 
most areas will be less than seasonal. Some increase in demand may 
occur in early 1971 with the resumption of full production in the 
automobile industry and steel inventory accumulation. 
In response to questions, members of the Council expressed the 
view that a reduction in the cost of money would have little effect on 
the demand for business loans, since the cost of money was relatively 
unimportant compared with wage and other costs. However, customers 
who had been using bank credit awaiting a more favorable market for 
capital issues would be encouraged to continue to rely on bank credit. 
Banks had been trying to push those borrowers into the capital market, 
but in many cases they were finding it difficult to do so. 
B. Is there evidence that banks are easing their 
lending policies to any significant degree and, 
if so, in what ways? Has there been or is there 
likely to be increased interest on the part of 
banks in term lending, loans for corporate 
acquisitions, and mortgage lending on income 
properties? 
There are some scattered signs that banks are easing their lend-
ing policies, but most banks are not aggressively seeking loans. There 
is no major new interest in term lending and very little activity in 
loans for corporate acquisitions. There is some selective interest in 
mortgage lending on income properties. Most banks are using the present 
increased availability of funds to improve their liquidity. 
There was no significant further discussion of this topic. 

a i o s 
11/6/70 
-10-
C. Has there been a noticeable deterioration in the 
quality of bank credit as a consequence of bank 
loans to customers faced with severe liquidity 
problems, such as may have stemmed from this 
summer's pressures in the commercial paper 
market? Are banks experiencing an increase in 
credit collection problems in any major cate-
gories of loans? 
It is doubtful that there has been a noticeable deterioration 
in the quality of bank credit as a consequence of bank loans to cus-
tomers faced with severe liquidity problems such as may have stemmed 
from this summer's pressures in the commercial paper market. However, 
because of the slowdown in business and the decline in corporate 
profits and liquidity, there has been a decline in the quality of 
existing loans, with the result that a larger number are now listed 
as classified loans. The quality of new loans, however, has been 
upgraded because of improved credit standards. 
Due to the higher credit standards demanded by investors, 
many would-be borrowers in the capital markets have been unable to 
obtain funds and have been forced to remain in debt to commercial banks 
for longer than they had anticipated. 
Many banks have experienced an increase in credit collection 
problems, particularly in the defense, agriculture, transportation, 
and consumer credit categories. 
There was no significant further discussion of this topic. 
D. How does the Council appraise current bank 
liquidity? Is the improvement that has oc-
curred likely to result in a shift in bank 
interest toward longer-term investments? 
The increased availability of funds, together with a less 
intense loan demand in many areas, has prompted the rebuilding of 
liquidity by the nation's banks. This has been accomplished largely 
by the acquisition of relatively short-term investments. If present 
conditions prevail and interest rates continue to ease, banks may reach 
out for somewhat longer-term investments. 
There was no significant further discussion of this topic. 
E. To what extent are attitudes changing with respect 
to acquisition of money market funds through the 
various major sources open to banks, i.e., CD's, 

11/6/70 
-11-
commercial paper, Euro-dollars, Federal funds, or 
other liabilities? In particular, how do Council 
members evaluate current attitudes among banks 
regarding the preservation of their reserve-free 
bases under the marginal reserve requirements of 
Regulation M? 
The money center banks are constantly evaluating the money 
market in an effort to acquire funds at the lowest possible costs 
relative to liquidity and regulatory considerations. A decline in 
loan demand as well as a drop in yields available on short-term in-
vestments has intensified this daily evaluation. While there is a 
strong desire to maintain their reserve-free bases under the marginal 
reserve requirements of Regulation M, the cost of doing so is subject 
to continuing scrutiny. 
Several members of the Council advised that their banks were 
continuing to debate from day to day whether to maintain their reserve-
free bases, even with the decline in Euro-dollar rates that had occurred 
recently. Comment was made that the decision would be easier if more 
was known about what was over the horizon with respect to Regulation Q 
ceiling rates and certain other regulatory matters. 
F. In the Council's view has there been any sig-
nificant improvement in the availability of 
bank funds to the mortgage market? To what 
extent are high interest rates and other 
restrictive lending terms constraining the 
demand for mortgage funds by builders or home 
buyers? 
In some areas there has been a significant improvement in the 
availability of bank funds to the mortgage market. 
However, the housing market has much more fundamental problems 
in costs than in finances. Potential home buyers also are concerned 
about rising unemployment, strikes, and future economic trends. Moreover, 
usury laws in some States continue to be a serious impediment to mortgage 
financing. 

3110 
11/6/70 
-12-
A Council member emphasized that the question of usury laws 
was by no means academic. It was difficult to respond adequately 
to the social priority of mortgage lending when usury laws affected 
such loans but not other forms of credit such as interim construction 
financing. 
Mr. Clausen commented that West Coast banks played a 
relatively larger role in mortgage lending than banks in other sec-
tions of the country. His own bank's mortgage loans had shown a run-
off in the first five months of the year, but they had been burgeoning 
in the past several months. He believed that the deposit structure 
was a significant influence. There had been an inflow of savings 
recently, and mortgage interest rates on residential properties had 
dropped significantly. 
President Nason spoke of efforts by banks in his District, 
expecially in rural areas, to take care of their communities. Also, 
some of the pressure on banks for mortgage funds had been eased be-
cause the lending capacity of savings banks and savings and loan 
associations had been improved by recent earnings flows. As other 
sources of mortgage funds became available to supply the need, it 
seemed probable that banks would reduce their activity in mortgage 
lending in order to free funds for other uses. This was true 
particularly of the large banks. Some had already changed their 
policy somewhat in terms of the proportion of their funds to be 

a
m 
11/6/70 
-13-
invested permanently in mortgages and they were trying to perform a 
mortgage banking function. In the years ahead they were likely to 
turn more toward interim financing. 
3. Regulatory matters. 
A. How does the Council evaluate the pros and cons 
regarding the maintenance of interest rate 
ceilings on large-denomination CD's of 90 days 
and over? 
The Council strongly supports the removal of interest rate 
ceilings on large-denomination CD's of 90 days and over. There is 
no apparent benefit from such ceilings, and the present period of 
declining interest rates affords a particularly opportune time to 
remove these ceilings. 
Asked what modifications were likely to be made in bank 
operations if rate ceilings were suspended on longer-term CD's, 
several Council members referred to a desire for a further improve-
ment in liquidity. One member spoke of selling more long-term CD's 
to extinguish short-term indebtedness and also of the possibility 
of making more loans. 
Mr. Conn expressed the view that rate limitations on maturities 
beyond 90 days were of particular concern to the regional banks. If 
his bank could compete more strongly for longer-term money, it would 
be able to manage its loan portfolio better, with more latitude for 
making interim construction loans and longer-term commercial loans. 
Liquidity would not be lessened thereby, because money would be brought 
in as well as lent. At present, there was risk in making such loans 
because of uncertainty about the CD market at maturity date. 

11/6/70 
-14-
Governor Brimmer called attention to the fact that the 
statutory power to prescribe different rates for large-denomina-
tion CD's and consumer-type CD's would expire in March 1971 unless 
extended by the Congress, and members of the Council indicated that 
they hoped the Congress could be persuaded to renew the existing 
legislation. 
B. If Congress passes a one-bank holding company 
bill vesting administrative authority in the 
Federal Reserve, the Board will wish to have 
the benefit of Council suggestions regarding 
the implementation of such authority. Would 
the members wish to convey their views on this 
subject at this meeting, at a special meeting 
called after passage of the legislation, or by 
individual letters addressed to the Board? 
The Council would welcome the opportunity of responding to 
this question but would prefer doing so after the bill is finally 
enacted. The Council is available to discuss this subject with the 
Board at any mutually convenient time. 
Chairman Burns requested that as soon as practicable the Council 
give the Board the benefit of its views, either in the form of a Council 
paper or letters from individual members. It would be necessary for 
the Board to draft regulations promptly, for delay would mean an 
accumulation of cases, with resultant confusion. 
The Council assured the Board of its willingness to submit 
comments and to attend a special meeting if desired. 
C. What are the Council's views regarding the risks 
to domestic banks associated with the operation 
of overseas facilities and what suggestions would 
Council members have with regard to possible measures 
that might be adopted by American banking authorities? 

3U3 
11/6/70 
-15-
Basically the risks to domestic banks associated with the 
operation of overseas facilities are no different from those which 
are inherent in domestic operations. Both types of activity require 
the following: reputable and competent ownership and management; 
well-defined and communicated policies and controls; reporting systems 
that provide full and factual reporting of activities; competent re-
view and analysis of reported information; effective and perpetual 
internal audit; and effective frequent external audit. Consequently, 
American banking authorities, when conducting their periodic examina-
tions of American banks, should make certain that such procedures, 
guidelines, and controls have been established and in fact are being 
observed. 
The Council does not believe any additional regulatory 
measures are needed. 
Members of the Council will be pleased to discuss orally 
various aspects of minority and majority ownership of foreign banks. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the Council's reply seemed 
to say that the machinery for monitoring domestic banking practices 
was equally suitable for monitoring operations abroad. However, 
those who sought permission to engage in foreign operations customarily 
wanted to engage in the full range of activities permissible for banks 
in the host country. In those circumstances, he was not sure that 
the machinery for domestic monitoring was commensurate with the risks 
taken abroad, particularly in light of the attitude taken by some 
foreign authorities toward their responsibilities for people doing 
business in the respective countries. One possible safeguard would 
be to limit the liability of the U.S. bank to the amount of its funds 
actually invested. 
While one member of the Council agreed with the general 
validity of that suggested principle, another questioned whether it 

a
m 
11/6/70 
-16-
was consistent with the viability of foreign subsidiary operations. 
Governor Sherrill remarked that the trade-off appeared to be between 
such a principle and a commitment as to how business was to be con-
ducted abroad if the parent assumed unlimited liability, while Governor 
Mitchell observed that foreign governments were not always amenable 
to aggressive supervision by U.S. authorities of operations of U.S. 
banks in their countries. 
Council members expressed the view that a U.S. bank's name on 
its foreign subsidiary's business, whether explicit or only by asso-
ciation, made it necessary to treat the subsidiary as if it were a 
branch. Even if only a minority interest was held, in effect an 
unspoken representation was made. 
Governor Maisel said the Board was concerned about approving 
investments in foreign subsidiaries when there was no real relation-
ship between the amount of the investment and the risk assumed. Governor 
Sherrill added that it should be borne in mind that a subsidiary often 
engaged in types of business forbidden to the parent bank, yet it was 
claimed that the parent should assume the entire risk. He referred to 
management standards enumerated in the Council's statement and expressed 
the view that if all of them were fulfilled the result would be 
stringent control. 
Governor Brimmer asked whether stricter supervision by U.S. 
authorities was believed to be needed, and Mr. Nason agreed that the 

alts 
11/6/70 
-17-
Council's statement carried some implication that regulatory 
authorities had not been as diligent in conducting examinations as 
might be desirable. Mr. Meyer spoke of the requirement that com-
plete records be maintained at head offices of foreign branch 
transactions. That was an onerous task for banks that had numerous 
foreign branches, and even so he doubted that the examiners got all 
the information they needed through that method. In his opinion, 
it would be preferable to conduct more on-site examinations of 
foreign offices. 
4. What are the Council's views on monetary and 
credit policy under current circumstances? 
In general, the Council believes that monetary and credit 
policy hasi been appropriate under current circumstances. In this 
period, especially, it is important that the Board avoid any action 
which might intensify inflationary expectations. 
The Federal budget deficit has increased far more than was 
anticipated only a few months ago. A greater degree of fiscal re-
straint would be desirable to avoid placing an excessive burden on 
monetary policy. 
President Nason stated that Council members felt strongly 
that the Federal Reserve was going to be increasingly under pressure 
to liberalize the growth of money, and that they urged caution. 
Mr. Conn commented that, while he was not in favor of taking 
steps at this time that would intensify inflationary expectations, he 
thought it was necessary to bear in mind the realities of the situation. 
He did not believe there was any likelihood of a balanced budget 
with in the next two or three years, because pressures for Government 

3 U 6 
11/6/70 
-18-
spending were too great. Likewise, prospects were dim for any easing 
of the cost-push inflation generated by union demands. However, the 
Federal Reserve could not do anything about those influences except to 
impose monetary restraint, and he did not believe the country was will-
ing to accept for any long period an unemployment rate in the area of 
6 per cent. Therefore, he believed that the Federal Reserve should 
not take on the responsibility for attempting to accomplish by itself, 
under its existing powers, a reduction in the rate of inflation to, 
say, 2 per cent. It would be an accomplishment simply to hold the 
rate within reasonable bounds. 
Governor Brimmer referred to articles in the press reflecting 
a view that in order to achieve relatively full employment by mid-1972 
and reduce the backlog of unused resources, the real growth rate of 
the economy would proably have to exceed 8 per cent. Members of the 
Council expressed the view that the steps that would be required to 
achieve such a result would surely intensify inflationary expectations. 
Chairman Burns expressed the view that there were two major 
concerns: inflation and recession. Another increase in the rate of 
unemployment was likely to be reported today. He could not foresee 
any substantial improvement in the near future, and political storms 
would be generated. The Board was not about to give up the fight 
against inflation, but it was not possible to ignore the unemployment 
levels that were being reached. Nor did he believe that the Federal 

i i i i 7 
11/6/70 
-19-
' i."o' • v.i i >r v; iii bank sjcco*.: • *. - ;;nct .\ * • r-s .>omi r» >i'ac 1 r -v* 
Reserve should be expected to cope with inflation single-handedly. 
The only effective answer, in his opinion, lay in some form of incomes 
policy. 
Further discussion included an expression by Council members 
that, while they would not favor a mandatory incomes policy enforced 
through a massive bureaucracy, they would favor active exercise of 
moral suasion by the President. They doubted that industry was pre-
pared to accept price controls. 
Mr. Clausen referred to discussion during the Council's 
meeting yesterday of the need to set up some machinery to provide 
insurance against shocks to the economy from a repetition of events 
such as the recent Penn Central bankruptcy. The Council noted, among 
other things, that suggestions had appeared in the press for reac-
tivation of an agency such as the Reconstruction Finance Corporation. 
The ensuing discussion reflected a consensus that the Federal 
Reserve should not be assigned the responsibility for providing such 
emergency assistance to businesses and that it would be preferable to 
establish a separate organization in the nature of an emergency loan 
guarantee corporation. In this connection, Chairman Burns alluded to 
certain proposals that had been made within the Government and some 
of the problems likely to be encountered. 
The Council also brought to the Board's attention its concern 
regarding certain aspects of current proposals by financial analysts 

3118 
11/6/70 
-20-
for changes in bank accounting and income reporting practices. The 
Council indicated that it would be prepared to discuss the subject in 
more detail at another meeting if the Board so desired. 
It was agreed that the next regular meeting of the Federal 
Advisory Council would be held on February 4-5, 1971. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
