MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 1, 19 72 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 6 Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
increase at Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City. 

2328 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, September 1, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Staff presented a review of domestic and international financial 
developments. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the 
review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the 
individual briefings. 
Members of the staff who had been present specifically for the 
review then withdrew and the following entered: 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2329 
9/1/72 
-2-
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Cochran of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Other appropriate supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved a letter 
to Farmers & Merchants Bank, Forest, Mississippi, approving the issuance 
of capital notes. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter (copy attached as 
Item No. 2) to First State Bank of Idabel, Idabel, Oklahoma, amending 
a condition set forth in the Board's letter to that bank dated July 26, 
1972, approving the issuance of capital notes. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order reflecting approval 
on August 10, 1972, of the application of Southwest Bancshares, Inc., 
Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of the successor by merger to The 
First National Bank of Port Arthur, Port Arthur, Texas. Copies of the 
order and of the dissenting statement of Governor Robertson are attached 
under Item No. 3. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order reflecting approval 
on August 8, 1972, of the application of Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., 
Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of the successors by merger to Airline 

.<2o>wO 
9/1/72 
-3-
Bank, Houston, Texas, and Reagan State Bank of Houston. Copies of 
the order and of the dissenting statement of Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer are attached under Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Provident 
National Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to acquire shares of 
Lease Financing Corporation, Wynnewood, Pennsylvania, and authorized 
the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board approved, Governor Bucher abstaining, a letter to 
United California Bank International, New York, New York, granting consent 
to the acquisition of shares of Calunited Promocoes Ltda., Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 6. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Request for hearing. Northwest Bancorporation, Minneapolis, 
Minnesota, had made application under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act to acquire shares of T. G. Evensen & Associates, Inc., 
Minneapolis, Minnesota, a company engaged in advising State and local 
governments on the issuance of securities. Three competitors of T. G. 
Evensen & Associates subsequently requested that a formal hearing be held 
to consider whether the proposed transaction would result in conflicts 
of interest and adverse effects upon competition. 
In a memorandum dated August 29, 1972, the Legal Division stated 
that a formal hearing was unnecessary in this case, but recommended that 
an oral presentation be held at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. 

O'^O-fl 
, 0 0 0 1 
9/1/72 
-4-
After discussion the Board unanimously approved the staff 
recommendation, with the understanding that the oral presentation would 
be conducted by a representative of the Minneapolis Reserve Bank and 
that a member of the Board's staff would be present at the presentation. 
The Board also authorized the issuance of an order in the form attached 
as Item No. 7. 
Texas Commerce Bancshares. In memoranda dated August 23 and 22, 
1972, respectively, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the 
Banking Markets Section recommended approval of the application of Texas 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of the 
successor by merger to San Angelo National Bank of San Angelo, San Angelo, 
Texas. In a memorandum dated August 25, 1972, the Legal Division recom-
mended denial of the application. 
After discussion the Board approved the application, Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer dissenting. It was understood that an order 
reflecting that decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration, 
and that dissenting statements would also be prepared. 
Regulation J. The amendments to Regulation J (Collection of 
Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks) that the Board had 
adopted on June 20, 1972, were scheduled to become effective on September 
It had been learned that certain groups might offer resistance to the 
amendments, possibly including legal action against the Board. 

* 
>
o 
9/1/72 
-5-
With a memorandum dated August 30, 1972, the Task Force on 
Regulations D and J submitted a proposed letter to the Federal Reserve 
Banks outlining enforcement measures that might be undertaken in the event 
of resistance to the amendments to Regulation J and indicating probable 
defense arrangements if litigation were instituted. Also attached was a 
memorandum from the Legal Division recommending that changes approved by 
the Conference of First Vice Presidents in the uniform provisions of 
Reserve Bank operating circulars governing collection of cash items be 
found consistent with the provisions of Regulation J. A draft letter to 
the Reserve Banks was attached. 
Discussion developed agreement upon changes to be made in the 
letter dealing with enforcement measures, after which the letters to the 
Reserve Banks were approved unanimously in the form attached as Items 8 and 9. 
Armored car and courier services. A hearing had been held earlier 
this year on whether armored car and courier services should be added to 
the list of activities permissible for bank holding companies under section 
4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act. In July 1972, the National Courier 
Association received a letter from an economist on the staff of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago requesting certain economic data pertaining to 
members of the Association. On August 10, 1972, a Petition for Adminis-
trative Relief was filed on behalf of the National Courier Association 
objecting to the obtaining of data that was not part of the record of the 
hearing. 

o'^'jq 
9/1/72 
-6-
In a memorandum dated August 31, 1972, the Legal Division recom-
mended that the request for data be withdrawn and that the petitioners be 
advised that the Board had not and would not obtain additional data without 
reopening the record. A draft letter in that form was attached. 
During discussion support was indicated for the suggestion that 
an economic study be conducted of the armored car and courier service 
industry. This study would involve gathering information from various 
companies within the industry. 
It was understood that the letter to the National Courier Associ-
ation would be redrafted to indicate that the record was being reopened 
to obtain additional information and that all parties would have an 
opportunity to comment on the information received by the Board. A copy 
of the letter subsequently sent to counsel for the Association is attached 
as Item No. 10. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rate. On August 31, 19 72, the executive committee of 
the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City had 
established, subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, 
a rate of 4-3/4 per cent (an increase from 4-1/2 per cent) on discounts 
for and advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal 
Reserve Act, along with appropriately corresponding subsidiary rates on 

2331 
9/1/72 
-7-
advances under other sections of the Act. The following reasons for 
the proposed increase were given in a telegram received from the Bank: 
This Bank's Board of Directors' executive committee 
believes that the overall economic and credit situation 
makes a moderate increase in the discount rate appropriate. 
This judgment is influenced to an important degree by 
recent credit market developments considered in the light 
of growth rates in the monetary aggregates. In view of 
this situation, the committee thinks that the discount 
rate change recommended relative to the movement and level 
of money market rates would not become a signal for higher 
interest rates. Rather it thinks there is serious risk 
that a failure to take such action might become a perverse 
signal to the credit markets relative to the stance of 
monetary policy in the period ahead. Such an interpretation 
could have unfortunate repercussions upon the important 
capital market sector, leading to added inflationary expec-
tations putting upward pressure on capital market rates. 
This Board's executive committee is aware of various other 
factors to be considered in this connection, including 
the Administration's economic program initiated a year ago. 
However, it is of the view that when all factors are taken 
into account, the moderate discount rate change recommended 
would prove to be constructive. 
During discussion Governor Mitchell noted that while he would 
not favor a discount rate increase at this time, he felt there was some 
merit in delaying a few days before acting on the pending increase. In 
recent days the Federal funds rate had risen above 5 per cent and with 
Treasury bill rates also moving higher, it might not prove desirable to 
defer an increase for very long, although he would prefer to avoid a 
higher rate. However, he did not feel strongly enough about the desirability 
°f delaying action to cast a dissenting vote should a majority of the 
Board favor disapproval of the proposed increase today. 

2335 
9/1/72 
-8-
Governor Daane said that he would favor disapproval, rather than 
deferral, of the proposed discount rate change today, partly to avoid 
the danger of a leak to the market which might prove unsettling. He felt 
uneasy about the recent increase in the Federal funds rate, and he thought 
the market currently was looking for a confirming signal of appreciable 
tightening in monetary policy which he would not want to give. He agreed 
with Governor Mitchell that the Board might wish to increase the discount 
rate later, but he wanted the rate to follow rather than to lead the 
market. 
Governor Brimmer said that while he cound find more reason to 
approve than to deny the proposed rate change today he would prefer to 
defer a decision on the matter until next week in order to assess the 
market situation at that time. He thought short-term interest rates were 
likely to rise further and in that event he would want to narrow the gap 
between the discount rate and market rates, in part to make clear that 
the System continued to look at the discount rate as a viable instrument 
in the conduct of monetary policy. 
Governors Sheehan and Bucher said that they were in favor of 
disapproving the proposed increase today. Governor Sheehan indicated 
that he shared Governor Daane's concern about the recent rise in the 
Federal funds rate and Governor Bucher added that in his view prompt actic 
was important in order to signal throughout the System that the Board did 
not want an increase in the rate at this time. 

^ O o b 
9/1/72 
-9-
Mr. Holland observed that he and Mr. Axilrod had been in tele-
phone contact with Chairman Burns regarding the proposed rate increase. 
The Chairman had indicated that he would favor denying the increase at 
this time given the currently sensitive condition of the money and bond 
markets and the consequent risk that a rise in the discount rate might 
cause market rates to move up further. He had also noted the possibility 
that recent increases in interest rates might prove to be transitory. 
Chairman Burns had gone on to indicate, however, that he might wish to 
reconsider his position in the relatively near future. 
Governor Robertson observed that he was not in favor of a 
discount rate increase today, but in light of the growing spreads between 
the discount rate and other money market rates, he thought the Board might 
well want to raise the discount rate in the relatively near future. For 
today he saw merit in the idea of deferring action on the proposed increase 
until next week in order to assess the market situation at that time. 
The discussion then focused on a question that had been raised 
with respect to the timing of information relayed to the Reserve Bank 
Presidents regarding the Board's disposition of proposed changes in the 
discount rate. It was noted that in a letter dated April 27, 1971, to 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, Chairman, Conference of Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks, the Board had agreed in principle to a report of the 
Committee on Discounts and Credits dealing with the improvement of commu-
nications in connection with a more flexible discount rate. The paragraph 
from the report that was pertinent to this discussion read as follows: 

o * ^ ok*/ 
l O O o H 
9/1/72 
-10-
Upon receipt of a wire from a Federal Reserve Bank to 
the effect that its directors have voted a change in the 
the Bank's discount rate, the Board of Governors, by coded 
wire, would notify the other Reserve Banks of the directors' 
action. When it is timely, the Board of Governors would 
inform the Reserve Banks, by telephone or coded wire, of 
the Board's views on the proposed discount rate change and 
its probable disposition by the Board, as well as the timing 
of the Board's prospective action. 
Mr. Holland indicated that the practice of sending coded wires 
to the Federal Reserve Bank Presidents had been followed since the spring 
of 19 71 and had been very favorably received by the latter. The coded 
wire did not identify the Reserve Banks that had proposed changes in the 
discount rate and did not provide any indication of the Board's views 
with respect to such proposals. Governor Brimmer said that he would not 
interpret the letter sent to Mr. Francis as an agreement on the part of 
the Board to communicate its views to the Presidents regarding all discount 
rate proposals. 
After brief further discussion, a majority of the Board indicated 
a preference for disapproving the discount rate proposal. Governor Robertson 
indicated that he would not cast a dissenting vote despite his preference 
for deferring action until the following week. Governor Brimmer, however, 
reiterated his preference for deferring action for a few more days in 
order to assess market developments during that period. 
The Board then disapproved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, the 
proposed discount rate increase, with the understanding that a letter 
setting forth the reasons for the Board's decision would be sent to the 

2338 
9/1/72 
-ll-
Kansas City Bank. A copy of the letter subsequently sent to the Bank 
is attached as Item No. 11. 
Other discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York and San Francisco on August 31, 1972, 
of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
iLEEloved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2333 
B O A R D 
O F 
G D V E R M G R S 
or THE 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9/1/72 
' 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2053! 
w 
ADDRESS DfrltftAL CORHC3PDNOENCE 
TC) THE HO/stJO 
September 1, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Farmers & Merchants Bank 
Forest, Mississippi 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(1) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors ox 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $100,000 
in subordinated capital notes by Farmers & Merchants Bank, Forest, 
Mississippi, in the form submitted to the Federal Beaerve Bank of 
At]aiita. This approval is given on the condition that the capital 
notes cannot be called .cor redemption prior to maturity without the 
approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. Approval is granted with the 
understanding that the sale of these capital notes will be consum-
mated within six-months from the date of this letter. 
Very tr uly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant 3ecretary 

o o 40 
B O A R D 
O F G L I V E R N • RS 
. 
Item No. 2 
9/1/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
" (rfe^s^J^^! * 
WASH! NGTON, O. C. 2055* 
ADDRESS OfFIClM- CORRCSPPNOtNCE 
• 'c r< ,e.Y ' • 
' •'^UR^V-
September 1, 1972 
as, 
Board of Directors 
First State Bank of Idabel 
Jdabe1, Oklahoma 
Gentlemen: 
Upon the request of First State Bank of Idabel to Vice 
President Thomas R. Sullivan of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dall , 
condition number 2 set forth in the Board's letter of July 26, 1972, 
to your Bank approving an issuance of capital notes under Regulations 
D and Q is hereby amended as follows: 
2. After December 31, 1972, bank's aggregate amount of 
(a) loans and (b) obligations of State and political 
subdivisions shall not exceed on any day the sum of 
$13,750,000 plus 50 per cent of the amount by which the 
bank's deposits shall exceed the. sum of $16,450,000, 
until such time as the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
determines by written communication to bank that the. 
bank's condition has been ameliorated to the extent that 
termination of this provision shall be justified. 
In amendino the condition, the Board understands that the equity 
capital of"your Bank shall be increased by $100,000 through the sale 
of new common stock along with the proposed issuance of $500,000 m 
capital notes. 
Mthough by the amendment set forth above, condition 2 
becomes effective on December 31, 197?: it is understood that First 
State Bank of Idabel will take immediate steps towards assuring 
compliance with that provision on that date. Compliance with trie 
terms of both conditions placed upon your Bank in connection with 
the issuance of the capital notes may be, in the discretion oi the 
Board oi: Governors, enforced under the Financial Institutions 
Supervisory Act of 1966. 
Very t r u l y yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Ass.Utant Secretary 

2341 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
9/1/72 
SOUTHWEST BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to The 
First National Bank of Port Arthur, Port Arthur, Texas ("Bank"). 
The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares 
of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of the successor 
organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares 
°f Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
u 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired, and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the fifth largest banking organization and third 
largest multi-bank holding company in Texas, has six subsidiary 
banks with aggregate deposits of $1,028 million representing approximately 

-2-
2342 
3.A per cent of total deposits of commercial banks in the State.-'' 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, and reflect bank 
holding company acquisitions approved through May 31, 1972.) Con-
summation of the proposed acquisition of Bank (deposits of approximately 
$73.5 million) would increase Applicant's share of commercial bank 
deposits in the State by .3 percentage points and Applicant's rank 
in the State would be unchanged. The proposed acquisition represents 
Applicant's initial entry into the Beaumont-Port Arthur-Orange area 
which approximates Bank's relevant market. 
Bank, third largest of 19 banks in the Beaumont-Port Arthur-
Orange area, controls approximately 13 per cent of total deposits of 
commercial banks in that market. Upon consummation of the present 
Proposal, Applicant would become the second bank holding company 
operating in that market. (Pending before the Board are three applications 
i/ Appiicant controls substantially all the stock of five Texas banks: 
Bank of the Southwest, Houston; Village National Bank, Houston; 
u 
National Bank of Longview, Longview; Long Point National Bank, 
Houston; Continental National Bank of Fort Worth, Fort Worth. 
Applicant holds approximately 38 per cent of the voting shares of 
outh Park National Bank, Houston, and has minority interests of 
etween 4.20 and 20 per cent in four other Houston banks whose 
^Sgregate deposits as of June 30, 1971, were approximately $117 million. 
Applicant's minority interest of 24.7 per cent in Kilgore National Bank, 
^ilgore, Texas, is expected to be liquidated. The Board approved 
applicant's applications to acquire Long Point National Bank of Houston, 
Huston, Texas ($29 million of deposits) and Continental National Bank 
° f F o rt Worth, Fort Worth, Texas ($182.2 million of deposits) on 
April llf 1 9 7 2 > a n d M a y 24, 1972, respectively. On June 8, 1972, Applicant 
eceived approval from the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, acting under 
delegated authority, to acquire Bank of Woodlake, National Association, 
Houston, Texas, a proposed new bank. On June 29, 1972, the Board approved 
Applicant's application to acquire The Denton County National Bank of 
enton, Denton, Texas ($33 million of deposits). 

2843 
-3-
filed by three bank holding company organizations (other than Applicant) 
each of which seeks to enter the relevant market; the banks involved 
are that area's second, fourth and fifth largest banks. The lead bank 
of First Security National Corporation, Beaumont, Texas (the only multi-
bank holding company presently operating in the market) with deposits 
of approximately $150 million controls more than 25 per cent of deposits 
of commercial banks in Bank's market. 
Applicant's subsidiary banks located nearest to Bank are 
in Houston, Texas, approximately 90 miles west of Bank and operate in 
a separate but adjoining banking market. It appears that no meaningful 
competition exists between Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiary banks. 
Further, it appears unlikely that meaningful competition would develop 
in the future between Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiaries in light 
o f the facts presented, particularly the distances separating these banks, 
the number of banks in intervening areas and the Texas statutes prohibiting 
branch banking. Applicant could enter the market de novo or through 
the acquisition of a smaller bank. However, such prospect appears un-
likely in view of the number of banks already in that market, the failure 
o f the area to experience significant population growth during the past 
decade and the existence of a somewhat static economic condition in 
the relevant communities. Although acquisition by Applicant of one of 
the smaller banks in the market might have a somewhat more favorable 
effect on competition than acquisition of Bank, the prospect of entry 
into the Beaumont-Port Arthur-Orange area by a number of the State's 

-4-
2344 
largest multi-bank holding companies should stimulate aggressive banking 
competition in that market. Further, Bank has operated under conservative 
management policies and is not regarded as a likely prospect for the 
formation of a new bank holding company; it appears that acquisition 
of Bank would not have a significant adverse effect on the remaining 
banks in the relevant market; nor foreclose entry by other bank hold-
ing companies into the market as a significant number of independent 
banks would remain as potential members of other bank holding company 
organizations. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse 
effect on competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of AppH c a n t and its subsidiary banks appear satisfactory. Bank appears 
to be in satisfactory financial condition. Upon acquisition of Bank, 
Applicant has stated its intention to make available to Bank more aggressive 
management to enable Bank more effectively to satisfy the financial needs 
°f the many industrial companies located in its market. At the present 
time, Bank's loan to deposit ratio is significantly below those of 
its more aggressive competitors. To the extent affiliation with Appli-
cant may result in Bank providing more of its financial resources to the 
community, this prospect lends weight to approval of the application. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served lend some weight to approval of the application. It 
i s the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 

2345 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
o r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective September 1, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
j^tlng for this action: Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, Sheehan, and 
notIII* V° t i n g aS a i n s t t h i s action: Vice Chairman Robertson. Absent 
voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Daane. 

2346 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
I would deny Applicant's proposal to enter the Beaumont-Port 
Arthur-Orange banking market through acquisition of the third largest 
bank in that market controlling 13 per cent of total deposits of 
commercial banks in that area. On previous occasions, I have indicated 
m y belief that it is not in the best interests of banking in Texas to 
Permit the strongest, most aggressive banking organizations in the State 
t 0 continue to acquire dominant and viable independent banks in the 
various banking markets throughout the State without a clear showing 
that the acquisition will result in benefits flowing to the banks involved 
or to the banking public in the relevant communities. The present pro-
posal fails to indicate any public benefits that would override the 
anticompetitive consequences that I believe will result from consummation 
o f Applicant's acquisition of Bank. 
The record indicates that Applicant is a likely entrant into 
Sank s market which is approximately 90 miles from Houston, where Appli-
cant s lead bank is located. In view of the relatively high population 
P e r banking office ratio in Bank's market (15,797 compared to 9,276 for 
the State) and the existence of numerous smaller banks in the area, the 
Market seems attractive for entry d£ novo or through the acquisition of 
one of the smaller banks operating in that area. 
Bank is in satisfactory financial condition and would be an 
attractive vehicle for entry by a bank holding company that occupies a 
l e s s dominant position in the State than Applicant. Such entry would 
S e r v e to encourage the development of additional banking organizations 

2347 
- 2 -
in the State, whereas entry by Applicant significantly increases the 
resource strength of an already dominant bank holding company operating 
in an adjacent market. Also the size and strength of Bank suggest that 
it is able to compete in its market as an independent bank. 
The Board's recent Order approving the entry of Texas Commerce 
Bancshares, Houston, Texas, into the Beaumont market through acquisition 
o f the second largest bank in that market, in my view, can be distin-
guished from Applicant7s proposal herein, particularly on the basis of 
the market position and managerial resource strength of American National 
Bank (which had deteriorated significantly in the last few years) and 
the requirement in the Board's Order that Texas Commerce Bancshares divest 
scares now held by American National Bank in the seventh largest bank 
i n the Beaumont market, so that an additional independent banking com-
petitor emerges in connection with the acquisition of American National 
Bank. 
In the present application, Applicant fails to show that any 
benefits to the relevant communities will result from its acquisition 
o f Bank. Applicant points only to the fact that Bank's conservative 
management is responsible for a loan to deposit ratio that is signifi-
cantly below those of Bank's more aggressive competitors. IThile it may 
be true that affiliation with an aggressive bank holding company organi-
zation will result in Bank's lending policies becoming more aggressive, 
•.I. j 
s may be either good or bad depending upon a host of considerations, 

2348 
-3-
including whether the community's need for borrowed funds is being 
adequately met. If so, there is no public advantage in trying to in-
crease the amount of loans outstanding. In any event, this prospect, 
in itself, fails to weigh heavily in counterbalancing the anticompetitive 
consequences of the proposed transaction. 
It is often asserted, and Applicant and the majority of the 
Board rely on the proposition, that the affiliation of a large bank 
holding company with a relatively small bank will increase the availability 
loanable funds in the market of the smaller bank. In my view, such 
affiliation may reduce the amount of funds available in the smaller bank's 
market when the need therefor is greatest. For example, if "tight money" 
conditions obtain and the holding company's large city bank is "loaned up", 
the holding company is in a position to draw funds out of the market of 
smaller subsidiary banks in order to satisfy the loan demands of the lead 
bank's largest customers. Indeed, the reason most frequently advanced 
i n suPPort of proposed acquisitions of additional banks by holding com-
panies of large city banks is that they will be better able to finance 
their large customers. Of course, If the large customers are preferred 
borrowers—and I suspect they will be—it is probable that smaller borrowers 
seeking loans in the relatively small market of the subsidiary bank will 
dePrived of the use of funds generated In their own area. 
Moreover, to the extent that bank holding company affiliation 
creates constraints upon holding company subsidiary banks to seek loan 
Participations xd.th banks outside the holding company system, local 

23 
-4-
customers seeking loans in excess of a bank's own legal limit may seek 
in vain. After giving up its previous freedom to sell its loan over-
lines to any of its several large correspondent banks, a subsidiary may 
find its "in-house': banks unable to pick up a loan during high demand 
periods and itself unable to make a particular loan. Such limitations 
°n the traditional loan participation procedure, brought about by hold-
ing company affiliation, may work well enough in rosy times and reduce 
the availability of funds in a particular banking market in others. 
In view of these considerations, I am not convinced that Bank's 
affiliation with a large aggressive bank holding company will permanently 
increase the availability of loanable funds in Bank's market and, hence, 
better serve the convenience and needs of the Bank's community; certainly 
n o t t o the extent needed to outweigh the anticompetitive effects of the 
Proposed transaction. 
I would deny the application. 
September 1, 1972. 

2350 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o > 4 
9/1/72 
feXAS COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a registered 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act> has applied in separate applications for the Board's approval 
under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the successor by merger to Airline Bank, Houston, Texas 
("Airli ne Bank") and of the successor by merger to Reagan State Bank 
°f K o u s t°n, Houston, Texas ("Reagan Bank"). 
The banks into which Airline and Reagan banks are to be 
merged have no significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisi-
tio 
£ 
n of the voting shares of Airline and Reagan banks. Accordingly, 
the 
Proposed acquisitions of the successor organizations are treated 
herem as the proposed acquisitions of the shares of Airline and Reagan 
banks. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
P rsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views expired, 
n d the Board has considered the applications and all comments received 
i n light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls two banks located in the Houston area 
with 
aggregate deposits of $1.2 billion, representing 3.9 per cent 
total deposits of commercial banks in the State. 
Applicant, the 
Urth largest banking organization in Texas and the second largest 

2351 
-2-
in the Houston banking market, controls approximately 16.5 per cent 
of total commercial bank deposits in the Houston area.-''(All banking 
data are as of December 31, 1971, and reflect bank holding company 
acquisitions and formations approved through June 30, 1972.) In 
addition to its two subsidiary banks, Applicant holds, through a 
subsidiary, 24.9 per cent of the outstanding voting shares of each of 
the banks proposed to be acquired. Applicant's subsidiary also holds 
between 20 and 24 per cent of each of three other banks in the Houston 
market. These five banks hold aggregate deposits of $168.7 million 
representing 2.4 per cent of total deposits of commercial banks in the 
Houston area. Upon consummation of the proposals herein, Applicant 
would control approximately 18 per cent of total deposits of commercial 
banks in the Houston area and would remain the area's second largest 
banking organization. Applicant's share of deposits of commercial banks 
i n the State would increase by .3 percentage points and Applicant's rank-
i n g among banking organizations in the State would be unchanged. 
^OtTAugust 31, 1972, the Board approved Applicant's application to 
acquire American National Bank of Beaumont, Beaumont, Texas ($112 million 
o f deposits). At the same time the Board directed Applicant to divest 
shares of Beaumont State Bank, Beaumont, Texas ($25 million of deposits) 
which would be acquired indirectly through Applicant's acquisition of 
American National Bank. Applicant is in the process of organizing seven 
Se novo banks located in the Houston market. 

2352 
-3-
Reagan Bank ($65 million of deposits) and Airline Bank ($26.5 
million of deposits) rank 15th and 45th, respectively, among 142 banking 
organizations in the Houston market and control respectively, .9 and 
.4 per cent of total deposits of commercial banks in that area. Reagan 
a n d Airline banks are located approximately four miles north and six 
miles northwest, respectively, of Applicant's lead bank located in down-
town Houston. In addition, Applicant's other subsidiary, North Freeway 
Bank ($4.5 million of deposits) is located in the Houston area approxi-
mately five miles north of Airline and Reagan banks. The service area 
of Applicant1s lead bank completely overlaps the service areas of the 
t W o Proposed subsidiary banks. It appears that some deposit and loan 
overlap exists among these banks. 
Both Reagan and Airline banks were organized in the 1950's 
b y individuals closely associated with Applicant's lead bank. Except 
f°r a brief period of about two years from 1966 to 1968, shares of 
Reagan and Airline banks have been held continuously by Applicant or 
i t s Predecessor organizations. A close working relationship between 
Applicant and each of the banks proposed to be acquired has continued 
^interruptedly since Reagan and Airline banks were chartered. The 
Proposals herein represent a strengthening of existing interests rather 
t h a n the acquisition of independent competing banks. In view of Applicant's 
significant 
holding of shares of these banks and the continued close 
relationship between Applicant and these banks, the prospect of dis-
tillation seems remote. 
It appears that consummation of Applicant's proposals 
herein would not eliminate any meaningful competition between the 
Proposed subsidiaries or between either of them and any of Applicant s 

/— o 
-4-
subsidiary banks. Nor would consummation of either or both of Appli-
cant's proposals raise barriers to entry by other bank holding companies 
into the expanding Houston market since, after consummation of these 
proposals, a number of other banks would remain in the Houston market as 
potential vehicles for entry by other bank holding company organizations. 
Additionally, neither Airline Bank nor Reagan Bank, each a retail 
institution located outside of downtown Houston, appears to be an 
attractive vehicle for a new or different bank holding company organi-
zation to enter into the Houston market. Reagan Bank is located approxi-
mately four miles from downtown Houston in an established lower-middle 
income neighborhood that has been encircled by freeways which tend to 
limit accessibility to other areas. 
On the record before it, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f Applicant proposals would not result in a monopoly nor be in further-
ance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the business 
o f banking in any area, nor have any substantially anticompetitive 
effect. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant 
and its subsidiaries appear satisfactory and future prospects of all 
seem favorable. The financial condition, management resources and pro-
spects of Reagan Bank and of Airline Bank also appear satisfactory and 
consistent with approval of each of these applications. Soon after 
acquisition, Applicant has agreed to strengthen the somewhat low 
capital position of Airline Bank and proposes to do so through the 
immediate injection of capital funds and the initiation of certain 

23 
-5-
Policies with respect to dividend payments and retention of earnings. 
This consideration lends some weight toward approval of the acquisi-
tion of Airline Bank. The banking needs of the residents of the 
Houston banking market, including those in the service areas of Reagan 
and Airline 
banks, appear to be adequately served at the present time 
b y existing institutions. However, Applicant proposes to make more 
efficient and expanded banking resources available through Airline and 
Reagan banks. Trust services, real estate financing and international 
banking are among specialized services Applicant states that it intends 
to make available at these banks. Considerations relating to the con-
venience and needs of the relevant areas are consistent with approval 
o f the applications. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of 
each of the proposed transactions is in the public interest and that 
each application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, these applications are approved 
for the reasons summarized above. Neither acquisition shall be consum-
mated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
t h e Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to dele-
gated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governorseffective September 1, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
bheehan, and Bucher. Voting against this action: Governors Robertson 
a n d Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 

O ' "*» f 
f 
<cov>b 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
We dissent from the majority's approval of the acquisition 
by Applicant of both Reagan and Airline banks. These banks are located 
in the same market as that served by Texas Commerce Bank ($1.2 billion 
°f deposits), Applicant's lead bank, and communities served by Ap-
plicant's one other subsidiary bank or other of its associated banks 
are adjacent to areas served by Airline or Reagan banks. 
Acquisition of both of these banks would further strengthen 
Applicant's already dominant position in the Houston market (from 16.7 
to 18 pGr cent of market deposits); eliminate significant potential 
competition that could develop upon the disaffiliation of these banks 
from Applicant; and eliminate an attractive vehicle for entry into the 
Houston market by a new or different bank holding company organization 
not presently represented in that market. Such adverse consequences 
would not result from the acquisition of Airline Bank alone. There-
fore, v;e would approve the acquisition of Airline Bank, deny the 
application to acquire Reagan Bank, and condition approval of the 
aPplication to acquire Airline Bank upon divestiture by Applicant of 
t h Q v°ting shares it presently holds in Reagan Bank. 
We believe the majority places too much significance on 
t h e prior affiliation of Airline and Reagan banks with Applicant and 
its predecessor organizations and, to a large extent, disregards the 
adverse competitive effects of the proposed transactions. The three 
largest bank holding companies in the Houston market have 24 chain 
related banks throughout the Houston metropolitan area holding 

2358 
- 2 -
approximately 10 per cent of total deposits of commercial banks in 
that market. Rapid consolidation of banking resources held by these 
related banks is presently being sought in the Houston area as these 
bank holding companies are engaged in acquiring or have indicated 
a n s t o accluire full share ownership and control of at least 16 of 
then t» 
G e chain banks which hold total deposits of more than $500 million, 
representing more than 7 per cent of total market deposits. 
We believe that the Bank Holding Company Act requires that 
competitive criteria shall be applied to acquisitions of related banks 
as well 
a. 
as to acquisitions of unrelated banks. In our judgment, applica-
i0tl 0 f t h Q competitive standards prescribed by the Act requires denial 
of the acquisition of both Airline and Reagan banks or of Reagan Bank 
alone. 
Acquisition of Airline Bank only, in view of its size ($26.5 
iHion of deposits) and the distance between it and Houston, does not 
PreoGnt serious adverse competitive effects. Acquisition 
of 
°th Reagan and Airline banks by Applicant, however, would have 
adverse competitive effects on potential competition in the Houston 
banking market. Reagan Bank ($65 million of deposits) is located only 
u r miles from downtown Houston and has experienced rapid deposit 
growth during the last few years. These factors indicate that ac-
q isition of Reagan Bank by Texas Commerce would strengthen signifi-
n t l y the company's already dominant position throughout the Houston 
and have serious anticompetitive effects on smaller banks in the 

-3-
2357 
area served by Reagan Bank. Divestiture of Reagan Bank by Texas 
Commerce as a condition to its acquisition of Airline Bank, v?ould, 
on the other hand, have a procompetitive effect on the Houston bank-
ing market. As a result of such a separation, Reagan Bank could 
become a significant independent competitor in the Houston market 
in which only 21 of more than 140 banks hold deposits in excess of 
$50 million, The Board's action today eliminates Reagan Bank as an 
entry vehicle and thereby increases the barriers to entry into the 
Houston banking market by a bank holding company not already in 
that market, 
September 1, 1972. 

2358 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
9/1/72 
PROVIDENT NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Lease Financing Corporation 
Provident National Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a 
b a n k folding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s aPPlied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire not less than 51 
Per cent of the voting shares of Lease Financing Corporation ("LFC"), 
Wynnewood, Pennsylvania, a company that engages in the activity of leasing 
Personal property or acting as agent, broker or adviser with respect to 
t h e basing of such property. Such activity has been determined by the 
B°ard to be closely related to the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(6)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
been duly published (37 Federal Register 14259). The time for filing 
comments and views has expired, and none have been timely received. 
Applicant's subsidiary bank, Provident National Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania ("Bank"), has total deposits of $1,045 billion and is the 
fifth largest commercial bank in the city of Philadelphia, controlling 
3.3 nov 
y 
J Per cent of deposits in that area. 
LFC is primarily engaged in leasing transportation equipment, 
computer equipment and other equipment, and acting as agent, broker or 
^ " ^ P c s T t data are as of December 31, 1971. 

2359 
-2-
adviser in the leasing of such equipment. As of March 31, 1972, LFC leased 
directly equipment costing approximately $13 million and acted as adviser 
with respect to equipment costing about $33.75 million. 
It appears that the relevant geographic market for the type of 
Property that LFC generally leases is nationwide and LFC leases property 
o r provides advisory service in all but 11 States. On the basis of its 
direct leasing and lease advisory services, it appears that LFC controls 
less than one per cent of that market. Applicant's subsidiary, Provident 
National Bank ("Bank") has engaged, as authorized by the Comptroller of the 
Currency, in direct personal property leasing, but to date has made only 
three lease transactions with a total original equipment cost of $3.47 
miUion. Bank is not authorized to act as agent, broker or adviser with 
respect to the leasing of personal property and has not acted in that 
opacity. Although some existing competition would be eliminated upon 
consummation of this proposal, the small size of Bank's existing leasing 
operation, LFC's substantial activity in lease advisory services in which 
Bank cannot participate, the limited expertise of Bank in leasing, and the 
small size of LFC in the national leasing market make it unlikely that 
approval of this application would result in any significant reduction of 
existing competition. Some potential competition would be eliminated upon 
consummation of this proposal because Bank could engage de novo in personal 
Property leasing activities. The small size of LFC in the national leasing 
Market, the l a r ge number of existing leasing companies, and the entry of many 
n e w leasing firms should reduce the likelihood of adverse competitive effects 

2360 
-3-
o n Potential competition. On the basis of the facts before the Board, it 
does not appear that any significant existing or potential competition would 
b e eliminated upon consummation of the proposal herein. 
The Board has considered the possible vertical anticompetitive 
effects such as Bank ceasing to be a source of credit for competitors of 
L F C o r LFC ceasing to be a source of loan business for competitors of 
Applicant's bank. The possibility of such dangers does not appear serious. 
Consummation of the proposal would enable LFC to acquire capital 
a t a lower cost. This should serve to expand LFC's direct leasing activity 
a n d enable them to lease more costly equipment and to become a stronger 
competitor in the national market. Accordingly, the public benefits involved 
a r e consistent with approval. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public interest 
factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is favorable. 
Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This determination is 
sub3ect to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to 
t h e Board's authority to require such modification or termination of the 
activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board 
finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of 

2361 
the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to 
Prevent evasion thereof. 
2 / 
By order of the Board of Governors,- September 1, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
V° t i nS for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
vnt-? 
l> °aane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not 
otlt*g! Chairman Bums. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N . 
O. 
C . 
20551 
O D 4 
Item No. 6 
9/1/72 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
TO THE BOARD 
September 5, 1972 
United California Bank International 
140 Broadway 
New York, New York 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 20, 1972, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to 
purchase and hold substantially all of the shares of Calunited 
Promocoes^ Ltda., ("Calunited"), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, at a 
cost of approximately CR$60,000 (about $1.0,2.00), provided the 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
This consent is granted on condition that Calunited 
acts as a representative office of United California Bank and 
confines its activities to those that are customary for a 
representative office of a United States bank in Brazil. 
The foregoing consent is given on condition that 
the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to United California Bank and its 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2 3 6 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEII 
Item No. 7 
9/1/72 
NORTHWEST BANCORPORATION 
ORDER FOR ORAL PRESENTATION 
On March 21, 1972, there was published in the Federal 
^Sister (37 Federal Register 5775) a notice of receipt by the 
a r d Of Governors of an application filed pursuant to section 
4(<0(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) 
a n d s e c t i°n 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y by Northwest 
Rancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota ("Applicant"), for permission 
t 0 accluire voting shares of T. G. Evensen & Associates, Inc., Minneapolis, 
Minnesota. 
The application states that the proposed subsidiary provides 
financial advice to State and local governmental units, particularly 
V i t h resPect to the advisability of obtaining long-term capital funds 
through municipal bond sales, and that the proposed subsidiary analyzes 
listing debt and ability to pay, gathers information needed by pro-
spective investors, prepares and distributes prospecti to potential 
investors, solicits bids from bond dealers and other interested 
ers» acts as coordinator until consummation of the financing, 
atld advlses clients on other financial questions. The notice advised 
that the application was available for study at the office of the 
BoarH & 
Governors and the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, and 
desi8nated a period within which comments and views on the proposed 
acquisitiori could be filed with the Board. 

2364 
-2-
Having considered all comments submitted on the proposal, 
including a request, with accompanying statement of reasons, that a 
hearing be conducted on the application, the Board has concluded that 
fche public interest would be served by the conduct of an oral presenta-
tion with respect to the application. The Board has, accordingly, 
directed that an oral presentation be held on October 17, 1972, 
commencing at 10:00 a.m., at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
73 south Fifth Avenue, Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Board has designated 
a n official of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis to serve as 
bearing Officer for the conduct of the oral presentation. The pro-
ceeding will consist of presentations of statements in oral or written 
for > together with any supporting or supplementary written submissions 
allowed by the Hearing Officer, all of which are to be addressed to 
t h e ^actors set forth in section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act-/ 
as applied to this application. 
Any person desiring to give testimony, present evidence, 
o r otherwise participate in these proceedings should file with the 
Secretary, Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 73 South Fifth 
^ ^ c t i o n 4(c)(8) provides in pertinent part that a bank holding 
P a n y may acquire: 
Shares of any company the activities of which the 
Board after due notice and opportunity for hearing 
has determined (by order or regulation) to be so 
closely related to banking or managing or controlling 
banks as to be a proper incident thereto. In determining 
whether a particular activity is a proper incident to 
banking or managing or controlling banks the Board shall 
consider whether its performance by an affiliate of a 
holding company can reasonably be expected to produce 
benefits to the public, such as greater convenience, 
increased competition, or gains in efficiency, that 
outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue con-
centration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, 
conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. 

2365 
-3-
Avenue, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55480, on or before October 3, 1972, 
a written request containing a statement of the nature of the 
Petitioner's interest in the proceedings, the extent of the 
Participation desired, a summary of the matters concerning which 
Petitioner wishes to give testimony or submit evidence, and the 
names and identity of x^itnesses who propose to appear. Requests 
w i U be presented to the Hearing Officer for his determination, and 
Persons submitting them will be notified of his decision. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective September 1, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Hit u t i n g f o r t h i s action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
vot^ 
Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not 
xa8: Chairman Burns. 

23 68 
Item No. 8 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
9/1/72 
.• v
'
o
G
l
* 
THE 
-y2-J 7 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• Mi. - •; • 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESR • F FI C IA L. CORKF.SP O HOC N C E 
1 • THE BDAHD 
September I, 1072 
^ 
t 
Reference is wade to the recently announced amendments to the 
Relation J, effective September 21, 1972. pertaining to 
^-^ction 
each items? on the day of presentment. The. board believes 
jv f"3 
P~V£,'T'Ount importance tlu-t the System, in particular the Reserve 
1jc alert to and prepared for problems presented with respect tc the 
enforcement of the amended regulation. 
Board bases its Regulation J enforcement policy on the 
P^iTilaii that no bank is required to send its checks to the Federal Reserve 
A sundi'n>> b a n k 1 3 now authorised under the Uniform Com-
C3-ai ''ode to a cud cheeks directly to the. banks on 'which the cheeks are 
0 r 1 1 n:aV send the checks thtough collection channels outside the 
Reserve System--as is the case with non-par banks. The Federal 
5o'oS?VG> 
i t s check collection functions, Is engaged in a public service. 
%
v^?u;-at3-OR J merely describes the conditions and the circumstances under 
no —- , : h a c I,ubllc service will be performed. A particular bank may or may 
\ r l n d il: advantageous to have its checks cleared through the System; but 
^ U: do** decide to permit its checks to be cleared in that manner, it 
ti'., 
ntl t 0 
by the rules of the game, which includes adherence to 
^ovinicnis of Regulation J. 
I no Board believe? that the amendment to Regulation J should 
^enforced in a manner consistent with this philosophy of the Federal 
^servs check collection function. Accordingly, the Board expects that 
'--checks will be received from or presented to a bank that refuses to 
^-•ute by the provisions of .the amended Regulation J. If, by September IS, 
^.auk h G s r o t indicated in what manner it intends to pay its checks, it 
nr , 
b,i Informed, that, effective September 21, the Federal Reserve will 
' «>nger handle its checks. 

2367 
- 2 -
If litigation is instituted in which the validity of the Board s 
Regulation J is called into question, it is reasonably assumed that the 
'ficard would be made a party to such action, in which event the Board would, 
a s in all cases in which it is named a party defendant in civil litigation, 
request the Department of Justice to appear in the action on the Board s 
b c h a U . We believe this proposed representation would be equally appro-
priate In a case where the Board and one or more Reserve Banks are joined 
a s Parties defendant. 
The Board would appreciate, therefore, immediate advice of any 
indications ycu might have of potential litigation aimed at forestalling 
^Plementaticn of the Regulation J amendments. 
Very truly yours, 
/ 
/ 
/ 
/ 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
^ 
PRESIDENTS OF ALL RESERVE BANKS 

2368 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
of the 
Item No. 9 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9 / 1 / 7 2 ; / " 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O. 
C. 
20551 
C<>^r^J^Vv' • 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CDRRESPQNOtNCE 
'• RF.S^"1' * 
Ta THE BQAR D 
September I, 1972 
fcainir 
is made to the operating circular amendments per-
anp - . 
c°ilcction of cash items on day of presentment that 
meetin! b
(
y t h e Conference of First Vice Presidents at their July 24-: 
cis'tfi"?* 
has x-eviewed these amendments and found them con-
^ 
the provisions of Regulation J, 
Very truly yours, 
PU/'"( 
fr M^ 
' f 
^J 
Michacl A, Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
( B a n k c and branches) 
ANb 
OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
" Vici?- 'PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
V•. 
nr t h e 
Item No. 10 
ffiftM:- 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9/1/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20351 
lOtlRESS CFFICIM. CanRCSPDNUENCC 
TO THE BOARD 
October 26, 1972 
Z ™} S. Quinn, Esq. 
"JJ-Uinson, Cragun & Barker 
3.616 H Street, N.W. 
Washington5 D. C. 20C06 
Dear Mr. Quinn; 
p 
r 
'i'his is in response to the Petition for Administrative 
CouvGf V h i c h w a s f i l e d on August .10, 1972 on behalf of the National 
^ J'er Association relating to the rulemaking proceedings with 
-^--p -ct tc bank holding companies engaging in armored car and 
o u i m e r services. 
'-the "Petition refers to a letter request received by the 
< J-onal Courier Association during the last week in July from an 
cer?^ l G t ° n i h e s t a f f o f L h e ^ e r a l Reserve Bank of Chicago for 
of 
^ a t a Pertaining to the revenues, earnings, and capitalization 
t h v ^ 
r S 
the Association. Objection is raised in the Petition 
thel| S U C^ a r e cl u e s t for economic data goes outside the record of 
r , ,Garingr» and the materials filed in the Board's proceedings 
5 
to armored car and courier service, and violates both 
re{ S ? i r l t a n d t h e letter of the Board's January 12, 197 2, Order 
to these proceedings. The Petition tenders a series of 
on fu'l°nS £ o r reyponse purporting to elicit information bearing 
he objections central to the Petition. 
^ 
The letter request sent to the National Courier Association 
1972, (sic) requesting additional information 
s
t
a
f
f
a 
^^understanding between a member of the Board's 
a- 1 and a member of the. staff of the Chicago Reserve Bank. 
q. 
. 
The Board has considered the Petition and responds to 
• eRt3.ons therein as follows: 

/C o / U 
Questions 1-3; The letter request sent to the National 
Courier Association was the only such letter sent and no 
-'ftt'ormation has been received pursuant to that request. With the 
exception of that: letter request, the Board is unaware of any 
staff request, since the initiation of the proceedings on 
November 9, 1971 for materials to be used in the armored car and 
courier service proceedings other than materials submitted on 
the record. As you are awares prior to the initiation of the 
Proceedings, Board staff received certain material which was 
considered by the hearing officer and which was made available 
t o all participants. 
.Questions 4-6: The Board :is not aware of any other act 
taken by Board staff, directly or indirectly, to develop extra-
record economic data or other material specifically relating to 
a° courier industry (or the armored car industry) which will be 
Presented to the Board when it considers the hearing officer's 
recommendation and the exceptions filed thereto. However, although 
D 0 
bearing directly on the courier services issues involved 
n the proceedings has been developed by the Board's staff outside 
/ec°rd of the proceedings, the broad range of the Board's 
-^tutory and regulatory responsibilities inescapably involves 
cumulation of data that may be related to seme aspects of the 
proposal under consideration. Any analyses made by the 
^ard s staff with respect to the proposals relating to armored 
C a r snci courier services will be premised on the factual data and 
materials in the record. 
In connection with its consideration of the Petition, 
r l s Board has concluded that additional information concerning 
f Y the armored car and courier industries would be useful prior 
•1-ts f u n consideration of the hearing officer's recommended 
the exceptions filed thereto, and the requests for an 
Presentation before the Board. 
^ 
t 
Accordingly, the Board requests that the National 
• ^rier Association respond to the following questions: 
1) What was the average net income after taxes/total 
assets and average net income after taxes/total 
capital for c) all association members, b) the 
three largest members, and v:) the three smallest 
members3 by year (1962-1971)? 
2) What was the total dollar volume of sales by a) 
all association members, b) the three largest 
members, and c) the three smallest members, 
by year, (1902-1971;? 

2371 
3) What was the total dollar volume of advertising 
and other promotional expenditures by a) all 
association members, b) the three largest 
members, and c) the three smallest members, by 
year (1962-1971)? 
4) What was the total number of association members, 
by year (1962-1971)? 
5) What percentage (estimate if necessary) of the 
total dollar volume of industry sales was accounted 
for by association members, by year (1962-1971)? 
6) What percentage of the total dollar volume of sales 
by a) all association members, b) the three largest 
members, and c) the three smallest members, was 
made to major classes of customers (commercial 
banks, Federal Reserve Banks, savings and loan 
associations, other financial institutions, and 
retail establishments), by year (1962-1971)? 
Responses to the questions should relate only to 
get-vice- activities. That is, they should not include 
formation on other business activities. If there are any 
gestionis on this request, please contact Mr. Robert Lawrence of 
"ie B°ard's staff for clarification. The Board requests that 
_fc Association's responses be received by December 1, 1972, 
t h ey will of course, constitute part of the record before 
fehe Board. 
The Board regrets the inconvenience to you caused by the 
^flier letter and the delay in responding to your Petition, 
ild appreciates your interest and continued participation in these 
^:°eeodings. 
a copy of a similar request for information made to 
lrJ° National Armored Car Association is attached. Copies of this 
b
£ C t e r and the request to the National Armored Car Association have 
sent to all participants in the armored car and courier services 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

' 
'wu H 
RfiA(?n nF" G O V E R N O R S 
•3m IKl&l/*?: 
Mr. George J[. clay, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Kansas City, Missouri 
64158 
Dfcar Mr. clay: 
The Board of Governors took action today to disapprove 
the pending increase in your bank's discount rate from 4-1/2 to 
^"3/4 p e r c e n t w h i c h y o u r directors voted to establish on August 31. 
reaching its decision the Board reviewed a number of considerations 
and^concluded that en increase in the discount rate would not be 
^ s i r a M e under today's circumstances. The Board took particular note 
l;he currently sensitive situation in money and bond markets and 
c €>cJ.dod that there was a considerable risk in the present market 
atmosphere that an increase in the discount rate would cause interest 
t o r a t c h e t u p furt.her. Additionally, Board members expressed 
?nf-°vt'ai.nty with regard to the extent to which recent increases in 
V-v 1. ^ 
* 
rates might prove to be transitory. 
d. 
May I add that the Board, while reaching a judgment that 
Offers from that of your Bank's directors, appreciates having the 
^•nefit of their views and wishes to thank them for the expression of 
n e i r considered judgment in fulfilling their statutory responsibility. 
Sincerely yours, 
fY* 
' / 
„ 
„ 
. ^ 
r. ) 
v V / - t / K r t ^i 
1 
ri 
" ') 
/Tynan Smith 
( 7 
D
F 
T h e 
I
t
e
m 
N 0 « 
1 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9 / 1 / 7 2 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ACU'RESS Ci"FIC!AL CDRREtPCNCCM 
TO THE. OOARD 
September 1, 1972 
