Minutes for 
June 23, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
t o the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
Your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
I f you were not present, your initials will indicate 
0nly that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, June 23, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Gramley, 
Eckert, Bernard, Ettin, Fry, Keir, and Kelty 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Katz, Reynolds, Baker, 
and Ruckdeschel of the Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Money market review. Today's review consisted of a report by 
Hr Bernard on the Government securities market and comments by Mr. 
on recent and prospective developments in the area of bank 
credit-
•LC- Cop ies of the several charts and tables distributed for the 
Pum 
° S e of today's review have been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Brill, 
Parte 
G> and Sammons then withdrew, as did Miss McWhirter, and the 
l o w i n g entered: 
Messrs. Hackley, Hexter, O'Connell, Forrestal, Noble, 
and Plotkin, and Mrs. Heller of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Solomon, Leavitt, and Poundstone of the Divi-
sion of Examinations 

o t 
6/23/67 
-2-
Messrs. Farrell and Ring of the Division of Bank 
Operations 
Messrs. Hart, Cochran, and Wood of the Division 
of Personnel Administration 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on June 19 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks 
of Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas 
City, and Dallas on June 22, 1967, of the rates on discounts and 
advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following letters were approved unanimously 
a£ter consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the members of the Board. Copies are attached under the respec-
tive item numbers indicated. 
jitters to The Connecticut Bank and Trust 
0inpany, Hartford, Connecticut, approving 
h e establishment of a branch in East 
rtford and granting an extension of time 
0 establish a branch at Woodland Street 
a n d Asylum Avenue, Hartford. 
Jitter to Peapack-Glads tone Bank, Gladstone, 
, e w Jersey, approving the establishment of a 
,ranch in Pluckemin, Bedminster Township, it 
e*ng understood that an existing branch at 
pother location in Bedminster Township was 
0 be discontinued. 
^etter to Bank of Smithtown, Smithtown, New 
aPproving the establishment of a branch 
n Gentereach. 
Item No. 
1 - 2 

2541 
6/23/67 
-3-
Application of Seattle Trust and Savings Bank (Items 5 and 6). 
The issuance of an order and statement reflecting the Board's approval 
°n June 12, 1967, of the application of Seattle Trust and Savings Bank, 
Seattle, Washington, to merge with Olympia State Bank and Trust Com-
pany, Olympia, Washington, was authorized, with the understanding that 
the order and statement would be released on Monday, June 26. Copies 
°f the documents as issued are attached as Items 5 and 6. 
Status of two banks for reserve purposes (Items 7 and 8). At 
its meeting on January 7, 1966, the Board denied requests of United 
States National Bank, San Diego, California, and City National Bank, 
Beverly Hills, California, for permission to continue to carry "country 
hank" reserves, the decision being based on appraisal of their opera-
tions within the city of Los Angeles. The change to reserve city bank 
reserve status was to become effective July 7, 1966, but on June 22, 
1966, the Board postponed the date until July 6, 1967. 
United States National Bank had now requested an additional 
extension of time on the basis that it was not yet competing with the 
r 
erve city banks in Los Angeles. The circumstances were described 
a memorandum from the Division of Bank Operations dated June 20, 
1967 
» to which was attached correspondence from the member bank and 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. No similar request had been 
t e C e i v e d from City National Bank. 
The Division of Bank Operations recommended that application 
reserve city requirements to both banks be deferred until a decision 

254 2 
b/21/W 
-4-
W a s reached with respect to graduated reserve requirements or until 
there was reason to believe that the character of business of either 
°f the banks had changed significantly. 
After Mr. Farrell had reviewed the background of the situation 
and the reasons for the Division's recommendation, there ensued a dis-
cussion during which he responded to several questions raised by members 
o f the Board. Among other things, he reviewed the prevailing situation 
i n the cities of Chicago and New York with respect to banks that had 
been granted permission to carry reduced reserves and said the Division 
regarded the location of banks within reserve cities as relatively 
unimportant. In his view, even if the two banks now under considera-
tion had their main offices in downtown Los Angeles, there was evidence 
that they were not competing significantly with the reserve city banks, 
which were much larger. He said the Division began its appraisal of 
Quests to carry reduced reserves by looking at the deposit size of 
the •»• 
requesting banks, but that it then took into consideration such 
actors as interbank deposits and the degree of competition for national 
c°unts, both in terms of deposits and loans. He presented figures on 
° t a l dePosits for both United States National and City National for 
r 1965, December 1966, and April 1967, these figures being in 
the nr ea of $250-$350 million, and noted that the smallest reserve city 
bank i 
l n Los Angeles had total deposits of about $1 billion. In his 
°n> the leading question here was whether expansion of either bank 

6/23/67 
-5- 25L>4 
into "wholesale-type business" was imminent enough to warrant discon-
tinuing permission to carry reduced reserves. He also mentioned that 
fche other Los Angeles banks currently having permission to carry 
deduced reserves were much smaller, with deposits of around $25 million 
0 r less, so that the two banks in question were the only ones operating 
i n Los Angeles that might be said to fall into the gray area. 
Question was raised as to the reason for United States National's 
e*tension of operations into Los Angeles, and Governor Maisel reported 
having been told by one source that the bank was apprehensive that other-
wise it might be a target for take-over by a large northern California 
bank. Such a possibility was deemed less likely, because of antitrust 
considerations, if United States National was operating in Los Angeles 
as well as San Diego. 
Chai 
m a n Martin inquired whether he understood correctly that 
e division of Bank Operations was recommending that the two banks be 
permitted to continue to carry reduced reserves indefinitely pending 
m e action by the Board with respect to graduated reserve requirements, 
Farrell said that that was correct, or at least until there was 
idence that the banks were moving into a wholesale type of banking 
b u siness. 
Governor Brimmer expressed disagreement with the recommendation, 
Poi n t l 
"8 out that each of the banks had total deposits of more than 
$250 m i ]1 . 
'•Hon and that they seemed more like Union Bank (the smallest 

2544 
6/23/67 
-6-
Los Angeles bank carrying reserve city reserves) than the other banks 
having permission to carry reduced reserves. 
Governor Robertson said that he would not want to support an 
indefinite extension of the privilege of carrying reduced reserves. 
However, he felt that a case could be made for continuing the permis-
sion one more year on the ground that, all things considered, this was 
n°t the best time to impose higher reserve requirements on the two 
banks. 
Governor Brimmer noted that City National had not requested a 
^urther extension of time, and Mr. Farrell expressed the view that City 
^ational, which had previously made strong representations, probably 
a d resigned itself to the situation in light of the terms of the 
B°ard's June 1966 letter. 
1 * - : 
In reply to a question by Governor Maisel, Mr. Farrell verified 
Ll 
there were two highly competitive banks in San Diego of approxi-
m a t e ly the same size as United States National. United States National 
made the point that imposition of a higher reserve requirement upon 
Would hamper its ability to compete with those banks. This pointed 
Up 
u e inequity of the present system for classification of reserve 
clties. 
• 
U 
Governor Brimmer then said that it was not clear to him what 
Would u 
oe accomplished by giving United States National another year. 
The Member bank had been warned that it should look forward to a change 

6/23/67 
-7- 25L>4 
its status at the middle of this year and thus had had ample time 
to prepare. Apparently City National had made the necessary adjust-
ments but United States National had not. 
Chairman Martin expressed the view that a fairly good case 
could be made for extending the existing privilege in light of the 
character of business reportedly being done by the banks in question. 
noted that at some point the Board would have to come to grips with 
the problem of graduated reserve requirements, for the existing struc-
ture was clearly inequitable. In the circumstances he was not sure 
that this was the time for the Board to take a harsh position. 
Governor Brimmer brought out that United States National had 
m a de the choice of extending its operations to Los Angeles and that 
° n e s h o uld not overlook the great advantages to a bank of such size in 
having offices in that city. 
Governor Maisel observed that if the privilege of carrying 
educed reserves was extended for another year the same question that 
a s before the Board today would be likely to come up again next year, 
the other hand, he would be willing to grant an extension for six 
month 
s> thus giving the banks some additional time to make adjustments 
avoiding the pattern of having the matter come up annually. He 
^uired whether there seemed to be any likelihood of coming to grips 
vith th 
n e problem of graduated reserve requirements within a period of 
S i x months. 

254 7 
6/23/67 
-8-
Governor Brimmer recalled that he had recently suggested to 
the Board active consideration of a move toward graduated reserve 
requirements under the Board's existing authority. Mr. Brill had 
indicated at the time that the subject was being studied within the 
framework of the Presidents' Conference and the System Research Advi-
s°ry Committee. 
Mr. Brill then reported on the discussions held at staff level 
at*d on various aspects of the problem that were regarded by some as 
Warranting further study. In the circumstances he was not optimistic 
that recommendations would be forthcoming soon. That did not mean 
that the Board was inhibited from proceeding, but it did suggest that 
a n y ^ I p the Board might receive from staff work in this area was not 
likely to be available in the near future. 
There followed discussion of certain recommendations that had 
b e en considered at the recent meeting of the Presidents' Conference 
atld of the actions with respect thereto that reportedly had been taken 
b y the Conference. Mr. Brill indicated, however, that there remained 
ubstantial differences of opinion, particularly between bank and 
Puhlic relations personnel on the one hand and economic staff on the 
er, with respect to the value that should be attached to a move 
Ward graduated reserve requirements. Some members of the economic 
staff 
were concerned about the implications from the standpoint of 
ementation of monetary policy. 

254 7 
6/23/67 
-9-
Discussion then reverted to the two Los Angeles cases, and 
Chairman Martin inquired of Mr. Farrell as to the latter's reaction to 
a n extension of the current status for six months. 
Mr. Farrell replied that he doubted whether it was practical 
t o think in terms of any move being made toward graduated reserve 
requirements within six months. He pointed out that the two California 
hanks had had ample warning of a change in their status, and he 
expressed doubt that the Board would have a better basis for decision 
a t the end of another six months than it had today. 
. . . 
Governor Brimmer said he gathered the thought of Governor Maisel 
W a s to make a firm decision now, but to provide the banks with what 
might be regarded as a six-month grace period. Apparently United States 
National had not taken steps to prepare itself for the shift to a 
higher reserve requirement, while City National evidently had. He did 
n°t see why it was necessary to give either bank another six months or 
year, for they had had sufficient warning. 
Governor Robertson said he did not feel strongly either way. 
saw merit in Governor Brimmer's position, for the banks had had 
8• However, he would be inclined, in present circumstances, to 
xtend the existing privilege for as long as another year. At the same 
i m e he would not quarrel with Governor Maisel's suggestion. Basically, 
Board should make a firm decision and adhere to it somewhere along 
the 
ne« 
A six-month extension would represent a compromise, one 
ie 

2548 
6/23/67 
-10-
which would be granted principally on the basis that United States 
National had thus far not taken steps to adjust. 
Governor Maisel repeated that he was apprehensive that the 
Wanting of a one-year extension might result in the same question 
coming up again a year from now. He thought that was less likely if 
a six-month extension was granted, with strong indication given that 
110 further extension could be expected. 
Governor Brimmer said he would understand, then, that an addi-
tional six-month extension would be given simply to allow United States 
National to put its house in order and to cushion the impact of the 
change in its status. The theory was that a one-year extension might 
§enerate expectations of a further extension, and that should be 
resisted. 
It was then agreed unanimously that United States National Bank 
and 
City National Bank would each be given an additional period of six 
m°nths before having to maintain the reserves prescribed for banks in 
eserve cities. Copies of the letters reflecting the Board's action 
attached as Items 7 and 8. 
Requests for exemption from registration (Items 9-11). In a 
em°randum dated June 22, 1967, the Legal Division discussed requests 
y peoples Bank of Glen Rock, Glen Rock, Pennsylvania, The Annapolis 
Banki 
n8 and Trust Company, Annapolis, Maryland, and Southern Arizona 
and Trust Company, Tucson, Arizona, for exemption from the regis-
trati0 n Provisions of section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 

2549 
6/23/67 
-11- 25L>4 
1934 and Regulation F, Securities of Member State Banks. Notice of 
receipt of such applications had been published in the Federal Register, 
and no comments had been received. Extensions of time for registration 
had been granted pending the Board's action on the applications. 
For reasons stated, the Division recommended that a temporary 
exemption from registration be granted in the case of Peoples Bank of 
Glen Rock, with the bank informed that it would be expected to file a 
registration statement by April 30, 1968. It was recommended that the 
°ther two applications be denied. 
After discussion the recommendations of the Division were 
accepted, and unanimous approval was given to the issuance of orders 
reflecting those recommendations. Copies of the orders as issued are 
attached as Items 9-11. 
i 
Foreign activities of member banks. In a letter dated May 26, 
^67, Chairman Patman of the House Committee on Banking and Currency 
RJJ 
# 
ised that the Domestic Finance Subcommittee desired a report on the 
Board i 
s supervision of corporations doing foreign banking and other 
for 
eign financing under the Federal Reserve Act, together with an 
Xa®ination of the foreign activities of national banks. The Subcom-
^ttee's interest was said to arise from the fact that the Edge Act 
now almost half a century old, which suggested that the statutory 
ards affecting its enactment in 1919 should be examined in the 
Ught ftr present conditions. Along with the report, which was requested 

6/23/67 
-12- 25L>4 
by June 30, 1967, Chairman Patman asked for certain specific informa-
tion concerning Edge and agreement corporations, foreign branches of 
member banks, and foreign banks in which member banks had invested 
directly or indirectly pursuant to the recent amendment to section 25 
°f the Federal Reserve Act. 
In addition, Congressman Fino of New York had requested certain 
information about the investments of Edge and agreement corporations. 
There had been submitted, with a memorandum from the Division 
°f Examinations and the Legal Division dated June 21, 1967, a draft of 
reply to Chairman Patman and a draft of report that would be trans-
mitted therewith. The reply to Congressman Fino would follow the same 
lines. 
The June 21 memorandum pointed out that some of the specific 
inf 
r°rmation requested was of a kind not hitherto made public, largely 
because it related to the affairs of individual banks and corporations 
and because some of it was obtained from examination and condition 
ePorts. xhe memorandum set forth the conclusions of the Division of 
^nations as to the extent to which the various types of information 
h°uld be provided. It also expressed the view of the Legal Division 
tha the Board would be warranted in providing the requested informa-
tio 
t o the fullest extent possible within the specified time limit, 
0ugh it was recognized that certain information should not be 
relgg„ 1 
e a without the concurrence of the Comptroller of the Currency. 
••••. Ks v 

2551. 
6/23/67 
-13-
The first part of the discussion at today's meeting dealt with 
the question of providing financial statements of individual foreign 
branches of member banks. Mr. Solomon reported that he had discussed 
the matter with the Comptroller of the Currency, who would be prepared 
to go along with providing information on the foreign branches of 
national banks on a country basis. Mr. Solomon felt that it would also 
be desirable to include the total foreign branch position of each mem-
ber bank, although he had not cleared that point with the Comptroller. 
TH 
e remaining question, then, was whether to go even further and 
Provide information on the individual foreign branches of each member 
hank. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the Board's posture 
should be one of responding fully to the request for information unless 
some particular instance it could be demonstrated that there was a 
Veil i rl 
reason for withholding data on grounds of confidentiality. On 
the 
question with respect to foreign branches, he felt that the Board 
ShoulH 
go at least as far as Mr. Solomon now suggested and that compa-
r e information should be provided for a period of several years in 
to add perspective for purposes of analysis. 
Mr. Cardon reported his understanding from the staff of the 
committee as to the nature of the study being undertaken and the 
reasonR 
n 
, , 
"e expressed the view that it would be desirable to supply 
a U of f h 
requested information unless there were definite and explain-
able r easons for not doing so. 

6/23/67 
-14- 25L>4 
In further discussion of the question of the information that 
should be provided concerning foreign branches of member banks, Board 
members joined in the view that the reply should be made on as liberal 
a basis as seemed reasonable. More specifically, this contemplated 
that in the first instance information would be supplied on the branch 
Position of each member bank in each foreign country, it being recog-
nized that this would go somewhat further than the suggestion by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, as reported by Mr. Solomon. It was 
brought out that if the Subcommittee then indicated that the informa-
tion supplied was not regarded as sufficient, the matter could be con-
sidered further by the Board. 
The discussion then turned to the recommendation of the Divi-
sion of Examinations that data not be provided on the value of individ-
Ua 1 
stock investments. The Division also recommended withholding the 
Uaines o f companies in which less than a 10 per cent equity interest 
W a s held, the names of companies engaged in nonfinancial business in 
whick « . 
. 
equity interests were held, and financial statements of companies 
i n which stock interests were held. 
Mr. Sol omon pointed out that the market value of individual 
inve«5 cments, which was the specific information requested, was not 
ailable. However, data on the cost or book value of such investments 
Were 
available. He went on to say that in many cases small stock invest-
ments i 
involved customer relationships, because in numberous foreign 

255ft 
6/23/67 
-15-
countries stock investments were permitted in conjunction with or as 
an alternative to loans. The question, therefore, was whether the 
Board wanted to be in a position of disclosing customer relationships. 
Governor Maisel suggested that it might be reasonable to estab-
lish a cutoff at the point where less than a 10 per cent equity interest 
was held and to furnish, in respect to the lesser investments, only a 
statement in aggregate terms. 
Governor Roberts on expressed the view that that would be a rea-
sonable approach, again with the thought that if the Subcommittee 
Pressed for more detailed information the question could be given 
further consideration. 
In this connection Governor Maisel referred to the draft of 
letter proposed to be sent to Chairman Patman and expressed the view 
that it should not be couched in negative terms. He suggested recast-
ing the letter in a positive vein, on the basis that the Board was 
furnishing all of the data that were available within limitations of 
time except in certain instances, as in the case of names of companies 
in which less than a 10 per cent equity interest was held, where confi-
dential factors were regarded as warranting nondisclosure. Governor 
dimmer agreed generally with the idea of such an approach. 
Chairman Martin then commented that the Board clearly wanted 
to hp j in a position to say that it was providing all of the information 
th 
could justifiably be made available within the time limit that had 
• 
. 
* o. aj 

6/23/67 
-16- 
2 5 L > 4 
been set. He suggested that further consideration of the matter be 
deferred, to which he added that the staff had been given an under-
standing of the flavor of the Board's thinking and could proceed with 
additional work on the report along lines consistent with that under-
standing. 
Rules Regarding Availability of Information (Item No. 12). 
Wi-th a memorandum of June 21, 1967, Mr. Hackley submitted a draft of 
Board Rules Regarding Availability of Information that would implement 
the Public Information Act (the so-called Freedom of Information Act) 
and replace the present Rules Regarding Information, Submittals, and 
^equests. He recommended that the Board adopt the revised rules effec-
tive July 4, 1967. 
In reviewing the draft rules Mr. Hackley called attention to 
a general exemption from disclosure relating to information in the 
morels of the Board that was privileged or related to the business, 
Pe*"sonal, or financial affairs of any person and was furnished in con-
fid ence. The pertinent section would provide, however, that following 
°tice to the person furnishing such information the Board might make 
such information available to the public and, to the extent deemed 
tieceq 
fcsary and without prior notice, might comment on such information 
11 any opinion or statement issued to the public in connection with a 
deCjq • 
slon of the Board with respect to which such information was relevant. 
For reasons stated, Mr. Hackley recommended that this proviso 
be 
anged to make clear that it referred only to information submitted 

o c 
T-TR-
6/23/67 
-17-
by 
a party making application for some action on the part of the Board. 
He suggested amended language that he would propose to use. 
After discussion, there was agreement with the amendment 
recommended by Mr. Hackley. 
With his memorandum Mr. Hackley had also submitted a proposed 
amendment to the Board's Rules of Organization to reflect the fact 
that certain supervisory functions of the Board were being delegated 
to members of the Board, members of the Board's staff, and the Federal 
Reserve Banks effective July 1, 1967. Mr. Hackley now withdrew the 
recommendation for such an amendment at this time, stating that it 
w°uld seem preferable to revise the Rules of Organization in entirety 
and publish the complete revision. 
The withdrawal of the recommendation to amend the Rules of 
Organization at this time was noted without objection. 
In his memorandum Mr. Hackley had further recommended an amend-
ment> effective July 4, 1967, to section 262.2 of the Board's Rules of 
Pr 
°cedure regarding requests for access to Board records, to conform 
to thp» 
e Proposed Rules Regarding Availability of Information. Because 
Was understood that a complete revision of the Rules of Procedure 
Would h 
°e submitted to the Board shortly, this recommendation was also 
Wltt>dra„n. 
The Board then approved unanimously the proposed Rules Regard-
8 Availability of Information, effective July 4, 1967, in a form 

255ft 
6/23/67 
-18-
reflecting the amendment recommended by Mr. Hackley at this meeting. 
It: was understood that the rules would be transmitted to the Federal 
Register not later than Thursday, June 29, in order that they might 
b e published therein by July 4, 1967, the effective date of the Public 
information Act. Attached as Item No. 12 is a copy of the Rules Regard 
in8 Availability of Information in the form approved by the Board and 
transmitted to the Federal Register. 
Press release regarding actions under Public Information Act 
•^ggg- 13-14) . Under date of June 22, 1967, Mr. Hackley had submitted 
a draft of press release proposed to be issued at the time the revised 
rules of the Board of Governors and the Federal Open Market Committee 
regarding availability of information to the public were sent to the 
p , 
r al Register for publication. 
During discussion, Governor Brimmer stated that he had sug-
gested certain editorial changes in the press release and that he under 
to°d that they were agreeable to Mr. Fauver. 
The issuance of a press release in the form attached as Item 
No. lo 
£ was then authorized, it being understood that the press release 
Would u • 
e issued not later than Thursday, June 29. 
It was also understood that, as indicated in the press release, 
thg re 
would be transferred from the Board to the custody of the Archi-
°f the United States the original minutes of the meetings of the 

£557 
6/23/67 
-19-
Federal Open Market Committee held during the calendar year 1961. A 
C0Py of Chairman Martin's letter to the Archivist making the transfer 
is attached as Item No. 14. 
Either at this point or earlier, several members of the staff 
who had attended for the presentation of one or more of the foregoing 
items withdrew from the meeting. 
Salary structure revision at New York (Items 15-16). The 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York had requested Board approval, effec-
tive July 6, 1967, of increases averaging 4.6 per cent in the salary 
structure applicable to clerical employees at the head office, an 
increase in the special maximum for professional-level positions (Grade 
1 6 only) from $21,500 to $22,000, increases averaging 3.3 per cent in 
th 
e salary structure applicable to clerical employees at the Buffalo 
Branch, and increases averaging 5.2 per cent in the salary structure 
aPplicable to nonclerical employees at the head office and Buffalo 
Branch. 
In a memorandum dated June 20, 1967, the Division of Personnel 
Ministration recommended approval of the request, except insofar as 
related to the applicability of the proposed nonclerical structure 
Buffalo Brancj1 employees. 
The Division pointed out that the proposed clerical structures 
N e w York and Buffalo and the proposed nonclerical structure at the 
head nffj 
UI-tice included adjustments to bring mid-points, on average, to 

6/23/67 
-20- 25L>4 
March 1967 community levels, an allowance for estimated market increases 
between March and July, and an additional allowance to offset anticipated 
market changes between July 1967 and the next structure changes. The 
Practice of providing a "lead" factor was of long standing at New York. 
In reviewing the matter, Mr. Hart noted that a request from the 
Richmond Reserve Bank was pending that also involved a "lead" factor, 
while a similar proposal from the Boston Bank was in process of formu-
lation. The New York and Richmond proposals had been approved by the 
respective Boards of Directors. These proposals had been formulated 
i n good faith based on guidelines that existed prior to June 7, 1967, 
n en the Board decided in the case of a St. Louis proposal not to 
aPprove the inclusion of a projection beyond the date of the salary 
survey taken by that Bank. 
Mr. Hart also said that he saw need for a new set of Reserve 
®ank salary administration guidelines. The existing plan of salary 
Ministration had not been reviewed comprehensively for some 20 years. 
BeeanQ 
Ui>e it was a System plan rather than a Board plan, he would suggest 
that 
the matter be taken up through the Presidents' Conference and its 
^ittee on Personnel with a view to the establishment of a new uniform 
U c y - 
In his opinion, that course would be preferable to unilateral 
act i 
°n on the part of the Board. Such a review, however, would take 
Some M m 
Lime, and in the interim he would recommend that the Board approve 
salarv 
y structures with mid-points not in excess of some stipulated 

, 
A -\ 1* » » 
6/23/67 
-21-
Percentage above the community market. More specifically, he would 
recommend a 3 per cent leeway. The use of such a guideline would per-
mit approval of the New York and Richmond proposals, and it appeared 
that the Boston proposal now being formulated could also be accommo-
dated. 
Governor Brimmer noted that such a procedure would involve 
discrimination against the St. Louis Reserve Bank. In his opinion it 
w°uld be a mistake to approve a salary structure that contained a 
lead" factor in relation to the community market, and such a factor 
was included in the New York proposal. In any event, however, the 
Board's actions should be equitable from one Reserve Bank to another. 
Governor Maisel said he had understood that the St. Louis pro-
Posal contemplated a change in policy. It had been discussed on that 
basis, and the Board had rejected the proposal because it did not want 
to 
0 change what it understood to be the existing policy. 
Mr. Hart said he thought Mr. Johnson had simply wanted to point 
out t-h 
Lr»e nature of the St. Louis proposal rather than to indicate that 
involved a change in policy. While a number of Reserve Banks used 
a I a ry structures that were "on the market," other Banks had used 
structures that involved some "lead" factor. 
ch, _ 
In reply to a question by Governor Robertson, Governor Maisel 
said t-h 
cnat since the June 7 meeting he and Governor Mitchell, as the 
aHable members of the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 

£557 
6/23/67 
-22-
Building Plans, had discussed the matter among themselves and with 
Governor Sherrill and had decided that the situation should be clari-
fied. Governor Mitchell was now in the process of drafting a statement 
in which it would be pointed out that the salary administration plan 
°f the Federal Reserve Banks had not been reviewed for a matter of some 
20 years and that features of it were of concern to the Board in a 
Period such as the present. The statement would suggest that the Presi-
dents and the Board of Directors of the Reserve Banks consider the 
ilnPact of application of the salary administration plan in terms of 
local markets. They would be urged to maintain a posture of flexibility 
and not adhere automatically to a formula that had an inflationary bias. 
In response to a question, Mr. Sherman said the record indicated 
th 
a t the Board had rejected the St. Louis proposal on June 7 because of 
understanding that it contained a "lead" factor. It was understood 
h a t Governor Michell would discuss the Board's reasoning with the 
manaj>p 
8 ment of the St. Louis Bank. In the course of consideration of 
the St 
T 
• i.ouis proposal an indication had been given that in at least 
other instance the Board had approved a salary structure that 
ed in leading the local market somewhat. However, the action in 
t h e St 
T 
., 
• ouis case would indicate that the Board did not approve lead-
ig 
^ ^ 
e market. The Board also requested the Committee on Organization, 
Sation, and Building Plans to look into the matter along lines 
indiCQ(. 
G d at a meeting of the Board in June 1966. In substance the 
in 

lie 
/ c o n ,< 
6/23/67 
.23-
St. Louis proposal was considered as presenting a policy question, and 
the Board had requested the Committee to look into that question. 
Chairman Martin agreed that the Committee should consider plans 
f°r a complete review looking toward the establishment of whatever 
Policy seemed proper. However, there was a question of relationships 
Wlth the several Banks whose directors had recently taken action on 
Proposed salary structure revisions. The directors had acted on such 
Proposals before receiving notice of any change in policy. Thus, it 
mi8ht be better to reverse the St. Louis decision than to try to over-
f, j j 
e the directors of the Reserve Banks concerned at this juncture. 
Governor Maisel repeated that he had understood, in the St. 
Louis case, that the Board was being asked to approve a proposal that 
Evolved a change in policy, and Mr. Hart noted that former Governor 
aiders ton, in discussing various salary structure proposals, had 
tently taken the position that he would approve a structure that 
as much as 2 or 3 per cent above the market as of the date of the 
salarv 
y survey. The Personnel Division had been using that guide as a 
rule of 
thumb and had discussed it informally with the Reserve Banks. 
Mr. Brill suggested at this point that some confusion may have 
arig 
n from the use of the term "leading the market." In the St. Louis 
Case he understood that as part of the calculation an estimate had been 
made t o 
take account of the delay between the date of survey and the 
V e date of the new salary structure, so that the Bank would in 

2582 
6/23/67 
-24-
etfect be even with the market on the effective date. He suggested 
th^t it might be worth while to consider separately an adjustment that 
would put the Reserve Bank even with the market on the effective date 
of the new salary structure (a "lag" factor) and an adjustment that 
would endeavor to anticipate further market increases after the effec-
tive date (a "lead" factor). 
Governor Brimmer said it was the latter factor that was of most 
concern to him, and Governor Robertson said he now felt the wrong deci-
S i° n h a d been made in the St. Louis case to the extent that the proposed 
salary structure simply took into account the lag between the date of 
survey and the effective date. 
Governor Brimmer noted that in the New York case the Bank was 
pr°Posing to include both a "lag" factor and a "lead" factor. He was 
ePared to approve the New York request insofar as it involved placing 
t h e New York structure even with the market on the effective date. 
Gove r 
Governor Robertson agreed and stated that as a matter of equity 
Would also want to change the Board's position to the same extent 
with regard to the St. Louis proposal. 
•>t 
Chairman Martin concurred, and Governor Maisel agreed that the 
m e Principle should be applied in both cases. 
V-'.-S''. 
Accordingly, it was agreed that the New York proposal (with the 
except 
n of the proposed nonclerical structure for the Buffalo Branch), 
if reform i 
muiated on a basis that would eliminate the "lead" factor, would 

6/23/67 
-25-
be approved. It was also understood that the Board would be willing 
to modify its action of June 7 on the St. Louis salary structure so 
a s to result in treatment consistent with that being accorded the New 
York Bank. Copies of the letters subsequently sent to the New York 
a^d St. Louis Reserve Banks reflecting the Board's action are attached 
a s Items 15 and 16, respectively. 
Mr. Hart inquired whether it would be appropriate to indicate 
to Reserve Banks that the inclusion of a "lag" factor was acceptable 
to the Board, and Governor Robertson replied in the affirmative, adding 
that the Banks should, however, be informed that the Board was not 
a8reeable to the inclusion of a "lead" factor. No disagreement with 
pi 
°vernor Robertson's statement was indicated. 
In response to a further question by Mr. Hart, the Board indi-
Cated that the Reserve Banks should be informed of the Board's approval 
of 
L"e establishment of a special maximum of $22,000 for professional-
*eVel positions (Grade 16 only). It was understood that if Reserve 
a n k s °ther than New York also desired to establish the same special 
maXimum, the Secretary was authorized to notify them of the approval 
°f 8^ch figure. 
Chairman Martin noted that the Board would await a further 
Port from the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building 
with respect to the question of Reserve Bank salary administra-
U ° n Policy. 

2584 
6/23/67 
_26-
Federal Reserve Bulletin. Mr. Brill referred to a memorandum 
from the Editorial Committee, transmitted with his memorandum of 
March 29, 1967, and discussed preliminarily at the Board meeting on 
June 13, relating to the contents of the Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
He pointed out that one of the questions discussed in the memorandum 
Was rather pressing because the July 1967 issue of the Bulletin would 
c°ntain, pursuant to the understanding reached at the Open Market Com-
mittee meeting on June 20, 1967, the entries covering policy actions 
*«en at the meetings of the Committee from January 10 through April 4, 
967. The July issue of the Bulletin also customarily included each 
y e ar a leading article on credit and monetary developments, and a 
Critical reading might lead to questions if the leading article con-
tained information seeming to differ in certain respects from the 
inf 
°rmation contained in the policy record entries, which of course had 
b e e n ^rafted at earlier dates. 
Members of the Board, in particular Governor Maisel, indicated 
that they would like to have a full discussion by the Board of a number 
of th e suggestions in the Editorial Committee's memorandum. Accord-
i^Slv 
*> it was agreed to defer general consideration of those suggestions 
Until a date when additional members of the Board were available. On 
the s 
Pacific problem to which Mr. Brill had directed attention, it was 
suggest- a 
ed that the staff proceed with plans for the July issue of the 
Buiieti 
on the basis that it would include a leading article of the 

2585 
6/23/67 
-27-
kind customarily presented in that issue, with the understanding that 
any specific questions resulting from staff review of that article 
would be called to the Board's attention. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Sherman and Kenyon 
then withdrew. 
Employee physical examinations. Governor Robertson noted that 
there was under consideration a suggestion that had been made by the 
Employees' Committee for a program of physical examinations for Board 
Personnel. Upon his recommendation, the Board authorized payment of 
a special consultant fee of $75 a day to Dr. Frederic D. Chapman for 
a Period of not more than three days in order that Dr. Chapman's advice 
Wl t"h regard to such a program might be obtained. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
w*th 
a S M e s s e n S e r > Division of Administrative Services, 
ent
 
basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective the date of 
Lrance upon duty. 
pos. 
e r a 
Dulin, from the position of Supervisor (Cafeteria) to the 
Wi^ ° n 
Telephone Operator, Division of Administrative Services, 
JU1-, 
°hange in basic annual salary at the rate of $5,736, effective 
y 2> 1967. 

6/23/67 
-28- 25L>4 
»«'TV' • 
• ' 
Acceptance of resignations 
i • j _" ! 
- 
'.' Gerald G. Bush, Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business June 15, 1967. 
Kathleen Hayes, Statistical Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business June 16, 1967. 
Christine C. de Fontenay, Programmer, Division of Data Processing, 
effective the close of business June 23, 1967. 
->; y 
; ; . 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
6/23/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 23, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, 
Hartford, Connecticut. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The Connecticut 
Bank and Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut, of a 
branch at 801 Silver Lane, East Hartford, Connecticut, 
provided the branch is established within six months 
from the date of this letter. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary. 

BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 2 
• F THE 
6/23/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R D 
June 23, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Connecticut Bank and 
Trust Company, 
Hartford, Connecticut. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to January 24, 1968, the time within which 
The Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut, 
may establish a branch at the southeast corner of Woodland 
Street and Asylum Avenue, Hartford, Connecticut. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2569 
>0¥ Gov'. 
b o a r d 
o f 
g o v e r n o r s 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
6/23/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 23, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Peapack-Gladstone Bank, 
Gladstone, New Jersey. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Peapack-Gladstone 
Bank, Gladstone, New Jersey, of a branch at the northeast 
corner of the intersection of U. S. Highways 202-206 and 
Washington Valley Road, Pluckemin (unincorporated area), 
tfedminster Township, Somerset County, New Jersey, pro-
vided the branch is established within one year from the 
a te of this letter, and provided further that branch 
operations conducted at the intersection of U. S. 
^ighway 202 and Lamington Road, Bedminster Township, 
omerset County, are discontinued simultaneously with 
establishment of the above branch. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Eliabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
°ard also had approved a six-month extension 
the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

B O A R D 
CDF G D V E R N D R S 
Item No 
• F T H E 
6/23/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 23, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of Smithtown, 
Smithtown, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
Sys tem approves the establishment by Bank of Smithtown, 
Smithtown, New York, of a branch at 1919 Middle Country 
Road, Village of Centereach (unincorporated area), Town 
°f Brookhaven, Suffolk County, New York, provided the 
branch is established within six months from the date 
°f this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
°ard also had approved a six-month extension 
°t the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
e procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

2571 
Item No. 5 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
6/23/67 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
ln the Matter of the Application of 
SEATTLE TRUST AND SAVINGS BANK 
c 
approval of merger with 
ytnPia State Bank and Trust Company 
bank 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OE BANICS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
° n k Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Seattle Trust and 
Bank, Seattle, Washington, a State member bank of the Federal 
Reserve 
System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that 
Qnd 01ympia State Bank and Trust Company, Olynpia, Washington, 
under th charter and title of Seattle Trust and Savings Bank. As an 
incident c o the merger, the three offices of Olympia State Bank and Trust 
P a n y 
become branches of the resulting bank. Notice of the 
PlroPosed mp 
er8er, in form approved by the Board, has been published 
u n t to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factor^ set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
troix r °f the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 

-2-
a n d t h e Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
Proposed merger, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board!s 
P ». 
a ement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before the 
h i rUeth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
th 
c n three months after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Uashington, D. C., this 26th day of June, 1967. 
V »}>« t.u 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
SR' r 
Voting for 
this action: Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
Daane, Ilaisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Ifcrtin. 
(signed) 
Herritt Sherman 
Merri 11 Sherman, 
Secretary. 

"
— 
257ft 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 6 
6/23/67 
APPLICATION OF 
SEATTLE TRUST AND SAVINGS BANK 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
OLYMPIA STATE BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Seattle Trust and Savings Bank, Seattle, Washington ("Seattle 
with total deposits of about $93.5 million, has applied pursuant 
to 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval 
Of 
»e merger of that bank with Olympia State Bank and Trust Company, 
0ly®pla, Washington ("Olympia Bank"), which has total deposits of about 
$ 18 
miUioii,I/ xhe banks would merge under the charter and name of 
Gattle Bank, which is a member of the Federal Reserve System, As an 
i^ci d o 
e nt to the merger, the three offices of Olympia Bank would become 
anches of Seattle Bank, increasing the number of its offices to 
seVe nteen. 
iati 
13 
Competition. - Seattle Bank is headquartered in Seattle (popu-
° n 5?5,700), the largest city in the Pacific Northwest, and operates 
br 
sUu< 
anches in surrounding King County. Olympia Bank's main office is 
l a t e d l n Olympia (population about 18,000), the capital of the State 
Of W 
gton; the bank's two branches are in Tumwater and Lacey, both 
are as of February 28, 1967. 

2574 
-2-
o f which are in surrounding Thurston County. Neither bank has an office 
i n the service area-^ of the other, and no office of Seattle Bank is 
cl°ser than 46 miles to an office of Olympia Bank. Pierce County, 
•deluding the major city of Tacoma, separates the service areas of the 
0 banks and contains numerous banking offices. Neither Seattle Bank 
r 0 1 y mPia Bank derives more than a negligible amount of business from 
the arp 
ea served by the other. The home-office-protection restriction of 
State 1 
aw would prevent either bank from expanding into the service area 
the ot-h 
e r except through the acquisition of an existing bank. 
In terms of deposit size, the merger would combine the fifth 
largest commercial bank headquartered in King County with the third 
largest of the four banks operating in Thurston County. Both banks 
Presenti 
A y compete in their respective service areas with branches of 
t h e stateS 
1 largest banks; it does not appear that the merger would 
adverselv 
ff 
artect other banking offices. Following the merger, Seattle 
B a n k would h 
nold 2.67 per cent of the deposits in the State and would 
°P«ratQ 1 7 
. 
o t the 516 banking offices. 
RBL e effect of the proposed merger on competition would not 
b e ^vorse. 
- 
financial s\nd ™nnnf>erial resources and prospects. - The banking 
th 
i' Th 
0{ 
Ts with 
respect to the subject banks are generally satisfactory, as 
Would b 
e with respect to the resulting institution. 
ndividUal ° m w h i c h a bank obtains 75 per cent or more of its deposits 
s» Partnerships and corporations. 

it**.J < 
-2-
Convenience and needs of the communities. - The principal effect 
the transaction on banking needs and convenience would be in Olympia. 
The 
e conversion of the three offices of Olympia Bank into branches of 
eattle Bank would provide for the inhabitants of Thurston County 
nvenient access to an alternative source of broader credit accommo-
dati0 
n s a n d a generally wider range of banking services. 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board the 
Propoaed merger would benefit the banking convenience and needs of the 
Oly^- . 
a cotr'niunity and would not adversely affect banking competition. 
•-"• va t:-; 
'•.••'•" t:-:\ 4 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
be an. 
aPproved. 

ooVcdv'.. 
- 
J V . 
BDARD • F GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
6/23/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 26, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
United States National Bank, 
San Diego, California. 
92112 
Gentlemen: 
This refers to your bank's request, submitted through 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, for a postponement 
the effective date of the requirement that the United States 
National Bank maintain the same reserves as are required of 
other reserve city banks. 
After consideration of this matter the Board has 
decided to postpone until January 4, 1968, the date on which 
your bank must begin to maintain reserves at the level of other 
reserve city banks. This action was taken with the proviso 
that no further extensions of this kind will be granted unless 
there are significant changes in existing circumstances. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

2577 
BDARD OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
6/23/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 26, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
°ity National Bank, 
Beverly Hills, California, 
Gentlemen: 
iiVv. 
•"V 
IV'l.-
This refers to the Board's letter of June 22, 1966, 
'ich postponed until the reserve computation period beginning 
UJ-y 
1967, the effective date for your bank to maintain 
reserves at the level required of other reserve city banks. 
After reconsideration of this matter in the light 
a request by United States National Bank, San Diego, California, 
Board has decided to postpone until January 4, 1968, the date 
° n which your bank must begin to maintain reserves at the level of 
e r reserve city banks. This action was taken with the proviso 
at no further extensions of this kind will be granted unless 
lere are significant changes in existing circumstances. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

2578 
Item No. 9 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
6/23/67 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Washington, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
COPIES BANK OF GLEN ROCK 
req ! X e m p t l o n from the registration 
HVUrements of the Securities Exchange 
ftct of 1934. 
ORDER GRANTING TEMPORARY EXEMPTION 
.
.
.
.
. 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
8 e C t i o n 12(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78 1), 
aPPlication by Peoples Bank of Glen Rock, Glen Rock, Pennsylvania 
("bank1^ 
a member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, for 
n from the registration requirements of section 12(g) of 
" l d Act. 
Public notice of receipt of the application and opportunity 
^est a hearing has been given by the Board and no such request 
hag u 
e e n received. 
From the information set forth in the application or other-
Vailable, the Board finds that: 
(i) the bank has assets of $12.8 million and equity capital 
°£ »*5.000, 

.2. 
2
5
7
9 
(2) the bank has outstanding 20,000 shares of stock, owned 
by 570 shareholders; 
(3) there is a limited amount of trading activity in the 
bank's stock but no regular market; and 
(4) compliance, at this time, with the registration and 
reporting 
requirements of the Act would impose an undue hardship on 
the bank and its personnels 
Upon consideration of all the circumstances, the Board concludes 
that the granting of a temporary exemption until April 30, 1968, would 
n°t be inconsistent -with the public interest or the protection of 
investors. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that Peoples Bank of Glen Rock be, and 
it hereby is, exempted from the registration requirements of section 12(g) 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 until April 30, 1968. 
Dated at Uashington, D. C. this 23rd day of June, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretaty. 
(SEAL) 

Item No, 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
6/23/67 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Washington, D. C. 
l n t h e Matter of the Application of 
TTTE ANNAPOLIS BANKING AND TRUST COMPANY 
exemption from the registration 
quirements of the Securities Exchange 
A c t of 1934 
v " 
• ' 
• , Uy 
s 
ORDER DENYING EXEMPTION 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
sect-i ° n 12(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78 1), 
aPPlication by The Annapolis Banking and Trust Company, Annapolis, 
Marvl 
, 
n 
("bank"), a member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, 
coemption from the registration requirements of section 12(g) of 
s*id Act 
r»,. 
• lhe bank had previously been granted a temporary exemption 
m re8istration until June 30, 1967. 
Public notice of receipt of the application and opportunity 
t 0 request n k 
a nearing has been given by the Board and no such request 
h a s been 
°eer> received. 
from the information set forth in the application or other-
a v aUabl e, the Board finds that: 
U ) the bank has assets of $22.7 million and equity capital 
0 f $2 ? 
'2 Dillon: 

_2. 
2581 
(2) the bank has outstanding 60,000 shares of stock, ox/ned 
fy 1,580 shareholders; many of such shareholders received their shares 
ln lieu of deposits uhen the bank reopened after the 1933 Bank Holiday; 
(3) although there is at present a limited amount of trading 
ctivity in the bank's stock and absence of any regular market, a 
Efficient investor interest exists to merit the protection of the 
te8istration and reporting requirements of the Act; and 
(4) compliance with the registration and reporting require-
ments of the Act would not impose an undue hardship on the bank or 
U s Personnel. 
Upon consideration of all the circumstances, the Board concludes 
that the granting of the requested exemption would not be consistent with 
the puki • 
A3-c interest and the protection of investors. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the application of The Annapolis 
° a n d Trust Company for exemption from the registration require-
o f 
section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 be, and 
U h G r < % , denied. 
Dated at Washington, D. C. this 23rd day of June, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) lierritt Sherman 
(SEAL) 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

2582 
Item No. 11 
6/23/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Washington, D. C. 
• 
„ 
I a the Matter of the Application of 
S°UTHERN ARIZONA B A M AND TRUST COMPANY 
exemption from the registration 
eciuirements of the Securities Exchange 
A C T OF 1934. 
ORDER DENYING EXEMPTION 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
S e c U o n 12(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78 1), 
n aPPlication by Southern Arizona Bank and Trust Company, Tucson, 
Art *ona ("bank"), a member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, 
for 
exemptlon from the registration requirements of section 12(g) of 
3 a i d Act. 
Public notice of receipt of the application and opportunity 
to re(luest a hearing has been given by the Board and no such request 
e n received. 
Prom the information set forth in the application or other-
6 Mailable, the Board finds that: 
(1) the bank has assets of $193 million and equity capital 
o f $12 ? 

" 2" 
2 5 R r s 
(2) the banl: has outstanding 440,000 shares of stock, owned by 
520 shareholders: 
(3) 90 per cent of the bank's stock is owned by Western 
Ba 
corporation, a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding 
C°nipany Act of 1956: 
(4) although there is at present a limited amount of trading 
ctivity in the bank's stock and absence of any regular market, a 
SUffj , 
cient investor interest exists to merit the Protection of the 
° stration and reporting requirements of the Act; and 
(5) 
compliance with the registration and reporting require-
ments of 
r the Act would not impose an undue hardship on the bank or 
U s Personnel. 
Upon consideration of all the circumstances, the Board concludes 
that tu 
e granting of the requested exemption would be inconsistent with 
Public interest and the protection of investors. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the application of Southern Arizona 
Bank and •Crust Company for exemption from the registration requirements 
°f s e c t i 
12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 be, and is 
teby» denied. 
Dated at Washington, D. C. this 23rd day of June, 1967, 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) lierritt Sherman 
\ 'H U-" v : - 
1 
lierritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
(SEA L ) 

2584 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
It
1
em No- 1 2 
6/23/67 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 261 - RULES REGARDING AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION 
Revision of Rules Relating to Public Information 
1. Effective July 4, 1967, Part 261 is revised to read as 
Allows: 
Sec. 
261 I n . 
2Ai*i 
B asis and scope. 
Definitions. 
261*4 P u b l i s h e d information. 
Records available to the public upon request. 
26l 6 deferment of availability of certain information. 
2$i\ Exemptions from disclosure. 
4 , 7 Subpoenas. 
Authority: The provisions of this Part 261 issued under sec. 552, 
Ae 5, United States Code. 
§ 261 i n , 
*L Mils and scope. 
This Part is issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Q -
V e System (the "Board") pursuant to the requirement of section 552 
°f Titi 
le 5 of the United States Code that every Federal agency shall 
P u bUsh i 
u 
rn the Federal Register, for the guidance of the public, 
CriPtion8 of the established places at which, the officers from 
and the methods whereby, the public may obtain information, make 
1 3 or requests, or obtain decisions. 
2 6 1 , 2 Seflnitions. 
( a) "Information of the Board". For purposes of this Part, 
t e t m 'information of the Board" means all information coming into 
the p o g 
Session of the Board or of any member thereof, or of any Federal 

- 2 -
2585 
Reserve Bank, or of any officer, employee, or agent of the Board or 
• 
°f any Federal Reserve Bank, in the performance of functions for or on 
behalf of the Board, including functions delegated by the Board pur-
S U a n t to Part 265 of this Chapter. 
(b) "Records of the Board". For purposes of this Part, 
the term "records of the Board" means rules, statements, opinions, 
°rders, memoranda, letters, reports, accounts, and other papers 
c°ntaining information of the Board that constitute part of the Board's 
"fflcial files. 
8 2 6 1 , 3 Published information. 
(a) Federal Register. To the extent required by sections 552 
and 
c 
J J o f Title 5 of the U. S. Code, and subject to the provisions of 
8ections 261.5 and 261.6 of this Part, the Board publishes in the 
ecJeral Register for the guidance of the public, in addition to this 
Part, 
(1) descriptions of its central and field organization; 
(2) statements of the general course and method by which 
functions are channeled and determined, including the nature and 
*equl 
ments of all formal and informal procedures available; 
(3) 
rules of procedure, descriptions of forms available 
Places at which forms may be obtained, and instructions as 
c°Pe and contents of all papers, reports, or examinations; 
substantive rules of general applicability adopted 
t h ° U Z e d by law, and statements of general policy or interpretations 
applicability formulated and adopted by the Board; 
the 
' ' <C 
t o the 
as 
of 

and 
(5) every amendment, revision, or repeal of the foregoing; 
- . . ' 
^ - 
* 
• 
- 
V 
-
- > • •! V I . .. 
. 
, • 
1 
•/T:; I''IFF I>\ 
. 
(6) general notices of proposed rule making. 
«' «r 1,, fi. • . ' • - • * 
The 
e Board also publishes in the Federal Register notice of receipt of 
applications pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
orders and supporting statements issued by the Board with 
S p e c t t o such applications and applications under the Bank Merger 
Act (12 it 
u.S.C, 1828(c)), and notices of formal hearings ordered by the 
Board. 
, 
|f; 
. • . ' 
(b) Annual Report. The Board's Annual Report to Congress 
PUtau 
*hlch 
a n t to section 10 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 247), 
made public immediately after its submission to Congress, 
n s a full account of the Board's operations during the year, an 
ec°nomic r Q 4 
review of the year, and legislative recommendations to Congress. 
As 
u red by law, the Annual Report includes (1) a complete record 
of the 
Policy actions taken by the Board and the Federal Open Market 
Co^itt 
such 
tl°n of 
(12 
ee> showing the votes taken thereon and the reasons underlying 
actions (12 u.S.C. 247a); (2) material pertaining to the administra-
t h e Board's functions under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
and (3) material pertaining to bank mergers approved 
(12 
r d under section 18(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act 
".s.c. 
^ich 
1828(c)). 
££deralReserve Bulletin. In the Federal Reserve Bulletin, 
is 
issued monthly, the Board publishes economic and statistical 
•"Nation, aPecial articles on subjects of economic interest; regulations, 

-4-
25H7 
statements of general policy, and interpretations of lavs and regulations 
general interest to the public; notices of actions by the Board on 
Certain types of applications, such as applications for membership in 
the Federal Reserve System; and orders and accompanying statements of 
tlle Board with respect to certain types of adjudications. Some material 
t h a t l s Published in the Bulletin is released in advance of such 
pubUcation 
examples being certain regulations, interpretations, orders 
°Plnions, a monthly summary of business conditions, the Board's 
l n d e x o f industrial production, and certain other statistical series. 
(d) Other published information. As required by section 11(a) 
0 f the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(a)), the Board issues weekly 
a statement of the condition of the Federal Reserve Banks; (2) a 
Sf 
atement listing certain applications received by or on behalf of the 
Board and actions on such applications by the Board, or on behalf of the 
Board 
Pursuant to authority delegated under Part 264 of this Chapter; 
and 
v ; a statement showing changes in the banking structure resulting 
^rgers and the establishment of branches. From time to time, the 
B°ard jQo 
, 
issues statements to the press regarding particular monetary and 
Ctedit a ctions, regulatory actions, actions with respect to certain 
types of 
applications, and other matters. In addition, it issues various 
°ations, the more important of which are listed in the monthly 
reserve Bulletin. Among such publications is a loose-leaf 
CotnPilati 
° n o f Interpretations of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
He 
^ v i V a 
n 
atem. 
^JVe s, 

is? 
-5-
2588 
(e) Obtaining published information. Anyone may subscribe 
to 
Federal Reserve Bulletin at the rate therein indicated. A copy 
each Issue of the Bulletin is sent without charge to each member 
bank. Current or back issues of the Bulletin, Annual Reports, rules, 
re8ulatlons, and certain other published information may be examined 
a t the offices of the Board or any Federal Reserve Bank, and copies, 
if ^ 
in stock, are supplied by the Board at prescribed charges or at 
cost. 
5 261.4 
no 
Records available to the public upon request, 
(a) General rule. All records of the Board, whether or 
o t Published under section 261.3 of this Part, are made available 
a n y Person, upon request, for inspection and copying in accordance 
Wlth the 
stated 
Provisions of this section and subject to the limitations 
in sections 261.5 and 261.6 of this Part. Records falling 
*ithi 
»tti 
n the exemptions from disclosure set forth in section 552(b) of 
G 5 of the United States Code and in section 261.6 of this Part 
Slay n 
Vertheless be made available in accordance with this section 
fullest extent consistent, in the Board's judgment, with the 
to the 
ectlVe 
~ V 4 V G Performance of the Board's statutory responsibilities and 
vith th 
e avoidance of injury to a public or private interest intended 
to be p 
ected by such exemptions. 
-
Opinions, orders, statements of policyT interpretations, 
^^^uals^and instructions. Subject to the provisions of 
8ecti 
in 
°ns 261.5 
Spectl0n 
and 261.6 of this Part, the Board makes available for 
a n d copying (1) all final opinions (Including concurring 
Sgent'-f 
l n8 opinions) and orders made In the adjudication of cases, 
I 

5 
§ • 
R 
-6-
deluding such opinions and orders made pursuant to authority delegated 
ky the Board under Part 264 of this Chapter; (2) statements of policy 
and 4 
interpretations adopted by the Board that are not published in 
thp 
e Federal Register; and (3) administrative staff manuals and instruc-
t i o n s to staff that affect any member of the public. However, to the 
e*tent required to prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal 
ivacy, the Board deletes identifying details in any material of 
4,1 e kinds above described; and in each such case the justification for 
3Uch deletion is explained in writing. The Board maintains and makes 
available for public inspection and copying a current index providing 
ide 
ntifying information for the public as to any material described in 
VL . 
8 Paragraph which is issued, adopted, or promulgated after July 4, 1967. 
(c) Other records. Subject to the provisions of sections 261.5 
— - • 
and o ci 
61.6 of this Part, records of the Board not covered by paragraph (b) 
* -w 
of tht 
l s 3 ection, including a record of the final votes of members of 
h e Board in any Board proceeding, are made available for inspection 
C o 
PVing to any person upon request. 
to this section are available for inspection and copying during 
(d) Obtaining access to records. 
Records of the Board 
*egul it* k 
* 
ousiness hours at the offices of the Board of Governors of the 
?ederai 
Av eriue, 
info*nati 
Reserve System, Federal Reserve Building, 20th and Constitution 
ngton, D. C., 20551, or, in the case of records containing 
Washi 
E*cha 
on required to be disclosed under section 12 of the Securities 
n g G A c t 
1934, as amended (15 U.S.C. 78), at the offices of 

-7- 
2590 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or at any Federal Reserve 
Bank. Every request for access to records of the Board, other than 
those containing information required under section 12 of the 
Securities Exchange Act, shall be submitted in writing to the Secretary 
* the Board, shall state the name and address of the person requesting 
CCess to such records and shall describe such records in a manner 
reasonably sufficient to permit their identification without undue 
^ficulty; and such person shall pay a fee in an amount based upon 
$5 
Per hour for the time required to locate such records and prepare 
them for- a 
inspection, plus 10 cents per standard page for any copying 
hereof. 
Deferment of availability of certain information, 
(a) Deferment of availability. In some instances, certain 
types 
f 
o l Information of the Board are not published in the Federal 
r °r made available for inspection and copying until after 
such 
Period of time as the Board may determine to be reasonably necessary 
to 
. , 
ld the effects described in paragraph (b) of this section. For 
eXa®Ple such deferment of publication or availability of information 
to the 
Public may occasionally be necessary with respect to information 
a t l n g t o the determination of monetary or credit policies, including 
but Hqj. 
limited to discount rates, reserve requirements of member banks, 
Minium 
interest rates payable by member banks on deposits, and margin 

- 8 -
2591 
(b) Reasons for deferment of availability. Publication of, 
0 r public access to, certain information of the Board may be deferred 
because earlier disclosure of such Information would 
(1) interfere with the accomplishment of the objectives 
o f the Board's actions in the discharge of its statutory functions; 
* \ 
\\ 
~ , 
• 
(2) permit speculators and others to gain unfair profits 
°ther unfair advantages by speculative trading in securities or 
°therwise; 
(3) 
Interfere with the orderly execution of the objectives 
P°llcies of other Government agencies; 
result in unnecessary or unwarranted disturbances in the 
S e c u U t i e 3 markets; or 
(5) interfere with the orderly conduct of the foreign 
f f a i r s o f the United States. 
§ 261 6 
g*gg&ttons from disclosure. 
General rule. Except as otherwise provided in this 
a s m ay be specifically authorized by the Board, information 
>**t or 
in 
records of the Board that is not available to the public 
thr°*gh other 
r sources will not be published in the Federal Register or 
^adp avail M 
at)le for inspection and cop/ing if such information 
(1) is exempted from disclosure by statute or executive 
°*der. 
is contained in or related to examination, operating, or 
ndlt*°n r e 
ePorts prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of, the Board 
a Pederal n 
reserve Bank, relating to the affairs of any bank or 

, ' ,1 
-9-
2592 
^filiate thereof, bank holding company or subsidiary thereof, broker, 
f J 
inance company, or any other person engaged, or proposing to engage, 
the business of banking, extending credit, or managing or controlling 
banks: 
financial affairs of 
(3) is privileged or relates to the business, personal, or 
any person and is furnished in confidence; provided, 
however, that, following notice to the person furnishing such information, 
tlle B°ard may make any information furnished in confidence in connection 
an application for Board approval of any transaction available to 
tlle Public in accordance with section 261.4(c) of this Part, and, to 
the e*tent it deems necessary and without prior notice to such person, 
the Board 
iss 
way comment on such information in any opinion or statement 
issued t-to the public in connection with a decision of the Board with 
te®Pect-
which such information is relevant; 
(4) is contained in investigatory files compiled for law 
1 
ei*forc e m e n t purposes (except to the extent available by law to a private 
„ 
Party) 
• including information relating to proceedings for (i) the issuance 
Of Q 
cease-and-desist order, or order of suspension or removal, under the 
PinQncia1 T 
a i institutions Supervisory Act of 1966; (ii) the termination 
of 
rship of a State bank in the Federal Reserve System pursuant 
to sect< 
l 0 n 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 327); (iii) the 
n®ion of a bank from use of the credit facilities of the Federal 
veaetv 
e System pursuant to section 4 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 
30l); and (iv) the granting or revocation of any approval, permission, 
V 
I 

-10-
o r authority, except to the extent provided in this Part and except 
as Provided in Part 262 of this Chapter concerning bank holding 
c°mpany and bank merger applications. 
(5) relates solely to the internal personnel rules and 
Practices or other internal practices of the Board; 
(6) is contained in personnel, medical, and similar files, 
t h e disclosure of which would constitute a clearly unwarranted invasion 
0f Personal privacy; or 
(7) is contained in inter-agency or intra-agency memoranda 
letters that would not be routinely available by law to a private 
P a t t y l n litigation with the Board, including but not limited to 
emoranda, reports, and other documents prepared by the staffs of the 
Oard 
o r of the Federal Reserve Banks, and records of deliberations 
a n d disc, 
Bo ard 
-vissions at meetings of the Board or of any committee of the 
° r of the Board's staff. 
(b) .Information available to supervised Institutions and 
Sther 
^ ^ ^ H j l S g n t agencies. A copy of each report of examination of 
StQte member bank and of each bank holding company is made avail 
by 
e appropriate Federal Reserve Bank to the bank or company 
ned« 
Such reports and other appropriate information relating to 
bank 
such a 
o f the 
Cu 
rrenc 
or c o m p a n y are made available, upon request, by the Director 
Board's Division of Examinations to the Comptroller of the 
° y a n d the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and by the 
aPPtoPrln#. 
Federal Reserve Bank to the Regional Comptroller of the 
CUt renc 
y» the regional representative of the Federal Deposit Insurance 

Corporation, and the State governmental authority having general super-
vi-sion of such bank or company. Such reports and other information 
be made available by the Board to other agencies of the United 
•States for use where necessary in the performance of their official 
dutie8.< All reports or other information made available pursuant 
t 0 ^is paragraph shall remain the property of the Board and, except 
** otherwise provided in this Part, no person, agency, or authority 
t 0 whom the information is made available, or any officer, director, 
employee thereof, shall disclose any such information except in 
PubUshed statistical material that does not disclose the affairs of 
% individual or corporation. 
(c) Prohibition against disclosure. Except as provided in 
Part, no officer, employee, or agent of the Board or of any Federal 
R e S e r v e Bank shall disclose or permit the disclosure of any unpublished 
formation of the Board to anyone (other than an officer, employee, 
** a g e n t of the Board or of a Federal Reserve Bank properly entitled 
t 0 8U<* information for the performance of his official duties), whether 
• t . 
w 
? l v l n8 out or furnishing such information or a copy thereof or by 
* l 9 W l n8 a ny person to inspect or copy such information or copy thereof, 
Otherwise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unpublished economic, 
8tatlatlcal, or similar information or unpublished information regarding 
/^Pretations by the Board of statutory or regulatory provisions may 
i 
6 dlsclosed, o r a l l y o r t n w r i t l n g , by any officer, employee, or agent 
of t h 
; 1 6 Board or 0f any Federal Reserve Bank who has knowledge of the 

- 1 2 -
Subject matter to any person who, in the judgment of such officer, 
e®Ployee, or agent, has a proper interest therein, subject, however, 
to the restrictions stated in sections 261.5 and 261.6 of this Part. 
(d) Appeal from denial of access to information. Any person 
W h o ls denied access to records of the Board may, within 5 days there-
er> file with the Board a written request for review of such action; 
Such review shall not be subject to the procedure prescribed in 
S e C t i o n 265.3 of this Chapter with respect to review of actions taken 
t S U a n t t o authority delegated by the Board. 
S 26l 7 o t 
Subpoenas. 
(a) Advice by person served. If any person, whether or not 
U officer, employee, or agent of the Board or of a Federal Reserve 
h a s information of the Board that may not be disclosed under 
thia p 
art and in connection therewith is served with a subpoena, order, 
0t» ®r Process requiring his personal attendance as a witness or the 
n °f documents or information in any proceeding, he should 
Ly inform the Secretary of the Board of such service and of all 
a n t facts, including the documents and information requested and 
fn 
. V C t s which may be of assistance to the Board in determining whether 
8Uch d ° C U m e n t 3 or information should be made available; and he should 
a C t l o n at the appropriate time to inform the court or tribunal 
is 
wued the process and the attorney for the party at whose instance 
C e as was issued, if known,of the substance of these rules. 
( b ) ^EPearance by person served. Unless the Board has 
authorj-
ecl disclosure of the relevant information, or except as pro-
ided In i 
1 8 U-S.C. 1906, any person having information of the Board 

that may not be disclosed under this Part who is required to respond 
t o a subpoena or other legal process shall attend at the time and place 
yA. I;••„. „ • ' 
fr'} 
therein mentioned and decline to disclose such information or give any 
testimony with respect thereto, basing his refusal upon this Part. If 
the court or other body orders the disclosure of such information or 
A 
" 
' 
' • * 
e giving of such testimony, the person having such information of 
the Board shall continue to decline to disclose such information and 
shall promptly report the facts to the Board for such action as the 
Board 
m ay deem appropriate. 
2a. This action is pursuant to and in accordance with the 
Revisions of section 552 of Title 5 of the United States Code. 
b. The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States 
e» relating to notice and public participation and to deferred 
qCC 
ective dates, are not followed in connection with the adoption of 
t h l s action, because the rules involved are procedural in nature 
accordingly do not constitute substantive rules subject to the 
I 
1 
V : 
• I 
rements of auch section. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 23rd day of June, 1967. 
order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
F°r release after 3:30 p.m., EDST, 
June 29, 1967. 
Item No. 13 
6/23/67 
June 29, 1967. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
a n a the Federal Open Market Committee have adopted revisions of 
their respective Rules relating to the availability of information 
to the public. The revised Rules have been transmitted for publi-
Cation in the Federal Register, to become effective July 4, 1967. 
The 
y are designed to carry out the purposes of the Public 
I n f °rmation section of the former Administrative Procedure Act, 
clS revised last year and now codified in section 552 of Title 5 
0 f 
United States Code, which will become effective as of that 
date. 
and 
new 
Sene, 
Under the nevz Rules, unpublished records of the Board 
the Committee will be made available upon request unless the 
rticular records fall within stated exemptions contained in the 
Iaw> whereas under the former Rules unpublished records 
"rally w e r e n o t 
available for public inspection except 
W i th th 
n e express approval of the Board and the Committee. After 
July a 
» records will be made available unless they are of the type 
that c annot properly be disclosed and fall within one of the 
£ ^ 
0 v l nS exemptions of the new law because they are 
(1) exempted from disclosure by statute or 
e^ecutive order; 
(2) contained in or related to examination, 
P e rati n g > or condition reports; 

(3) privileged or related to the business, personal, 
; . 
. 
or financial affairs of any person and furnished in 
confidence; 
i 
- 2 -
SS 
(4) contained in investigatory files compiled for 
law enforcement purposes (except to the extent available 
by law to a private party); 
'.•V 
' 
' 
' 
."'• 
(5) related solely to internal personnel rules and 
practices or other internal practices of the Board, or 
are contained in personnel, medical, and similar files; 
or 
(6) contained in inter-agency or intra-agency 
- 
V 
. 
' 
memoranda or letters that would not be routinely avail-
able by law to a private party in litigation with the 
Board. 
In accordance with the revised Rules of the Federal 
°Pen Market Committee, the current economic policy directive 
r eUti n8 to domestic open market operations, in the form adopted 
at 
G a c h meeting of the Committee, will be published in the Federal 
r approximately 90 days after its adoption. Committee 
®eet i 
n g s are usually held at three or four week intervals. A 
stat 
e m e nt summarizing the reasons underlying the Committee's 
C y decisions, along with the votes of the members, will be 
Poll 
^ade 
" Mailable to the public at the same time. Such statement! 
com 
l8isti 
0lBmitt 
i 
1 
n8 of entries for the record of policy actions of the 
ec- have been included in prior years as part of the Board' 

Annual Report to Congress pursuant to the requirements of section 10 
w 
the Federal Reserve Act, and they will continue to be carried in 
that Report. 
The current economic policy directive adopted by the Federal 
Market Committee at its meeting on April 4, 1967, together with 
Committee's continuing authority directive for domestic open 
Market operations, its authorization for System foreign currency opera-
I^Pns, and its foreign currency directive, as the latter documents are 
effect, have been submitted for publication in the Federal 
fSfcister. The Board and the Committee are also making available at 
t h i s time entries with respect to policy actions taken at the four 
®^tings of the Committee held this year through April 4. 
The Board and the Federal Open Market Committee are taking 
thi 
1 8 Occasion to transmit to the National Archives detailed records 
Of J I 
* 
l«cu88ions and actions at the Committee's meetings during the 
e n d a r year 1961, although- the new law does not require public 
^Closure of records of deliberations of any Federal agency. 
Similar 
t e c° r^ 8 °f such meetings for the years prior to 1961 were made public 
in tho 
e sanie manner in 1964, as announced in the Federal Reserve 
B u U e n 
• n f°r August 1964. 
Copies of the 1961 records will be made 
V a n ® b l e » within the next few weeks, at each Federal Reserve Bank 
and 
for the convenient reference of interested parties. 
The 
Procedure-was followed with respect to earlier records. 

m>,& 
-4- 
260O 
v 
There are attached copies of the Rules regarding avail-
ability of information of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System and the Federal Open Market Committee, and copies 
the Committee's directives and authorization, as sent to the 
•deral Register. There are also attached copies of the policy 
*cord entries of the Federal Open Market Committee for its meetings 
>' » .. •.ViUiv' * „ 
held this year through April 4. 
V 5 if it 
: 
- 0 -
R : 
S» V' 
T 
* 
• - 
> i 
Y^'^Cn; -si, 
v 
i-. 
• • 
:t i; - . 
•HE 
<•' f •>• 
• 
- 
3 ? i 
>">'. Z .< 
Mi " •;.:• 
XV;;"' 
r 
p .. 

/^ovVoV; 
SutS^V 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
2H 
!1 
Item No. 14 
6/23/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
Jane 23, 1967. 
&r. Robert H. Bahmer, 
Archivist of the United States, 
National Archives Building, 
Wash 1ngton, D. C. 20408. 
De a r Dr. Bahmer: 
^ 
In 1964, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
serve System and the Federal Open Market Committee authorized 
,e transfer from the Board to the custody of the Archivist of 
e United States of the original copies of the minutes of 
p6etings of the Federal Open Market Committee and its Executive 
0rnmittee from the date of organization in March 1936 to the 
°f the year 1960. That transfer was completed, and those 
c°rds have since been available to interested persons. 
t 
The Board and the Committee have now authorized the 
Un,nS^er from the Board to the custody of the Archivist of the 
^ted States of the minutes of the meetings of the Federal Open 
are ^ ^0mmfttee held during calendar year 1961. These minutes 
th .Contained in approximately 1150 pages of typed material, and 
an 
t r a n s f e r is being made with the same understanding as that 
av^.lcable to the earlier minutes, that is, they are to be 
to interested persons without restriction other than 
SUc^n°rnial restrictions that National Archives would place on 
"materials to assure their preservation and proper handling. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr 

BDARD DF G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
26' >2 
Item No. 15 
6/23/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 27, 1967 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
After careful consideration of recent proposals for 
employee salary structure revisions at the Reserve Banks, the 
Board of Governors has approved a procedure under which revised 
salary ranges would be based upon midpoints at estimated market 
levels at the date the structure is to become effective, but 
without any additional allowance for increases in market beyond 
that date. The estimated market levels would, of course, be 
projected from the date of the most recent survey. 
With respect to proposals contained in your letter of 
June 2, the Board has approved the nonclerical salary structure 
for the Head Office, as shown in Exhibit III of your letter, and 
a special maximum of $22,000 for salary grade 16 of the Head 
Office clerical structure. The clerical structures at the Head 
Office and the Buffalo Branch are approved subject to the elimi-
nation of any allowance for increases in market level salaries 
beyond the effective date, July 6, if such structures are 
approved by the directors of your Bank. 
The Board has not approved the proposed nonclerical 
structure for the Buffalo Branch. It believes that the use of 
a single structure for nonclerical positions at both the Head 
Office and the Branch is not justified because of the signifi-
cant difference indicated in the market surveys for these two 
areas. 
Please advise the Board of the new ranges adopted 
pursuant to this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 16 
6/23/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 27, 1967 
' •' 
a it i 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President, 
1 Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
Please refer to the Board's letter of June 9, 
1967, with respect to the employees' salary structure of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, including branches. 
After further consideration of the proposals contained in 
your letter of April 13, the Board of Governors has 
approved structure ranges for all offices based upon mid-
points set at estimated market levels as of July 1, 1967. 
The estimate, of course, would be projected from survey-
data collected in February of this year. 
It will be appreciated if you would advise us of 
salary structure ranges pursuant to this approval. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
