MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 16, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
increase at Federal Reserve Banks of 
Boston and Dallas. 

2873 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, October 16, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 2/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
The staff presented a review of domestic and international 
developments of the kind customarily given in preparation for meetings 
o f the Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of the statistical materials 
Prepared for this review and of the individual papers presented have 
been placed in the Board's files. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
4:00 p.m. with the following Board members and staff in attendance: 
•i/ Attended afternoon session only. 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2874 
10/16/72 
-2-
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Discount rate. The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks 
of Dallas and Boston on October 12 and October 16, 1972, respectively, 
had established, subject to review and determination by the Board of 
Governors, a rate of 4-3/4 per cent (an increase from 4-1/2 per cent) 
on discounts for and advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a 
of the Federal Reserve Act, together with appropriately corresponding 
subsidiary rates under other sections of the Act. 
The Board had previously disapproved proposed 1/4 percentage 
Point increases in the discount rate on September 29, October 3, and 
October 10, 1972. During today's discussion majority support was 
indicated for disapproval of the present proposals for reasons generally 
similar to those expressed at the time of the previous denials. Addi-
tionally, it was noted that should Congress approve a proposed ceiling 

2875 
10/16/72 
-3-
on Federal spending, which was currently under active consideration, 
there was reason to anticipate that a result of such legislation might 
be downward pressure on short-term market interest rates. It was also 
pointed out that the Committee on Interest and Dividends had issued on 
October 12, 1972, a statement expressing its concern over the recent 
increases in the prime loan rates at commercial banks, and a rise in 
the discount rate coming shortly after the statement would be likely to 
create uncertainty in the economic and financial community and to raise 
questions among Government officials. 
In reaching its decision, the Board also reviewed the evidence 
of more moderate growth in bank reserves and the monetary aggregates. 
In addition, it was observed that while short-term interest rates had 
edged up since late September, their current levels did not in the Board's 
judgment impel a higher discount rate. Note was also taken of the current 
Treasury cash financing involving a two-year issue auctioned on October 11, 
and the view was expressed that it would be desirable to avoid an overt 
Policy action during the period of the financing. The Board concluded 
that, under prevailing circumstances, an increase in the discount rate 
would not constitute a timely action in furtherance of the economic stabi-
lization effort. 
Governor Brimmer observed, however, that he would prefer to delay 
action on the proposed increase until after the meeting of the Federal 
Open Market Committee, which was scheduled for October 17, 1972. Apart 

2878 
10/16/72 
-4-
from having the benefit of the views of the Federal Reserve Bank Presi-
dents, he saw merit in a delay in view of the possible enactment of an 
expenditure ceiling, which might in turn foster lower interest rates. 
He would vote against approving or disapproving the proposed increase 
today and in favor of deferring action until the fate of the legislation 
became clearer. 
The discount rate actions taken by the Boston and Dallas directors 
W ere thereupon disapproved, Governor Brimmer dissenting. It was under-
stood that the Presidents of the two Reserve Banks would be advised of 
the Board's action prior to tomorrow's meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee and that letters would subsequently be sent to the two Banks 
outlining the considerations involved in today's decision. A copy of 
the letter sent to the Banks on October 18, 1972, is attached as Item No. 1. 
Other discount rates. The Board unanimously approved actions 
taken on October 12, 1972, by the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, 
Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis establishing without 
change the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules, 
with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to the respec-
tive Banks. 
Chairman Burns then asked that the Board focus attention on the 
subject of discussions of the discount rate at meetings of the Federal 
°Pen Market Committee. 

2877 
10/16/72 
-5-
While it was generally believed that members of the Board 
should avoid indicating their position with regard to the discount rate 
at Open Market Committee meetings, the opinion was also expressed that 
it was helpful to have the views of the Federal Reserve Bank Presidents. 
It was pointed out, however, that on certain occasions at previous Open 
Market Committee meetings, the Chairman had commented upon considerations 
deemed important by the Board in its review of the discount rate. Support 
was expressed for the continuance of that practice. 
During ensuing discussion regarding communications to the Reserve 
Bank Presidents with respect to the Board's disposition of proposed changes 
in the discount rate, it was noted that the existing practice involved 
the sending of a letter to the Reserve Banks that had proposed a rate 
change and coded wires to the other Reserve Banks informing them of the 
Board's decision concerning the proposed change. The letters outlined 
the reasons underlying the Board's decision, while the coded wires indi-
cated the Board's decision but did not provide any indication of the 
Board's views and did not identify the Reserve Banks that had proposed 
the rate changes. 
It was then suggested that consideration be given to some form 
written communication to all Reserve Bank Presidents informing them of 
the Board's decision with respect to a discount rate proposal and the 
reasons for that decision. There would be no need to identify the Banks 
that had proposed the rate change. Support was expressed for this suggestion, 

2878 
10/16/72 
-6-
although a preference was indicated for considering the idea further 
following discussion with the Reserve Bank Presidents. 
After brief further discussion, it was agreed that the Board 
would meet in limited session with the Reserve Bank Presidents prior to 
the Open Market Committee meeting tomorrow to discuss several matters 
relating to the discount rate. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2879 
BOARD • F GDV!":RNDRi5 
D F 
THE: 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20561 
Item No. 1 
10/16/72 
ACDHEtSS nrriCIAU ODRKESfOMtltNCC 
TU THE 13 OAR D 
October 18, 1972 
Philip E. Colchvell, President 
-•Vulval Reserve Bank of Dallas 
s, Texas 
lv-ar Mr. ColdweU: 
The Board of Governors took action 011 October .16 to dir.-
rove a, pending increase in your Bank's discount rate from 
to 4- 3/4 per cent which your directors voted to establish on 
October 3 2. 
The. Board's decision was influenced by a number of 
r'0r'federations, including* the desirability of avoiding an overt 
peh Cy ac tier during the period of a Treasury cash financing. 
In 
eeiiera'} 
the Board believed that an increase in the discount rate 
net constitute a timely action in furtherance of the economic 
;:ion effort under prevailing circumstances. 
In arriving at its decision, the Board took note of the recent 
of moderation in the growth of bank reserves and the mone-
i *> 
- - y aggregates. 
The Board also concluded that short-term interest 
l atos were fluctuating around levels which did not in their view impel 
a high 
er discount rate,, 
In the circumstances the Board continued to 
®Ueve chat an increase in the discount rate would be widely inter-
feted as leading rather then following market interest rates. 
May 1 add that the Board has asked me to convey their 
dPpreciation for having had the benefit oi the views of your directors, 
S i n e e r e ly y o u v r>, 
; Tynan Smith 
. / 
Secretary 
A similar letter was sent to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston. 
