Minutes for September 9, 1971 
TO: 
Members of the Board 
FROM: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 Amendment to Regulation Y, 
Bank Holding Companies. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
_ 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: Changes have been made on pages 4 and 8 at the request of 
Governor Robertson. 

231$ 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, September 9, 1971. The Board met in the 
Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 1/ 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, 
Office of Executive Director 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Crews, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
jV Entered at point indicated in minutes. 

231D 
9/9/71 
-2-
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Foreign activities of domestic holding companies. At its 
meeting on September 7, 1971, the Board considered a proposed amend-
ment to Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, that would implement 
section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act to permit a 
domestic bank holding company to acquire, with the Board's prior 
approval, shares of any company in which an Edge corporation may 
invest. Pursuant to the discussion at that meeting the Legal 
Division had submitted, with a memorandum dated September 8, a 
revised draft amendment. 
During discussion at today's meeting a number of revisions 
in the draft amendment were suggested. These included making it 
clear that the Board would retain authority to impose conditions 
regarding the operation of foreign subsidiaries of domestic bank 
holding companies similar to those that it deemed prudent to impose 
on Edge corporations and their foreign subsidiaries. 
At the end of the discussion the amendment was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that the suggested editorial 
revisions would be made. 
It also was understood that Board members 

2320 
9/9/71 
-3-
would be provided an opportunity to review the amendment prior to 
its issuance, along with a draft of the relevant press release. 
(Note: Attached under Item No. 1 are copies of the press 
release issued on September 20 and of the amendment to Regulation Y 
as subsequently published in the Federal Register.) 
Thrift institutions. In order to implement a proposal that 
operation of a thrift institution be included in the list of permis-
sible activities of bank holding companies, a draft amendment to 
Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, had been prepared and was 
submitted with a memorandum from the Legal Division dated August 
24, 1971. A memorandum from the Office of the Secretary and the 
Division of Research and Statistics, also dated August 24, discussed 
Hi 
Li,c.,dscrc:ix 
i 
• 1, 
* •.VvH-; :.r i - 
op •:>.•', \ 
the implications of permitting bank holding companies to acquire 
thrift institutions, particularly savings and loan institutions. 
In a third memorandum, dated August 30, Mr. Holland suggested a 
procedure with respect to the proposed amendment that might best 
serve the interests of good interagency relations. 
At today's meeting it was suggested that, since the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board had expressed opposition to the acquisition of 
savings and loan associations by bank holding companies, it might 
not be desirable to arrive at a final decision on the proposed 
amendment at this time. Instead, it was agreed that it would be 
preferable for the Board to discuss the proposal with a view 

232 
9/9/71 
-4-
toward giving Governor Mitchell a tentative Board position to 
convey to the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation 
at its meeting on September 27. 
During the discussion that followed Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell and Daane stated that they would be inclined to include thrift 
institutions among permissible activities of bank holding companies. 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer took the opposite view on the grounds 
that this would be contrary to the intent of Congress, which had set 
up separate systems for banks and for savings and loan institutions. 
Those opposing the proposal also questioned whether activities of 
savings and loan institutions were so closely related to banking as to 
be considered incidental thereto, and whether the proposal would result 
in any significant benefit to the public. Governor Daane abstained 
from taking a definite position on the proposal to include thrift 
institutions among the list of permissible activities. 
Members of the Board took varying points of view on the 
question as to whether the location of a thrift institution owned by 
a bank holding company should be limited to the State in which the 
holding company's banking subsidiaries are situated. Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer favored such a limitation and Governors Mitchell, 
ftaane, and Maisel favored no limitation. 
It was understood that Governor Mitchell would discuss 
the proposal with the Interagency Coordinating Committee in light 

9/9/71 
-5-
of the comments made, after which he would report to the Board on 
the views expressed at the Committee meeting. If at that time it 
seemed appropriate for the Board to meet with the other Federal 
bank supervisory agencies to discuss the proposal further, such 
a meeting could be arranged. 
Control provisions of Holding Company Act. On July 1, 1971, 
the Board issued for comment proposed revisions of Regulation Y, 
Rank Holding Companies, in the form of a series of presumptions, to 
define circumstances that may be found to constitute control of a 
bank or other company for the purpose of determining whether a 
company is a bank holding company within the meaning of section 2 
°f the Bank Holding Company Act and whether a bank holding company 
has nonbanking interests in violation of the general prohibition 
in section 4 of the Act, The proposed amendments would add regu-
latory provisions to implement the 1970 amendments to the Bank 
folding Company Act, which extended the provisions of the Act tq 
folding companies controlling only one bank and gave the Board 
greater latitude 
to determine when control exists. The comments 
received were summarized in a memorandum from the Legal Division 
dated August 24. 
The Legal Division, in a memorandum dated September 7, 
recommended that the Board (1) adopt amendments to Regulation Y 
with respect to most of the proposed presumptions and (2) issue 

9/9/71 
-6-
guidelines to the Reserve Banks with respect to the others for 
their use in determining when to undertake an investigation into 
a possible control situation. 
At today's meeting the Board initiated consideration of 
the proposed presumptions of control. The individual proposals 
considered are quoted hereafter in the form in which they were 
set forth in the September 7 memorandum. 
Stapled-shares rule. 
In addition, the Board has determined that, 
whenever 25 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of a company are stapled or otherwise joined 
together, whether pursuant to an agreement, by-law, 
article of incorporation, or otherwise, with 25 
per cent or more of the voting shares of another 
company, all such shares so joined together are 
under common control by a "corporation" or similar 
organization for the purposes of the Act. 
The Legal Division recommended that the Board include in 
R e g u l a t i o n Y a s a c o n c l u s i v e p r e s u m p t i o n of c o n t r o l a p r o v i s i o n 
along this line. After discussion it was agreed to accept the 
recommendation, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
i-faltl-bank stock ownership rules. 
In addition, the Board has established, for the 
purposes of proceedings instituted by the Board in 
accordance with the procedures of paragraph (c) below, 
the following rebuttable presumptions: 
(1) A company that owns at least 10 per cent of 
the voting shares of each of two banks presumably 
controls both banks. 
(2) A company that owns at least 5 per cent of 
the voting shares of each of three or more banks 
presumably controls all such banks. 

2324 
9/9/71 
-7-
The Legal Division recommended that the Board eliminate 
these two proposed rebuttable presumptions as regulatory presumptions, 
but use them as guidelines to the Reserve Banks. After discussion 
it was agreed to accept the recommendation. 
Interlock and family attribution rules. 
A company that owns more than 5 per cent of the 
voting shares of a bank or other company presumably 
controls the bank or other company if (A) one or more 
of the company's directors, officers, trustees, or 
employees with management functions serves as a 
director, officer, or employee with management 
functions of the bank or other company, or if (B) an 
individual (or member of his immediate family) who 
is a director, officer, or trustee of the company 
(or owns more than 25 per cent of the voting shares 
of the company) also owns shares in the bank or 
other company, and the shares owned by him plus the 
shares of the bank or other company owned by the 
company (or by any other company of which he owns 
more than 25 per cent of the voting shares) aggre-
gate 25 per cent or more of the voting shares of the 
bank or other company. 
The Legal Division recommended that the Board subdivide the 
rules; include partnerships in each; and add to the interlock rule 
the qualification that no other person owns as much as 5 per cent 
°f the voting securities of the bank or company involved. 
During discussion Governor Robertson indicated that he did 
not object to inclusion of these rules in the guidelines to the 
Reserve Banks, but he was opposed to adding them as rebuttable 
Presumptions to Regulation Y. Other members of the Board suggested 

9/9/71 
-8-
a number of revisions in wording, after which there was an expression 
of agreement with the recommendation for including the presumptions 
in the regulation as recommended by the Legal Division, Governor 
Robertson dissenting. 
It was then agreed that the remainder of the presumptions 
of control outlined in the September 7 memorandum would be 
considered at the meeting on September 10. 
(Note: A copy of 
Governor Robertson's dissenting statement with respect to control pro-
visions of Regulation Y is attached to the minutes for September 10 
a s Item No. 4.) 
Governor Sherrill entered the meeting at this point. 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously a letter 
(copy attached as Item No. 2) to First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent (1) to 
acquire all of the shares of INARCO Investment Company N.V., 
Curacao, Netherlands Antilles, and (2) to continue to hold those 
shares after INARCO acquires shares of Arrendequipos C.A., Caracas, 
V e n e z u e l a . 
The Board approved unanimously the application of First 
National Charter Corporation, Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire 
shares of Citizens Bank of Belton, Belton, Missouri, and authorized 
issuance of an order (copy attached as Item No. 3) reflecting that 
decision. 

m 
2326 
9/9/71 
-9-
The Board approved unanimously an application of Mount 
Clemens Bank, Mount Clemens, Michigan, for permission to issue 
capital notes. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached 
as Item No. 4. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Report on mobilization activities. A proposed annual 
report to the Joint Committee on Defense Production covering 
mobilization activities was submitted with a memorandum from 
Governor Maisel dated September 7, 1971, along with a draft of 
transmittal letter. The Board unanimously approved the report. 
A copy of the transmittal letter is attached as Item No. 5; a 
copy of the report had been placed in the Board's files. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Holland withdrew at 
this point. 
Governor Sherrill referred to his memorandum to the Board 
dated September 7, 1971, which had been distributed to the Board 
members, proposing a reorganization of the Division of Personnel 
Administration. 
In accordance with that memorandum, he recom-
mended the appointment of Ronald G. Burke to succeed E. J. Johnson 
a s Director of the Division of Personnel Administration, and the 
aPpointment of Mr. Johnson as Assistant to the Board to work on 
assigned special projects in the personnel area. These appointments 

9/9/71 
-10-
would be effective at a mutually convenient date, probably around 
late October, and the announcement of such appointments would be 
wade at a time mutually convenient to Messrs. Burke and Johnson. 
It was recommended that Mr. Burke be paid an annual salary at the 
rate of $32,000 and that Mr. Johnson continue at his present 
salary. 
The Board approved the above recommendations. After a 
discussion of the kinds of special projects that Mr. Johnson might 
undertake, it was agreed that his responsibilities would include 
specifically such assignments as Governor Maisel might wish to make 
to him in the field of employee retirement and fringe benefits. 
Governor Sherrill also recommended the appointment of 
jamin R. W. Knowles, Jr., presently Systems Engineer in the 
division of Data Processing, as Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing, effective September 13, 1971. The specifications 
°f Mr. Knowles' background and assignment were set forth in a 
memorandum from the Division of Data Processing dated September 3, 
1971, 
which included a recommendation for an increase in Mr. Knowles' 
salary to an annual level of $28,000, in which Governor Sherrill 
concurred. 
This recommendation was approved by the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

^or Immediate release 
Item No. 1 
9/9/71 
September 20, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. System today 
announced the types of foreign business activities in which domestic 
hank holding companies may engage under the 1970 amendments to the 
fcanlc Holding Company Act. 
An amendment to the Board's Regulation Y will permit bank 
Elding companies to acquire ownership or control of the shares of 
c°rapanies in which Edge Act corporations may invest. Such acquisitions 
«*8t be made with the Board's consent under procedures similar to those 
P r e s e n t l y governing investments by Edge Act corporations. 
Edge Act corporations are generally subsidiaries of member 
ba«l<s, established in the United States with specific Board approval, 
t o facilitate the foreign business of their parent banks. The corpora-
tions are permitted to exercise broader powers in foreign operations 
are their parent banks. In general, Edge Act corporations may 
W e s t in companies engaged in international or foreign banking or other 
international or foreign financial operations. They may also have 
Minority non-controlling investments in other types of companies, 
v*en the size of t h e investment is p r o p o r t i o n a t e to a proper financing 
a c * i v i t y . 
The Edge Act: w a s enacted by Congress in 1919. 
The regulatory amendment, which is effective tomorrow, is 
8imilar to a proposal made by the Board on June 16. It implements the 

232C 
- 2 -
Board's authority under section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
^ permit bank holding companies to acquire shares of companies which 
d<> no business in the United States except as an incident to such com-
panies' international or foreign business. The Board has acted on the 
basis of its determination that it would be consistent with the purposes 
0 £ the Act and in the public interest to permit bank holding companies 
t o engage in the kinds of activities permissible to Edge Act corpora-
tions. 
The regulatory amendment would not authorize bank holding 
c°mpanies to acquire shares of companies that accept deposits in the 
United States. 
A copy of the amendment is attached. 

2330 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Y] 
PART 222—LANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Foreign Activities of Domestic Holding Companies 
By notice of proposed rule making published in the Federal 
Agister on June 23, 1971 (36 F.R. 11944), the Board of Governors pro-
Posed to implement its regulatory authority under section 4(c)(13) of 
B a n k Holding Company Act to permit bank holding companies, under 
certain conditions, to invest in companies that do no business in the 
United States except as an incident to their international or foreign 
business and the shares of which are eligible for investment by Edge 
corporations. 
Following consideration of the comments received, the Board 
has determined that it would be consistent with the purposes of the 
A ct and in the public interest to permit bank holding companies to 
Squire ownership or control of the shares of companies in which Edge 
A ct corporations may invest, if such acquisitions are made with the 
board's consent under procedures similar to those presently governing 
investments by Edge Act corporations. 
Under this approach, the standards of section 25(a) of the 
^deral Reserve Act would govern the kinds of activities in which 
Voiding companies may engage on the basis of section 4(c) (13) of the 

2331 
Kank Holding Company Act. The Board has interpreted section 25(a) 
to authorize companies organized thereunder to engage in international 
o r foreign banking, other international or foreign financing activities, 
and activities that are incidental thereto or, in the Board's judgment, 
usual in the business of banking in the foreign countries where 
the activities are conducted. Such companies may not, however, engage 
-1-11 the business of underwriting, selling or distributing securities in 
the United States or trade in commodities. In practice, companies 
0,:8aniaed under section 25(a) have generally been permitted to have 
Minority noncontrolling investments in any companies that do no business 
j 
n the United States except as an incident to their international or 
°*eign business when the size of the investment is proportionate to 
a Proper financing activity, but otherwise to invest orily ^ in companies 
fckat limit their activities to the kinds of activities in which companies 
°r8anized under section 25(a) may themselves engage. 
I 
\ 
Under this approach, limitations applicable to Edge Act 
c°rPorations governing the extent to which and the manner in which they 
,Ilay conduct their permissible activities are generally inapplicable to 
activities conducted on the basis of section 4(c)(13). Such limitations 
delude minimum capitalization requirements, capital and surplus limita-
tions on investments, approval requirements respecting issuance abroad of 
Ventures, 
bonds or notes, and limitations and restrictions respecting 
°cceptance liabilities, liabilities of one borrower, and aggregate 
Abilities. 

233 
- 3 -
The Board nevertheless retains authority to impose conditions 
larding the operations of foreign subsidiaries of domestic bank holding 
<*aro!llcs s i m i l a r to those conditions that it deems prudent to impose 
"pen Edge Act corporations and their foreign subsidiaries. Bank 
holding company subsidiaries engaged in foreign activities would, in 
any case, specifically be. required to obtain the Board's approval for the 
establishment of branches or agencies in the United States or of banking 
branch offices in any foreign country new to their operations and for 
the issuance in the United States of any debentures, bonds, promissory 
^ t e s > or similar obligations, other than instruments or obligations due 
within one year. 
As a matter of policy, the Board considers that, in general, 
W k holding companies seeking to engage in foreign banking activities 
that involve the receipt of deposits in the United States should do so 
through Edge Act corporations or Agreement corporations. 
To implement its determination, the Board has amended § 222.4 
its Regulation Y by adding subsection (f) to read as follows: 
§ 222.4 Konbanking activities. 
,v 
* 
* 
(f) 
Activities of d q i g g g l ^ 
(1) Any bank holding company may, with the consent of the Board, own 
or control voting shares of any company in which a company organized 
under section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 611-631) 
invest other than a company that accepts deposits or similar 
credit balances in the United States. 

233 
(2) The procedures governing the Board's consent shall be the 
^m; * f .;, 
as those set forth in 5 211,8 of this chapter (Regulation K). In 
Edition, the Board grants its general consent for any bank holding 
ccnapany to acquire from any of its subsidiaries any shares the subsidiary 
holds with the consent of the Board pursuant to parts 211 or 213 of this 
chapter (Regulations K and 11). The Board way at any time, upon notice, 
suspend the general consent procedures with respect to any bank holding 
company or with respect to the acquisition of shares of companies engaged 
iri particular kinds of activities. 
(3) It shall be a condition to the Board's specific consent 
t o the continued holding of voting shares of any subsidiary of a bank 
Holding 
company which are acquired or held on the basis of an exemption 
u*uler section 4(c)(13) of the Act that the subsidiary may take the fol-
d i n g actions only with prior Board approval: 
(a) establish branch 
of£ices or agencies in the United States or to engage in receiving deposits 
any foreign country (other than a foreign country in which it already 
has s u c h an activity with the Board's approval) or (b) issue in the 
^ited States any debentures, bonds, promissory notes, or similar obligat-
ions,, other than instruments or obligations due within one year. 
(4) A b a n k h o l d i n g c o m p a n y s h a l l i n f o r m t h e Board, t h r o u g h 
F e d e r a l Reserve Bank w i t h i n 30 d a y s a f t e r t h e c l o s e of e a c h s e m i -
annual period, of all shares acquired or disposed of during that period 
that are or were held under the authority of this subsection. With 
Aspect to any acquisition, such information shall (unless previously 
£u*nished) include brief descriptions of the business of the companies 
lv'hose shares were acquired. 

• 
2331 
- 5 -
Effective date- September 21, 1971. The effect of the amend-
Kent Is t 0 relieve a restriction in an area related to one in which the 
Board has exercised regulatory authority for decades. Accordingly, 
deferral of the effective date would serve no useful purpose. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 9, 1971. 
I. , 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
•Secretary 
a i l 
u 

23 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 2 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
9/9/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N 
T O 
T H E B O A R D 
September 9, 1971 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of July 20, 1971, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to (1) 
purchase and hold 1.00 per cent of the shares of INARCO Investment 
Company N.V. -("INARCO"), Curacao, Netherlands Antilles, at a cost 
of approximately $220,000; and (2) continue to hold the shares of 
INARCO after INARCO acquires all of the shares of Arrendequipos C.A. 
("ACA"), Caracas, Venezuela, at a cost of approximately $220,000, 
Provided such acquisitions are made within one year from the date 
of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of INARCO by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) ' That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of INARCO if INARCO at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with the 
consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and hold 
,« 
stock, or if INARCO establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in the 
Netherlands Antilles or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be' permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of INARCO as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by INARCO 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if INARCO were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

F i r s t National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by INARCO in the 
Netherlands Antilles in the currency of that country. 
The Board's consent to the continued holding of shares 
of INA11C0 by FNCOIC after INARCO acquires the shares of ACA is 
granted subject to the same conditions and suspensions as prescribed 
in the Board's letter of April 13, 1971, which granted consent for 
the acquisition of shares of ACA by Inversiones y Adelantos C.A., 
Caracas, Venezuela. However, in this connection your attention is 
directed to a recent interpretation issued by the Board relating 
to leasing activities. 
The foregoing consent for the investment in INARCO is 
given with the understanding that the investment will be made within 
the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to First 
National City Bank and its subsidiaries and that full consideration 
is being given to the priorities for U.S. export financing and for 
meeting the credit needs of developing countries. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

i 
Item No. 3 
9/9/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
l n the Matter of the Application of 
FIkst NATIONAL CHARTER CORPORATION, 
City, Missouri, 
f o r approval of acquisition of 80 per cent 
^ more of the voting shares of Citizens 
" 'k of Belton, Belton, Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(l2 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First National Charter Corporation, 
l<ansas City, Missouri ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
f°r the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
^ e of the voting shares of Citizens Bank of Belton, Belton, Missouri 
("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Pi 
nance of the State of Missouri, and requested his views and 
£ 
c°mmendation. The Commissioner responded that his office had no 
A c t i o n to approval of the application. 

0 0 9 P 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
pederal Register on July 13, 1971 (36 Federal Register 13066), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States D e p a r t m e n t of Justice f o r its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
a n d all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
a n d managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
t o be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, the fifth largest banking organization and bank 
hol<Hng company in Missouri, has four subsidiary banks with aggregate 
deposits of $436,9 million, representing 3.G per cent of the total 
e°*mercial bank deposits in the State. (All banking data are as of 
December 31, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company acquisitions 
a n d formations approved by the Board to date.) Consummation of the 
Proposal herein would increase Applicant's share of deposits in the 
i-y-. 
State only insignificantly, and its position in relation to the 
State's other banking organizations would remain unchanged. 
Bank ($7.3 million deposits), located 22 miles south of 
Kansas City, is the larger of two banks in Belton and the fourth 

2339 
-3-
^argest of ten banks in Cass County, which approximates the relevant 
market, and holds 13.3 per cent of market deposits. Applicant has 
two subsidiary banks located 15 and 20 miles from Bank, but the 
record indicates those subsidiaries do not compete with Bank to 
a n y si-gnificant extent. Moreover, in light of Missouri's restrictive 
touching law, the distances separating Applicant's present sub-
sidV 
Varies and Bank, and the presence of numerous banking alternatives, 
'it 
seems unlikely that consummation of the proposal herein would 
°reclose the development of any significant potential competition. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that r, 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely 
cc competition in any relevant area. The financial and managerial 
s°urces and prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank 
are regarded as satisfactory and consistent with approval of the 
a p P l i c a t i o n . Affiliation w i t h Applicant w o u l d e n a b l e Bank to 
ia and to improve existing services and to introduce additional 
ices, including trust and international services. Bank's ability 
1:0 off 
i C er new and improved services should contribute to the development 
Of £L 
le already expanding economy of Cass County. These considerations 
lnS to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
•Jlilk . 
rid 
some weight in support of approval. It is the Board's judgment 
that c 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
G r e s t> and that the application should be approved. 

2340 
h h • • • 
-4-
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons summarized above, that 
said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acquisition 
so approved shall not be c o n s u m m a t e d (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
g°od cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
city pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 9, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, MaiseX, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
2341 
Item No. 4 
9/9/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
1 H E 
B O A R D 
September 9, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Mount Clemens Bank 
Mount Clemens, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
of $1 million in subordinated notes by Mount Clemens^Bank, 
Mount Clemens, Michigan, as proposed in your counsel's letter 
of August 27, 1971, with enclosures to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

.••Ao^ijV/-; • 
'•f^LUt^. 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
23-12 
-j-tem No. 5 
9/9/71 
September 9, 1971 
Ihe Honorable Wright Patman 
Chairman 
Joint Committee on Defense Production 
Congress of the United States 
Washington, D s Cc 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In response to your letter of July 1, 1971, enclosed 
is a report summarizing the mobilization activities of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and Federal Reserve 
Banks for inclusion in the Twenty-first A n n u a l Report of the 
Joint Committee to the Congress. 
The report, in three parts, summarizes programs and 
actj.vities related to three general areas of preparedness 
Responsibility assigned to the Board and Federal Reserve Banks 
bY Executive Orders 11490 and 10480; namely, preparations to 
survive a nuclear attack and to cope with the potential economic 
effects of all conditions of national emergency, promotion of 
•commercial bank preparedness, and performance of fiscal agency 
and regulatory functions 
i n 
c o n n e c t i o n 
w i t h 
G o v e r n m e n t guarantees 
°f d e f e n s e production loans. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
^closure 
