MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 3, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 1 
Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
increase at Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston. 

2714 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, October 3, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Discount rate. On October 2, 1972, the executive committee 
of the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston had 
voted to establish, subject to review and determination by the Board 
of Governors, a rate of 4-3/4 per cent (an increase from 4-1/2 per 
cent) on discounts for and advances to member banks under sections 
13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act. The directors had also acted 
to establish appropriately corresponding subsidiary rates under other 
sections of the Act. On September 29, 1972, the Board had disapproved 
increases of 1/4 percentage point proposed by the directors of the 

2715 
10/3/72 
-2-
Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, 
and Kansas City. 
Mr. Holland noted that a letter outlining the Board's reasons 
for its action on September 29 had not reached the Boston Bank in 
time for the October 2 meeting of its executive committee, but 
Mr. Morris, President of the Boston Bank, had conveyed the substance 
of the letter to his directors. The latter had indicated that they 
were not in a position to evaluate the broader considerations underlying 
the Board's decision, but they continued to feel that the level of 
short-term market interest rates made a higher discount rate desirable. 
During the Board's discussion, it was noted that Treasury bill 
rates had declined slightly since the Board had taken its action on 
September 29, but some commercial banks had raised their prime rate 
in the interim. After further consideration, a majority of the Board 
members agreed that the proposed increase should be disapproved for the 
reasons they had found persuasive on September 29. 
With Governor Brimmer dissenting, the Board voted to disapprove 
the proposed increase in the discount rate. It was understood that a 
letter indicating the Board's position would be sent to the Boston Bank. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
The following members of the staff entered the meeting at this 
point: 

2718 
10/3/72 
-3-
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Messrs. Solomon, Director, and Dahl, Egertson, and Lyon, 
Assistant Directors, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Gemmill and Norwood, Advisers, Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Mr. Althausen, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of the Secretary 
Supporting staff of the several Divisions 
Regulation J. The Board authorized the filing, in the U.S. 
District Court for the District of Columbia, of an affidavit in connec-
tion with the legal action filed against the Board by the Independent 
Bankers Association of America and the Western Independent Bankers 
to prevent the Board from implementing amendments to Regulation J 
(Collection of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks). A 
copy of the affidavit has been placed in the Board's files. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved a letter 
to the Office of Management and Budget stating that the Board had no 
objection to the State Department draft bill on the "Jurisdictional 
Immunities of Foreign States." A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Charter 
New York Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of Hayes 
National Bank, Clinton, New York, the successor by merger to The Hayes 

2717 
10/3/72 
-4-
National Bank of Clinton. Issuance of order reflecting that decision 
was also authorized. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Bancorp, 
Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio, to become a bank holding company through acqui-
sition of shares of (1) The Athens National Bank, Athens, Ohio; and 
(2) The New Richmond National Bank, New Richmond, Ohio. Issuance of 
an order reflecting that decision was also authorized. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Central 
Colorado Bancorp, Inc., Colorado Springs, Colorado, to acquire shares 
of State Bank of Greeley, Greeley, Colorado, and authorized issuance 
of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached 
as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to Bank of America 
National Trust and Savings Association, San Francisco, California, 
granting consent to an investment in Bank of America Jersey, Ltd., a 
new wholly-owned subsidiary to be established in St. Helier, on the 
island of Jersey, Channel Islands. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to Chase Manhattan 
Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent to 
the acquisition of a finance company to be formed in Toronto, Canada. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 7. 

2718 
10/3/72 
-5-
The Board unanimously approved a letter to Marine Midland 
International Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent to the 
continued holding of shares of Marine Midland, Inc., after the latter's 
wholly-owned subsidiary, International Marine Banking Corporation, Ltd., 
London, England, (1) forms a wholly-owned Canadian leasing subsidiary; 
and (2) issues and has outstanding certain debt obligations. A copy 
of the letter is attached as Item No. 8. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Minneapolis building program. Pursuant to the recommendation 
of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations in a memorandum of 
September 28, 1972, in which the Committee on Organization, Compensation, 
and Building Plans concurred, the Board authorized the expenditure of 
additional construction funds not to exceed $721,000 to complete the 
new building of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. A copy of the 
telegram sent to the Bank is attached as Item No. 9. 
Report on competitive factors. The staff had drafted a report, 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Mound City Bank, Platteville, 
Wisconsin, into The First National Bank of Platteville. The conclusion 
of the draft would state that the overall effect on competition would 
be adverse. 
After discussion during which it was agreed that the competitive 
effect should be described as substantially adverse, the Board approved 

219 
10/3/72 
-6-
the report in a form in which the conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the merger of Mound City Bank, 
Platteville, Wisconsin, into The First National Bank of 
Platteville, Platteville, Wisconsin, would eliminate a 
notable amount of present and potential competition 
between the two banks and would create a resulting 
institution almost twice the size of any of its compet-
itors. Overall, the effect on competition would be 
substantially adverse. 
Bank of Virginia Company. In a memorandum dated September 15, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended denial of the application of Bank of Virginia Company 
(formerly Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc.), Richmond, Virginia, 
to acquire shares of Bank of Virginia-Eastern Shore, Onancock, Virginia, 
the successor by merger to The First National Bank in Onancock. 
The Board unanimously denied the application and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 10. 
Shell branches. In a memorandum dated September 18, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation discussed policy issues 
surrounding shell branches and recommended approval of the following 
applications for the establishment of shell branches in Nassau, Bahamas, 
or Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, British West Indies: 
I. Banks with no foreign branches: 
a. First National State Bank of New Jersey, Newark, 
New Jersey, to establish a branch in Nassau. 
(Memorandum dated April 14, 1972) 

2720 
10/3/72 
-7-
b. American National Bank & Trust of New Jersey, 
Morristown, New Jersey, to establish a branch 
in Nassau. 
(Memorandum dated April 18, 1972) 
c. The Bank of New Orleans and Trust Company, New 
Orleans, Louisiana, to establish a branch in 
Nassau. 
(Memorandum dated April 17, 1972) 
d. Whitney National Bank of New Orleans, New Orleans, 
Louisiana, to establish a branch in Nassau. (Memo-
randum dated May 18, 1972) 
e. Union Planters National Bank of Memphis, Memphis, 
Tennessee, to establish a branch in Georgetown, 
Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands. (Memorandum dated 
July 28, 1972) 
f. First National Bank of Louisville, Louisville, 
Kentucky, to establish a branch in Grand Cayman, 
Cayman Islands. 
(Memorandum dated July 5, 1972) 
g. Southern Arizona Bank and Trust Company, Tucson, 
Arizona, to establish a branch in Nassau. 
(Memorandum dated March 29, 1972) 
II. Bank desiring to change location of branch from Nassau 
to Grand Cayman: 
a. Wachovia Bank & Trust Company, N.A., Winston-Salem, 
North Carolina, to establish a branch in Georgetown, 
Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands. (Memorandum dated 
August 10, 1972) 
III. Banks with foreign branches: 
a. The Northern Trust Company, Chicago, Illinois, to 
establish a branch in Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands. 
(Memorandum dated September 12, 1972) 
b. Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company 
of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, to establish a branch 
in Nassau. 
(Memorandum dated September 15, 1972) 

2721 
10/3/72 
-8-
c. Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, New York, New 
York, to establish a branch in Nassau. 
(Memorandum 
dated March 30, 1972) 
d. Irving Trust Company, New York, New York, to establish 
a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands. 
(Memorandum dated July 31, 1972) 
Shell branches consisted of limited service facilities that 
did not deal with the public or operate in the country in which they 
were located. In effect, they were a bookkeeping device for interna-
tional financial transactions, consisting of a post office box and 
a set of ledgers maintained by an agent; all transactions were initiated 
and effected by the head office in the United States. All shell branches 
were located in countries that imposed no tax on their incomes. 
After discussion the Board approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, 
the applications in groups I and II. Copies of the letters sent to the 
applicants are attached as Items 11-18. 
At this point Chairman Burns stated that he was concerned that 
there continued to be division within the Board regarding the issue of 
shell branches. 
(Governors Robertson and Brimmer had cast dissenting 
votes with respect to shell branch applications that had been approved 
by the Board.) Chairman Burns therefore requested that Governor 
Brimmer reiterate the basis for his dissents regarding shell branch 
applications. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he was opposed to the shell branch 
concept for several reasons. He considered shell branches to be shams. 

10/3/72 
-9-
In his view they were artificial entities, established for the purpose 
of avoiding taxes and to conduct international business on a substan-
tially less expensive scale than was required of full-service foreign 
branch operations. Governor Brimmer believed that the existence and 
authorization of the shell branch operations detracted from the reputa-
tion of the United States banking system as well as the Federal Reserve 
System. He also was concerned that since the shell branches were 
solely bookkeeping devices, the potential existed for evasion of 
domestic banking regulations. 
Ensuing discussion centered on shell branches as compared to 
full -service foreign branch operations in London and other countries. 
Concern was expressed that a leakage of funds into the U.S. economy 
as a result of shell branch operations might hamper the orderly 
administration of domestic monetary policy. While there had been no 
evidence to support the existence of that problem, it was pointed out 
that there should be no greater likelihood of a leakage resulting from 
shell branch operations than from full-service foreign branch operations 
Staff then commented that there existed some difference of 
opinion among members of the legal profession regarding a domestic 
bank's liability for deposits of a shell branch (as opposed to a full-
service foreign branch). However, there had been no occasion for consid 
eration of this question by a United States court. 

2723 
10/3/72 
-10-
During ensuing discussion it was noted that the shell branch 
concept tended to increase competition in the domestic banking industry 
by affording smaller banking institutions an opportunity to compete in 
the international market. The view was expressed that it seemed inequi-
table that a bank of reasonable size should lose accounts because the 
bank could not afford to establish a full-service foreign branch in 
order to serve the expanding international needs of its customers. The 
shell branch concept, however, offered banks, other than the large 
banks in the major financial centers, competitive access to the inter-
national market for an initial investment substantially less than that 
required for a full-service branch. 
Concern was then expressed that because of the nature of the 
operations of shell branches and since they all were presently located 
in countries that imposed no tax on their incomes, it might be construed 
that by authorizing these branches the Board was sanctioning the avoid-
ance of taxes. In response to a question in that regard, staff stated 
that the Department of the Treasury generally had no objections to a 
company adjusting its operations in a legally permissible manner to 
avoid domestic or foreign taxes. 
The opinion was then expressed that so long as an operation 
was not detrimental to the public interest or to the United States 
banking system, the Board should not seek to prevent that operation. 
If the Board was concerned that the tax aspects of a particular operation 

2724 
10/3/72 
-11-
were contrary to the public interest, the matter could be brought to 
the attention of the Treasury Department. It was suggested that the 
Board should not use legitimate tax avoidance techniques as a basis 
for its decision not to permit an operation. 
Discussion focused on the applications in group III and it 
was pointed out that those banks, which already operated full-service 
foreign branches, were attempting to establish shell branches in an 
effort to avoid taxation by foreign countries of income earned on loans 
to foreign subsidiaries of United States corporations. Such income 
was considered U.S.-source income by the Internal Revenue Service and 
no deductions were permitted for foreign tax expenditures. By shifting 
such loans to a tax-free area such as Nassau, the banks would become 
liable only to the U.S. tax authorities. 
Chairman Burns then suggested that the Board set aside a period 
of time in which to thoroughly discuss the matter of shell branches, 
in an effort to establish a more definitive Board position regarding 
the issue. 
It was thereupon agreed that staff would prepare a presentation 
for the Board relating to the issues surrounding shell branches, and 
that the Board would again consider the matter at the earliest feasible 
date. it was also understood that action with respect to the applications 

2725 
10/3/72 
-12-
in group III would be deferred until the Board's discussion of the 
general issue. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2 7 2 8 
B O A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
DF THE 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
10/3/72 
W A S H I N G T O N ' , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADUWESD QKFICIAL 
C D R K l S P D N O C N C E 
TO THE HOARD 
October 3, 1972 
Mr. Frank E. Morris, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 02106 
Dear Mr. Morris: 
The Board cf Governors took action today to 
disapprove the pending increase in your Bank's discount 
rate from 4-1/2 to 4-3/4 per cent which your directors 
voted to establish on October 2. The Board concluded 
that an increase in the rate at this time would not be 
desirable, for the same reasons that were set forth in my 
letter cf October 2 in reference to the Board's disapproval 
on September 29 of a 4-3/4 per cent rate. May I add that 
the Board was apprised of the reasons you communicated 
regarding the views of your directors in favor of a higher 
rate and the Board members appreciate having had the 
benefit of those views. 
Sincerely yours, 
/&/ Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
y > > _ 
_ .. 
'•^vu RCS^: 

2727 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
DF THE 
Item No. 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
l o / i / n 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 
20551 
A O O R T S 5 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
V Q T H E 
B O A R D 
Oct obex: 3, 1972 
I 
Mr. William V. Slcidmore 
Office of the Assistant Director 
for Legislative Reference 
Off! ce of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Re: State Department's draft bill on the 
"Jurisdictional Immunities of Foreign States". 
Dear Mr. Slcidmore: 
It? reply to your Legislative Referral Memorandum of 
September 5, 1972, the Board has no objection to the State 
Department's draft bill on the "Jurisdictional Immunities of 
Foreign States". 
II 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2728 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEil 
Item No. 3 
10/3/72 
CHARTER NEW YORK COROPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.Co 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to The Hayes National Bank 
of Clinton, Clinton, New York ('Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to 
be merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate the 
acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed 
acquisition of shares of the successor organization is treated herein as 
the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ ->(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
V 
Applicant, the eighth largest banking organization in New York, 
controls ten banks with aggregate deposits of $4.3 billion representing 
4.5 per cent of the total domestic deposits of commercial banks in the 
State. (Banking data are as of December 31, 1971, with the exception of 

2729 
data for the Utica-Rome market which are as of June 30, 1970, and reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved through August 31, 1972). 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition of Bank, with deposits of 
$14,1 million, would increase Applicant's share of commercial bank 
deposits within the State only minimally, would not change its Statewide 
ranking, and would not result in a significant increase in the 
concentration of banking resources in New York. 
Bank, the fifth largest of 11 banks in the Utica-Rome area, 
controls 2.2 per cent of market deposits. Applicant's closest subsidiary 
to Bank is in Syracuse, and the nearest offices of these two banks are 
32 miles apart. It appears that no meaningful competition exists between 
Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiaries. Further, it appears unlikely 
that significant future competition between Bank and Applicant's present 
subsidiaries would be eliminated by consummation of the proposal in light 
of the distances separating Applicant's subsidiaries and Bank, and the 
orientation of Applicant's closest subsidiary to Bank to the Syracuse 
market. While Applicant could enter the market by establishment of a 
de novo bank or the acquisition of a smaller bank, the Bank's size and 
the relatively large number of remaining "foothold" entries make it 
unlikely that the acquisition would have any significant anticompetitive 
effects. Moreover, by strengthening the ability of Bank to compete, the 
affiliation with Applicant may reduce the concentration of deposits within 
the market (over 80 per cent of bank deposits are held by two banking 
organizations) without adversely affecting smaller competitors. Thus, 
competitive considerations are consistent with approval. 

2730 
-3-
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Applicantj its subsidiary banks, and Bank appear to be satisfactory. 
Bank is presently the only bank in Clinton and because of its relatively 
small size and resources, it has not offered the wide variety of services 
available at some of the area's larger banks. Among the new services 
to be provided by Bank are data processing and trust services for 
customers. Thus, considerations related to convenience and needs of the 
communities involved lend some weight to approval of this application. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction is in the 
public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ effective October 3, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
[SEAL] 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
y 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane 
rimmer, Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Bucher, 

2 V 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No„ 4 
10/3/72 
FIRST BANCORP, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
First Bancorp, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio, has applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of The Athens National Bank, Athens (''Athens Bank") 
and The New Richmond National Bank, New Richmond ("Richmond Bank") , both 
in Ohio. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
in light of the factors Met forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant is a newly-formed organization and has no operating 
history. Athens Bank ($36.3 million of deposits) and Richmond Bank 
($3.9 million of deposits) are presently owned by a partnership whose 
principals organized Applicant.-^ This partnership became a regulated 
bank holding company as a result of the Bank Holding Company Act Amend-
ments of 1970. The partnership and its wholly-owned subsidiary corpora-
tion, which owns all of the outstanding shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of The Security Bank, Athens, Ohio, have filed irrevocable 
c L A U 
b a n k i n S d a t a are as of December 31, 1971 and reflect holding 
ompany formations and acquisitions approved through August 31, 1972. 

fO 4 t^Jf^f
-2-
declarations pursuant to § 4(c)(12) of the Act that they will digest 
themselves of their respective interests in The Security Bank and the 
two banks which are the subjects of this proposal, prior to January 1, 1981. 
The proposal herein does cot involve a change in the ownership of these 
banks. It is, however, an intermediate step toward divestiture of Athens 
and Richmond banks by Applicant's organizers. Upon consummation of the 
proposal herein, Applicant would own 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of Athens and Richmond banks. 
Initially, the partnership would control all of the shares of Applicant. 
Thereafter, to effect divestiture of the subject banks, it is proposed 
that all of the shares of Applicant will be sold by the organizing 
partnership to a control group of Athens residents and to other members 
of the public.-/ 
On May 4, 1972 (1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 598), the Board 
denied an application filed by Applicant for approval to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition of Athens Bank and Richmond Bank 
in addition to The Security Bank. The Board found that because The 
Security Bank and Athens Bank together hold more.than 50 per cent of the 
total deposits of commercial banks in Athens, approval would raise 
serious competitive questions in view of Applicant's stated intention to 
V 
Organizers of Applicant have assured the Board that the future 
divestiture of Security Bank would in no way be connected with the sale 
of Applicant's shares of Athens and Richmond banks and that shares of 
Security Bank will be sold under different circumstances and to persons 
totally unrelated to those involved in the purchase of Applicant's shares. 

273 
-3-
divest these banks as a unit through a bank holding company vehicle. Such 
action was seen as foreclosing any significant possibility of decon-
centration and therefore would have an adverse effect on competition. On 
the other hand, the Board found that affiliation of Richmond Bank 
with either one of:the Athens banks would not raise similar problems. 
The present proposal excludes acquisition of The Security Bank. Upon 
consummation of the acquisitions of Athens and Richmond banks, Applicant 
would hold .17 per cent of total deposits in the State and would rank 
eighth among nine bank holding companies in Ohio. 
Athens Bank is the largest of eight banks in the Athens County, 
Ohio, banking market. Richmond Bank is located approximately 130 miles 
west of Athens, Ohio, in New Richmond, Clermont County, Ohio (which is 
considered part of the Cincinnati, Ohio, banking market). Because these 
banks are already under common shareholder control and operate in 
separate banking markets, no competition exists between them which would 
be eliminated by consummation of the subject proposal. The prospect of 
competition developing in the future between these banks appears remote 
in view of the existing affiliation, distances involved, and the Ohio 
branching law which prohibits branching outside the county in which a 
bank's main office is located. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposal would not have an adverse effect on 
competition in any relevant area. Moreover, to the extent approval of 
this proposal facilitates the divestiture of Athens and Richmond banks 
and results, thereby, in a severance of the longstanding affiliation 

2734 
-4-
between Athens Bank and The Security Bank, such action could have a 
significant beneficial effect on banking competition in the Athens market. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant and both Athens and Richmond banks are satisfactory and 
consistent with approval of the proposed transaction. Due to the fact that 
the proposal involves essentially a restructuring of present affiliations, 
consummation would have little immediate effect on the banking convenience 
and needs of the communities served by these banks. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 3, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
3/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and 
Bucher. 

2!-jotr 
4 J 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
10/3/72 
CENTRAL COLORADO BANCORP, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Central Colorado Bancorp, Inc., Colorado Springs, Colorado, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire not less than 90 per cent of the 
voting shares of State Bank of Greeley, Greeley, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired and the Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in the light of the factors set forth 
in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls three subsidiary banks with aggregate 
deposits of approximately $51 million, representing about 1 per cent 
of depcalv:e of commercial banks in Colorado."^ Consummation of the 
proposed transaction would increase Applicant's share of Statewide 
deposits by only 0.1 percentage point and would not result in a 
significant increase in the concentration of banking resources 
in Colorado. 
1/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1971. 

-2-
On the basis of deposits, Bank (deposits of $2.5 million) 
is the smallest of six banks located in Greeley and ranks thirteenth 
among 15 banks in Weld County. Applicant's closest banking subsidiary 
to Bank is located approximately 120 miles north of Greeley. In view 
of factors, such as the distances involved and the nature of Colorado's 
branching laws, consummation of this transaction would have no signifi-
cant effect on existing competition, nor is there a reasonable prob-
ability that significant potential competition would develop among 
Applicant's banking subsidiaries and Bank if this application were 
denied. In view of the number of banks already serving the Greeley 
area and a proposal by another holding company to open a new bank 
in the area, the possibility that Applicant could reasonably enter 
the area through establishment of a de novo bank is remote. Indeed, 
consummation of this transaction may have a procompetitive effect 
°n competition in the Greeley area since it will serve to dilute the 
interest in Bank of an officer of a competing bank. The Board concludes 
that the competitive considerations are consistent with approval of 
the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
°f Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are regarded as generally 
satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application, par-
ticularly in view of the commitment of Applicant to raise $4.5 million 
°f additional capital within the next nine-month period, part of which 
is to be supplied to its banking subsidiaries. Considerations relating 

<f O i 
-3-
to the convenience and needs of the community to be served lend some 
weight to approval of the application, since Applicant proposes to 
give financial assistance in the relocation of Bank to an office 
in Greeley with more modern facilities from which Bank might be able 
to become a more viable competitor and is expected to expand and 
improve its banking services. It is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed transaction is in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors 
effective October 3, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Bucher. 

.^LRES^; 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 6 
10/3/72 
WASHINGTON, 
P. 
C. 2.0551 
A D D R E S S 
n r r i C I A L 
C O R H E S P O N O E N C 
T O 
T H E 
B H A P D 
October 3} 1972 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association 
Bank of America Center 
San Francisco, California 94120 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 10, 1972., the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Regulation M, for Bank of America National Trust and 
Savings Association, ("B of A"), San Francisco, California, to pur-
chase and hold all of the shares of Bank of America Jersey, Ltd., 
("BAJ"), island of Jersey, Channel Islands, at a total cost of approxi-
mately $306,250, provided the shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed holding of the shares 
of BAJ by B of A is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if BAJ shall in any manner engage 
in any activity or take any action whatsoever 
that would not be permissible if BAJ uere a^ 
corporation organised under Section 25(a) of^ 
the Federal Reserve Act not: "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
B of A will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of BAJ as it may re-
quire from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
BAJ be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if BAJ were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act. 

2739 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association 
-2~ 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) 
of Regulation K. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to B of A and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2740 
VOOHZOy'-
JlSfc 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 7 
10/3/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D H R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
October 3, 1972 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 30, 1972, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation, ("CM0BC"), to 
Purchase and hold all of the shares of a finance company, ("FC"), 
to be formed in Toronto, Canada, at a cost of approximately 
Can.$5,000,000 (about $5,092,500), provided the shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. In this connection, 
approval is also granted for the purchase and holding of shares of 
pC j.n. excess of 10 per cent of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
°f shares of FC by CM0BC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That CMOBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FC if FC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if FC establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Canada or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible to CMOBC; 
(2) That, when required by the Beard of Governors, CMOBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FC as it may require from time to 
time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FC be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if FC were a corporation organized 
under Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

2
*' 
< A 
d L±l. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
Subjeet to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions set: forth in Section 2.11.9(a), (b) , and (c) 
of Regulation K. 
It is understood that the activities of FC will include 
underwriting. The Board's consent to such activities is conditioned 
upon your obtaining the prior consent of the Board for the continued 
holding of shares of FC should FC acquire stock of individual issuers 
costing in excess of $500,000 or representing 2 5 per cent of the 
voting shares of any company, except in the case of underwriting 
operations covered by firm commitments from subunderwriters or other 
purchasers. With respect to trading in securities in which Corpora-
tions are prohibited from investing by the provisions of the eighth 
paragraph of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, the Board's 
consent is further conditioned on the fact that FC will acquire such 
shares only as dealer or underwriter, maintain a size and turnover 
of inventory that is reasonable in relation to demand, and dispose 
of such shares within a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they 
are to be reported as a separate class, together with the data of 
acquisition, on any Call Report of Condition or similar report re-
quested by the Board. 
The Board also grants its consent for CMOBC to continue to 
hold the stock of FC after FC issues obligations with maturities in 
excess of one year up to Can.$75,000,000 (about $7 6,400,000). 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank cf New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of FC. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

i o 
2V4 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
NF TH£ 
Item No. 8 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
10/3/72 
WASHINGTON. 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O S R E S P O N D E N C E 
' • ^ A L R U ^ : . -
October 3, 1972 
Marine Midland International Corporation 
^30 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10017 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of April 17 , 1.972, amended in 
your letter of June 27 , 1.972, the Board of Governors grants consent 
for your Corporation, ("MMIC"). to continue to hold the shares of 
Marine Midland Inc., ("MMINC"), after MMINC acquires indirectly all 
of the shares of 1MB Leasing Limited, ("3MBLL"), a newly chartered 
Canadian leasing company, at a cost of approximately $50,000, provided 
the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of IMBLL by MMIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That MMIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in IMBLL if IMBLL at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board 
of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if IMBLL 
establishes any branch or agency or takes any action 
or undertakes any operation in Canada or elsewhere, 
in any manner, which at the time would not be 
permissible to MMIC; 
(2) That3 when required by the Board of Governors, MMIC 
will5furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of IMBLL as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by IMBLL 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if IMBLL were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) oi: the Federal Reserve 
Act. 

2743 
Marine Midland International Corporation 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board suspends, 
until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the immediately 
preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions 
set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) of Regulation K. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of IMBLL. 
The Board also grants consent for MMIC to continue to hold the 
shares of MMINC after MMINC's subsidiary, International Marine Banking 
Corporation, London, England, issues and has outstanding borrowings with 
a maturity in excess of one year in an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$50,250,000. 
The forepoine consents are given on the condition that the 
investments will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to Marine Midland Bank-New York and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1 
Item No. 9 
T E L E G R A M 
10/3/72 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
October 3, 1972 
MaeLaury - Minneapolis 
Board authorizes additional funds not to exceed $721,000 
for necessary changes to complete new Bank building, in-
cluding fees and contingency fund as outlined in BankTs 
letter of September 14. 1972 with supporting material. 
Board assumes increase of construction funds to total of 
.$34,347,000 will adequately meet all Bank's needs in 
connection with new building project. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Greenspan 

2745 
_ - - - 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BANK OF VIRGINIA COMPANY 
Order Denying Acquisition of Bank 
Bank of Virginia Company (formerly Virginia Commonwealth 
Bankshares, Inc.), Richmond, Virginia, a bank holding company within 
the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire all of the voting shares of the successor by merger to The 
First National Bank in Onancock, Onancock, Virginia ("Bank"). The 
hank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a 
means of acquiring all of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the 
Proposed acquisition of the successor organization is treated herein 
as the proposed acquisition of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
ested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and the Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the fourth largest banking organization in the State, 
has 16 subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits of $781.1 million, repre-
senting 8.5 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(Unless otherwise indicated, banking data are as of December 31, 1971, 
adjusted to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
by the Board through June 30, 1972.) As a result of the acquisition of 
Item No0 10 
10/3/72 

2746 
-2-
Bank ($10.5 million deposits), Applicant's position in relation to 
the State's other banking organizations would remain unchanged and its 
share of deposits in the State would be increased by ,1 percentage point. 
Bank, located in Accomack County, the northernmost of two 
counties on Virginia's Eastern Shore, is the third largest of six 
banking organizations, three of which are subsidiaries of bank holding 
1/ 
companies, operating in Accomack County (the relevant market), rand 
holds about 16 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits therein. 
A branch of Applicant's lead bank (Bank of Virginia-Central, Richmond), 
located 16 miles north of Bank, is the largest banking organization in 
the market and holds deposits of $14.6 million, representing about 
29 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in Accomack County, 
Consummation of the proposal would increase Applicant's share of 
deposits in the market to about 46 per cent of the total. 
In connection with its review of the application, the Board 
has considered a comment filed by the Department of Justice expressing 
the view that the transaction would have an adverse effect on banking 
competition in Accomack County. The Department indicates that the 
transaction would eliminate some direct competition and the possibility 
of future competition, increase banking concentration, and reduce the 
number of banking alternatives in the market. On the basis of the 
facts of record, including Applicant's response to the comments of the 
1/ Accomack County market share data and branch deposit figures are 
as of June 30, 1970. 

2747 
-3-
Department of Justice, the Board finds that consummation of Applicant's 
proposal would have an adverse effect on existing competition and 
foreclose the development of potential competition. 
As a result of their proximity, Bank and the Hallwood branch 
of Applicant's lead bank are in direct competition. The service areas 
°f the two banks overlap, and each obtains loan and deposit business 
from the area served by the other. This existing competition between 
the two institutions would be eliminated by consummation of the 
proposal. In addition, by acquiring an independent bank located in 
the same market in which it operates, Applicant would reduce the number 
of banking alternatives available to area residents from six to five 
institutions while increasing banking concentration in the relevant 
market a significant degree. (Applicant would hold more than two and 
one-half times as much in deposits as the second largest banking 
organization in Accomack County.) Moreover, consummation of the pro-
posal would foreclose the development of potential competition between 
Bank and Applicant since Bank would be removed as an alternative 
means of entry into the market by a bank holding company not already 
represented therein, a prospect the Board considers competitively 
preferable to Applicant's proposal. In the Board's view, the adverse 
effects of Applicant's proposal on competition are even more significant 
when viewed in the context of the Accomack County banking market, where 
there are a limited number of banking alternatives and the prospect 
f o r le novo entry by banking organizations not already in the market is 
considered unlikely. 

2748 
-4-
On the basis of the foregoing and all other facts in the 
record, the Board concludes that consummation of Applicant's proposal 
T,'ould have adverse effects on banking competition in the relevant 
market, and that unless anticompetitive effects are outweighed by con-
siderations relating to the convenience and needs of the community to be 
oRrved or by other considerations, the public interest requires denial of 
t h e application. 
The financial condition of Applicant and each of its sub-
sidiary banks is regarded as generally satisfactory, their managements 
aPpear capable, and the prospects of the group are considered favorable. 
same conclusions apply generally with respect to the financial and 
Onagerial resources and prospects of Bank, whether as an independent 
ba^k or as a subsidiary of Applicant. Although affiliation with Applicant 
x'7°uld assure "Bank of a source of qualified management for the future, this 
factor alone does not provide sufficient weight to require approval of the 
aPplication. 
The banking needs of the public in Accomack County are 
Presently being met by the six banking institutions operating therein, 
three of which are subsidiaries of multi-bank holding companies. The 
services that Applicant proposes to establish at Bank are already 
being offered by the existing institutions, including Applicant's 
branch at Hallwood. On the other hand, consummation of the proposal 
ttould remove Bank as an alternative source of banking services without 
Providing any significant benefits to the convenience and needs of 
residents of the area. Accordingly, the Board finds that the 

-5-
2749 
anticompetitive effects inherent in Applicant's proposal are not out-
weighed by the considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
of the community to be served. 
On the basis of all relevant facts in the record, the Board 
concludes that approval of the proposed acquisition is not in the 
public interest, and the application is accordingly denied. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective October 3, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
^T— 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
dimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson 
nd Bucher. 

t : 
.^LRtSf:-' 
2750 
B O A R D • F* G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 201351 
Item No. 11 
10/3/72 
A D D K E S G 
O F F I C I A L 
C U R R C B P O N O F: N C F. 
T D 
THF. 
B O A R D 
October 4, 1972 
First National State Bank of New Jersey 
550 Broad Street 
Newark, New Jersey 07101 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to First National State Bank of New Jersey, Newark4 
New Jersey, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate 
and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section 
and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not: as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no contact ^ 
with the local public at; the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
and bookkeeping may, at least: in part, be supplied untie?: contract by 
another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
of these types of facilities, and after due notice may be. withdrawn 
or modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
against deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
without benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of 
Section 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
tion 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate informa-
tion covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your 
head office and will be available to the Board and its accredited 
representatives. The Board should be promptly informed of any 
modification in the branch's methods of operation, including changes 
in any contract under which services are supplied to the branch. 

2751 
First; National State Banlc 
of New Jersey 
-2-
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before November 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in location 
of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limi-
tations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of those exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions 
outside the United States,, 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
payments., the above consent is given on the condition that in the conduct 
of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on resources 
obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is understood that 
any investment required will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2752 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N D R B 
• f THE 
Item No. 12 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
10/3/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 205G1 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C U H R £ S P CI N D C N C F. 
T O 
T H E 
B D A H D 
October 4, 19 72 
American National Bank 
and Trust of Nov Jersey 
225 South Street 
Morristown, New Jersey 079G0 
Gentl eraen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to American National Bank and Trust of New Jersey, 
Morristown, New Jersey, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of 
such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and not 
as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United 
States. It Is also understood that there is to be no ^contact with the 
local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and book-
keeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another 
Party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of 
these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or 
Modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against 
deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without 
'benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of Sec-
tion 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
tion 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate information 
covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your head office 
and will be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the 
branch's methods of operation, including changes in any contract under 
Which services are supplied to the branch. 
. • v, ov cot*: •, 

2753 
American National Bank. 
& Trust of New Jersey 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before November 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date0 
Please advise the Board cf Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
should also L»e promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch in Nassau„ 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a. branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limi-
tations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy cf the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, 
necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
actions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the 
balance of payments, the above consent is given on the condition that 
in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be 
placed on resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, 
it is understood that any investment required will l>c made within the 
Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2 / 5 4 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F ™E 
Item No. 13 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
10/3/72 
' 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20531 
m
m
k
w
1 
«!•: RIJJ £ J, J 
* 
A D D R M C 
U I F I C I A L 
C U R H T S P A N O E N C E 
JS^ni- 
* 
* 
T O 
T H E 
t l U A R O 
October 4, 1972 
'•The Bank of New Orleans 
and Trust Company 
V- 0. Box 52.499 
New Orleans, Louisiana 70152 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to The Bank of New Orleans and Trust Company, New Orleans, 
Louisiana, pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to 
operate and maintain such branch subject: to the provisions of such 
Section,s and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international, business and not 
as a means of shifting Loans or deposits from offices in the United 
States. It is also understood that there is to be no contact with the 
local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the fore-
going permission is granted subject to (1; a continuing review of these 
types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified, 
(2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against deposits in 
this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the 
deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of Section 213.7(a) or the ex-
clusion provided in proviso (1) of Section 213.7(1)), and (3) the 
further condition that adequate information covering the branch's op-
erations will be maintained at your head office and will be available to 
the Board and its accredited representatives. The Board should be 
promptly informed of any modification in the branch's methods of op-
eration, including changes in any contract under which services are 
Supplied to the branch. 

The Bank of New Orleans 
and Trust. Company 
-2-
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before November 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. Ihe Board 
should 'also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch i n N a s au • 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only rt a branch of a member hank located outside of the States of: the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any lirm-
tations on rr.tes of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Also deposits at: such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and con-
tinues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
hanks unless such deposits have, been placed to serve a definite, 
necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions 
outside the United States. 
^ 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
of the foreign crodiu restraint effort. In view of the Board s concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
payments, the above consent is given on the condition that in the conduct 
of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on resources 
obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is understood that 
any investment required will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

8756 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
«••;)OV'JD.;.-.. 
• r T H E 
1 t e m N o . 
1 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
10/3/72 
; 
• 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 70551 
Miite 
A D D R E S S 
O K f l C I A L 
H O R R C S P U N D E N C E 
.* 
T O 
T H E 
H O A H D 
Ml Rtv 
Whitney National Bank of New Orleans 
228 St. Charles Avenue 
New Orleans. Louisiana 
70130 
October 4, 1972 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Whitney National Bank of New Orleans, New Orleans, 
Louisiana, pursuant to the provisions of Section 2 5 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to op-
erate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Sec-
tion and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and not 
as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United 
States. It is also understood that there is to be no contact with the : 
local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and book-
keeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another 
Party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of 
these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or 
Modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against 
deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without 
benefit of tile deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of Sec-
tion. 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
tion 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate information 
covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your head office 
and will be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
£he Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the branch's 
Methods of operation, including changes in any contract under which 
services are supplied to the branch. 

Whitney National Bank of New Orleans 
~2~ 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before November 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any 
limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regula-
tion Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to 
the reserve requirements of Regulation D„ The general purpose of 
these exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United States banks 
to compete abroad with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has 
long been and continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System 
to discourage deposits by United States residents at foreign branch 
of United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view oi the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the 
balance of payments, the above consent is given on the condition that 
in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be 
placed on resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, 
it is understood that any investment required will'be made within the 
Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and 
its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

0? C.rn!' 
•M\\lHr3jB: 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• r* T H E 
EDERAL. R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 2.0551 
Item No. 15 
10/3/72 
A D O R E K E 
C R R I C I M . 
C D H R T S P O M O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 4, 1972 
Union Planters National Bank of.Memphis 
Post Office Box 387 
Memphisj Tennessee 38101 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Union Planters National Bank of Memphis, Memphis, 
Tennessee4 pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act:, to establish a branch in Georgetown. Grand Cayman, 
Cayman Islands, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to 
the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M, 
In granting this permission, it. is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no contact < 
with the. local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract 
by another party. 
In vie-,: cf tlie special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
of these types of facilities„ and after due notice may be withdrawn 
or modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
against deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M 
without benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (i.i) oil 
Section 213..7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Sec-
tion 213,7(b)5 and (3) the further condition that adequate informa-
tion covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your head 
office and will be available to the Board and its accredited repre-
sentatives. The Board should be promptly informed of any modifica-
tion in the branch's methods of operation, including changes in any 
contract under which services are supplied to the branch. 

- 275 
Union Planters National Bank 
of Memphis 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before November 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
.granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change m loca-
tion of the branch in Georgetown. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt, from any 
limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regula-
tion Q. Also deposits at such branches are not generally subject to 
the reserve requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of tnese 
exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to com-
pete abroad with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long 
been and continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to 
discourage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a 
definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international 
transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
vances or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board s concern 
with minimising the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placcd on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under 
stood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and its attiliat 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

276G 
Item No. 16 
10/3/72 
•"ICIAL 
C O R K E G P D N D E N C r 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
r 4,1972 
First National Bank of Louisville 
V> 0. Box 1019 
Louisville, Kentucky 40201 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to First National Bank of Louisville, Louisville, Kentucky, 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to 
establish a branch in Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, and to operate and 
maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of 
Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
will be used for developing new international business and not as a means 
shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. It is 
*lso understood that there is to be no contact with the local public at 
the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping may, at least 
in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the fore-
going permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of these 
types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified, 
(2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against deposits in 
this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the 
deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of Section 213.7(a) or the ex-
clusion provided in proviso (1) of Section 213.7(b), and (3) the further 
condition that adequate information covering the branch's operations will 
maintained at your houd office and will be available to the Board and 
its accredited representatives. The Board should be promptly informed of 
Sny modification in the branch's methods of operation, including changes 
in any contract under which services are supplied to the branche 
Unless the branch Is actually established and opened for 
^isiness on or before November I, 1973, all rights granted hereby shall 
e deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
Automatically terminate on that date. 
Gov'/.'. 
•fuTt^V 
BOARD D F G n V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N ' , 
D . 
C . 
?.05S1 

2761 
First National Bank of Louisville 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch in Grand Cayman. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
°nly at: a branch of a member bank located outside the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitations 
°n rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve re-
quirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions is 
to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad with 
foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and continues 
to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits 
by United States residents at foreign branches of United States banks 
unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, necessary 
purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions outside 
the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern > 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of pay-
ments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
stood thai: any investment required will be made within the Foreign Credit 
Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
i 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Z76Z 
BOARD GF G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 17 
F E D E R A L RESERVE 
S Y S T E M 
10/3/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20S51 
A D 3 F J E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E ' - ' P F L N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 4, 1972 
Soyfchern Arizona Bank and 
•Frust Company 
150 North Stone Avenue 
lucson, Arizona 35702 
Ge^tlcmen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants its 
Emission to Southern Arizona Bank and Trust Company, Tucson, Arizona, 
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
.to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and maintain such 
J^nch subject to the provisions of such Sections and of Regulation M. 
f;lG foregoing permission is granted subject to any necessary approval by 
Arizona State Banking Department. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
be used for developing new international business and not as a means 
shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. It is 
' iso understood that there is to be no contact with the local public at _ 
.lle branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping may, at least 
1,1 Part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
-
In view of the special character of this operation, the foregoing 
Permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of these types'of 
Qcilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified, (2) the 
condition that reserves shall be maintained against deposits in this branch 
U nd G r Section 213.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the deduction pro-
v e d in subparagraph (ii) of Section 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in 
?riviso (1) of Section 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate 
formation covering the branch's operations will be maintained ai: your head 
?„fJ:*ice and will be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
U e Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the branch's 
methods of operation, including changes in any contract under which services 
supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for business 
}°n 
before November 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby shall be deemed to 
iave been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will automatically 
ejr!ri'inat:-a on that date. 
| 
'o' OV- COt'," •. 
: : • g & 
m 
^'iliUw. 

2 7 6 3 
Southern Arizona Bank and 
Trust Company 
ls,2-* 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas, when the branch is opened for business, fur« 
niching information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
Should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of the 
branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
°nly at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitations 
°n rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve require-
ments of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions is to 
allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad with 
foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and continues 
to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits by 
United States residents at foreign branches of United States banks un-
less such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, necessary^pur-
pose in connection with foreign or international transactions outside 
the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of: foreign branches, funds ^ 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
-
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
poser, of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance 
of payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in 
the conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed 
on resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is 
understood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2764 
B G A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF" THt£ 
Item No. 18 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
10/3/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 205'JI 
A D D R E S S 
D T F I C I A I . 
C D R H L S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
U £ J A H D 
October 4, 1972 
Wachovia Sank and Trust Company, N.A. 
P. 0. Box 3099 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina 27102 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, N.A. ("Wachovia"), 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tion 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in George 
Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, and to operate arid maintain such 
branch subject to the provisions cf such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
will be used for developing new international business and not as a 
means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
T-t is also understood that there is to be no contact, with the local 
Public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
way, at least in part, be supplied under contract by,another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the fore-
going permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of these 
types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified, 
(2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against deposits^ in 
this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the 
deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of Section 213.7(a) or the ex-
clusion provided in proviso (1) of Section 213.7(b), and (3) the fur-
ther condi.I:ion that adequate information covering the branch's operations 
will be maintained at your head office and will be available to the 
Board and its accredited representatives. The Board should be promptly 
informed of any modification in the branch's methods of operation, in-
cluding changes in any contract under which services are supplied to 
the branch. 
Permission to establish the proposed branch is also granted 
subject to the condition that Wachovia shall liquidate its Nassau 
branch within six months cf the date of the opening of the Cayman 
1s1ands b raneh. 

2765 
* Wachovia Bank & Trust 
• Company, N.A. 
-2-
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before November 
1, 1973, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
bishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch in George Town. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
or>ly at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limitations 
°n rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. Also, 
deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve re-
quirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions is 
to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad with 
foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and continues 
to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits 
by United States residents at foreign branches of United States banks 
Unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, necessary 
Purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions outs.ide 
the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
vances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes of 
the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern with 
Minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of payments, 
the above consent is given with the understanding that in the conduct of 
the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on resources ob-
tained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any 
investment required will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
