MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 5, 1972 

1200 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal.Reserve 
System on Friday, May 5, 1972. The Board met in the Special Library 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Clearance and settlement of securities transactions. With a 
memorandum of April 28, 1972, Mr. Solomon submitted a draft letter 
and statement to respond to the request of the Subcommittee on Secu-
rities of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs 
for the Board's views on three bills (S. 2551, S. 3297, and S. 3412) 
affecting the clearance and settlement of securities transactions.-
Mr. John M. Meyer, Jr., Chairman of the Banking and Securities 
Industry Committee, had recommended that the bills be amended to 
assign to the State bank supervisor, where qualified, regulation of a 
nondeposit trust company that acts as a depository. In a memorandum 
of May 3 Mr. Solomon suggested a possible revision of the statement 

1201 
5/5/72 
-2-
that would mention the substance of Mr. Meyer's proposal as a modifi-
cation of the bills that the Subcommittee might want to consider. 
Staff subsequently consulted with an official of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission, pursuant to the Board's request at the meeting 
on May 4. 
Discussion at today's meeting indicated an unwillingness to 
adopt the language relating to Mr. Meyer's proposed amendment. It was 
felt that a suggestion by the Board for regulation of such depositories 
by State banking authorities would be inappropriate. It was also 
proposed that the draft statement be revised to suggest that, with 
respect to depositories that are subject to supervision by a Federal 
bank supervisory agency, the Subcommittee might wish to consider 
adopting the administrative arrangements that the proposed legislation 
would apply to transfer agents that are banks. 
After further discussion during which several editorial changes 
were agreed upon, the statement was approved unanimously in a form 
revised to reflect the views expressed. Attached under Item No. 1 are 
copies of the statement and of the letter transmitting it to the 
Subcommittee on Securities. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1202 
Item No. 1 
5/5/72 
C H A I R M A N 
O F T H E 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
May 5, 1972 
The Honorable Harrison A. Williams, Jr. 
Chairman 
Subcommittee on Securities of the 
Senate Committee on Banking, Housing 
and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
Thank you for inviting the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System to submit its views on three bills 
affecting the clearance and settlement of securities transactions 
which are presently before your Subcommittee. 
On behalf of the Board, I am happy to enclose a state-
ment with respect to these bills (S. 2551, S. 3297, and S. 3412). 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 
/ 

1203 
MAY 5 
1972 
Statement of Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
Svstem Prepared for the Subcommittee on Securities of the 
Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs in 
Connection with Hearings on S. 2551, S. 3297 and 5. 3412 
The Board welcomes this opportunity to present its views on 
2551 (National Securities Corporation Act), S. 3297 (The Securities 
Industry Paperwork Modernization Act), and S. 3412 (Securities Transaction 
Accessing Act of 1972). All of these bills seek to prevent a recurrence 
o £ the recent operational crisis experienced by the securities industry, 
a n d to provide a regulatory basis for developing an efficient national 
Astern for clearing and settling securities transactions. 
To accomplish these objectives, S. 2551 would establish a new 
£ederally-chartered National Securities Corporation and a Commission on 
Uniform Securities Laws. The Board believes that the objectives of all 
three bills can best be served by broadening the authority of the Securities 
Exchange Commission as S. 3297 and S. 3412 would do, rather than by 
bating a new federally-chartered corporation, 
S. 3297 would clarify and supplement the statutory authority of • .. 
t h e Securities and Exchange Commission to regulate clearing and settlement 
°f ^curitieo transactions; would give the Commission the power to supervise 
t h e evolution of a national network for clearance and settlement of securi-
transactions; and would direct the Commission to take steps to eliminate 
negotiable stock certificate as a means of settlement of securities trans-
*Ctiono among broker-dealers and certain other financial institutions by 
Member 31, 1976. 

6 
- 3 -
Sections 1 and 2 of 5. 3297 would authorize the Commission 
to regulate the time and method of making settlements, payments, and 
^liveries and of closing accounts. This authority might appear to over-
IaP or supercede the Board's authority to regulate securities credit under 
8er-tion 7 of that Act. We believe it desirable to make clear that the 
&uthority of the Commission and the Board do not conflict in this area, 
might be done by adding a proviso about as follows: 
• • Provided, That nothing herein shall be under-
stood as affecting the authority of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to 
section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, to 
prescribe rules and regulations with respect to the 
extension, maintenance, or arranging of credit to 
purchase or carry any security, or as authorizing the 
Commission to prescribe such rules or regulations." 
Section 3 of S. 3297 would define "clearing agency" in a 
^ 
that would include a depository. Inasmuch as the functions of a 
"bearing agency" and a "depository" are separate and distinct, it would 
more desirable to define these entities separately as does S. 3412. 
believe it also desirable to make clear, as S. 3412 does, that the 
^ n i t i o n of "clearing agency" is not intended to cover Federal Reserve 
Federal Home Loan Banks, or any other Federal instrumentalities, nor 
to cover privately-owned banks or 'other financial institutions merely 
bec*use they perform lending, fiduciary, correspondent, or safekeeping 
^ t i c n s . 
Section 4 of S. 3297 would empower a clearing agency to determine 
thc: qualifications of an officer, director, employee, or agent of a 
MtticiPant, 
If a bank becomes a participant by reason of securities 

1205 
- 3 -
tractions involving its trust department, this section might appear 
^ empower a clearing agency to determine the qualifications of all of 
officers, directors, employees, or agents of the bank. It is assumed 
tllat this result is not intended and could be avoided by restricting this 
authority to officers, directors, employees, or agents who deal directly 
with a clearing agent. 
Section 4 of S. 3297 would also require the Securities and 
Change Commission on or before December 31, 1976, to take steps to bring 
Q W 
the elimination of the negotiable stock certificate as a means of 
SGttleme.nt among broker-dealers of transactions consummated on national 
Purities exchanges, It is understood that this provision will not, 
h^ever, deprive an individual investor of his right to demand and hold a 
ntSotiable stock certificate as proof of title. The Commission would also 
b° directed to make recommendations to the Congress for further legislation 
to eliminate the negotiable stock certificate. 
The Board is in accord with the objectives of this provision and, 
baaed on the Federal Reserve's experience in the automation of the 
government securities market (see attached memorandum from Richard A. Debs, 
V l c* President, Federal Reserve Bank of New York), believes that it will be 
8 constructive step. In the establishment of a "certificateless" society, 
°ne of the first problems that must be faced, of course, is to create a 
Sou«d legal framework. In this connection, the Congress may wish to 
c°n s l d e r t h e estab.lishment of a Commission on Uniform Securities Laws, along 
th® lines proposed by S. 2551, which would either report directly to the 
Cotl8tess or act as anadvisory committee to the Securities and Exchange 
M i s s i o n . 

1206 
- 4 -
S. 3412 is somewhat similar in approach to S. 3297. For 
®*aaple, both bills require clearing agencies and depositories to 
Agister with the Securities and Exchange Commission. However, S. 3412 
extend the Commission's regulatory authority to cover transfer 
Qtots and registrars, and would empower the Commission to make rules 
d e e m i n g the form of certificates issued by publicly held corporations. 
view of the importance that transfer agents and registrars play in the 
Oration of the securities market, the Board favors inclusion of this 
authority. 
S. 3412 would grant authority to the Commission to adopt 
*e&»Iation8 regarding the performance of functions by transfer agents, 
^sponsibility for enforcing compliance with these regulations would be 
Signed to the three federal bank supervisory agencies as to transfer 
*8ents that are banks. The Board strongly supports these administrative 
ar^ngGrccuts, which follow precedents established by Congress in previous 
Violation. All nonbank transfer agents would be supervised by the 
C r i t i c s and Exchange Commission as would all clearing agencies and . 
^Positcries. With respect to depositories that are subject to supervision 
« federal bank supervisory agency, the Subcommittee may wish to consider 
Opting the administrative arrangements which the bill applies to transfer 
that are banks. 
Section 12 of S. 3412 provides that as regards transfer agents, 
th* Portion of a registration-statement containing information regarding 
l t s rules and procedures shall be available for public inspection, but 
all other information filed with the regulatory agency may be exempt 

1207 
- 3 -
^rom the disclosure requirements of title 5, section 552 of the United 
St£*tes Code. Since the identity of the issuers and issues of securities 
Which a transfer agent is acting is generally public knowledge, an 
appropriate modification of this section to provide for public availability 
of this information (which would be contained in a registration statement) 
ls suggested. 
In conclusion, the Board welcomes the efforts of your Subcommittee 
to provide a regulatory basis for the development of an efficient national 
systfjm for the. clearance and settlement of securities transactions. We 
hoPe that legislation along the general lines of S. 3297 or S. 3412, with 
tllG modifications we have suggested, will be enacted. 
y 
Attachment. 
(Note: Attached to the statement was a memorandum 
by Vice President Debs of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York dated March 21, 1972, entitled The Program 
for the Automation of the Government Securities Market. 
A copy has been placed in the Board's files.) 
