MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 9, 1969 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, May 9, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell!./ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Money market review. Today's usual weekly review included 
reports on the Government securities market, on bank credit, and on the 
foreign exchange and gold markets, with particular emphasis on develop-
ments with respect to the German mark. Copies of statistical materials 
prepared for the review have been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Brill and 
Partee then withdrew and the following entered: 
Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and Direc-
tor, Division of Research and Statistics^/ 
Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance^/ 
Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Sherman, Consultant to the Board 
Bernard and Mrs. Winkler of the Office of 
the Secretary 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
2J Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

5/9/69 
-2-
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Messrs. Hexter, O'Connell, Shay, Sanders, and Mertz 
of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Johnson and Hart of the Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Messrs. Dahl, Egertson, Achor, Goodfellow, and Kline, and 
Miss Hart of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Cleaver, Putnam, and Wiles, and Miss Wickstead of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Miss Ormsby of the Office of the Secretary 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on May 5, by the Federal Reserve Banks 
of Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, 
and Dallas on May 8, and by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta on 
May 9, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing 
schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Foreign banking matters. The following letters were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background information that had 
been made available to the members of the Board. 
Copies are attached 
under the respective numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking 
1 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to continue to hold the stock of 
Banco Mercantil y Agricola, Caracas, 
Venezuela, after acquisition by the latter 
and/or its subsidiary of shares of Diners 
Club de Venezuela C.A. 
Letter to Philadelphia International Investment 
2 
Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, granting 
consent to continue to hold the stock of New 
World Development Corporation, Nassau, Bahamas, 

Juj> « o 
5/9/69 
-3-
despite the latter's issuance, without prior 
Board approval, of promissory notes with 
maturities in excess of one year. 
In connection with Item No, 2, there was a discussion of the 
posture that the Board should take in instances where an investment 
or other transaction was entered into by an Edge corporation or a 
subsidiary without obtaining the prior approval of the Board pursuant 
to regulatory provisions. The staff pointed out that a variety of 
circumstances could be involved, with the failure to obtain prior 
approval reflecting sometimes a technical situation or administrative 
oversight. However, it was the view of the Board members that failure 
to observe the prescribed procedures should not be taken lightly, 
particularly since organizations operating in this specialized area 
should be expected to have knowledge of regulatory requirements. 
The 
letter to Philadelphia International Investment Corporation, in the 
form transmitted, reflected suggestions by Board members as to the 
type of reply that seemed appropriate when Board approval was sought 
after the fact. 
Members of the staff then withdrew and the Board went into 
executive session. 
The Secretary's Office was notified that the following actions 
were taken during the executive session: 
Fair Credit Reporting Act. Unanimous approval was given to a 
letter to Chairman Proxmire of the Subcommittee on Financial Institu-
tions of the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency regarding a 

JLO i O 
5/9/69 
-4-
request for testimony on S. 823, the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
A 
copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
Foreign travel. Henry F. Lee, Economist in the Division of 
International Finance, was authorized to assist the Agency for 
International Development in India for a period of three to four 
weeks beginning this month in connection with a study of the mobili-
zation of financial resources. 
It was understood that the Agency for 
International Development would provide round-trip air fare, cost of 
transportation within India, and rupee per diem while in India. 
Mr. Lee was also authorized by the Board, if time permitted, to visit 
the central banks of Malaysia, Thailand, and Korea. 
Staff appointments. Governor Sherrill raised with the Board 
the question of a replacement for Daniel H . Brill, Senior Adviser to 
the Board and Director, Division of Research and Statistics, who was 
resigning effective the close of business June 29, 1969, to enter 
private business. 
After discussion, the Board accepted the resignation of 
Mr. Brill, appointed J. Charles Partee, currently Associate Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics, as Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics, with annual salary at 
the rate of $38,000, effective June 30, 1969, and appointed Stephen 
H . Axilrod and Lyle E. Gramley, currently Advisers in the Division of 
Research and Statistics, as Associate Directors of that Division, 
with annual salary at the rate of $33,500 in each case, also effective 

l O 4 / 
5/9/69 
-5-
June 30, 1969. Governor Robertson dissented from that part of the 
action that involved approval of the respective salary rates, for 
the same reasons that he had given at the meeting on May 7, 1969, in 
connection with the Board's action on proposed salary rates for 
certain other staff officers. 
Chief of staff. 
In connection with the discussion of official 
salaries, Board members also gave attention to matters of staff organi-
zation. In this connection, the Board agreed that Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary of the Board, should function in the capacity of chief of 
staff. 
At the conclusion of the executive session Governor Mitchell 
withdrew from the meeting and the members of the staff returned to 
the room. 
The following actions were taken subject to ratification at 
the next meeting of the Board at which a quorum was present: 
Reports on competitive factors. 
A 
report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of First Bank and Trust 
Company, National Association, Fords, New Jersey, into The National 
State Bank, Elizabeth, New Jersey, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion reading 
as follows: 
There is no effective competition between The National 
State Bank, Elizabeth, and First Bank and Trust Company, 
National Association, Fords. Although the two banks have 
been closely associated for many years, consummation of the 
transaction would permanently foreclose potential for 

1578 
5/9/69 
-6-
competition between them in the event the close associ-
ation should be terminated. 
The overall competitive effect of the proposed merger 
would be slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
consolidation of National Bank & Trust Company of Central Pennsylvania, 
York, Pennsylvania, Lancaster County Farmers National Bank, Lancaster, 
Pennsylvania, and The Reading Trust Company, Reading, Pennsylvania, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency, the conclusion reading as follows: 
National Bank & Trust Company of Central Pennsylvania, 
York, Lancaster County Farmers National Bank, Lancaster, and 
The Reading Trust Company, Reading, do not now compete signif-
icantly, although the York and Lancaster Banks are direct 
competitors in Columbia where each maintains a branch. 
The 
proposed consolidation would eliminate potential for greater 
competition in view of the fact that each of the banks could 
penetrate further the other's market through de novo branching. 
Also, this combination would constitute a significant concen-
tration of banking resources in the relevant area. 
Overall, 
the effect of the proposed consolidation on competition would 
be adverse. 
merger of Commonwealth National Bank of Arlington, Arlington, Virginia, 
into Virginia National Bank, Norfolk, Virginia, was approved unani-
mously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
conclusion stating that the proposed merger would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Deputy Secretary 

1579 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
5/9/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
May 9, 1969 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of March 31, 1969, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("CMOBC") to continue to hold the stock of Banco Mercantil 
y Agricola ("Banco"), Caracas, Venezuela, after Banco and/or its 
subsidiary, Mercantil de Colocaciones, S.A. ("Colocaciones") acquire 
up to 74 per cent of the stock of Diners Club de Venezuela C.A. 
("Diners"), Caracas, Venezuela, at a cost of approximately $1,672,500, 
provided the shares are acquired within two years from the date of 
this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Diners by Banco and/or Colocaciones is granted subject 
to the following conditions: 
(1) That Banco shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in Diners if Diners at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if Diners establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Venezuela or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to Banco; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CMOBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of Diners as it may require from time to 
time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Diners 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if Diners were a corporation organ-
ized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 

1580 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
(4) That CMOBC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of Banco at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of Banco, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses 
and adjusting for any excess in the carrying value of 
the shares of Diners by Banco and/or Colocaciones over 
their proportionate shares in the net assets of Diners. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by Diners in Venezuela in 
the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of Diners. 
It is understood that the proposed acquisition will not 
require any additional direct investment by CMOBC. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1581 
^L RES^V 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
5/9/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CDRRE9PDNDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
May 12, 1969 
Philadelphia International 
Investment Corporation, 
P. 0. Box 7618, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
Gentlemen: 
Your letter of February 26, 1969, requested permission 
for your Corporation ("PIIC") to continue to hold the stock of New 
World Development Corporation ("NWDC"), Nassau, Bahamas, despite 
NWDC's having issued certain promissory notes with maturities in 
excess of one year, without the prior Board approval required by 
Section 211.4 of Regulation K. In considering your request, the 
Board noted that the failure to conform to those requirements 
occurred through an oversight on the part of your subsidiary and 
that steps have been taken to see that such nonconforming actions 
are not undertaken in the future. 
While the Board cannot condone failures to observe reg-
ulatory requirements, given the circumstances in this case, the 
Board grants consent for PIIC to continue to hold the stock of 
NWDC, while NWDC has outstanding the notes specified in your re-
quest. 
The Board has noted that NWDC's obligations are guaranteed 
by The Philadelphia National Bank ("PNB"), thus making them direct, 
primary obligations of that bank payable at its office in Philadelphia, 
and that the proceeds thereof were used by the subsidiary in the 
ordinary course of its banking business. In these circumstances, 
the obligations are "deposits" of PNB under Sections 204.1(f) of 
Regulation D and 217.1(f) of Regulation Q. Such obligations would 
not be subject to the requirements and restrictions of those Regu-
lations if one of the exceptions specified in those Sections were 
applicable or if both the obligations and the guaranty were expressly 
made payable only outside the United States. 

l o 
Philadelphia International 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
The Board has also noted that as of March 31, 1969, the 
foreign loans and investments of your Corporation exceeded the guide-
line ceiling applicable under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect. The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that those foreign loans and investments will be reduced as soon as 
possible to a level consistent with the guidelines and that due con-
sideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

±583 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
5/9/69 
W A S H I N Q T O N 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
May 9, 1969. 
The Honorable William Proxmire, Chairman, 
Subcommittee on Financial Institutions, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I appreciate your invitation to testify on S. 823, the 
Fair Credit Reporting Act, but after considering the question 
carefully, the Board has concluded that we really are in no 
position to assist in your deliberations on this bill. 
As Chairman Martin wrote to you on March 14, the subject 
is an unfamiliar one to the Board. We are, of course, aware of 
your efforts, as well as those of other members of Congress, to 
provide statutory safeguards to insure that credit reporting agencies 
do not invade individuals' rights to privacy or damage their repu-
tations without justification. But we have had no experience in 
this field that would enable us to contribute in any meaningful way 
to the information you are developing as to the need for this 
legislation. 
The one recommendation we have is that if you determine 
that legislation is needed in this field, you should entrust its 
administration to an agency whose responsibilities traditionally 
have required that it be more intimately concerned with consumer 
matters. We understand you will be hearing from the Federal Trade 
Commission, which we believe is in a better position to advise you, 
and consequently we hope you will not feel it necessary to receive 
testimony from the Board. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
