MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 7, 1971 

3286 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, December 7, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Layton, Director of Equal Employment 
Opportunity 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics J./ 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Miss Key, and Mr. Wilbanks, Technical 
Assistants, Office of the Secretary 
The research divisions presented the regular weekly review of 
economic and financial developments. Copies of the statistical materials 
prepared for the review have been placed in the Board's files, as well as 
copies of the individual briefings. Mr. Rippey then reported on matters 
» 
of interest to the Board with respect to proposed legislation. 
A number of staff members who had attended for purposes of the 
review then withdrew and the following entered the room: 
17 Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

3287 
12/7/71 
-2-
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Messrs. Dahl, Egertson, and Lyon, Assistant 
Directors, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the applica-
tion of Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois, to organize a corporation under section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act to be known as Continental Bank International 
(Pacific) and to be located in San Francisco, California. Attached as 
.Item No. 1 is a copy of the letter sent to the applicant, with which 
was transmitted a preliminary permit. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Simplified procedures, Regulation Y. The National Association 
of. Insurance Agents had. -f-^L.ed. a petition dn Jthe Court ,of Appeals for 
the District of Columbia Circuit seeking to invalidate a September 1971 
amendment to Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, establishing simpli-
fied procedures for a bank holding company applying to engage de novo 
in certain insurance agency and other activities. The Association had 
also filed with the Board a petition for a stay of the amendment pending 

3288 
12/7/71 
- 3-
the decision of the court. The Association claimed that the Board's 
procedure in promulgating the amendment violated the requirements of 
the Administrative Procedure Act and the Bank Holding Company Act. 
In a memorandum of November 24, 1971, the Legal Division rec-
ommended that the Board deny the petition for a stay. The Division 
found the material presented in support of the petition unpersuasive 
when examined on the basis of the considerations generally weighed in 
connection with a stay of administrative action. It was noted that 
the petitioner's lawsuit was directed only to the part of the amendment 
that dispensed with a requirement that a notice of proposed entry de novo 
into certain insurance agency (and other) activities be published in a 
newspaper. It was claimed that competitors in local communities thus 
would be affected by de novo entry without any recourse to the Board. 
In the Division's judgment, competitors were not thus deprived of re-
course to the Board. Even without publication in a newspaper, proposed 
entry by holding companies into insurance agency activities became known 
to the Association and competing insurance agents. Notice of such propos-
als was given to the public through a weekly list released by the Board 
that was available to any persons who asked to be kept informed of such 
proposals. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the procedures followed 
with respect to the amendment were not in accord with past practice. 
The amendment as adopted was substantially different from the one on 

3289 
12/7/71 
which comments had been invited and a hearing held. The Legal Divi-
sion considered that republication for comment had not been necessary 
because the revised amendment was more liberal than the original pro-
posal. It was true that it was more liberal from the point of view of 
bank holding companies, in that it removed the requirement of published 
notice. It was more restrictive, however, from the point of view of 
local competitors, because it deprived them of an important opportunity 
to become aware of a prospective change in their market, and they had 
not been given a chance to express themselves about the elimination of 
the notice requirement. Moreover, he did not regard the awareness of 
the Association as a sufficient substitute for awareness on the part 
of local competitors. Throughout United States history, local notice 
had been required for many types of legal transactions. He thought 
that was a proner system, and one that could not be adequately replaced 
by reliance on a trade association. In his view, the Board should 
re-examine the simplified procedures. 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer spoke in a similar vein. Gov-
ernor Robertson commented that he did not regard the procedures followed 
as consistent with the public interest. He was in favor of granting 
the requested stay; failure to do so would mean that many commitments 
would be undertaken for de novo entry, reversal of which would be difficult. 
At the conclusion of a general discussion it was understood 
that thgnSjtaff would-prepare £&r 

3290 
12/7/71 
additional material regarding the questions of both the request for a 
stay and a possible reconsideration of the simplified procedures. 
Civil rights. In a memorandum of December 2, 1971, the Divi-
sion of Supervision and Regulation and the Legal Division referred to 
a statement of policy that the Board had approved in principle several 
months ago designed to aid the implementation of Title VIII of the Civil 
Rights Act relating to nondiscrimination requirements in real estate 
loan activities. The statement had been discussed by the Interagency 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation, which was generally in favor 
of the approach suggested. The memorandum described subsequent inter-
agency negotiations, including jurisdictional questions related to the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development. The Divisions recommended 
that the Board approve issuance of the statement and permit the staff 
to work out arrangements for simultaneous release of similar statements 
by the three Federal banking authorities. 
During discussion Governor Brimmer described efforts he was 
making to resolve questions outstanding with HUD regarding enforcement 
responsibilities. There was general agreement that in the interest of 
resolving those questions before issuance of the statement, it would be 
well for Governor Brimmer to continue his negotiations. 
Farm Credit Act of 1971. After a discussion during which there 
was agreement upon revision of a draft that had been distributed, the 
Board unanimously approved in the form attached as Item No. 2 a letter 

3 2 9 1 
12/7/71 
-6-
to the Office of Management and Budget regarding enrolled bill S. 1483, 
the Farm Credit Act of 1971. 
Hardship cases. Section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act gen-
erally prohibits bank holding companies from engaging in nonbanking 
activities, but mentions three situations in which the Board may grant 
hardship exemptions. Applications for exemptions had been received 
from Olin Corporation, Stamford, Connecticut (in memoranda of December 3, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
and the Legal Division provided a draft of approval order), and from The 
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio (approval recommended by the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation in a memorandum of September 29, 
1971, and draft order attached to a memorandum of December 3 from the 
Legal Division). 
In a memorandum of December 3 the Banking Markets Section rec-
ommended several guidelines for considering section 4(d) cases. The 
Legal Division, in its December 3 memorandum, reviewed the legislative 
history of section 4(d) and stated that the Division had worked with 
other Divisions to develop proposed guidelines, with the thought that 
if the Board approved them they might be included in the order granting 
the Goodyear exemption for the guidance of potential applicants. However, 
the Division believed that the formulation of reasonably firm guidelines 
might take substantial time, and therefore it recommended that action 
be taken on the Goodyear application without awaiting guidelines. 

3292 
12/7/71 
-7-
Discussion developed agreement that the question of guidelines 
be deferred until more experience had been gained. It was observed 
that the situations specified in the statute were clear and might be 
adequate without elaboration in guidelines, and that the rationale 
stated in orders regarding the Board's actions with respect to exemp-
tions also would serve to make the public aware of the considerations 
that were weighed. 
The Board then unanimously approved the two requests for ex-
emptions and authorized the issuance of orders reflecting these deci-
sions. A copy of the order issued with respect to Olin Corporation is 
attached as Item No. 3, and a copy of the order issued with respect to 
The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company is attached as Item No. 4. 
First National City Overseas. In a memorandum of December 2, 
1971, the staff stated that Governor Brimmer had requested that, al-
though the case fell within his delegated authority, the Board's atten-
tion be directed to the application of First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of The 
Hamilton Group Ltd., Hamilton, Ontario, Canada. The Hamilton Group was 
engaged in some nonfinancial activities, but they did not appear to be 
substantial in relation to the Group's basic financing business. 
The application involved the question of the appropriate policy 
for the Board to take with respect to participation by Edge corporations 
in foreign joint ventures operated under foreign control, and particularly 

3293 
12/7/71 
-8-
whether any condition should be imposed with respect to the continued 
holding of 25 per cent or more interests by Edge corporations in such 
foreign companies with respect to the nonfinancial activities in which 
such companies may engage. The memorandum suggested three alternatives 
for the terms of conditions that might be imposed. 
Governor Brimmer recommended that consent be accompanied by a 
requirement that The Hamilton Group make an effort to dispose of its 
nonfinancial activities as soon as possible and not acquire others in 
the future. He also recommended that the Board amend Regulation K, 
Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing under the Federal 
Reserve Act, to require that an investment by an Edge corporation as 
substantial as the one proposed in The Hamilton Group (35 per cent) be 
treated more as a partnership rather than simply as a minority invest-
ment. 
Governor Daane stated that he preferred the alternative that 
would state the understanding that the Group was primarily engaged in 
financial leasing and other international or foreign financial operations, 
and request that the Board be informed promptly of any significant pro-
spective changes in the activities conducted, either directly or indirect-
ly, and particularly those of a nonfinancial character. However, he could 
accept the alternative in which the continued holding of shares of The 
Hamilton Group would be considered appropriate only so long as the Group 
remained principally engaged in banking or other financial operations, 

12/1/11 
-9-
and its nonfinaneial activities were confined to insubstantial pro-
portions of its total business. 
Governor Maisel expressed a preference for the alternative that 
would condition consent upon The Hamilton Group's nonfinancial activ-
ities remaining insubstantial in proportion to its total business and 
upon the Group's not commencing or acquiring any new nonfinancial 
business except with prior Board approval. Governor Robertson also 
spoke in favor of that alternative, possibly with the additional re-
quirement that present nonfinancial activities be disposed of within 
a reasonable period of time, as Governor Brimmer had suggested. 
Governor Brimmer said he would not support any of the alter-
natives unless that additional requirement was incorporated. 
The continuing discussion developed agreement upon the alter-
native Governors Robertson and Maisel had advocated, with the additional 
requirement suggested by Governor Brimmer. 
It was also agreed that the 
staff should study the question of amending Regulation K along the lines 
suggested by Governor Brimmer. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to First National 
City Overseas Investment Corporation in the form attached as Item No. 5. 
Nortrust Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated November 29, 1971, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of Nortrust Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to acquire shares 
of Security Trust Company, Miami, Florida, a nondeposit trust company. 

3 2 8 5 
12/7/71 
-10-
Governor Brimmer raised a question regarding the placement 
of what he understood was a substantial reservoir of uninvested funds 
held by the trust company. It appeared to him that although the trust 
company was not a deposit institution, its control of those funds 
might mean that it was actually in competition with banks to some extent. 
It was his understanding that such uninvested funds were frequently 
Placed in time balances. He also disliked the implications of entry by 
Nortrust Corporation into the Miami market through acquisition rather 
than de novo. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that to enable a large 
institution in Chicago to acquire a going concern in Florida, or any-
where else removed from its own State, would preclude any potential com-
petition by eliminating the applicant bank holding company as a poten-
tial de novo entrant into the other area. He noted that the staff docu-
mentation included a statement that of 47 nondeposit trust companies 
in existence at the end of 1970, fewer than 30 appeared to be eligible 
for acquisition by bank holding companies. In his view, there was 
danger that if the Board allowed this acquisition, other bank holding 
companies would seek to acquire some of the remaining institutions. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board approved the appli-
cation, Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting, and authorized the 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy of the order is 
Colii/rxfio. >.u :, .M^i-iaujutu >f iwv^i^i" 
1971, 

32SG 
12/7/71 
-11-
attached under Item No. 6, along with a copy of the dissenting state-
ment by Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
Chemical New York Corporation. In a memorandum of November 10, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of the application of Chemical New York Corporation, New York, New York, 
to acquire shares of the successor by merger to Tappan Zee National 
Bank, Nyack, New York. 
All members present indicated willingness to approve the appli-
cation except Governor Robertson, who expressed the view that alter-
native and more competitive ways were available to Chemical New York 
Corporation to enter the third New York banking district. It could go 
in de novo, or it could acquire some small bank outside Rockland County. 
He thought the present proposal was more than slightly anticompetitive, 
and without sufficient offsetting benefits. 
The application was approved, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
It was understood that an order would be prepared reflecting this deci-
sion and that a dissenting statement also would be prepared. 
Today's agenda also called for consideration of the application 
°f Chemical New York Corporation to acquire shares of the successor by 
merger to Eastern National Bank of Long Island, Smithtown, Suffolk 
County, New York. However, action was deferred pending exploration by 
the staff of certain questions that were raised. 
United Banks of Colorado. In a memorandum of November 23, 1971, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 

3297 
12/7/71 
-12-
application of United Banks of Colorado, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to 
acquire shares of Colorado Commercial Bank, Colorado Springs, Colorado. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 7. 
Report on competitive factors. A draft of report to the Comp-
troller of the Currency had been distributed regarding the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of First Western Bank and Trust 
Company, Los Angeles, California, and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., San Fran-
cisco, California. 
After a discussion during which Governor Mitchell expressed a 
preference for describing the competitive effect as adverse, the report 
was approved for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency in a 
form in which the conclusion read as follows: 
There is a substantial amount of competition existing 
between First Western Bank and Trust Company, Los Angeles, 
California, and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., San Francisco, and 
there is significant potential for the development of in-
creased competition between them through de novo branching. 
The proposed merger would expand the operations of the 
State's third largest bank and would further increase the 
already high degree of concentration of banking resources 
in California. The overall competitive effect of the pro-
posal would be substantially adverse. 
Proposed research conference. In a memorandum of November 29, 
1971, the Division of Research and Statistics and the Office of Executive 
Director referred to a memorandum from the Division of Research and 

3298 
12/7/71 
-13-
Statistics that the Board had considered some months ago, one part of 
which raised the possibility of financial assistance by the Board to a 
proposed Conference on Progress and Problems in Monetary Economics 
arranged by the Social Science Research Councilfs Committee on Economic 
Stability. The Board had expressed reservations and directed the staff 
to explore the possibilities of some modification and clarification of 
the proposal if further consideration by the Board was desired. For 
reasons set forth in the current memorandum, it was now recommended that 
the Board confirm that it did not wish to assist in financing the present 
•j. ••.. • 
• j .. iir •• 
i .j I" , 
.. 
- - 
•<- i 
' • 
• 
• 
proposal of the Committee on Economic Stability. 
».V' 
• . t .... 
t 
; 
- : • 
-
The recommendation was approved unanimously. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Director appointment. It was agreed to ascertain through the 
Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond whether Dr. James G. 
Harlow, President of the University of West Virginia, Morgantown, West 
Virginia, would accept appointment if tendered as a director of the 
Baltimore Branch for the three-year term beginning January 1, 1972, with 
the understanding that if it was found that he would accept, the appoint-
ment would be made. 
(It having been ascertained that he would accept, 
an appointment telegram was sent to Dr. Harlow on December 8, 1971.) 
"Shell" branches. In a memorandum of December 3, 1971, Mr. 
Holland suggested that the Board consider the pending applications for 

3299 
12/7/71 
-14-
shell branches, rule on the question of the permissibility of inter-
locking personnel among branches in Nassau, Bahamas, and direct the 
staff (a) to pursue the surveillance initiatives on Nassau branches 
that had been introduced, and (b) as a longer term matter, to continue 
its explorations of means of obtaining a greater degree of separation 
of domestic and foreign banking that would contribute to a resolution 
of the shell branch question. 
After discussion, it was agreed to defer consideration of the 
questions pending the availability of additional analyses of the under-
lying issues, on which staff work was now in progress. 
Funding of the Committee on Interest and Dividends. In a 
memorandum of December 6, 1971, Mr. Melnicoff indicated that the Cost 
of Living Council had offered to attempt to obtain funding for the 
Committee on Interest and Dividends. If funding was not obtained, the 
Board would have to contribute to the Committee's work about $195,000 
for personnel and $375,000 for a consumer finance survey during 1972. 
The issues were (a) whether the Committee should request funding, with 
the likelihood of constant surveillance by the Cost of Living Council 
and a possible audit by the General Accounting Office, and (b) whether, 
if funding was not obtained, the Board would authorize the out-of-pocket 
expenditure in a supplement to its 1972 budget. 
Several members of the Board expressed the view that the orga-
nizations related to the President's program should have their own budget 

33C0 
12/7/71 
-15-
rather than rely on contributions from other agencies. However, ma-
jority support developed for not requiring reimbursement for a consumer 
finance survey being conducted by the System. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland 
and Smith. 
Bank of the Commonwealth. Governor Robertson reported on devel-
opments with respect to Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan. 
The Board authorized Governor Robertson to issue on its behalf a cease 
and desist order to Bank of the Commonwealth as part of the salvage op-
eration being developed by the Federal Reserve staff, the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, the State Banking Commissioner, and the insti-
tution itself. The time element in this case necessitated this procedure. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
- j u. 
,; • 
; 
* " » \-*', 1o •. t: c c 
i \ A 1••: v 

B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
3301 
Item No. 4 ' 
12/7/71 
ADDRESS OrriCIAL CURREnPUNDENCr 
TO THE BOARD 
December 8, 1971 
Continental Illinois National Bank 
and Trust Company of Chicago 
2 31 South La Salle Street 
Chicago, Illinois 60690 
Gent 1 emen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated September 30, 
of Continental Bank International (Pacific), San Francisco, 
Califo rnia, and there is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing 
that Corporation to exercise such of the powers conferred by Sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and pre-
liminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by 
Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
lssue its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
0 r secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
Certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; (2) 
that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned by 
citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling interest 
in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered under 
fche laws of the United States or of a State of the United States or 
by 
firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned by 
cit izens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital 
stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent 
has been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individually 
Paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. There-
a*ter, the treasurer or secretary shall certify to the payment of the 
remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with 
law. 

3302 
Continental Illinois National Bank 
and Trust Company of Chicago 
-2-
Your attention is directed to the fact that Continental 
Bank International (Pacific) will have no separate base under the foreign 
credit restraint effort and that any foreign loans and investments 
will need to be made under the ceiling of Continental Illinois 
National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago. Accordingly, the fore-
going approval is given with the understanding that any foreign loans 
and investments of the Corporation will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
I-, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Encl osure 

3303 
• • • i' 'i •;; • : ' 
B O A R D gf G O V E R N O R S 
o n nr. 
r-.rr-iA 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WAOMINCiTON.O.C. atlV.BI 
December 8, 1971 
Preliminary Permit 
It IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it hy 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Keserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and C o n i z a t i o n Certificate 
dated September 30, 1971, of CONTINENTAL BANK INTERNATIONAL 
(PACIFIC) duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that 
CONTINENTAL BANK INTERNATIONAL (PACIFIC) is authorized to exerc.se 
h v said Section 25(a) as are 
such of the powers conferred upon it by 
m its organization pending the issuance 
incidental and preliminary to its orgam 
by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a 
final pern,it generally to cogence business in accordance with 
nc/„\ a n d the rules and regulations 
the provisions of said Section 2b(a) ana 
Hie Federal Reserve System issued 
of the Board of Governors of the Feclcra 
pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
By 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

• f^Tut^ 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O P 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
12/7/71 
Item No 
December 7, 1971 
• Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assistant Director for 
<• Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and 
Budget 
Washington, D.C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
1 am writing in response to your request for the Board's 
views on enrolled bill S. 1483, "To further provide for 
the farmer-owned cooperative system of making credit 
available to farmers and ranchers and their cooperatives, 
for rural residences, and to associations and other 
entities upon which farming operations are dependent, to 
provide for an adequate and flexible flow of money into 
rural areas, and to modernize and consolidate existing 
farm credit law to meet current and future rural credit 
needs, and for other purposes." 
The Board notes that most of the modifications suggested 
in its letter of March 19 have not been incorporated in 
the legislation. However, the Board has no objection to 
Presidential approval of the bill. 
Sincerely yours 
Arthur.F. Burns 

Item No. 4 ' 
12/7/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
OLIN CORPORATION 
Order Granting Exemption Pursuant to 
§ 4(d) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956 
Olin Corporation, a Virginia corporation with principal 
ofSices in New York,New York, is a bank holding company within the 
Waning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, by virtue of 
°wnership of 59 per cent of the shares of Illinois State Bank of East 
Alton, East Alton, Illinois ("Bank"), and has applied to the Board of 
G°vernors pursuant to § 4(d) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(d)) for an 
exemPtion from the provisions of § 4 relating to prohibitions against 
$ 
n°nbanking activities and acquisitions. 
"• > 
t,;: 
H , 
.. •; ^ ,, ... 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on August 11, 1971 (36 Federal Register 14786). 
for 
filing comments and views has expired and all received have 
b e en considered. No request for a hearing has been received. 
Section 4(d) of the Act provides that to the extent such 
action would not be substantially at variance with the purposes of 
tlle Act and subject to nuah condition^ as the Board considers 
Pessary to protect the public interest, the Board may grant an exemp 
tion from the provisions of § 4 of the Act to certain one bank 
companies in ordet (1) to avoid disrupting business 
telationships that have existed over a long period of years without 

33HG 
- 2 -
adversely affecting the banks or communities involved, or (2) to 
avoid forced sales of small locally owned banks to purchasers not 
3itnilarly representative of community interests, or (3) to allow 
retention of banks that are so small in relation to the holding 
company's total interests and so small in relation to the banking 
^rket to be served as to minimize the likelihood that the bank's 
Powers to grant or deny credit may be influenced by a desire to 
*u*ther the holding company's other interests, 
Olin Corporation, a diversified industrial corporation 
with assets in excess of $1 billion, is engaged in a variety of 
do 
mestic and foreign activities in the fields of chemicals, paper, 
film 
^"ij non-ferrous metals, forest products, home building and recre-
ational products including arms and ammunition. Applicant or pre-
decessor companies have operated in East Alton, Illinois (population 
7>309) since 1892 and Applicant states that its plant in that community 
Presently employs approximately 5,000 people. Apparently, predecessors 
Applicant acquired a majority of the shares of Bank between 1919 and 
1922 
reportedly to provide employees of the plant with convenient 
dicing services and improve public confidence in the Bank, Applicant 
nov; owns 59 per cent of the stock of Bank, and two directors of Appli-
° a n t own, respectively, an additional 2 and 3.4 per cent of Bank's 
st°ck. Applicant or its predecessors have held control of Bank con-
fcin 
^ously for the past 50 years; and it appears that the relationship 
bet^een Applicant and Bank has been beneficial to Bank and to the residents 
^ the East Alton community, many of whom are employed at Applicant's 
Pl«*t there. 

k. 3307 
-3-
Bank (about $18 millibn of deposits) was established in 
*904 in Bethaltoi Illinois, and moved to its present location near 
the main gate of Applicant's East Alton plant in 1916. Although it 
is the only bank in East Alton, Bank is one of 20 banks located in 
Edison County and holds 4.6 per cent of total commercial bank 
deposits in the County. East Alton is located approximately 20 miles 
fr°tn St. Louis, Missouri, and is included in the St. Louis Standard 
Metropolitan Statistical Area, Bank's deposits amount to .3 per cent 
the total commercial bank deposits of the approximately 150 banks 
in the St. Louis area. The large number of competing commercial banks 
Seated within a few miles of East Alton provide numerous banking 
alternatives to residents of that community. However, the location of 
Bank i n East Alton has provided its residents with convenient access to 
fi*iancial services. 
Bank's total assets (about $20 million) amount to less than 
2 
Per cent of Applicant's total assets of over $1 billion. The net 
itlcome of Bank constitutes only a fraction of one per cent of Appli-
Ca*t's total income. 
The record contains nothing to suggest that Applicant has 
^sused Bank's services for the benefit of Applicant's other interests 
in view of the size disparity between Bank and Applicant, and 
^ e 8mall size of Bank in relation to the surrounding banking market, 
^uture misuse of Bank by Applicant seems unlikely. 

3 3 n s 
-2-
Based on the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
the record, the Board has determined, pursuant to § 4(d)(1) of 
fche Act, that an exemption is warranted to avoid disrupting a business 
relationship that has existed over a long period of years without 
Aversely affecting the banks or the communities involved; and pursuant 
to § 4(d)(3), that Bank is so small in relation to the total interests 
ot Olin Corporation and so small in relation to the banking market 
Served by Bank as to minimize the likelihood that Bank's powers to 
S^ant or deny credit may be influenced by a desire to further Olin's 
°ther interests. Accordingly, an exemption pursuant to § 4(d) of the 
is hereby granted; provided, however, that this determination is 
subject to revocation if the facts upon which it is based change in 
1/ 
ai*y material respect. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 7, 1971. 
(Signed) 
Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
gj Voting 
for this action; Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^tchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Governor 
Sh 

Item No. 4 ' 
12/7/71 
33o9 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER COMPANY 
Order Approving Exemption of Nonbanking Activities 
of Bank Holding Company 
The Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Alcron, Ohio ("Applicant"), 
a bank holding company by virtue of 100 per cent ownership (less direc-
tors' qualifying shares) of The Goodyear Bank, Akron, Ohio ("Bank"), 
h a s aPPlied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 4(d) of the 
Bar*fc Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(d)), for an exemption 
fr 
° m the prohibitions of section 4 (relating to nonbanking activities 
and acquisitions). 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Pederal Register on August 5, 1971 (36 Federal Register 14422), pro-
v i n g an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
fill-
's or request a hearing with respect to this matter. Time for 
nB comments and views has expired and all those received have 
considered. 
N0 request for a hearing has been received. 
Section 4(d) of the Act provides that, to the extent such 
action would not substantially be at variance with the purposes of 
th 
e Act and subject to such conditions as it considers necessary to 
ect the public interest, the Board may grant an exemption from 
8ecti °n 4 of the Act to any bank holding company which controlled one 
Prior to July 1, I960, and has not thereafter acquired the control 

, . 3310 
- 2 -
of 
any other bank in order (1) to avoid disrupting business relationships 
fchat have existed over a long period of years without adversely affecting 
the 
banks or communities involved, (2) to avoid forced sales of small 
l°cally owned banks to purchasers not similarly representative of com-
munity interests, or (3) to allow retention of banks that are so small 
in relation to the holding company's total interests and so small in 
Elation to the banking market to be served as to minimize the likeli-
hood that the bank's powers to grant or deny credit may be influenced 
by a desire to further the holding company's other interests. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
Actors set forth in section 4(d) of the Act, and finds that: 
Goodyear, located in Akron, Ohio, since its organization in 
is this country's major manufacturer of tires and rubber products 
($3.2 billion in net sales in 1970). It established Bank in 1933 to 
Provide its employees with a safe depository for their funds. Approxi-
mately 50 per cent of Bank's customers are Applicant's employees. The 
°Vtlfcrship has existed for nearly 40 years, a period of affiliation of 
Efficient duration to bring Applicant within the time frame of 
Action 4(d)(1). The relationship has not had an adverse effect on 
•i i 
bank or communities involved. Bank (deposits $96 million)-' has 
been conservatively managed and its capital position has remained 
2/ 
str°ng.~ 
There hoo been no misuse of Bank by Applicant, 
T r — — 
y 
Banking data are as of December 31, 1970. 
Applicant has never withdrawn cash dividends from Bank; thereby 
Permitting Bank to retain all of its net earnings after taxes to 
lengthen its equity position. 

-u 
3311 
Bank's tot&i assets ($10C million) a re about 3 per cent of 
Applicant's consolidated nonbank assets and represent less than 1 per 
Cent of Applicant's earnings and net worth, a size disparity within 
the limits of section 4(d)(3). Bank has its main office in the City 
Akron and operates seven branches in Summit County. The Akron 
banking market, which includes Summit and Portage Counties, is served 
ky 14 banks, five of which are headquartered in Akron. Bank is the 
tallest of those five banks, and controls 7.2 per cent of market area 
dePosits. It is about one-fifth the size of the largest independent 
Akr 
v 
r°n bank, which controls 36.6 per cent of market deposits, and com-
Petes with Ohio's three largest multi-bank holding companies, which 
c°ntrol the second, sixth and eighth largest banks in the market 
area.!' 
The legislative history of section 4(d) indicates that 
Co 
Egress considered Applicant likely to be one of the companies en-
v i e d to an exemption. (116 Cong. Rec., H11790, S20653) After 
*eview of the entire record, the Board concludes that the granting of 
th 
ie subject application would not bo substantially at variance with 
Purposes of the Act. 
3 7 - v 
th 
application is pending before the Board whereby, if approved, 
n e
e f°urth largest bank in the market area would be controlled by a 
formed holding company which would become the State's second 
rSest holding company. 

I 
3312 
- 2 -
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
tlle reasons summarized above, provided, however, that this determina-
tio1* is subject to revocation by the Board if the facts upon which 
it 1 i 
ls based change in any material respect^/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 7, 1971. 
(Signed) Tyaan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
ilit
V°tin8 for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Ilaisel, and Brimmer. Absent and not votings Governor 
^nerrtii. 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
. 3 3 1 . 3 
. 
DF THE 
Item No. 5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
12/7/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
AODRF.ua OFFICIAL CCIRREIIPONUENCE 
TO THE OQARD 
December 8, 1971 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
^99 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of July 14, 1971, the Board 
°f Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") (1) to 
Purchase and hold up to 390,000 7-1/2 per cent cumulative convertible 
Preferred shares with voting rights of The Hamilton Group Ltd. ("HGL"), 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, at a cost of approximately Can.$3,900,000, 
and (2) to convert such shares to common shares on a one-for-one basis, 
Provided the total voting rights of FNCOIC and any affiliate of FNCOIC 
do not exceed 35 per cent of HGL1s outstanding voting rights and that 
the preferred shares are acquired within three years from the date of 
this letter. 
In reviewing this application, the Board noted that HGL is 
now predominantly engaged in financial leasing activities but that 
some activities of a nonfinancial character continue to be conducted, 
either directly ou indirectly through subsidiaries. 
Corporations 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act are chartered 
for the purpose of engaging in international or foreign banking or 
other international or foreign financial operations. However, the 
Board understands that it is the intention of HGL's management to 
discontinue such nonfinancial activities and to dispose of its.sub-
sidiaries engaged in such activities. 
The foregoing consent is granted on the condition that 
FNCOIC and its affiliates elect no more than one-third of the directors 
°f HGL, that FNCOIC and its affiliates not participate in the day-to-
day management of HGL, and that FNCOIC and its affiliates will not 
in any other manner exercise effective control of HGL. Moreover, 
FNCOIC shall furnish the Board with a copy of any shareholders' agree-
ment to which FNCOIC is or becomes a party and any amendments thereto. 

.. . 3 3 1 1 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
The continued holding by « C 0 I C o£ shares o£ HG. shall b o t h e r 
conditioned on HGL's nonfinancial activities remanuu b 
in piop«tlon to its total business and on HGL 
commencing or 
acquiring any new nonfinancial business except with prior Boaru 
approval. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3315 
Item No. 6 
12/7/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NORTRUST CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Trust Company 
' » 
• 
Nortrust Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, which received 
&°ard approval on October 26, 1971, to become a bank holding 
company, has applied for the Board's approval under § 4(c)(8) of 
t h e Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and § 225,4(b)(2) 
of the Board's Regulation Y to acquire all of the voting shares (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of Security Trust Company, Miami, Florida. 
Ih r, 
e Florida Commissioner of Banking, pursuant to provisions of State 
*aw> has given his approval to the proposed acquisition. Notice of the 
^Plication, affording opportunity for interested persons to submit 
c°mments and views, has been duly published. The time for filing comments 
atlci views has expired and all those received have been considered. 
The operation by a bank holding company of a trust company is 
if. activity that the Board has determined is closely related to banking 
if conducted in the manner authorized by State law, so long as the 
*"nstitution does not both accept demand deposits and make commercial loans 
j 
fche activities of the institution are not conducted in a manner that 
1,8 inconsistent with limitations the Board has established pursuant to 
5 4(c)(8) of the Act in § 225,4(c) of Regulation Y. 
It appears that Security Trust Company does not accept demand 
dePosits and engages solely in the activities described in S 225.4(a)(4) 
^ Regulation Y, Accordingly, the activities of the company are closely 
tQlated to banking. 

i 
331G 
Security Trust Company, which administers total trust assets 
o f approximately $125 million, has its only office in Miamir and 
Primarily serves Dade and Broward Counties in Florida. With only 8.6 
p e r cent of the total trust assets in these two counties, Security 
is the fifth largest fiduciary, and'is not dominant in the area. 
The Northern Trust Company, the only presently approved 
Subsidiary of Nortrust Corporation, is located in Chicago, and 
Ministers trust assets of approximately $4.7 billion, which places 
^hird among the Chicago banks and thirteenth among the commercial 
banks in the nation offering trust services. The Northern Trust 
CoiIlPany derives only an insignificant amount of its trust assets from 
the x 
I 
e Miami area, and does not actively solicit that area for trust 
business. Additionally, in light of the distance of over 1,400 miles 
ePatating Northern Trust Company from Security, it does not appear 
that 
any significant competition would be eliminated by the proposed 
aC^isition. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consum-
niatirt 
n of the proposed transaction would result in any undue concentra-
tion rvP 
resources, unfair competition, conflicts of interest, unsound 
practices, or other adverse effects on the public interest. 
On t, 
e other hand, consummation of the proposal would enhance Security's 
abUitv 
Ey to offer a comprehensive range of fiduciary and trust related 
SetVir> 
s to the residents of the Miami area. Consequently, Security 
be better able to serve its customers and to compete more 
Actively with the other fiduciaries in the area. 

i . 331/ 
-2-
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
Merest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
favorable. Accordingly, the proposed activity is a proper incident 
t o banking or managing or controlling banks within the meaning of 
*-hat section, and the application is approved, Provided, however, 
^at this action is subject to revocation by the Board if the facts 
u 
1/ 
n which it is based change in any material respect. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 7, 1971. 
(SEAL] 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
aue, and Maisel. Voting against this action: Governors Robertson 
^ 
Brimmer. 
Da 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF VICE CHAIRMAN ROBERTSON 
AND GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
We would disapprove the application by Nortrust Corporation 
°f Chicago to acquire Security Trust Company of Miami. The activities 
°f Security Trust Company are "closely related" to banking, in the 
s<mse in which that term is used in the Bank Holding Company Act, 
fact, trust activities have long been regarded as a part of the • 
banking business. Many banks operate trust departments. Because of 
this fact we have qualms about permitting the utilization of the Bank 
Holding Company Act to enable a holding company that controls a large 
Chicago trust company (that is also a bank) to buy up other trust 
c°mpanies (that technically are not banks under the Holding Company 
A c t) in other sections of the country. These qualms are enhanced by 
t h e fact that trust companies often generate large amounts of unin-
Vested trust funds, held awaiting investment, which could be funnelled 
to an affiliated bank in the Holding Company System located in 
dlstant cities. However, our dissent in this case is based on 
even more fundamental grounds. 
Under the law and the Board's Regulation Y, even 
^ough the activities of Security Trust Company are "closely 
Elated" to the banking business, the application may not be 
aPproved unless the acquisition can reasonably be expected to 

3319 
Produce benefits to the public that outweigh possible adverse effects -
y 
l n other words, unless the acquittion would be in the public interest, 
2/ 
The burden of proof is upon the Applicant, and we are not 
Satisfied that the alleged benefits would outweigh the adverse effects. 
Furthermore, in our view, the benefits that the majority indicates 
would result from the acquisition could be achieved by means more con-
ducive to promoting competition. Consequently, the acquisition would 
n°t be in the public interest, 
1/ The Statement of the Managers on the Part of the House when the 19?v 
*toendmants W^ra under consideration is unequivocal in this respect: 
The effect of section 4(c)(8) as a whole is to establish, 
in effect, two tests for the Federal Reserve Board to 
use in deciding cases under section 4(c)(8), , , , Even 
if the activity is found by the Board to be closely 
related to banking, it must also determine whether it 
meets the public benefits test. In that sense, the Board 
may find in a particular case that it cannot approve a 
proposed activity for a specific bank holding company 
because it fails to meet the second test even though it 
may determine that it is closely related to banking. , « , 
Now both tests must be met, Cong. Rec., Dec. 15, 1970 
(Daily Ed.) H 11692, 
u 
* * » The conferees make it perfectly clear that expansion into a particular 
c£ivity should be authorized only where affirmative advantages to the 
P^lic can be reasonably established." Remarks of Sen. Goodell during 
Senate debate on the Conference Report, Cong. Rec., Dec, 18, 1970 
V U aUy Ed.) S 20645, 
also remarks of Rep, Patman, Cong. Rec., Dec. 16, 1970 (Daily Ed.) 
11787; letter dated Nov, 23, 1970, from Chairman Burns to Rep. Patman, 
ePrinted Cong. Rec.. Dec. 18, 1970 (Daily Ed,) S 20649-50, 

1. 3320 
4 * 
Nortirufct's sole banking subsidiary, the Northern Trust Company 
» 
Chicago, trust assets $4.7 billion, ranks thirteenth among commercial 
banks in the country that offer trust services. Security Trust Company 
Miami administers trust assets of about $125 million and is the 
fifth largest fiduciary institution in the area. The substitition of 
Nortrust1s ownership for existing ownership would not necessarily 
increase competition. If Nortrust were establishing a trust affiliate 
novo in Miami, or even if it were seeking a foothold acquisition in 
^e area, it could be argued that competition was being increased and 
that the public would benefit thereby. But that is not the case here. 
Obviously, the acquisition of Security would preclude any 
likelihood of entry by Nortrust as a new competitive force among 
fiduciary institutions in the Miami area. Hence, the proposal would 
have an adverse effect on competition by removing Applicant as a 
The House Managers stated this specifically: 
In connection with the overall application of the 
public benefits test, it is important to emphasize 
that the bank holding company making application 
under Section 4(c)(8) must bear the burden of proof 
in showing that its carrying on of a particular non-
bank activity would produce benefits to the public 
that outweigh any adverse effects. Statement of the 
Managers on the Part of the House, Cong. Rec., Dec. 15, 
1970 (Daily Ed.) H 11691. 
also remarks of Sen. Goodell during the Senate debate on the 
°oference report, Cong. Rec., Dec. 18, 1970 (Daily Ed.) S 20645. 

; 
3321 
- 4 -
2/ 
Possible de novo ehtrant into the Miami area. 
Nortrust possesses 
n°t only the financial resources but also the professional expertise 
fo* meaningful participation in the Miami area by establishing a new 
trust company to serve the increasing need for fiduciary services in 
that area. 
/ 
Although the record indicates that the area could easily 
8uPport another trust company, Applicant has chosen to enter the 
Market through the acquisition of one of the area's principal fiduciaries, 
thereby establishing Applicant as a dominant organization in Miami and 
r®tarding entry by other institutions fearful of Applicant's existing 
c°mpetitive strength. The majority points to no new services that 
be offered by the trust company as an affiliate of Applicant 
vhich could not be introduced by Applicant through a newly established 
trust company. Moreover, in addition to providing Applicant's full 
*ange of trust services, do novo entry would further the public 
interest by adding an alternative source for fiduciary services. 
In connection with acquisitions of mortgage companies by bank 
Elding 
companies, the Department of Justice on December 3, 1971, sub-
mitted to the Board a memorandum which, among other things, pointed 
P^Congress noted that the Board's responsibilities under section 
(c)(8) include assessment of potential competition: "Equally important 
W i U be adverse competitive effects which may result from a bank holding 
c°rcpany's acquisition of a going concern with which it may not presently 
£°nipete." Statement of Managers on the Part of the House, Cong. Rec.a 
15, 1970 (Daily Ed.) H 11691. 

3322 
-2-
°ut its view that, whereas de novo entry by a bank holding company in 
Mortgage banking provides new competition, entrance through acquisition 
of a major mortgage banking firm eliminates the acquiring holding company 
as a potential new competitive force. The memorandum stated that an 
acquisition "which merely substitutes one of the leading potential 
entrants for an existing market leader is likely to have a significant 
Averse effect". We believe that these statements are equally applicable 
to the present proposal under which one of the leading trust companies of 
the country would in effect take the place of the fifth largest trust 
ir*stitution 
in the Miami area. 
Of equal concern to us is the precedential effect that today's 
B°ard decision may have on the future expansion of holding companies 
into the activities which the Board has determined to be closely related 
to banking pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Board's action here, if followed in other like cases, would enable 
folding companies to expand their bank related activities into new 
ge°graphical areas through the acquisition of substantial going concerns, 
eVen though the holding companies possessed the capability of de novo 
and the areas would support such entry. To us, such action is 
n o t in the public interest and is contrary to the Congressional intent 
in authorizing the Board to distinguish between de novo entry and acqui-
sition 
of going concerns. Indeed, if every effort by a holding company 
to expand its bank related activities into a new geographical area were 
acquiring a significant going concern and the Board were to permit 

-2-
3323 
that type of expansion, any hope for deconcentration and increased 
competition in those industries involving bank related activities 
appears lost. 
For the foregoing reasons, we would deny the application. 
December 7, 1971 

3324 
Item No. 7 
12/7/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
UNITED BANKS OF COLORADO, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Banks of Colorado, Inc., Denver, Colorado, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval under 
Section 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 
8 o 
Per cent or more of the voting shares of Colorado Commercial 
Colorado Springs, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given 
in Accordance with section 3(b) of the Act, and the time for 
•^ng comments and views has expired. The Board has considered 
th 
e application and all comments received in the light of the 
f*ctors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) 
finds that: 
Applicant is the second largest banking organization 
bank holding company in Colorado controlling 9 banks which 
^ 
14.7 
per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in 
C°lorado ($641.7 million). 
(Banking data are as of December 31, 
amended to reflect holding company formations and acquxsi-
i o n s approved to date.) Consummation of the proposal would 
Appiicant control over an additional .4 per cent of total 
QPosits and would not change its ranking. It would, however, 

3 3 2 S 
* - • Vs; • H; ':.•: ,,. 
' • •• i- v $f|:; 1 - 
• 
'1 : lilPl 
^ake Applicant the first holdihg company to have a banking 
Subsi(3iary in each of the six principal banking markets in 
C°iorado. Bank (deposits $16*3 million) is the smallest of 
f°Ur banks located in downtown Colorado Springs and is the 
fifth largest in the Colorado Springs banking market. 
^Plicant's nearest subsidiary is in Pueblo,43 miles south 
Of 
* an k, and there is no significant competition between 
and this or any other of Applicant's subsidiaries. 
nsurrnnation o f the proposal would have no adverse effects 
listing competition and, due to the distances separating 
and Applicant's subsidiaries and Colorado law prohibiting 
would be unlikely to have any adverse effects on 
U r e competition. Bank is presently affiliated by common 
nership with the second largest bank in the market and 
Su«m\ation of the proposal would have a procompetitive 
h 
w 
°y breaking that affiliation and adding a new competitor 
° t h * market. 
The financial and managerial condition and prospects of 
and its subsidiary banks are (upon consideration of a 
augmenting of capital) satisfactory and consistent 
approval. Bank's financial and managerial condition are 
^ i s f actory. Bank has failed to keep pace in deposit growth 

3326 
- 2 -
vith other banks in the market. Applicant's corporate marketing 
and its expertise in the fields of advertising, market 
to 
Search and industrial development should assist in bank's 
gt°wth and Bank's prospects are favorable. These considerations 
some weight toward approval. The banking convenience and 
or the Colorado Springs area seem 
adequately served. 
HQV/O-.. 
ver, Applicant should enable Bank to upgrade its services 
u e s e considerations lend some weight toward approval. 
It i 
s the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction is 
in th 
a e public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is 
1 / 
V ed for the reasons summarized above. 
The transaction 
not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
f 
following the date of this Order or (b) later than three 
s after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
o f Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 1* 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
^ v S t r — 
i n9 for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
not v 0, O n' M i t c h e 1 1 ' Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. Absent and 
ting? 
Governor Sherrill. 
