Minutes for January 24, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 

252 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, January 24, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal and Mrs. Heller, Senior Attorneys, 
Legal Division 
Mr. Maguire, Supervisory Review Examiner, 
Division of Examinations 
Reports on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency of a report on 
the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Southern 
National Bank of North Carolina, Lumberton, North Carolina, and The 
Bank of Mayodan, Mayodan, North Carolina, the conclusion reading as 
follows: 

253 
1/24/67 
-12-
Consummation of the proposed merger would eliminate 
a small amount of existing and potential competition be-
tween The Bank of Mayodan and the Leaksville branches of 
Southern National Bank of North Carolina, Lumberton, and 
enhance the present competitive position of Southern 
National Bank of North Carolina in the Mayodan-Leaksville 
area. The overall competitive effect of the proposed 
transaction appears to be somewhat adverse. 
Unanimous approval was given to the transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation of a report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of First National Bank of Bristol, 
Bristol, Vermont, with Chittenden Trust Company, Burlington, Vermont, 
the conclusion reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of First National 
Bank of Bristol with Chittenden Trust Company, Burlington, 
would eliminate some competition existing between them, re-
duce the alternative banking facilities within a 12-mile 
radius of Bristol from 3 to 2, and increase slightly banking 
resources held by the now largest commercial bank in the 
State. The overall competitive effect of the transaction 
would be adverse. 
Question of holding company status (Item No. 1). As recommended 
in a distributed memorandum from the Legal Division dated January 20, 
1967, unanimous approval was given to a letter to The First National 
Bank of Fort Worth, Fort Worth, Texas, in response to a request for a 
determination with respect to the status of that bank and its subsidiary, 
First National Company, under the provisions of the Bank Holding Company 
Act as amended in 1966. The letter (copy attached as Item No. 1) 
reflected a conclusion that the bank qualified as a bank holding company 
under the Act but that the subsidiary did not so qualify. 

251 
1/24/67 
-12-
Questions re services of branch directors. 
It was reported 
that Lawrence E. Walkley, a Board-appointed director of the Pittsburgh 
Branch, Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, had been approached to become 
a director of a finance company and that Mr. Walkley had inquired whether 
there would be any objection to a Reserve Bank branch director serving in 
such capacity. Members of the Board's staff had been unable to discover 
any direct precedent. 
Expressions by members of the Board reflected a consensus that 
no objection should be indicated. However, there was a suggestion that 
it might be advisable to obtain further information about the finance 
company that was involved, for example, whether it was a captive company 
of an industrial organization or a company that owned a bank. It was 
suggested that it might be prudent not to regard a decision to interpose 
no objection as a precedent for general application, at least in the 
abs ence of such information. 
Accordingly, it was understood that further information as to 
the finance company here in question would be obtained. 
Secretary's Note: 
At the Board meeting 
on Wednesday, January 25, it was reported 
that Mr. Walkley had been asked to become 
a director of Commercial Credit Corpora-
tion. No objection to his serving in such 
capacity while also serving as a branch 
director was indicated, and it was under-
stood that the Cleveland Reserve Bank 
would be advised to that effect. 
It was also reported that Donald B. Campbell, a Board-appointed 
director of the Houston Branch, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, who had 

255 
1/24/67 
-12-
retired from his position with E . I. du Pont de Nemours 6c Company, was 
now shifting into the consulting field. Mr. Campbell had been asked by 
a national bank in Orange, Texas, to provide a consulting service on em-
ployee and union matters on a fee basis, and it was understood that this 
service might involve perhaps five or six days a month. Mr. Campbell 
had raised the question whether, if he entered into the arrangement, there 
would be objection to his continuing to serve as a branch director. 
It was agreed that the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas should be 
advised that the Board perceived no objection to the arrangement as 
described. 
Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea (Item No. 2). A distributed 
memorandum from the Division of International Finance dated January 23, 
1967, recommended approval of the action of the Board of Directors of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in authorizing the opening and 
maintenance of an account in the name of the Foreign Exchange Bank of 
Korea. 
The opening and maintenance of the account was approved unani-
mously; a copy of the telegram sent to the New York Reserve Bank is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum from Mr. Hackley dated January 23, 1967, attaching 
a draft memorandum reflecting tentative views of the Coordinating Com-
mittee on Bank Regulation regarding certain legislative matters as to 

256 
1/24/67 
-12-
which the Committee's views had been requested by Under Secretary of 
the Treasury Barr. The draft memorandum was subject to revision after 
consideration by the Board and by the members of the Coordinating Com-
mittee . 
M r . Barr had asked, as one item, for the Committee's views on 
legislation regarding Federal control of foreign banks in the United 
States, particularly the locus of regulatory authority, insurance of 
deposits of foreign banks in this country, and means for preventing 
nationwide branching by such banks. 
According to the draft memorandum, the Committee had tentatively 
reached the conclusion that the only sound basis for legislation in this 
area was the desirability of assuring reciprocity with foreign govern-
ments, which objective the Committee felt could be achieved simply by 
requiring initial "clearance" by the Department of State. Such clearance, 
which would involve consideration of U.S. foreign policy, would apply to 
entry into this country by a foreign bank either through the establishment 
of a wholly-owned subsidiary or the operation of branches or agencies. 
In 
giving its clearance, the State Department could make its approval subject 
to conditions, such as a limitation on the State or States in which opera-
tions might be carried on. 
In contrast to the bill introduced by Senator Javits, the type of 
legislation suggested by the Coordinating Committee would not involve any 
overlay of supervision of foreign banking in the United States at the 

2 5 7 
1/24/67 
-12-
Federal level, thus avoiding any question as to the locus of regulatory-
authority among the Federal bank supervisory authorities. 
The extent 
to which a foreign bank could do business in more than one State would 
depend upon the banking laws of the several States, as at present, 
subject, however, to any conditions imposed by the Department of State. 
For example, the ability of a subsidiary bank in New York to do business 
in another State would be determined by the laws of such other State with 
respect to the operation within its borders of out-of-State corporations. 
As to insurance of deposits, it was the tentative view of the 
Committee that because the soundness of a branch was dependent upon 
actions of a foreign bank over which no control could be exercised, the 
deposits in branches or agencies of foreign banks should not be insured 
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Deposits in national banks 
or State-chartered banks controlled by foreign banks would, of course, be 
insured as at present. Chairman Randall of the Corporation suggested 
that in such cases the Corporation be accorded a right to join with the 
Comptroller of the Currency or the Federal Reserve in examinations of 
such banks. Governor Robertson believed that in appropriate cases, where 
risks seemed great, this could be arranged without further legislation. 
Governor Robertson, who was serving during the current quarter 
as Chairman of the Coordinating Committee, commented on the tentative 
views expressed in the draft memorandum and pointed out that he did not 
know whether they would be acceptable to the other members of the Coor-
dinating Committee. He said, among other things, that the Comptroller 

1/24/67 
-7-
of the Currency had mentioned that about 95 per cent of the foreign 
branches of U.S. banks were branches of national banks, which led the 
Comptroller to suggest that the authority vested in the Board with 
respect to foreign operations of national banks be turned over to the 
Comptroller, if legislation was passed providing for regulation at the 
Federal level of foreign banking in the United States. However, the 
question of locus of authority would be avoided under a plan such as 
set forth in the draft memorandum. 
In reply to a question about branching across State lines, 
Governor Robertson said that under the draft proposal the State Depart-
ment could lay down whatever conditions it wished. It would be in a 
position to say in how many States a foreign bank could operate. 
Mr. 
Hackley commented that at present foreign banks can establish branches 
in only a relatively few States. If a foreign bank should establish a 
subsidiary bank in the United States, the subsidiary would be limited 
as to branches in the same manner as domestic banks. What was contem-
plated under the draft proposal was that the State Department could lay 
down conditions providing that applicant foreign banks could have branches 
in only a certain State or States. 
In reply to another question, Mr. Shay said that Senator Javits 
had not yet introduced a new bill in this session of the Congress. 
As 
matters stood, the Board had told Senator Javits that it would provide 
a
 report after the first of this year on the bill introduced at the last 
session. 

259 
1/24/67 
-12-
Governor Robertson commented that the purpose of the present 
exercise was to aid the Treasury in determining what type of legislative 
proposal the Treasury would prefer. He emphasized that Mr. Barr had not 
as yet received an expression of views from the Coordinating Committee 
and that there was no indication as to what position the Treasury ulti-
mately would take. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the draft proposal did 
not resolve the question posed by the Javits bill. Placing the authority 
for initial clearance in the State Department would avoid the question 
rather than resolve the issue. 
Governor Robertson replied that the idea of the draft proposal 
was to leave banking questions in the hands of the bank supervisory 
authorities, following which Governor Brimmer commented that the original 
objective was to avoid diversity of treatment of foreign banks, which 
suggested the need for legislation at the Federal level. The question 
of locus of Federal regulatory authority was secondary. The fact that 
foreign banks could enter the United States and do business in a number 
of States gave them an advantage over domestic banks, and he could not 
see that the draft proposal would solve that problem. 
Governor Robertson replied that the State Department would have 
Power to lay down any conditions it wished with respect to a foreign 
bank doing business in this country. The foreign bank could not enter 
the U.S. without first obtaining State Department approval. Once having 

260 
1/24/67 
-12-
gotten such approval, it could go to the regulatory authority of its 
choice, that is, either State or Federal. 
Governor Brimmer repeated that he could see nothing in the 
proposal saying that a foreign bank would not be able to do business 
in a greater number of States than a domestic bank. Governor Maisel 
indicated that he was not sure there was anything wrong with a foreign 
bank being able to do business in a number of States. He mentioned the 
problem of reciprocity. Governor Brimmer suggested that that was a 
problem that should be left to the Congress to resolve. 
Governor Brimmer again expressed the opinion that banking func-
tions should be vested in the bank supervisory agencies, and Governor 
Robertson replied that the Coordinating Committee also had come to the 
conclusion, at least tentatively, that banking factors should be left 
in the hands of the banking agencies. Under the proposal, however, 
questions of foreign policy and international reciprocity would be left 
to the State Department. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that as an alternative the bank 
regulatory authorities could be required to consult with the State 
Department. He added that he felt the alternative options should still 
be before the Board. He would prefer that the power to grant entry into 
the United States be vested in a bank regulatory agency, and specifically 
the Federal Reserve Board. 
Governor Robertson observed that the Board was not precluded from 
taking any position it wished if a bill was introduced. At that point 

261 
1/24/67 
-12-
the Board would be free to make whatever recommendation it desired. 
Governor Brimmer, however, expressed apprehension that presentation 
of the views of the Coordinating Committee would "give away the case." 
Under Secretary Barr had also requested the Committee's views 
regarding a proposal to extend for two years the interest rate control 
legislation that was passed in September 1966. 
According to the draft memorandum, the Coordinating Committee 
favored making permanent the present temporary legislation. 
However, 
it felt that such a recommendation should be initiated by the Federal 
banking agencies and should be buttressed by experience under the present 
temporary law. Therefore, a recommendation should not be made until late 
spring at the earliest. Furthermore, the Coordinating Committee believed 
that the present temporary legislation should be extended so as to apply 
to noninsured savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks, and 
commercial banks. 
Governors Maisel and Brimmer inquired what basis would be used 
in fixing ceiling rates for noninsured institutions. They noted that 
such an institution presumably had to offer a higher rate of return than 
an insured institution in order to compensate for the greater risk. At 
present an institution had the right to remain uninsured, but the depos-
itor had the right to decide what rate of return the uninsured institution 
had to pay in order to be competitive. The question was how the regula-
tory agencies could determine what differential should be allowed, and 
whether it was not better to leave that judgment to market processes. 

12 
1/24/67 
-12-
Governors Maisel and Brimmer indicated that in their view it 
would be preferable if the report by the Coordinating Committee to Mr. 
Barr did not include the sentence relating to noninsured institutions. 
Governor Brimmer said he would prefer to push a campaign to require 
that all institutions be insured, but Governor Maisel pointed out that 
question then would arise as to institutions such as credit unions and 
industrial banks. 
Governor Shepardson indicated that, like Governors Maisel and 
Brimmer, he questioned the wisdom of a proposal that the present tempo-
rary legislation be extended to apply to noninsured institutions. 
On the question of determining ceiling rates for noninsured 
institutions, Governor Robertson said that he would favor imposing the 
same ceilings for all institutions, both insured and noninsured. 
Governor Maisel commented that he would be willing to say that 
there should be insurance of accounts to the extent that there was a 
need for protection. However, there was the possibility that savings 
and loan associations could convert to industrial banks or credit unions. 
Under Secretary Barr had also requested the views of the Coordi-
nating Committee on legislation to provide for the Federal chartering of 
mutual savings banks. 
The draft memorandum would raise the question whether there was 
any real need for such legislation. It would indicate that the Coordi-
nating Committee had no objection to the extension to savings banks of 
the dual system now afforded to commercial banks and savings and loan 

263 
1/24/67 
-12-
associations, or to the provision of savings bank facilities in the many-
States presently not chartering such banks. The draft memorandum would, 
however, raise questions about particular features of the pending bill 
and would suggest that any enlargement of the powers of mutual savings 
banks or those of savings and loan associations be accompanied by appro-
priate limitations and restrictions that would place such institutions on 
a fair competitive basis with commercial banks. The view would also be 
expressed that the role of banks and all types of financial institutions 
should be made a part of a broad comprehensive study by a commission sim-
ilar to the Pujo Commission, which made such a study prior to enactment 
of the Federal Reserve Act, in order to eliminate inequities, increase 
competition, and provide more adequate financial services and facilities 
for the American public. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the hope that the Board would take 
a positive position on the Federal chartering of mutual savings banks 
as a useful measure. He would like to see the Board throw its weight 
behind such legislation rather than simply to interpose no objection. 
It was understood that Governor Robertson, in considering further 
the points covered in the draft memorandum, would have in mind the views 
that had been expressed at today's meeting on the several questions 
raised by Under Secretary Barr with the Coordinating Committee. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
1/24/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 25, 1967 
Mr. Paul Mason, President, 
The First National Bank of Fort Worth, 
Fort Worth, Texas. 76101 
Dear Mr. Mason: 
This refers to your letter dated November 28, 1966, -
enclosing a letter of the same date addressed to you by the 
law firm of Cantey, Hanger, Gooch, Cravens & Scarborough. 
These letters, which were forwarded to the Board by the Dallas 
Reserve Bank, request a determination with respect to the 
status of The First National Bank of Fort Worth and its sub-
sidiary, First National Company, under the provisions of the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended in 1966 (the "Act"). 
The facts presented show that 100 per cent of the 
stock of First National Company is held by trustees for the 
benefit of the shareholders of The First National Bank of Fort 
Worth. Under the provisions of section 2(g)(2)(B) of the Act, 
the stock of First National Company is controlled by, and the 
Company is a subsidiary of, The First National Bank of Fort Worth. 
First National Company is represented as having control 
of 36.99 per cent of the stock of University State Bank. Under 
the provisions of section 2(g)(1) of the Act, such control is 
imputed to the parent company, The First National Bank of Fort 
Worth. By virtue of the same provisions, First National Bank 
controls also, through its subsidiary (the First National 
Company), 24 per cent of Security State Bank, 24 per cent of 
Seminary State Bank, and 24.9 per cent of Gateway National Bank. 
Section 2(g)(2)(C) of the Act provides, in pertinent 
part, that shares held or controlled by trustees for the 
benefit of employees of a company shall be deemed to be con-
trolled by such company. Under these provisions, shares held by 
trustees of the Employees Pension Trust for the benefit of 

2 6 5 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL 
RESERVE 
SYSTEM 
Mr. Paul Mason 
-2~ 
employees of The First National Bank of Fort Worth are deemed 
to be controlled by that bank. The First National Bank of 
Fort Worth is deemed, therefore, to control the shares of the 
wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Employees Pension Trust, 
namely, Security Corporation of River Oaks and Seminary Corpo-
ration; and, under the provisions of section 2(g)(2)(A), 
controls the shares owned or controlled by these subsidiaries, 
namely, 27 per cent of the stock of Security State Bank and 
24.3 per cent of the stock of Seminary State Bank. 
On the basis of the facts presented, as discussed 
above, the Board finds that The First National Bank of Fort Worth 
controls 36.99 per cent of the stock of University State Bank, 
51 per cent of the stock of Security State Bank, and 48.3 per cent 
of the stock of Seminary State Bank; and The First National Bank 
of Fort Worth qualifies as a bank holding company under the Act. 
Inasmuch as First National Company appears to control 25 per cent 
or more of the stock of only one bank, it would not qualify as a 
bank holding company under the Act:. 
In its determination of the question presented, the 
Board has considered the facts submitted by you with'respect to 
the Voting Trust Agreements under which certain of the shares of 
stock of Security State Bank and Seminary State Bank are held, 
and the argument you present to the effect that, by virtue of 
such Voting Trust Agreements, said "shares are not controlled, 
directly or indirectly, for the benefit of The First National Bank 
of Fort Worth, its shareholders or its employees". Your argument 
appears to be based upon a claim that the Voting Trust Agreements 
were designed "for the benefit of Security State Bank and Seminary 
State Bank" and that the trustees under said Voting Trust Agree-
ments are neither officers nor directors of The First National 
Bank of Fort Worth, act independently of that bank and are not 
controlled, directly or indirectly, by that bank. In the judgment 
of the Board, your conclusion that The First National Bank of 
Fort Worth does not control the shares held under the Voting 
Trust Agreements for the benefit of Security Corporation of River 
Oaks and Seminary Corporation is not warranted under the provisions 
of the Act. The fact that ownership of 27.3 per cent of the stock 
of Security State Bank has been temporarily transferred (with 
power to vote) to trustees does not terminate the beneficial 
ownership of such shares by Security Corporation of River Oaks 
(or by Seminary Corporation with respect to the 24.3 per cent of 
shares of stock of Seminary State Bank placed into a Voting Trust); 
nor does the arrangement terminate the statutory control of such 
shares that is imputed to Security Corporation of River Oaks 

266 
BOARD 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE FEDERAL 
RESERVE 
SYSTEM 
Mr. Paul Mason 
- 3 -
(and Seminary Corporation) under the provisions of section 2(g)(2)(A) 
of the Act, nor terminate the control imputed (under section 2(g)(1) 
of the Act) to their parent companies, the Employees Pension Trust 
and The First National Bankcf Fort Worth. 
As you were.earlier advised by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Dallas, the Board granted your November 28, 1966 request for an 
extension of time, to and including March 31, 1967, within which 
The First National Bank of Forth Worth may file a registration 
statement. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M 
Item No 
LEASED WIRB fERVICH 
1/24/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
January 24, 1?67 
WAAGE - NEW YORK 
Your wire of January 19. The Board of Governors 
approves the opening and maintenance of an account by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York in the name of the Foreign 
Exchange Bank of Korea, subject to the usual terms and condi-
tions, with participation to be offered to the other Federal 
Reserve Banks. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
SHERMAN 
