609 
Minutes for 
February 15, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

513 
i 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, February 15, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Koch, Deputy Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mr. Shuter, Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Fisher, Senior Economist, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Pounds tone, Review Examiner, Division 
of Examinations 
Approved letters. The following letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item numbers indicated, were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background material that had been 
made available to the Board: 
1/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

514 
2/15/67 
-10-
Item No. 
Letter to The First Pennsylvania Banking and 
Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
approving the establishment of a branch at 
304 Walnut Street. 
1 
Letter to Lewistown Trust Company, Lewistown, 
Pennsylvania, approving the establishment of 
a branch in Mifflin County. 
2 
Letter to City National Bank of Detroit, 
Detroit, Michigan, granting its request for 
permission to accept drafts or bills of 
exchange drawn for the purpose of furnish-
ing dollar exchange. 
3 
Letter to Chase International Investment 
4 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
an indefinite extension of time to make 
further investments in Arcturus Investment 
& Development Ltd., Montreal, Canada. 
Messrs. Shay, Egertson, and Poundstone then withdrew from the 
meeting. 
Eligible paper bill. Chairman Martin noted that Senator 
Proxmire was preparing to introduce the so-called "eligible paper" bill 
in the same form as recommended previously by the Board to the Congress 
and as passed by the Senate at the last session. However, there were 
certain questions that Governor Maisel would like to present at this 
time. 
and loan industry and a staff member of the House Banking and Currency 
Committee had expressed to him in recent conversations the feeling that 
the Federal Reserve should be available as a lender of last resort to 
Governor Maisel reported that representatives of the savings 

515 
2/15/67 
-10-
savings and loan associations. 
The question raised by those comments 
was whether the Federal Reserve should retain a lending authority that 
would be terminated if the "eligible paper" bill were not changed, that 
is, the authority under paragraph 3 of section 13 of the Federal Reserve 
Act for Federal Reserve Banks, with the Board's approval, to make loans 
secured by eligible paper to individuals, partnerships, or corporations 
in emergency circumstances where credit was otherwise unavailable. 
In a discussion of this point, Mr. Hackley observed that the 
authority had never been used since the paragraph was added to the 
Federal Reserve Act in 1932. He noted that the "eligible paper" bill 
included a provision comparable to the last paragraph of the present 
section 13 authorizing the Federal Reserve Banks to make advances to 
individuals, partnerships, and corporations other than member banks on 
the security of direct obligations of the United States. 
Governor Maisel commented that this led to his second question: 
whether the Reserve Banks should have authority to purchase and sell 
general obligations of the United States in the open market under 
section 14 of the Federal Reserve Act but only to make advances under 
section 13 against direct obligations. 
In reply to a question about the origin of paragraph 3 of 
section 13, Mr. Hackley brought out that this provision, which involved 
a departure from the general concept that the System's credit facilities 
should be available to member banks only, was added during a banking 
crisis. 

516 
2/15/67 
-10-
Governor Mitchell observed that if other parties were interested 
in proposing an amendment to the "eligible paper" bill they could do so. 
That procedure, he felt, would be preferable to the Board's suggesting 
a change in the bill at this point. Governor Daane commented in simi-
lar vein. 
Governor Maisel questioned whether substitution of the word 
"general" for the word "direct" would amount to tinkering with the bill 
unduly. In view of a recent ruling by the Attorney General, it would 
appear that the mere substitution of the one word would make the lend-
ing authority of the Reserve Banks conform to the Banks' authority, as 
approved by the Congress last year, to purchase and sell agency obliga-
tions in the open market. 
Governor Mitchell pointed out that the "eligible paper" bill 
had consistently been recommended by the Board for the purpose of 
improving the discount mechanism in terms of its use by member banks. 
The bill had been accepted by interested parties on that basis. He 
continued to feel that it would be inadvisable for the Board to request 
a change in the bill at this point and that it would be preferable for 
other parties to suggest amendments if they so desired. 
Chairman Martin inquired whether the staff of the Senate Banking 
and Currency Committee was familiar with the point mentioned by Governor 
Maisel in regard to the effect of the use of "general" rather than 
"direct" obligations. 

517 
2/15/67 
-10-
Mr. Cardon replied that he was not certain to what extent the 
point may have been considered. However, he was aware that Senator 
Proxmire had been persuaded that the bill could be introduced at this 
session as a noncontroversial item and approved quickly by the Senate 
Committee on the basis that it was the same bill that had passed the 
Senate last year. Thus, any proposed change in the bill might tend to 
upset the contemplated time schedule. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that it would be inadvisable 
to press for any change in the bill that might be regarded as relatively 
unimportant if that would upset the time schedule. 
Governor Brimmer inquired at this point whether Governor Maisel 
was proposing simply a change in the bill that would put sections 13 
and 14 on the same footing, and Governor Maisel replied that he gathered 
the Board was not interested in anything more than that. 
In a further discussion for purpose of clarification, Mr. Hackley 
brought out that so far as advances to member banks were concerned the 
question of substituting "general" for "direct" was not important. 
Under 
the "eligible paper" bill any security satisfactory to a Federal Reserve 
Bank could be accepted as collateral for an advance to a member bank. 
However, the substitution could engender some opposition because it 
might seem to involve potential extension of the credit facilities of 
the Federal Reserve Banks more broadly to institutions other than member 
banks, and not necessarily under emergency circumstances. 

518 
2/15/67 
-10-
Governor Daane noted that the question therefore would seem to 
have some implications in terms of member bank relationships. Access 
to the discount window had always been held out as a significant advan-
tage of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Governor Maisel said that he felt an error had been made last 
year when legislation amending section 14 was under consideration and 
the Board did not recommend conforming changes in section 13. His ques-
tion was whether that error should not be corrected in proposed legisla-
tion that was being recommended by the Board. The change could be 
important if circumstances similar to those which appeared to be devel-
oping around the middle of last year should again occur. 
Governors Daane and Mitchell reiterated their view that as a 
matter of strategy it would be unfortunate to suggest a change in the 
bill at this time. 
Chairman Martin also expressed the opinion that it would be 
unwise, particularly when the bill had passed the Senate at the last 
session, now to request an amendment in the absence of some fundamental 
development that necessitated a change. 
In his view, the proposal under 
consideration was not of fundamental importance. The question that had 
been raised was a legitimate one, but in his judgment it would be inad-
visable for the Board to undertake to revise the bill at this time. 
Governor Shepardson commented that he regarded the relationship 
of the question to System membership, insofar as that factor might be 

519 
2/15/67 
-10-
involved, as a major consideration. He added that he would be opposed 
to suggesting any change in the bill. 
In reply to a question by Governor Brimmer relating to the 
effect of termination of the authority now contained in the third para-
graph of section 13, Mr. Hackley pointed out that even in the absence 
of an emergency the Federal Reserve Banks could still make advances to 
individuals, partnerships, and corporations other than member banks on 
the collateral of direct obligations of the United States. Also, 
arrangements could be made, with the Board's approval, for extensions 
of credit through member banks. 
Mr. Partee commented that the question of emergency credit 
accommodations was being considered as part of the current study of the 
discount mechanism, and he went on to outline some of the possibilities 
that had been discussed at staff level. 
Governor Brimmer then expressed the view that in the circum-
stances it would seem appropriate to defer consideration of emergency 
lending facilities until there had been an opportunity to review what-
ever proposals might emanate from the discount study. 
Chairman Martin expressed the view that a separate bill, as 
implied by Mr. Partee's remarks, was probably the correct approach. He 
again expressed the judgment that it would not be wise, when the "eligible 
paper" bill had already been passed by the Senate at the last session and 
when Senator Proxmire was prepared to re-introduce the bill, to suggest a 
change in it. 

520 
2/15/67 
-10-
At the conclusion of the discussion it was the consensus, 
Governor Maisel's reservations being noted, that no change in the 
"eligible paper" bill should be suggested by the Board at this time. 
Survey of mortgage credit commitments (Item No. 5). There had 
been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Research and Statis-
tics dated February 14, 1967, in which it was proposed that a field 
survey be undertaken to ascertain the extent to which increased savings 
flows to financial institutions were being translated into the increased 
generation of new mortgages. 
The Federal Home Loan Bank Board was in 
the process of making such a survey with respect to savings and loan 
associations. 
In an attached draft of telegram to the Federal Reserve 
Banks there were set forth certain questions paralleling those contained 
in the questionnaire being utilized in connection with the Bank Board's 
survey, together with a request that informal interviews be conducted 
with representative bank and nonbank mortgage lenders in each District. 
In commenting on the survey, Mr. Partee observed that the ques-
tions proposed to be asked by the Reserve Banks were fairly limited. 
Their scope had been deliberately curtailed in order that data developed 
by the Reserve Banks would be compatible with those collected in the 
Bank Board's survey. Nevertheless, the proposed System survey had been 
expanded in a few respects. 
Governor Daane remarked that the sample was so small as to raise 
the question whether the data collected would be representative. 
Also, 

521 
2/15/67 
-10-
he considered it unfortunate that the survey had to be made on the basis 
of the Home Loan Bank Board's questionnaire, which he considered poorly 
drawn, just for the sake of compatibility of data, and he asked whether 
the two studies really needed to be parallel. 
Mr. Partee replied that it would seem inappropriate for the 
Reserve Banks to be contacting savings and loans at a time when the 
Home Loan Banks were contacting them. Further, if the pattern of 
multiple-choice questions was not used, the information supplied by 
savings and loan associations could not be consolidated with the infor-
mation derived by the Reserve Banks from other financial institutions. 
Following comment by several members of the Board concerning 
deficiencies seen in parts of the questionnaire as framed, Governor 
Mitchell suggested that the staff be given latitude to recast or supple-
ment the questions in order to insure that meaningful information would 
be developed. 
Governor Brimmer commented that in his view the survey was 
timely and should be undertaken in conjunction with the Federal Home 
Loan Banks to obtain parallel information. While he recognized the 
questions that had been raised, he felt that the Board should give its 
general approval to the proposed survey. 
Governor Mitchell agreed, adding that his objections extended 
only to certain technical points that he felt should be considered. 
The proposed survey was then authorized, it being understood 
that the staff would review the questionnaire in light of the foregoing 

522 
2/15/67 
-10-
discussion and make such modifications or additions as were felt to be 
desirable, within the limits of the general constraint mentioned by 
Mr. Partee. 
A copy of the telegram sent to the Reserve Banks concerning the 
survey is attached as Item No. 5. 
At this point Governor Brimmer noted that within the past few 
days members of the Home Loan Bank Board had made public statements 
about possible future use of the interest rate regulatory authority 
conferred by the Act of September 21, 1966. He inquired whether ade-
quate liaison was being maintained. 
Governor Maisel observed that he had told Chairman Horne in the 
course of a discussion last week that he did not believe the Board of 
Governors would be inclined to use the legislation for the purpose of 
forcing down the rates paid on savings. Governor Maisel understood 
that the same view had been expressed by Governor Robertson at meetings 
of the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 
Report of Ad Hoc Subcommittee on Bank Charters. There had been 
distributed a memorandum from Messrs. Solomon (Examinations) and Hackley, 
dated January 18, 1967, commenting upon a report of the Ad Hoc Subcom-
mittee on Bank Charters of the Conference of Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks, dated August 5, 1966, that had been presented at the 
September 12, 1966, meeting of the Conference. 
The report in question recommended a six-point System program 
that contemplated the following actions: 

523 
2/15/67 
-10-
1. To secure Federal legislation that would place all 
insured banks on an equal basis as regards State restrictions 
on their interstate operations; 
2. To secure legislation that would resolve particular 
conflicts among the Federal banking agencies and, specifically, 
authority for the agencies to obtain opinions from the Attorney 
General that would settle specific points of conflict; 
3. To exercise the System's authority to examine national 
banks where appropriate in order to insure uniform application 
of statutory and regulatory requirements applicable to both 
national and State member banks; 
4. To improve the System's administrative procedures, 
particularly by expediting the processing of applications and 
by delegations of Board functions; 
5. To improve coordination between the System and State 
banking authorities and to assist the States in improving State 
banking laws and administrative policies; and 
6. To convince the public and State member banks that 
the Board is aware of its bank supervisory responsibilities 
and is determined to do what it can to eliminate competitive 
inequalities between State and national banks. 
The Conference of Presidents had approved these recommendations, 
except for the second and third, and had concluded that "a discussion 
of this entire subject with the Board on some suitable occasion would 
serve a useful purpose." 
At Governor Brimmer's suggestion, consideration of the memo-
randum was deferred until Governor Brimmer, who succeeded to membership 
on the Ad Hoc Bank Charter Committee at a late stage in the study, had 
had an opportunity to discuss the several recommendations with Governor 
Robertson, particularly in view of the latter's assignment as Board 
representative on the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 

524 
2/15/67 
-10-
With reference to the suggestion that Federal legislation be 
secured that would place all insured banks on an equal basis as regards 
State restrictions on their interstate operations, Governor Maisel 
raised the general question whether the privileges of any such legis-
lation should not be applicable to State member banks only. 
Mr. Hackley commented that the Ad Hoc Subcommittee had not 
directed its attention particularly to the question of System membership. 
Rather, its assignment was to study obstacles in the way of equality 
between State and national banks, primarily against the background of 
the rash of conversions from State to national charters. The recommen-
dation of the Ad Hoc Subcommittee reflected a suggestion embodied in 
proposed legislation advocated by the Superintendent of Banks of New 
York and reflected in a bill that may already have been introduced in 
the Congress. However, active support by the Board of such legislation 
might give the impression that the Board was favoring State banks as 
against national banks. 
Governor Maisel commented that if the Board were to support 
such legislation he would differentiate between those State banks that 
had elected to join the national monetary system by becoming members of 
the Federal Reserve and those banks that had not. In his view, the 
member banks were entitled, in Federal legislation, to certain rights 
to which others were not. 
That view was seconded by several other members of the Board. 

525 
2/15/67 
-10-
Governor Brimmer then commented that he had not had an oppor-
tunity to review thoroughly the background and implications of the Ad 
Hoc Subcommittee's report. As he had mentioned earlier, he was named 
to the Ad Hoc Bank Charter Committee at a stage when the deliberations 
were rather far advanced, and he had never participated in any meeting 
of the Committee. He again indicated that he would like to have an 
opportunity for more study of the Subcommittee report before discussing 
it with the Board and before the Board undertook any discussion with 
the Conference of Presidents. 
Chairman Martin withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Constitutional rights bill (Item No. 6). At its meeting on 
December 27, 1966, the Board gave preliminary consideration to a request 
by the Subcommittee on Constitutional Rights of the Senate Committee on 
the Judiciary for a report on S. 3779, a bill "to protect the employees 
of the executive branch of the United States Government in the enjoyment 
of their constitutional rights and to prevent unwarranted governmental 
invasions of their privacy." 
In connection with this request, there had been distributed a 
memorandum of December 21, 1966, from the Legal Division and the Divi-
sion of Personnel Administration describing the purposes and effects of 
the proposed legislation, wherein it was pointed out that three Board 
procedures would apparently have to be discontinued if the bill was 
enacted. These were (1) the confidential statements of employment and 

526 
2/15/67 
-10-
financial interests required to be filed by higher-level staff and con-
sultants; (2) reports by all employees on outside business and teaching 
activities; and (3) reports of indebtedness by employees engaged in 
examining Federal Reserve Banks. 
At Mr. Hackley's suggestion, action on this matter had been 
deferred until staff members who had worked closely on it were avail-
able to participate in the discussion. Governor Maisel, however, had 
commented that in his view the Board's letter should register objection 
to the provisions of the bill apparently requiring discontinuance of 
the financial interest reports. He believed that it was not an infringe-
ment of privacy to require such reports and that they served to dispel 
uncertainty and to clarify what was expected of persons in the positions 
involved. 
It was understood that the staff would take this point into 
consideration. 
There had now been distributed a revised memorandum and draft 
letter, dated February 10, 1967, prepared by the Legal Division and the 
Division of Personnel Administration. 
The letter took the position that 
all three of the Board's reporting requirements mentioned above should 
be permitted to continue. 
Following explanatory comments by Mr. Shuter, Governor Daane 
inquired whether the proposed legislation would affect the Federal 
Reserve Banks. 
Mr. Shuter stated that it would not; by its terms, the 
bill applied only to the Executive Department and Federal agencies. 

16 
2/15/67 
-10-
Mr. Hackley added that the legislation would supersede parts of Execu-
tive Order 11222 of May 8, 1965, and regulations promulgated thereunder 
by the Civil Service Commission, concerning conflicts of interest by 
Government employees. 
Governor Daane then said that he would like to see a continua-
tion of the financial interest reports. 
Governor Brimmer commented that he believed the disclosures 
required under the Executive Order had served a useful purpose, and he 
would like to see them continued. 
In response to a question from Governor Brimmer, Mr. Shuter con-
firmed that the staff was recommending no objection to the bill other 
than with respect to its apparent effect upon the three cited reporting 
requirements of the Board. 
Governor Maisel said he gathered from the contents of the draft 
letter that the staff was suggesting comment only with respect to the 
Board's desire to retain authority to require certain reports from its 
personnel, and that the civil rights implications of the bill would be 
passed over. 
Governor Brimmer then commented that in his opinion it would be 
unfortunate for the Board to imply in any manner that it supported pro-
posed legislation that would run counter to the Administration's civil 
rights program. 
After some discussion of this point, Mr. Hackley suggested 
that Governor Brimmer's apprehension might be resolved by revising the 

528 
2/15/67 
-10-
letter in a manner that he described. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he 
would prefer such an approach. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to a letter in the 
form attached as Item No. 6. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman and Kenyon then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Technical assistance request. Governor Shepardson referred to 
a memorandum from the Director of the Division of International Finance 
dated February 13, 1967, stating that the International Monetary Fund 
had requested assistance in locating suitable candidates to fill posi-
tions as advisers to several central banks, including the central banks 
of Lebanon, Ethiopia, Malaysia, and Mali. Authorization was requested 
for the Board's staff to seek candidates within the System to fill those 
positions. 
The requested authorization was granted with the understanding 
that if candidates were located the staff would report back to the Board 
before transmitting suggestions to the Monetary Fund. 
The discussion of the matter included an expression by members 
of the Board of the view that the objective in seeking candidates for 
positions of this character should always be to obtain fully-qualified 
persons rather than to seek out persons who might more easily be made 
available. At the same time, it was recognized that the providing of 
qualified personnel for technical assistance missions necessarily rep-
resented a drain on System resources. 

529 
2/15/67 
-10-
Annex building. At Governor Shepardson's suggestion, it was 
agreed that a meeting of the Board members with the architects would 
be arranged at an early date in order to review the tentative specifi-
cations for the proposed annex to the Federal Reserve Building, partic-
ularly with a view to allowing the Board members to raise questions 
concerning the specifications. 
It was also agreed that steps would be taken to have the archi-
tects request appearances before the Fine Arts Commission and the 
National Capital Planning Commission, it being understood that the 
architects would be accompanied by appropriate Board representatives. 
With further reference to the annex building project, Governor 
Shepardson pointed out that it was the common practice in Government 
building projects to have available an owner's representative to work 
with the architects in developing detailed specifications and to super-
vise the ongoing of the actual construction. He understood that General 
Services Administration retained such persons on its building projects 
around the country. Governor Shepardson proposed that he be authorized 
to take steps to locate a competent person to perform such duties in 
connection with the annex building project, with the thought that the 
individual might be on the job within the next few months. Later, the 
retention of assistants might be necessary. 
Governor Maisel observed that there appeared to be a need for 
two persons: first, a person to check the architects' plans; second, 

530 
2/15/67 
-18-
a person who would keep closely in touch with the contractor on behalf 
of the Board. He suggested that the Board's Consulting Architect, Mr. 
Witherell, might appropriately perform the first of those two functions. 
Governor Shepardson agreed that it would seem appropriate to 
request Mr. Witherell to review the architects' plans. He went on to 
say that the person to whom he had referred originally would perform 
services similar to those performed by a Board representative during 
the construction of the present Federal Reserve Building, the principal 
duty having been to assure that the detailed specifications worked out 
with the architects were carried through into the actual construction. 
Governor Mitchell said he understood that such a person would 
have the duty of enforcing the standards in the specifications. He 
would also work with the architects to see how they were developing the 
specifications and why. The other assignment referred to by Governor 
Maisel, that of reviewing the architects' plans from the owner's point 
of view and raising questions with respect to such plans, could appro-
priately be performed by a person such as Mr. Witherell. 
General agreement was expressed with the desirability of request-
ing Mr. Witherell to undertake the review function and with the desir-
ability of locating a competent individual to serve as an "owner's 
representative," with duties along the lines described by Governor 
Shepardson. 

531 
2/15/67 
-10-
Governor Maisel mentioned, however, that under the normal con-
tract the architect was paid a certain percentage of his fee for the 
function of supervision. 
Governor Shepardson replied that the Board's architects had 
some such responsibilities under their contract, which was practically 
identical with the contract executed in connection with the construction 
of the present Federal Reserve Building. The architects, however, did 
not have responsibility for day-to-day supervision. He stated that he 
would discuss the situation with the architects to obtain a complete 
understanding of the procedures they would contemplate and the exact 
relationships that would exist. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City (copy attached as 
Item No. 7) approving the appointment of Robert J. Cahill as Assistant 
Federal Reserve Agent. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Appointments 
Hubert D. White as Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $14,665, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty, it being understood that Mr. White would be subject 
to assignments from Governor Mitchell and that the Board would pay the 
cost of transportation of household effects and of travel by Mr. White 
and his family to Washington, D. C. 
William Lane Porter, Jr., as Attorney, Legal Division, with basic 
annual salary at the rate of $9,221, effective the date of entrance 
upon duty. 

532 
2/15/67 
-10-
Salary increase 
Bernard A. Thomasson, Senior Computer Operator, Division of Data 
Processing, from $5,683 to $6,065 per annum, effective February 26, 1967. 
Adlyn E. McWhirter, from the position of Research Assistant in the 
Division of Research and Statistics to the position of Analyst in the 
Office of the Secretary, with no change in basic annual salary at the 
rate of $7,696, effective upon assuming her new duties. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Thomas A. Whitty, Guard, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business February 24, 1967. 
Agnes L. Zahra, Statistical Clerk, Division of Data Processing, 
effective the close of business February 13, 1967. 
Transfer 

533 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 7 
2/15/67 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 15, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The First Pennsylvania Banking 
and Trust Company, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment of a branch by The 
First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, at 304 Walnut Street, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, provided the branch is established within 
six months from the date of this letter and further 
provided that branch operations now conducted at the 
northeast corner of Third and Chestnut Streets, Philadelphia, 
are discontinued simultaneously with the opening of the 
new branch. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

534 
Of Gov, 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 7 
2/15/67 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R O 
February 15, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Lewistown Trust Company, 
Lewistown, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Lewistown Trust 
Company, Lewistown, Pennsylvania, of a branch at the 
southeast corner of the intersection of West Water Street 
and By-Pass U. S. Route 22, Lewistown, Mifflin County, 
Pennsylvania, provided the branch is established within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
2/15/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 15, 1967. 
City National Bank of Detroit, 
Detroit, Michigan. 48231 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
authorizes your bank to accept drafts or bills of exchange drawn 
for the purpose of furnishing dollar exchange as required by the 
usages of trade in such countries, dependencies, or insular 
Possessions of the United States as may have been designated by 
the Board of Governors, subject to the provisions of Section 13 
of the Federal Reserve Act and the Board's Regulation C. 
Enclosed is a list of the countries with respect to 
which the Board of Governors has found that the usages of trade 
Squire the furnishing of dollar exchange. 
The foregoing authorization has been given with the 
understanding that the foreign loans and investments of City 
National Bank of Detroit will not exceed the guidelines established 
under the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
aud that due consideration is being given to the priorities con-
tained therein. Your attention is also directed to the fact that 
dollar exchange acceptance financing does not represent export 
credit. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

536 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 4 
• F T H E 
2/15/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 15, 1967. 
Chase International Investment Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of January 13, 1967, 
deferring to the Board's letter of February 2, 1966, (and previous 
letters) which authorized your Corporation, subject to various 
conditions, to make further investment in Arcturus Investment & 
development Ltd. ("Arcturus"), Montreal, Canada, (in form of stock 
obligations) up to an amount not to exceed US$7,500,000. 
The 
fioard|s letter of February 2, 1966, extended to February 1, 1967, 
e time within which such investment might be made. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
of Governors extends indefinitely the time within which further 
Vestment may be made in Arcturus (in form of stock or obligations) 
UP to an amount which, with the existing investment, would not ex-
ceed US$7,500,000. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
Yat additional investments made under this authorization, combined 
ith other foreign loans and investments of your Corporation, The 
base Manhattan Bank (National Association), and Chase Manhattan 
^erseas Banking Corporation, will not cause the total of such loans 
investments to exceed the guidelines established under the vol-
untary foreign credit restraint effort now in effect and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

537 
Item No. 
7 
2/15/67 
T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
February 15, 1967. 
TO PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Board would appreciate having capsule report of your impressions 
about current situation and near-term outlook in the mortgage market in your 
District, to be forwarded to reach the Board not later than February 27. 
To 
Parallel a similar Home Loan Bank survey now being made of savings and loan 
associations, your report should reflect informal interviews with some 
(Perhaps 15 to 25) representative bank and nonbank lenders in your District 
°ther than savings and loan associations—i.e., commercial banks, mutual 
savings banks, life insurance companies, and mortgage companies—for responses 
Particularly to the following questions: 
U . 
(For commercial and savings banks). What do you expect your net savings 
^flow (i.e., new savings minus withdrawals) to be over the next 90 days, 
after allowance for usual seasonal influences? 
(a) substantially below 
n°rmal; (b) somewhat below normal; (c) normal; (d) somewhat above normal; 
substantially above normal. 
lB- 
(For insurance companies). What do you expect your cash flow (adjus-
t i n8 for expected net changes in policy loans) to be over the next 90 days, 
< 
a f ter allowance for usual seasonal influences? 
(a) substantially below 
n°rmal; (b) somewhat below normal; (c) normal; (d) somewhat above normal; 
substantially above normal. 
1)0 you expect this cash flow to provide more funds than are needed to meet 
anticipated takedowns on outstanding loan commitments over the next 90 days; 

- 2 -
538 
is any expected excess (or shortfall) considered to be significant in 
amount? 
2. How would you best characterize your present volume of new commitments 
on mortgage loans, taking into account usual volume at this time of year? 
(Reply separately for home versus multi-family and commercial properties), 
(a) no or few mortgage loan commitments are being made; (b) a small and still 
very subnormal volume of mortgage loan commitments is being made; (c) a 
moderate and somewhat subnormal volume of mortgage loan commitments is being 
made; (d) a normal volume of mortgage loan commitments is being made; (e) an 
above average volume of mortgage loan commitments is being made. 
3. Taking into account your expectations as to the availability of loanable 
i 
funds, how do you expect your new mortgage loan commitments to change over 
the next 90 days, after allowance for usual seasonal influences? 
(Reply 
separately for homes versus multi-family and commercial properties). 
(a) unchanged from the present; (b) some moderate increase; (c) a substantial 
increase; (d) a decrease is in prospect. 
4. How would you evaluate the impact that current interest rates, terms and 
conditions required on new mortgages are having on the willingness of home-
buyers (or prospective homebuyers) to seek mortgage loans? 
(a) a large 
number of homebuyers are displaying reluctance to seek mortgage loans; 
(b) some homebuyers are discouraged from seeking mortgage loans; (c) there 
is little negative impact,.if any, on the desire of homebuyers for mortgage 

539 
- 2 -
loans. What is the importance of present levels of interest rates and 
discounts charged on mortgages in this situation? 
(a) it is an important 
factor discouraging many prospective homebuyers; (b) it is a factor dis-
couraging some homebuyers; (c) it is a relatively unimportant consideration 
for prospective homebuyers and borrowers. 
5A. (For commercial banks). 
Taking into account your expectations as to the 
availability of loanable funds, how do you expect your new construction loan 
commitments to change over the next 90 days, after allowance for usual sea-
sonal influences? 
(a) unchanged from the present; (b) some increase; (c) a 
substantial increase; (d) a decrease is in prospect. 
(For mortgage companies). Taking into account your expectations as 
t o the availability of funds to finance construction lending activities, 
how do you expect your own new construction loan commitments to change over 
next 90 days, after allowance for usual seasonal influences? 
(a) unchanged 
from the present; (b) some increase; (c) a substantial increase; (d) a decrease 
in prospect. 
After surveying all respondents, please summarize your impressions 
in brief narrative form, indicating any marked differences among types of 
lenders or properties and any other unusual factors of interest. 
Also, 
Please indicate where appropriate the total number of respondents of each 
type that chose each of the various multiple-choice answers to each question, 
reports for all Districts will be tabulated and summarized by Board 

staff, along with findings of the Home Loan Banks, for distribution in 
the Greenbook Supplement of March 3. 
A conference call with heads of Research is planned for Thursday or 
Friday. Meantime, questions regarding survey may be addressed to 
Partee. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
SHERMAN 

541 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
3 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 7 
2/15/67 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
February 17, 1967 
The Honorable Sam J. Ervin, Jr., Chairman, 
Subcommittee on Constitutional Rights, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your request for comments on S. 3779, 
a bill to protect the Constitutional rights of privacy of Federal 
employees. 
Most of the practices that would be prohibited by this bill 
are of a kind that are not followed by the Board of Governors. 
However, 
the bill would appear to affect the practices and procedures of the 
Board in the respects indicated below. 
In accordance with Executive Order 11222, relating to 
standards of ethical conduct for Government employees, and regulations 
of the Civil Service Commission issued pursuant thereto, the Board 
requires "Confidential Statements of Employment and Financial Interests" 
from certain of its employees. 
However, this requirement is limited 
to the highest-level supervisory personnel and consultants (70 persons 
out of 662) and no objection has been made by any persons required to 
file such statements. 
Information so obtained has been, and will con-
tinue to be, held in strict confidence. 
It does not appear that such 
reports of high-level personnel and consultants are an invasion of 
Privacy, and elimination of the requirement for reports of financial 
interests would, in the Board's judgment, result in the loss of a 
valuable means of assuring high standards of conduct on the part of 
its highest-level personnel and consultants. 
For many years the Board has followed a practice of requiring 
employees to report and obtain the Board's approval with respect to 
any outside business and teaching activities. 
These requirements are 
incorporated in the Board1s regulations issued pursuant to Executive 
Order 11222. 
In the Board's opinion, such requirements do not in any 
way affect an employee's right of privacy; and, as a matter of fact, 
the Board encourages its employees to engage in teaching, lecturing, 

542 
The Honorable Sam J. Ervin, Jr. 
-2-
speaking, and other such outside activities that are not incompatible 
with the work of the Board. 
The Board also requires reports of indebtedness incurred by 
members of its staff who examine the Federal Reserve Banks or work on 
bank examination matters. This requirement, like that with respect to 
outside business activities, has been in effect for many years; Board 
employees fully appreciate the purposes of such requirements and there 
has never been any employee objection. 
While the Board does not actively support S. 3779, if this 
legislation should be given favorable consideration, the Board strongly 
urges that the bill be amended in a manner that would permit continua-
tion of the practices just described, i.e., requirements for filing 
Confidential Statements of Employment and Financial Interests, for 
reporting and obtaining approval of outside business and teaching 
activities, and for reports of indebtedness by examination personnel. 
Enclosed are copies of the reports affected and a copy of 
section 213 of Title 18 of the United States Code, respecting 
acceptance of a loan by a bank examiner, which relates to the report 
of indebtedness by examination personnel. 
Sincerely yours, 
1 
!., 
' 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosures 
i 

543 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 7 
2/15/67 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 15, 1967 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. Dolph Simons, 
Chairman of the Board 
and Federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 64198 
Dear Mr. Simons: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
February 8, 1967, the Board of Governors approves the appointment of 
Mr. Robert J. Cahill as Assistant Federal Reserve Agent at the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City to succeed Mr. Floyd J. Mathews. 
This approval is given with the understanding that Mr. Cahill 
will be solely responsible to the Federal Reserve Agent and the Board 
of Governors for the proper performance of his duties, except that, dur-
ing the absence or disability of the Federal Reserve Agent or a vacancy 
in that office, his responsibility will be to the Board of Governors. 
When not engaged in the performance of his duties as Assistant 
Federal Reserve Agent, Mr. Cahill may, with the approval of the Federal 
Reserve Agent and the President of the Bank, perform such work for the 
Bank as will not be inconsistent with his duties as Assistant Federal 
Reserve Agent. 
It will be appreciated if Mr. Cahill is fully informed of the 
importance of his responsibilities as a member of the staff of the 
Federal Reserve Agent and the need for maintenance of independence from 
the operations of the Bank in the discharge of these responsibilities. 
It is noted that upon receipt of the approval of the appoint-
ment by the Board of Governors, Mr. Cahill will execute the usual Oath 
of Office which will be forwarded to the Board. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
