MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 14, 1972 

2133 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, August 14, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Miss Stockwell, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Taylor, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 

2134 
8/14/72 
-2-
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mrs. Junz, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
The staff presented a review of domestic and international 
developments of the kind customarily given in preparation for meetings 
°f the Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of the individual briefings 
have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the relevant 
statistical materials. 
Mr. Cardon reviewed matters of interest to the Board presently 
being considered by the Congress. 
Those who had attended the meeting specifically for the economic 
review then withdrew. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
o f The Bank of Buckingham, Buckingham County, Virginia, for admission 
t o membership in the Federal Reserve System. A copy of the letter sent 
t o the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Morgan Guaranty 
International Finance Corporation, New York, New York, for permission to 
Squire all of the stock of S.A.F.Y.R. Sociedad Anonima Financiera y 

8/14/72 
-3-
Rural, Buenos Aires, Argentina. A copy of the letter sent to the 
aPplicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Philadelphia 
International Investment Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, for 
Permission to acquire all of the stock of Philadelphia International 
Company, Ltd., a finance company to be formed in London, England. A copy 
°f the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
Boston Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, a bank holding company, to 
establish two investment funds, Boston Equity Investments, S.A., and 
Boston Income Investments, S.A., both to be located in Luxembourg, and 
t o acquire indirectly through the latter companies all of the shares of 
Boston Equity Realizations, S.A., and Boston Income Realizations. A copy 
o f the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of American 
Bancshares, Incorporated, North Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of 
Second National Bank of Clearwater, Clearwater, Florida, Sterling National 
Bank of Davie, Davie, Florida, and First National Bank of the Upper Keys, 
Tavernier, Florida, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
As proposed in a memorandum dated August 7, 1972, from the Divi-
sion of Federal Reserve Bank Operations, and with the recommendation 
o f the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans, the 

2136 
8/14/72 
-4-
Board unanimously approved delegation of authority to the Chairman 
the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans to 
grant preliminary increases in Reserve Bank employment ceilings where 
time constraint required recruiting of personnel prior to Board approval 
°f Regional Check Processing Center proposals. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Hunt Commission report. On August 8, 1972, the Board considered 
a draft letter to the Treasury Department commenting on seven recommen-
dations of the President's Commission on Financial Structure and Regu-
lation (Hunt Commission). The draft letter had been revised in light 
that discussion and was attached to a memorandum from the Ad Hoc 
Subcommittee on the Hunt Commission Report dated August 11, 1972. 
After brief discussion during which there were a number of 
Suggestions for editorial changes, the Board approved transmittal of the 
letter in the form attached as Item No. 6. 
Regulation Y: insurance activities. On August 10, 1972, the 
Board considered a memorandum from the Legal Division dated June 8, 1972, 
regarding bank holding company entry into insurance agency activities 
under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act. In a memorandum 
dated August 11, 1972, the Division presented a checklist pertaining to 
a Proposed interpretation of the meaning of specific terms within the 
Portions of Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, regarding insurance 

2137 
8/14/72 
-5-
agency activities. The interpretation had been prepared to provide 
guidelines for the staff in dealing with problems that had been raised 
by pending applications. 
Today's discussion was devoted primarily to specific portions 
of the proposed interpretation. Governor Robertson had suggested a 
modification of the interpretation to require that in order for the sale 
of group insurance for the protection of holding company employees to be 
a permissible activity, the holding company system must pay all or a 
substantial portion of the cost of the insurance. However, Governors 
Sheehan and Bucher were not in agreement with the suggestion. They 
felt that requiring a holding company to pay all or a substantial part 
of group insurance might be interpreted as an attempt by the Board to 
regulate employee benefit programs of holding companies. 
Several members of the Board indicated that they would favor 
broadening the scope of insurance activities considered to be directly 
related to an extension of credit. It was suggested that increased 
entry into insurance activities by bank holding companies could have 
salutary effects on the insurance industry by increasing competition. 
The proposed interpretation would make the sale of convenience 
insurance, that is, insurance sold as a matter of convenience to the 
bank customer, a permissible activity if premium income from convenience 
insurance did not constitute a significant portion of the aggregate 

2138 
8/14/72 
- 6 -
insurance premium income of the holding company. 
Several members of 
the Board raised questions about the percentage of premium income from 
convenience insurance that would be regarded as a significant portion, 
and it was suggested that convenience insurance be limited to 5 per cent 
°f total premium income. 
understanding that the staff would revise the interpretation in light 
°f the comments made at today's meeting. 
After further discussion the Board deferred action, with the 
The meeting then adjourned. 

iftr 
tiJ, 
/p • 
Igfl' 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON', 
D. 
C. 20S51 
2 1 3 9 
Item No. 1 
8/14/72 
A D D R E S S 
O f ^ i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 14, 1972 
'Board of Directors 
Bank of Buckingham 
Rockingham County, Virginia 
^ontlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
aPproves the application of The Bank of Buckingham, Buckingham 
County, Virginia, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond, effective if and when the bank opens for business 
Ottder appropriate State authorization, subject to the numbered 
conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and except with the per-
mission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of" admission to member-
ship . 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
c orpcrat e ie spousibi1i tie s. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank 
shall have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of 
not less than $300,000, and other capital funds of 
not less than $300,C00, 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
ticvlar attention is called to ch< provisions of the Board's 
^-gulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
t:-n*c Federal Reserve System, w.i tn especial reference to Section 208.7 
^hereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

The Bank of Buckingham 
- 2 -
2140 
It is understood that any significant changes in the 
Proposed management of the bank, prior to opening for business, 
vi1l be subject to prior review and approval by the Federal Reserve 
Bank. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
'furnishing copies of any documents involved in order that it may 
he determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
thin letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the 
board of directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization 
to commence business. A certified copy of such resolution, together 
with advice, of compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, 
should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit 
°f the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount 
°f Federal Reserve. Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the. Federal 
-toserve System in the manner described nay be accomplished is limited 
to one year from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of rime. When the Board is advised 
thai; all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Bo;;rd will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
Membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. 
The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with, the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
hank means for making the services of trie System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

i
t
. 
iMyx'; 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N N R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 1 
8/14/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O f V" I C I A L CCJFiHES 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
August 1.4, 19 72 
Guaranty International 
finance Corporation 
^ Wall Street 
Ngw York, New York 1003.5 
Sstttlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 19, 1972, the Board 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation, ("MGIFC"), to 
Purchase and hold all of the shares of S.A.F.Y.R. Sociedad Ancnima 
financiera v Kural ("SAFYR"), Buenos Aires, Argentina, at a cost 
approximately $500,000, provided that $3,000 is invested in the 
shares within one year from, th« date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
shares of SAFYR by MGIFC is granted subject to the following 
Editions: 
(1) That MGIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in SAFYR if SAFY.R at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organised under Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if SAFYR establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes any 
operation in Argentina or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to MGIFC; 
(2) That;, when required by the Board of Governors, MGIFC 
will furnish the Beard with such reports regarding 
the activities of SAFYR as it may require from time 
to time; 
(3) Thai; any share acquisitions oi: dispositions by SAFYR 
be reported under Section 21 1.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if SAFYR were a corporation 
organized under Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; 

21-12 
Morgan Guaranty International 
CJ 
" 
A 
Finance Corporation 
(4) 
That MGIFC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of SATYR at a net amount in excess of xts pro-
portionate share of the book capital accounts of 
SAFYR; after giving effect to the elimination of 
all known losses; and 
(5) 
That SATYR will dispose of the_apartment which it 
currently owns as soon as possible. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board suspends, 
until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the -modxa.el, 
Preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions 
on loans granted by SAFYR in Argentina in the currency of that .ounUy. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the 
investment will be'made within the Foreign Credit Restraint GuxdoUnes 
they apply to Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York and iL, 
a* filiates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2143 
BOARD O F G O V E R N O R S 
T#. 
M 
~ 
Item No. J 
c r T H E 
8/14/72 
F E D E R A L . 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. ?.OSt:i 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C U R R E B P D N O E N K E 
T O 
T H E 
C3DARD 
August 14, 1972 
Philadelphia International Investment Corporation 
0. Box 7618 
ladelphia, PennsyIvania 
19101 
Gentlemen.: 
As requested in your letter of April 18, 1972, the Board 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("PIIC") to pur-
chase and hold all of the shares of Philadelphia International 
Company, Ltd. ("PICO"), a finance company to be formed in London, 
land5 at a cost of approximately £100,000 (about $260,000), pro-
the shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
tTnis letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
shares of PICO by PIIC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(1) That PIIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
• any shares of stock in PICO if PICO at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act could, with the consent. c£ the Board 
of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if PICO 
establishes any branch or agency or takes any 
action or undertakes any operation in England or 
elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time would 
not be permissible to PIIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Boaard of Governors. PIIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of PICO as it may require from time 
to time; and 

Philadelphia 
Investment 
Int. erna t iona 1 
Corporation 
-2-
2144 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by PICO 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation IC 
in the. same manner as if PICO were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
Suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
o f the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
^ey relate to restrictions on loans granted by PICO in England in 
the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
tested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of PICO. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to PIIC. 
Very truly yourft, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2 1 , 1 ^ 
BGARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
G F T H E 
I t e m 
N o - 
4 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
8/14/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20555 
A D O n E S B 
U r F I C ! A L 
C G R n E S P O N D t K C E 
, 
T 
' - ' 
T O T H E 
H O A R D 
August 14, 1972 
^rst National Boston Corporation 
Federal Street 
® ton, Mas s acli us zt t s 02110 
Gentl omen: 
As requested in your letter of April 28, 1972, tlie Board 
Govoroots grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
t-ion 4 (c) (3 3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, 
aiv> Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your Corporation ("FNBC"), 
to organize in Luxembourg two investment funds: Boston Equity In-
V6st:nents, S.A. ("BEX") and Boston Income Investments, S.A. ("BII"), 
Jjhich v'i. 11 sell their shares only to non-resident aliens of the 
"jilted States, provided the funds are organized within one year from 
Llle date of this letter. The Board also grants consent for BE I to 
Purchase and hold all of the shares of Boston Equity Realisations, S.A. 
("BER"), at a cost of approximately $80,000 and for BIX to purchase and 
;l0'Ld all of the shares of Boston Income Realizations, S.A. ("BIR"), 
u t J cost of approximately $80,000. 
The above consents are granted subject to the conditions that 
^eilihar BEI nor BII will directly or indirectly control or participate 
the management of any company except BER or BIR, and that BER and 
BlK- v i U confine their activities to the repurchase of shares of BEI 
arid bit, respectively. 
. 
The foregoing consents are given on the condition that any 
inv^s^aent iu the above companies by FNBC or its affiliates will be 
jjjjUle within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to 
J,i - First National Bank of Boston and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
AMERICAN BANCSHARES, INCORPORATED 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
American Bancshares, Incorporated, North Miami, Florida, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act» has applied in separate applications for the Board's approval 
under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of each of the following banks in 
Florida: 
(1) Second National Bank of Clearwater, Clearwater ("Clear-
water Bank"); Sterling National Bank of Davie, Davie ("Davie Bank"); 
a n d (3) First National Bank of the Upper Keys, Tavemier 
("Keys Bank"). 
Notice of these applications, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and none has been timely received. The Board has 
c°nsidered the applications in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the second smallest among twenty-three multi-
hank holding companies in Florida, controls three banks with aggregate 
^Posits of $78.1 million, representing approximately .5 per cent of 
total deposits of commercial banks in the State. 
(All banking data are 
a s of December 31, 1971, and reflect bank holding company formations 
a n d acquisitions as of May 31, 1971.) Upon consummation of the proposals 
G r ein, Applicant would control .85 per cent of total deposits of com-
^tcial banks in Florida and would rank 19th among the bank holding 
2146 
Item No. 
1 
8/14/72 

2147 
-2-
c°mpanies in the State. Consummation of Applicant's proposals herein 
would constitute its initial entry into the relevant market of each 
bank proposed to be acquired. 
Clearwater Bank ($19.5 million of deposits) ranks eleventh 
among 18 banks operating in North Pinellas County (which approximates 
its market) and holds 3.7 per cent of total deposits of commercial 
banks in that area. Applicant's subsidiary bank closest to Clearwater 
Bank is located in St. Petersburg, Florida, 19 miles south of Clearwater 
Bank's only office, and is regarded as operating in a separate banking 
Market. 
Davie Bank ($25.8 million of deposits) is the eighth largest 
o f 14 banks in the Hollywood (Florida) area, which approximates its 
Market and holds approximately 6 per cent of total deposits of com-
mercial banks in that area. Applicant's subsidiary bank closest to 
Davie Bank is located in North Miami, 14 miles southeast of Davie 
Bank's only banking office and operates in a separate banking market. 
Keys Bank ($17.2 million of deposits) operates one banking 
office in the northern portion of the Florida Keys in Monroe County, 
Florida, and is the only bank located in its market. Applicant's 
subsidiary bank closest to Keys Bank is located in North Miami, 82 
^iies north of Keys Bank. 
It appears that no meaningful competition exists between 
a nV of the banks Applicant proposes to acquire, nor between any of 
Applicant's present subsidiary banks and any of Applicant's proposed 

2148 
-3-
subsidiary banks. 
In addition, the prospect of such competition 
developing in the future between any of these banks appears unlikely, 
Particularly in view of (1) the distances separating these banks, 
(2) the number of banks in intervening areas, (3) the inconvenience 
o f travel between these banks, and (4) the provisions of Florida 
banking law which prohibit branch banking. On the record before it, 
the Board concludes that consummation of Applicant's proposals 
*ould not have an adverse effect on competition in any relevant 
a*ea and, in fact, may have a procompetitive effect in the markets 
o f Clearwater and Davie banks where affiliation with Applicant will 
enable those banks to compete more effectively with banks that are 
now members of bank holding company organizations larger than Applicant. 
T h e 
f i n a n c i a l 
c o n d i t i o n a n d m a n a g e r i a l r e s o u r c e s 
o f 
A p p l i -
C a r * t a n d i t s s u b s i d i a r y b a n k s a p p e a r g e n e r a l l y 
s a t i s f a c t o r y . 
T h e 
f u t u r e p r o s p e c t s o f A p p l i c a n t 
a n d i t s p r e s e n t 
s u b s i d i a r y b a n k s 
a p p e a r 
f a v o r a b l e , p a r t i c u l a r l y 
i n l i g h t o f A p p l i c a n t ' s 
c o m m i t m e n t 
t o 
s t r e n g t h e n 
t h e c a p i t a l p o s i t i o n o f i t s s u b s i d i a r y b a n k s . 
T h e f i n a n c i a l 
c o n d i t i o n 
p r o s p e c t s 
o f C l e a r w a t e r , D a v i e , a n d K e y s b a n k s a p p e a r 
g e n e r a l l y 
s a t i S f a c t o r y . 
A p p l i c a n t ' s 
s t a t e d p l a n s 
t o s t r e n g t h e n t h e 
c a p i t a l 
P o s i t i o n o f D a v i e a n d K e y s b a n k s 
s o o n a f t e r a c q u i s i t i o n o f t h o s e 
b a n k s 
to provide additional managerial resource strength to the pro-
Posed subsidiary banks should increase their ability to provide ex-
panded and more efficient services to their respective communities. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are consistent with 

2113 
-4-
and lend some weight toward approval of these applications. Although 
the banking needs of the relevant communities generally appear 
adequately served by the existing banking organizations, Applicant 
Proposes to provide trust services to customers of the subject banks 
through its lead bank and ability to enable these banks to accommodate 
larger credit requests through participations. These considerations 
a re consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that con-
summation of the proposed transactions would be in the public interest 
and that the applications should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved 
f o* the reasons summarized above. None of the acquisitions shall 
b e consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
t he effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
Sood cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 14, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
fSEAL] 
P ^ t l n g for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^tchell. Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
G°vernor Daane. 

I 2 X 5 Q 
B O A R D 
DF G O V E R N O R S 
^ 
Item No. 6 
DF THE 
8 / 1 A / 7 9 
• M * * . 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
i^rSfe^?: 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORREBPONOF.NCC 
TO TH 1" B DAK O 
itSife, 
1 s * -
August 17, 1972 
. 6 Honorable. Charls E. Walker 
^put-y Secretary 
-i^rtmcmt of the Treasury 
a8h*ngton, D. C. 20220 
t. Walker: 
a11 
In response to your request of May 30, 1972, the Board has con-
£ d e r e d the seven recommendations of the President's Commission on Financial 
'tructure a n d Regulation listed in that letter. This letter conveys the 
Kesent thinking of a majority of the Board on these recommendations. 
Vr 
Pefore turning to answers to the specific questions raised in 
,!Ur letter, the Board wishes to comment generally on needed changes m the 
CrUctUro of the nation's depository financial institutions. 
hr 
Recent experience has demonstrated, as pointed out in the Board's 
ntudv for the Congress, that thrift institutions lack the necessary 
a b i l i t y in lending and fund-raising powers to function etficiently m 
I ' i ^ t e of fluctuating interest rates. Furthermore, economic efficiency 
^fers because regulator barriers prohibit these institutions-and to 
extent commercial banks as well-from serving their customers as cffec-
^ 
as they might, and sometimes keep funds from being channeled into 
^Ptiinua U,,,/ Regulation of deposit interest rates has at times prevented 
^ - p a r t i c u l a r l y individuals with modest holdings of financial assets-^ 
b o v i n e the full reward that their savings should earn from depository 
^Uvtlcns': 
it seems clear that the proper long-run c o u r s e tor public 
< ^ 
is to redefine the appropriate degree of compartmentalization or 
p°nitory institut ions. 
n,pr» 
however a number of difficult problems that must be 
out rt "r cfie.Viv'e and equitable solution to the problems laced by 
L nat:ionvs depository institutions is to emerge. 
. 
' i-ii-r i-h(> nresent characteristics of 
t-- 
• r ipiiqi r,recoKniS'-C tIu.i m c 
S t i o n ' 
» 
tiWiL 
reflect past efforts by the Congress to 
£ V e Problems of r,,ic„- national instance. 
The Congress has rcpea.ealy 
i £ s concern with the financing of housing, and would undoubted!, 
^ t strongly a„v changes in the financial structure that ture-tenec, 

2151 
lhG ^norable Char 1c E, Walker 
-2-
p*ricWsly t o reduce the long-run supply of residential mortgage credit. 
d 
designed to shift specialized mortgage lending institutions into 
al
Versifiud operations stand little chance of acceptance unless adequate 
"Native means of supporting housing are developed. 
si 
Second, wide-scale structural reforms of financial institutions 
tr°U'ld not: b a undertaken unless the issue of equality of tax and regulatory 
iao?tmCTlt i s -^solved satisfactorily. The problems posed by the fact that 
thrift institutions are mutual organizations, and enjoy certain 
f(>Vi:LeRes a n d operating advantages not available to commercial banks, are 
0c^i(lablG> 
These problems have been addressed by the Congress on numerous 
be
Ca3*or>8, and there has yet to be developed a concrete program that would 
9-ceptab.la to the Congress. 
iu 
Finally, any program aimed at restructuring the system of deposit 
t ^ ^ d l a t i o n must be carefully designed to preserve, and even enhance, 
e s°ui;driess of both banks and thrift institutions. 
"it is against this background that t 
seven sets of recommendations are offered. 
Mtenation of Regulation Q 
thQ , 
"it is against this background that the following observations on 
of 
So 
The Board supports the general objectives embodied in this series 
rer-''omnendations, but suggests that any legislation drafted should not be 
w in. purpose nor so rigid with respect to tiding. 
% 
Specifically, the Board recommends that the condition for impos-
*o? C a l l ings on time and savings deposits under $100,000 should be made 
• V rv 
... . 
. 1 _ 
J- « . , v\ /> v1 m *\ /A f" 
general: e.g., "when uncontrolled rates threaten to undermine the 
^ b u 7 *I,d soundness of depository institutions, or conflict with other 
c inter est: considerations." 
B 0 9 m 
Xn the interest of flexibility, the time periods within which the 
tv:; d 
have authority to establish differential rates among different 
V'rj.Cf U n c i a l institutions should be left to the discretion of the 
eif, 
It would seem desirable not to include in the legislation a spe-
w'ic ^-en.iinal date for the authority to set deposit rate ceilings. Termx-
n»vW be left to the discretion of the Board, or the statute might 
o.e I:** that, the authority would lapse if not used over a specified period 
tlullf. 
£ssetJ)-i,vnrgjf i cation by Thr; j.ftJ^jj^lilllii^ 
The Board supports the general objectives of broadening the 
powers of thrift institutions, to permit these organizations to 

215 
Ths H°norable CharIs E. Walker 
-3~ 
^ 
their customers more effectively. On tlie other hand, the Board is 
Way CCnvj'-nced that: broadened lending powers constitute the most effective 
W..10 Cus^ion. the impact of monetary stringency on the earnings of these 
I f f l p - I n addition, the Board is concerned over the potential 
of'vf1",0^ these recommendations—together with those related to conversion 
firw 
institutions into commercial banks—on housing finance. The 
tliA 
seen no satisfactory analysis of the shift that might occur in 
P a ^ - ° m o l : i o s o f thrift institutions if they were permitted to diversify— 
-ocularly if they were to convert to commercial bank charters. 
The Commission proposes that a special tax credit based on gross 
t0
 ("rQ3fc income from residential mortgages and, possibly, direct subsidies 
ityC°113Ume"rs 
housing be used to offset any adverse effects flowing from 
and
 
r proposals. But until specific tax credit or subsidy proposals 
B0ar, . analysis underlying them are available for critical appraisal, the 
of 
nnabJe to endorse specific proposals for broadened lending powers 
* hrj-rt institutions. 
^Po-r 
Additionally, the Board believes that, as a general principle, 
S
^ 
institutions should not be permitted to make equity investments, 
for 1 ?'riVeGttoents., particularly on the scale contemplated by the Commission 
t'rv 
r U t institutions, might endanger the stability of financial inst.itu-
3. ~ 
-^^Si-iilL Ac count Pov?ers f or Thrift Institutions 
Ifee^ . 
The Board supports this recommendation, but only on the condition, 
in the Commission Report, that all institutions offering these 
hn^ f
iCGs be placed on a par with respect to regulation, reserve requirements, 
A.ncj axat"io7i. Since the tax proposals of the Commission are very general 
is f, cl3 
Commission recognized, the problem of achieving equal tax burdens 
the Board's support of checking account and other third-party 
,t0'al' Powers for thrift institutions would depend upon the specific terras 
itiei..trl3: Program designed to assure equality of treatment among financial 
'tJ.Ollc: 
iijjftpclal _Inter.acdiaries Acquiring Bank Holding Company Powers 
The Board believes that the potential risks to depositors, to the 
V 
insurance funds, and to the public outweigh the benefits that might 
to result from permitting banks and thrift institutions to 
o 0 ^-n rir.tJx ? tie3 open to holding companies. 
^t-. 
It is recognized that, as a matter of practice, most financial 
"^ntiorts, if permitted, would stand behind their affiliates whether or 

The Honorable Charls E. Walker 
-4-
g
0t thpy v/ere legally required to do so. But existing law provides a 
l8frifieant measure of protection to depositors in banks with holding com-
pany al-fiiJLates, and tlie Board is not convinced that the gains from the 
Mission's proposals are worth the added risks they involve. 
5' UrarichiiiR hy_ Thrif t: Institutions and Banks 
a 
The Board supports the general objectives of increased competition 
b
Ila bet tar service t.o the public that a properly controlled expansion of 
'•aching might be. able to provide. However, any branching legislation, 
^ k * Static or Federal, should guard carefully against branching activity 
lat might produce anticompetitive effects or undue concentration of finau-
rnT.Tov 
power. 
6. 
l&ndatory Membership__in the Federal Reserve System 
•m 
The Board supports equal treatment for all financial institutions. 
, ° Board would. as a means to that end, support the Commission recoim.ienda-
" °D for mandatory membership in the Federal Reserve. It believes, however, 
st
UU the basic objective could be essentially achieved by imposing the same 
^ c t u r e o f reserve requirements on all institutions offering checking 
tu°Unt o r other third-party payment services, and by offering those ins ti-
ro ° n s access to the discount window. If this rotate is followed, the Board 
that the legislative package sti.11 give to the Board the sole 
to set such reserve requirements, within the limits established by 
•St'OSG. 
-^rvlsioii of State Member Banks 
Cv 
Tbe Board agrees that it would be desirable to reduce the present 
of supervisory authority, and recognizes that enactment o- the 
s Mission Report as a package would require some major adjustments m the 
^ v i s o r y structure, However, the Board does not believe that there is 
iy riCit advantage tc- be gained by this particular recommendation. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
