i* H 
1 
] 
* 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 17, 1968 

1794 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, May 17, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board 
and Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
If 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Bernard and Miss McWhirter of the Office 
of the Secretary 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions except Messrs. Brill and 
1 ' L .' 
' ' V.' 
Partee of the Division of Research and Statistics and Mr. Reynolds of 
the Division of International Finance then withdrew from the meeting, 
as did Mr. Bernard, and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
T / O t h e r officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

5/17/68 
-2-
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Messrs. Doyle, Noble, and Plotkin of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Lawrence and Wiles of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Achor, Goodfellow, Hill, Maguire, 
and Poundstone of the Division of 
Examinations 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on 
May 16, 1968, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing 
schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appro-
priate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Foreign banking matters. The following items were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background information that had 
been made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the 
respective numbers indicated: 
Item No. 
Telegram authorizing the Federal Reserve Bank 
1 
of New York to open and maintain an account in 
the name of the Central Bank of Cyprus. 
Letter to Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, 
2 
New York, New York, approving its application 
to establish a branch in Zurich, Switzerland. 
Letter to Citizens and Southern International 
3 
Corporation, Atlanta, Georgia, approving its 
application to acquire additional shares of 
Banco de Occidente, Cali, Colombia. 

5/17/68 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to Bankers International Corporation 
4 
New York, New York, approving its application to 
acquire additional shares of BT Australia Pty. 
Ltd., Sydney, Australia, and for the latter to 
acquire shares of Data Systems Management Corpo-
ration, to be formed in Australia. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Farmers and Merchants Bank 
of Lawrenceville, Lawrenceville, Virginia, and Virginia National Bank, 
Norfolk, Virginia, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
The proposed merger of Farmers and Merchants 
Bank of Lawrenceville and Virginia National Bank, 
Norfolk, would eliminate little, if any, existing 
or potential competition. Overall, the proposal 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The National Bank of Woodstock, Woodstock, Virginia, into 
Virginia National Bank, Norfolk, Virginia, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion 
read as follows: 
There appears to be no existing or potential 
competition between The National Bank of Woodstock 
and Virginia National Bank, Norfolk, and overall 
the proposal would have no adverse effects on 
competition. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Bank of Bruce, Bruce, Mississippi, with Bank of Mississippi, 
Tupelo, Mississippi, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The conclusion read as follows 

1 7 3 7 
5/17/68 
-4-
There appears to be no competition existing 
between Bank of Bruce and Bank of Mississippi, 
Tupelo. Overall, the proposal would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
A draft of report on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed merger of two El Paso, Illinois, banks (El Paso National 
Bank and The Woodford County National Bank of El Paso) had been 
considered by the Board on May 10, 1968, at which time Governor Maisel 
had suggested that the report point out more clearly that at the time 
the two banks came under common ownership a violation of section 1 of the 
Sherman Act may have occurred. The report had been revised accordingly 
and was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency. The conclusion, which was unchanged from the original draft, 
read as follows: 
In view of the close relationship which exists between 
El Paso National Bank and The Woodford County National Bank 
of El Paso, no effective competition exists between them. 
The banks were vigorous competitors prior to their affilia-
tion and consummation of the proposed transaction would 
permanently preclude the restoration of competition between 
them. Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition 
would be substantially adverse. 
First at Orlando. 
Issuance of an order and statement reflect-
ing the Board's approval on April 29, 1968, of the application of 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire shares of 
The First National Bank of Leesburg, Leesburg, Florida, was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 5. 

1.7S8 
5/17/68 
-5-
Accounting for stock dividends. A memorandum from the Division 
of Examinations and the Legal Division dated May 13, 1968, discussed a 
proposed rule of the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to 
accounting for stock dividends. The memorandum, which contained a 
summary of points reviewed at a meeting of Board staff with represen-
tatives of the Commission, recommended that the Board request clarifi-
cation of the terminology of the rule, as it was proposed to be made 
applicable to banks, and also that the Commission be asked to grant 
an exemption for banks under the rule if a share distribution was 
approved by a bank supervisory agency. 
After discussion, unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
the Chairman of the Commission incorporating the staff recommendations. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 6. 
Foreign travel. The Board authorized travel by John F. L. 
Ghiardi of the Division of International Finance approximately from 
May 28 to June 12, 1968, to accompany Governor Maisel to Basle, Switzer-
land, for the annual meeting of the Bank for International Settlements 
and to visit the central banks of England, Belgium, and Italy. 
Meeting of Treasury consultants. Governor Mitchell reported 
on yesterday's meeting of the Treasury's economic consultants that he 
had attended along with Governor Daane and Mr. Brill, both of whom made 
supplemental comments. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

17SS 
5/17/68 
-6-
Secretary's Notes: On May 15, 1968, Governor 
Robertson approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following actions 
relating to the Board's staff: 
Leave without pay 
Clifford W. Glover, Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
for the period May 1 through May 17, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Virginia Gums, Charwoman, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business May 10, 1968. 
Mary Anne Lostaunau, Secretary, Office of the Secretary, effective 
the close of business May 31, 1968. 
On May 16, 1968, Governor Robertson approved 
on behalf of the Board memoranda recommending 
the following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Acceptance of resignations 
Judith E. Herriman, Editorial Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business May 24, 1968. 
Michael V. Maxson, Assistant Federal Reserve Examiner, Division of 
Examinations, effective the close of business May 17, 1968. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the-Division of International Finance dated 
May 15, 1968, recommending the establishment of an undergraduate summer 
assistant position in that Division. 
Memorandum from the Division of Administrative Services dated 
May 9, 1968, recommending the establishment of an additional laborer 
Position on the night cleaning force. 
- • i . ' ', .' . ' y 
Memorandum from the Division of Administrative Services dated 
May 15, 1968, recommending the establishment of an additional guard 
Position on the Guard Force. 

1800 
5/17/68 
-7-
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments, effective the respective 
dates of entrance upon duty 
Nancy P. Jacklin as Summer Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,995. 
Andrew W. Mason as Summer Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,995. 
Lydia M. Pitts as Summer Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,565. 
Marjorie E. Aileo as Stenographer, Division of Personnel Adminis-
tration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,161. 
Melvin G. Reid as Guard, Division of Administrative Services, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $4,913. 
Walter Southerland as Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,776. 
Entrance salary adjustment 
Alan K. Severn, Economist, Division of International Finance, from 
$13,371 to $12,233 per annum, effective May 15, 1968. (It was understood 
that the Division would recommend Mr. Severn's reclassification upon 
completion of all Ph.D. requirements.) 
Salary increases, effective May 19, 1968 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Board Members' Offices 
Catherine B. Davian, Secretary to 
$ 9,979 
$10,301 
Governor Maisel 
D. Lucille Tutt, Secretary to 
10,945 
11,267 
Governor Sherrill 

5/17/68 
-8-
Salary increases, effective May 19, 1968 (continued) 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Office of the Secretary 
M. Joan McLean, Supervisor, Clearing Unit 
$ 6,734 
$ 6,959 
Research and Statistics 
Jared J. Enzler, Economist 
12,233 
12,555 
James L. Kichline, Economist 
11,589 
11,911 
Katharyne P. Reil, Economist 
12,607 
12,989 
Sidney Washington, Library Assistant 
7,053 
7,572 
William W. Wiles, Economist 
12,225 
13,507 
International Finance 
Henry F. Lee, Economist 
13,371 
14,407 
Data Processing 
John Salerno, Systems Analyst 
16,369 
16,897 
Transfers 
> J >5 
N. Lois Orr, from the position of Special Assistant Federal Reserve 
Examiner, Division of Examinations, to the position of Secretary, Office 
of the Secretary, effective May 19, 1968. 
Jean H. Still, from the position of Statistical Clerk to the posi-
tion 
of Statistical Assistant, Division of Research and Statistics, with 
an increase in basic annual salary from $5,659 to $6,123, effective 
May 19, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Elizabeth Jane Goodhart, Assistant Legal File Clerk, Legal Divi-
sion, effective the close of business May 24, 1968. 
On the dates shown, actions were 
taken on behalf of the Board under 
delegated authority as reflected in 
the following letters, copies of which 
are attached as indicated: 

5/17/68 
-9-
On May 15. 1968 
By the Acting Director of the Division of 
Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
approving the appointment of Thomas Richard 
Wood as assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion regarding the application of Bank of Lake 
Village, Lake Village, Arkansas, for continuation 
of deposit insurance after withdrawal from member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. 
On May 17. 1968 
By the Acting Director of the Division of 
Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
approving the appointment of Leif W. Bergstrom as 
assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
approving the appointment of Herman A. Boll as 
assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
approving the appointment of Fitzhugh Lee Harris, Jr 
and Robert J. Cathcart as assistant examiners. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter to The Forest Hill State Bank, Forest Hill, 
Maryland, approving an investment in bank premises. 

1 nn 3 
T E L E G R A M 
I t e m N<>- l 
LEASED WINK SERVICE 
5/17/68 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
ttf a. cuiurmu 
WASHINGTON 
. 
* 
S ( ; , ' 
May 17, 1968, 
MAC LAURY - NEW YORK 
v. 
Your wire of May 16. Board approves opening and maintenance 
of an account on books of Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
in the name of the Central Bank of Cyprus, subject to usual 
terms and conditions. It is understood that participation in 
this account will be offered to other Federal Reserve Banks. 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
HOLLAND 

* * f^L RE^' * 
1804 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 12 
5/17/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 17, 1968. 
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, New York 
New York, pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act, to establish a branch at Stockerstrasse 38, Zurich, 
Switzerland, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the 
provisions of such Sections and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before June 1, 1969, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Zurich. 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of 
foreign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form 
of allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as 
foreign assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
with the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 

Morgan Guaranty Trust Company 
of New York 
-2-
1805 
»V-'J 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to 
pthe foreign lending and investment activities of your bank, Morg 
Guaranty International Banking Corporation and Morgan Guaranty 
International Finance Corporation, and that due consideration is 
being given to the priorities contained therein. 
an 
ill . i 
C 
o i -j 
io 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
V <:V, * 

OfCOw.'..^ 
XL' 
B D A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 3 
5/17/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 17, 1968 
Citizens and Southern 
' International Corporation, 
Marietta at Broad, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30302 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of April 26, 1968, the Board 
°f Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and 
hold approximately 81,250 additional shares of Banco de Occidente, 
Gali, Colombia, at a cost of approximately $50,000, provided such 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board has noted that as of March 29, 1968, the for-
eign loans and investments of your Corporation and Citizens and 
Southern National Bank exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable 
under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect. The fore-
going consent is given with the understanding that steps will be 
taken to reduce those foreign loans and investments to a level 
consistent with the guidelines by June 15, 1968; that the invest-
ment now being approved will be made within those guidelines; and 
that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• Of_Gow" •. 
OF THE 
XT 
, 
Item No. 4 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
5/17/68 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 17, 1968. 
jankers International Corporation, 
Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentl emen: 
Dec 
k 
I n a c c o r d a n c e w i t h t h e request contained in your letter of 
p o r T ^ /.'. 1 9 6 7' t h e B ° a r d ° f G o v e r n o r s grants consent for your Cor-
owt,a^IOn ( " B I C " ) t o Purchase and hold additional shares of your wholly-
at a 
s u b s i d i a r y » B T Australia Pty. Ltd. ("BTA"), Sydney, Australia, 
a cost of approximately $896,000, provided the shares are acquired 
Boarrf ^ 
^ 
f r° m t h G d a t G ° f t h i s l e t t e*. 
^ this connection the 
of in 
° a P P r o v e s ^ e purchase and holding of shares in BTA in excess 
per cent of BIC's capital and surplus. 
shar 
c T h e B o a r d ' s consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
es of BTA by BIC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That BIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in BTA if BTA at any time fails'to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if BTA establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Australia or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to BIC; 
(2) 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, BIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of BTA as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BTA 
be reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if BTA were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 

l N f / 8 
Bankers International Corporation -2-
The Board also grants consent for your wholly-owned sub-
sidiary, BTA, to purchase and hold up to 100 per cent of the share 
of Data Systems Management Corporation ("DSMC"), to be formed in 
Australia, at a cost of approximately $896,000, provided such shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. In this 
connection the Board also approves the purchase and holding of such 
shares by BTA in excess of the limitations set forth in paragraph 5(c) 
of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of DSMC by BTA is granted subject to the following conditions 
for so long as BTA holds effective voting control of DSMC: 
(1) That BTA shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in DSMC if DSMC at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if DSMC establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Australia or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to BTA; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of DSMC as it may require from time 
to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by DSMC 
be reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if DSMC were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 
(4) That DSMC will confine its activities essentially to 
the leasing of computers under leases under which 
DSMC will recover the full costs of acquisition and 
any other expenses expected to be incurred by DSMC 
during the lease, and that DSMC shall not acquire 
computers for leasing before the prospective lessee 
has executed the lease agreement. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board sus-
pends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraphs (1) of 
the second and fourth paragraphs of this letter so far as they relate 
to restrictions on loans or leases granted by BTA or DSMC in Australia 
in the currency of that country. 

Bankers International Corporation 
-3-
Upon completion of the proposed acquisitions, it is 
requested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of 
Association and By-Laws of BTA and DSMC. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation and Bankers Trust Company and that 
due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 17 
5/17/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, 
! 
Orlando, Florida, 
1 
™ 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per ' 
cent or more of the voting shares of ' 
The First National Bank of Leesburg, 
1 
Leesburg, Florida. 
1 
- 
- . 1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First at Orlando Corporation, 
Orlando, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of acquisition of 
per cent or more of the voting shares of The First National Bank 
Leesburg, Leesburg, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
t h c application. 

18H 
Notice of rcceipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on January 20, 1968 (33 Federal Register 775), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consider-
ation. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
o f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 20th day of May, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
(Signed) Robert P„ Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SFiAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, 
ORLANDO, FLORIDA, FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION 
OF VOTING SHARES OF THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF LEESBURG, 
LEESBURG, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
( l 2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of The First National Bank of Leesburg, 
Leesburg, Florida ("Bank"). Applicant presently has five subsidiary 
b a n k s» all located in Orlando (Orange County), Florida, with total 
dePosits of $198 million." 
Bank, which is located in adjoining Lake 
County, has total deposits of about $20 million. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
0 ^ 
the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended that the appli-
C a t i o n be approved. 
i/ Banking data are as of June 30, 1967, unleoc othervioe noted, adjuoted, 
re appropriate, to reflect acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

- 2 -
1 8 1 3 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part 
the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a mono-
Poly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 
i n t 0 consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
at*king organizations in Florida, including 7 bank holding companies, 
^ntrol 37 per cent of the deposits held by all commerical banks in the 
e* Applicant, whose five subsidiaries account for 2.3 per cent of 
Such deposits, is presently the sixth largest banking organization and 
sixth largest of 12 bank holding companies in the State. Upon con-
UtIttTlation of the proposed acquisition, Applicant would rank fifth in 
oth categories, and would increase its share of deposits in the State 
to 2 A 
'•o per cent. 

-3-
Applicant's largest subsidiary, the First National Bank at 
Orlando, has total deposits of $142 million and is the largest bank 
in Orlando. Of the other four subsidiaries, uhich range in size from 
60 
£ , 
to 
$18 million, three are located within Orlando; the fourth is 
close to the city limits and about five miles from downtown Orlando. 
These subsidiaries account for about 42 per cent of the deposits held 
bV 18 banks located in Orange County. Two other holding companies, 
1 i' v 
Jig ^ , 
. 
both of which are larger than Applicant, have one subsidiary bank each 
In Orange County. Together, the three bank holding companies account 
63 per cent of the deposits held by Orange County banks. IJhile the 
extent of this existing concentration is a matter of concern, consummation 
the present proposal would not affect Applicant's holdings, increase 
concentration. or reduce banking alternatives uithin Orange County or 
portion thereof. 
Bank is located in the northwest corner of Lake County, about 
2 / 
* 
4 0 miles northwest of Orlando, and its primary service area 
encompasses 
a n area within a 15 mile radius of Leesburg. The southeast extremity of 
Chis area lies approximately 15 miles from the northwest extremity of the 
a r e a delineated by Applicant at the time of its formation in 1967, as the 
3 / 
a t G a served by Applicant's other subsidiaries.- 
The only one of Appli-
C a n t ,s subsidiaries which derives any significant amount of business from 
• - • 
- 
, 
' 
tenAn? a r e a from which Bank derives an estimated GO per cent of its 
3/
posits of individuals, partnerships, and corporations ("IPC deposits ). 
Bull ° p l i c a t i o n of First at Orlando Corporation, 53 Federal Reserve 
^ U e t i ^ 2 3 5 , 237 (1967). Applicant estimated that it derived 81 per 
o f Its IPC deposits from this area. 
r 

• J * 
-U" 
1 8 1 5 
the Leesburg area is the First National Bank at Orlando. Of its total 
loans and time and savings deposits, 1.5 and 2.4 per cent, respectively, 
originate in the primary service area of Bank. The only meaningful 
business derived by Bank from the Orlando area is 2 per cent of its 
time and savings deposits. In view of the small degree of market over-
lap, the distance separating the two primary service areas, and the fact 
that a number of banks are located within this intervening area, there 
appears to be no significant competition between Bank and Applicant's 
Present subsidiaries. These same factors, as well as a State prohibition 
against branching, also make it unlikely that such competition would 
develop between them in the future. 
Bank is the larger of two banks in Leesburg and the largest 
nine banks competing in its primary service area, and accounts for 
22 
per cent of area deposits. Four of the eight other banks in the 
area, including its Leesburg competitor, have deposits in excess of 
$ l° million. It does not appear that the continued viability or com-
petitive effectiveness of any of the competing banks would be adversely 
affected by Bank's acquisition by Applicant. Since the proposed acqui-
8*tion represents Applicant's initial entry into Lake County and Bank's 
Primary service area, concentration in those areas would not be increased 
no alternative source of banking services would be eliminated. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes that 
of Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly, nor 
k® in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 

the business of banking in any relevant area, nor would such consum-
mation substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or 
restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant is in sound financial condition and has qualified management. 
Each of its present subsidiaries has competent management and has exper-
ienced good growth, and the financial condition of each is generally 
satisfactory. Applicant's prospects are dependent on those of its sub-
sidiary banks, and are regarded as favorable. 
Bank's financial condition is reasonably satisfactory, and its 
Present management appears to be experienced and competent. Two of its 
senior officers, however, expect to retire within the next year, and a 
third is approaching retirement. While response to Bank's future manage-
aent needs does not appear to be dependent on its affiliation with Appli-
cant, consummation of the proposal would probably facilitate the filling 
vacancies anticipated in the near future. Bank's prospects appear 
^vorable regardless of whether it is affiliated with Applicant; however 
t h e internal efficiencies and improved earnings which the proposed affil 
iation 
seems to assure offer sufficiently more favorable prospects as to 
institute a factor supporting approval of the application. 
The banking factors, as they relate to Applicant, are found to 
b° consistent with approval of the application. As they relate to Bank, 
S U ch factors lend slight weight in favor of approval. 

1 8 1 7 
- 6 -
-, 
i , 
Convenience and needs of the communities served, - There is no 
evidence to indicate that Bank's affiliation with Applicant's group would 
have any significant effect on the convenience and needs of Orlando or 
surrounding communities. The existence of an affiliate of Applicant 
in Leesburg should have little or no effect on Orlando customers. 
. In the Leesburg area most of the immediate advantages of the 
Proposed affiliation will accrue directly to Bank in the form of inter-
nal improvements, and only indirectly to the banking public. However, 
there is some evidence of a demand for credit in the area in amounts 
beyond the capacity of any local institution, and it is alleged that, 
in times of tight money, difficulties have been encountered in obtaining 
correspondent assistance in handling overlines. The proposed affiliation 
should provide a greater facility in arranging participation by other of 
Applicant's subsidiaries in such lending. Also, Lake County ranks second 
the State in the growing, processing, packaging, and shipping of citrus 
fruit s. Applicant's largest subisidary bank has, for many years, been 
actively involved in financing the citrus industry in its area, and has 
developed experience in this field which should be of value to the 
leesburg area. 
Considerations related to the convenience and needs of the 
communities involved are consistent with, and lend some weight toward, 
aPProval of the application. 
Summary and Conclusion. - Based on all the relevant facts 
c°ntained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 

wrasnsa nkim*.?. 
K HIP 
1818 
-7< 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
V, . 
' 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
May 20, 1968. 
•M.v -
•A' - • 
w s. •• 
' .1 
.''J.. V•„..:.•;,. 
•V'•:•<*> 
' • i 

al res 
1819 
BOARD DF G O V E R N O R S 
a F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
3 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 6 
5/17/68 
OFFICE OF T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
May 17, 1968 
The Honorable Manuel F. Cohen, Chairman, • 
Securities and Exchange Commission, 
500 North Capitol Street, N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 20549 
Dear Mr. Cohen: 
This will supplement the Board's letter of April 9, 1968, 
in response to the Commission's notice of proposal to adopt Rule 10b-12 
contained in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 8268. The proposed 
rule's effect on banks was discussed by our staffs on April 19, 1968. 
As previously indicated, certain terms used in the proposed 
rule are not generally used in bank accounting and the aforesaid dis-
cussion helped to resolve some confusion as to the intended effect of 
the rule. The Board recommends, as a minimum, clarification of the 
terminology of the rule, as it will be applicable to banks. 
It has also come to the Board's attention that several indus-
try 
groups and bank supervisory agencies have requested an exemption 
from the proposed rule for banks on the ground that banks are already 
subject to strict supervision by such agencies. However, since no 
uniform policy with respect to stock dividends has been adopted by the 
bank supervisory agencies involved - i.e., the Comptroller of the Currency 
with respect to national banks and the State authorities with respect 
to State banks - it has been suggested that a minimum standard would 
be necessary to accomplish the objectives of the Commission. The Board 
believes this approach has merit and submits the attached language for 
consideration by the Commission. 
Enclosure 
Sincerely, 

Suggested Exemption for Banks in Connection 
With Proposed Rule 10b-12 of the SEC 
"(d) This rule shall not apply to a share distribution, 
as referred to in paragraph (a), by a bank, as defined in 
section (3)(a)(6) of the Act, as to which a State or Federal 
bank supervisory agency has determined (i) that the bank has 
earned surplus in either its surplus or undivided profits 
account, equal at least to the fair value, as defined in 
paragraph (b), of the shares so distributed, or (ii) that 
such distribution is not a manipulative or deceptive device 
or contrivance comprehended within the purpose of the rule. 
As used herein, "earned surplus' means undistributed earnings 
as reflected by the bank's records at 
_____> 1968, 
Plus amounts subsequently transferred to undivided profits or 
surplus from income, less cash dividends declared and the fair 
value of shares issued as stock dividends after that date." 

1821 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 7 
• F 
T H E 
5/17/68 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 15, 1968 
Mr. R. M. Stephenson, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear Mr. Stephenson: 
Svo.::', 
In accordance with the request contained in 
Mr. Heck's letter of May 10, 1968, the Acting Director 
of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board 
of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointment of Thomas Richard Wood as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, effec-
t i v e May 20, 1968. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Assistant Secretary 

18Z2 
^ T r e s ^ * * 
B D A R D 
• F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 8 
5/17/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 15, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Mr. DeHority: 
Reference is made to your letter of May 10, 1968, 
concerning the application of Bank of Lake Village, Lake Village, 
Arkansas, for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal 
from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Examinations has stated, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors, that there have been no corrective programs urged 
uP°n the bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been fully 
c°nsummated, and there are no programs that the Acting Director 
w°uld advise be incorporated as conditions of admitting the bank 
to membership in the Corporation as a nonmember of the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1823 
B D A R D 
O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 9 
5/17/68 
2*. 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
J 
A D D R E S S 
D T F I C T A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
• 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 20, 1968 
Mr. Leland M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of May 14, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointment of Leif W. 
Bergstrom as an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago. Please advise the effective date of the appoint-
ment . 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1824 
B D A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 10 
5/17/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 20, 1968 
0. 0. Wyrick, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
St« Louis, Missouri. 
63166 
De 
a r Mr. Wyrick 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
of p 1 ° f M a y 1 5 j 1 9 6 8 ' t h e A c t i n 8 D o c t o r of the Division 
* examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
egated authority, approves the appointment of Herman A. 
o f * a s a n assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank 
at. Louis. Please advise the effective date of the 
aPPointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1825 
B D A R D 
C3F G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 11 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
5/17/68 
S * 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 17, 1968. 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
In accordance with the requests contained in your 
letters of May 13, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointments of Fitzhugh 
Lee Harris, Jr., and Robert J. Cathcart as assistant examiners 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. The appointment 
of Mr. Cathcart is effective the date of this letter. Please 
advise the effective date of the appointment of Mr. Harris. 
Very truly yours , 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

MX. 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F 
R I C H M O N D 
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA 
23213 
Hay 17, 196$. 
m* 
Item No. 12 
5/17/68 
•©•rd of Directors, 
the l o v H t Kill lUfci Bank, 
for.it Bill, tteryland 21050. 
Gentlemen! 
Th« V«4«rtl lanrrt Bask of Blchaood, acting on 
behalf of and ua4ar authority delegated by the Board of 
•overnora of tha federal Baeerve Syetea and pursuant to 
•action 244 of tha federal laaarra Act, approve* 
Investment of 1120,000 in bank prenisss by Tha Foraat 
'111 ttata Bank for tha purpose of acquiring additional 
land and onlarging present banking quartara. 
Tour* vary truly, 
/S/ Aubrey N. Heflln 
Aubrey V. Heflin, 
fresident. 
