Minutes for April 16, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 1 Amendment to Regulation U, Credit by Banks 
for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying 
Margin Stocks. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. 
If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
ih r l 
Kb, 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
^ o t e: 
No changes from draft minutes. 

937 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, April 16, 1971. The Board met in the Special Library 
at 9:15 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 1/ 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Other appropriate staff members also were 
present. 
Margin regulations. An officer of Wilmington Trust Company, 
Wilmington, Delaware, had called Miss Hart on Thursday, April 15, at 
the suggestion of the Philadelphia Reserve Bank, to ask whether loans 
made under the following circumstances would be subject to Regulation U 
under a 1946 interpretation of the Board. 
Certain customers of the 
bank who had loaned stock to duPont, Glore Forgan & Co. for capital 
purposes had been informed by the Perot interests that in order to 
improve the capital position of the firm the stock would be sold and 
the proceeds held in cash or Governments. 
Since the customers would 
I T Attended afternoon session only. 

938 
4/16/71 
-2-
realize substantial capital gains as the result of such a sale, they 
had asked whether they could instead withdraw their stock and substi-
tute Governments. 
They had been given until Monday to effect such a 
substitution. 
They had asked Wilmington Trust if they could borrow 
against their stock, without regard to margin requirements, and buy 
Governments with the proceeds, in order to lend the Governments to 
duPont. 
The alternatives seemed to the staff to be: 
(1) Inform Wilmington Trust Company that the proposed loans 
would fall within the 1946 interpretation. 
K m : , • 
. 
. 
" 
• if ' 
(2) Adopt an amendment to Regulation U exempting existing 
loans to provide capital to broker-dealer firms, and possibly imposing 
restrictions on future loans, pending further consideration by the 
Securities and Exchange Commission and the Securities Investor Protec-
tion Corporation. 
In commenting on the problem, Miss Hart pointed out that a 
difficulty in reaffirming the 1946 interpretation was that many loans 
this kind, on which margin requirements were not being observed, 
were known to be outstanding at other banks. Another difficulty was 
that the Board might be changing its regulations within a relatively 
short period of time, along the lines of proposals that the Board had 
discussed earlier this year and had referred to the SEC for comment. 
Ciiiit; , 
, 
. 
. 
!«.£.<' • oo v .. • :'v ' *
a
v
;
; 
The suggestion then was made that the Board might announce 
Qf: a • . 
• . 
' 
' 
• ' 
: 
that it had a regulatory change under consideration, and that in the 

S3B 
4/16/71 
-3-
interim the Board would consider requests for exemption from margin 
requirements in individual cases upon request. 
Some reservations 
were expressed, however, about the feasibility and desirability of 
expressing willingness to consider individual cases. 
The issuance of regulations that would exempt from margin 
requirements extensions of credit to provide capital to broker-dealer 
firms under certain terms and conditions was being delayed, it was 
£ 4 
noted, because there had as yet been no reaction from the SEC. 
In 
the meantime, the situation with respect to the duPont firm had 
improved, so the issuance of such regulations would not present the 
same degree of risk, and in any event the staff proposal would exempt 
credit to broker-dealer firms already outstanding. 
After further discussion, a variant on the previous proposal 
was suggested. The Board would issue for comment a regulation, to 
become effective as of a stated future date, that would restrict 
credit extended to broker-dealer firms after such date unless it con-
formed to certain requirements. 
This would allow the SEC, the SIPC, 
and others to comment but would establish a deadline. 
The lack of a quorum was noted, but the Board was advised 
that a quorum would be available later today. Pending the availability 
a quorum, it was suggested that the staff proceed with the drafting 
a regulatory amendment that would be adopted today and would exempt 

940 
4/16/71 
-2-
from margin requirements the granting of credit in circumstances such 
as Wilmington Trust Company had described. At the same time the Board 
would publish for comment a regulatory amendment, to become effective 
in about three months, which would specify conditions under which loans 
could be extended to provide capital to broker-dealer firms exempt 
from margin requirements. 
Such conditions would apply to renewals of 
outstanding credits as well as new credits. 
It was understood that 
the staff would check on the proposed course of action with the SEC, 
SIPC, and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened at 3:35 p.m. with the 
same attendance except that Governor Sherrill also was present. 
There were distributed drafts of a regulatory amendment, a 
notice of proposed regulatory amendment, and a press release, all of 
which had been prepared for the purpose of implementing a course of 
action such as had been suggested at the morning session. 
Mr. Holland reported that he had informed Chairman Burns of the 
Problem with which the Board was confronted, and that the Chairman had 
acquiesced in a move by the Board in the direction indicated. Mr. Partee 
Sported that he had talked with a member of the SEC, and with the 
Chairman and a director of SIPC, and that no objections had been 
indicated. Mr. Stoffels reported that he had discussed the situation 
w^th staff of the New York Reserve Bank. 

941 
4/16/71 
-2-
The Board then agreed to publish for comment proposed amend-
ments to Regulations G, T, and U, to become effective July 16, 1971, 
setting forth conditions under which credit could be obtained for 
the purpose of providing capital to broker-dealer firms without regard 
to initial margin requirements. 
As an interim measure, the Board by unanimous vote amended 
Regulation U, effective immediately, to grant an exemption from initial 
margin requirements for credit by banks for the purpose of providing 
capital to broker-dealer firms. 
The Board authorized the issuance of a press release covering 
these matters. 
Attached under Item No. 1 are copies of the press release, the 
amendment to Regulation U, and the proposed amendments to Regulations 
G, T, and U. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

4/16/71 
For immediate release 
April 16, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
proposed amendments to its Regulations G, T, and U setting forth con-
ditions under which credit may be obtained for the purpose of pro-
viding capital to broker-dealer firms without regard to initial margin 
requirements. 
The amendments are designed to facilitate the raising 
of longer term capital by such firms. 
As proposed, the amendments would become effective in three 
months--on July 16. 
Comments on the proposals should be submitted to 
the Board by May 24. 
As an interim measure, while it is considering these proposals, 
the Board granted an exemption from initial margin requirements for 
ei'edit; by banks for Lhe purpose of providing capital to broker-dealer 
firms. 
Regulation U applies to credit extended by banks for the 
Purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stocks; Regulation T applies 
t o such credit extended by brokers and dealers, while Regulation G 
applies to such credit extended by persons other than banks and brokers 
dealers. 
Under the proposed amendments a lender would be required to 
hold collateral sufficient to secure a loan before he could extend credit 
t o a third party for the purpose of 
providing 
capital to a broker-
^en lor. 
The proposals would permit such a loan to be made if the pro-
v i n g of capital is subject to the applicable rules of either the 

943 
-2-
a . 
• 
Securities and Exchange Commission or a stock exchange, or both, and 
if the capital is subject to the following five conditions: 
1. 
It must be provided for at least one year. 
2. 
It can be withdrawn after that only after six months' 
notice has been given to the broker-dealer, the SEC and the Securities 
Investor Protection Corporation. 
3. A withdrawal of capital could only be made if it would 
not place the broker-dealer in violation of the net capital rule to 
which it is subject. 
4. 
All proceeds of the loan must be contributed to a broker-
dealer as capital. 
5. Any withdrawal of capital must be used to reduce the 
^amount of the loan. 
As proposed, the amendments would apply not only to new credits 
extended after the effective date but also to renewals of credit ini-
tially made between today and July 16. 
Copies of the exemption and the proposed amendments arc 
attached . 
. «a 
v
• 

the Commission (17 CFR 240.15c-1(b)(2)) or to purchase stock in a 
^editor which is a corporation: 
Provided, That any such credit 
t e n d e d after April 16, 1971, shall become subject upon renewal to such 
a<3ditional restrictions as the Board of Governors may impose by 
r°&ulation concerning the conditions upon which credit may be 
e*tonded for the purpose of making such loan or contribution: 
^jjiroyidod further. That (.1) all of Che proceeds of such extension 
of 
credit are so loaned or contributed to Che capital of the broker 
Of ) 
ealer, and (ii) that the proceeds of nny withdrawal of such loan 
°ntribution of capital from the broker or dealer by the customer 
° r red 
-adaption of such stock shall be used to reduce or retire said 
^ n s i o n of credit. 
i 
2a. These amendmencs are issued pursuant to secCion 7 of 
the s. 
ecurities Exchange Act of .1934 (15 U.S.C. 73g). 
The changes 
0 Permit banks to extend or maintain credit for the purpose 
Of G nab)i ng the customer to contribute capital to a broker/dealer 
Whether in the form of a subordinated loan, equities in the 
t s of partners or a purchase of stock in a corporation or 
°thGrvi, 
SG» without regard to the initial margin requirements of 
5 § 221. 
" 1 ancJ 221.4 (the Supplement to Regulation U). 
Credit 
Ccc] after April 16, 1971» and prior to adoption of proposed 
^ m o n t -
C G to Regulation U, published concurrently herewith in the 
Cd°r<U r « 
agister under Moticc of Proposed Rulemaking, would become 

946 
- 3 -
upon subsequent renewal t:o the restrictions imposed by ouch 
amendmenta«, Thin actionals taken to facilitate the raising of capital 
^ 'kVokar/deolAr firmn end to encourage the permanency of such capital,. 
b„ The requirements of section 553(b) of title 5, United 
St 
atea Code, with roapect to notice, public participation, and deferred' 
Off fcctiva dnte were not followed in connection with these amendments 
^ o u a o following nuch requirements would have preventad the Board*s 
Scorning effective as promptly aa neceaaary in the 
p v * H c intorent0 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 16, 1971. 
t 
• •.• ;v 
% 
* iu> i ^ 
-
Kenneth A, Kenyon f 
Deputy Secretary 

* • %.r 
94 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR PARTS 207, 220, end 221] 
[Rcgoe G, T, and U] 
SECURITIES CREDIT BY PERSONS OTHER THAN BANKS, BROKERS, OR DEALERS 
CREDIT BY BROKERS AND DEALERS 
CREDIT "VY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR CARRYING MARGIN STOCK 
Credit to Contribute Capital 
to Brokers and Dealers 
Pursuant to the authority contained in the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (15 U,S,C„ 78g), the Board of Governors propose*? to amend 
*art8 207, 220, and 221 in the following respects: 
1. Paragraph (f) of section 207,1 would be amended as set 
below: 
<L" 
! 
» 
5 2°7.1 General Rule 
-k 
)k £ Vr 
(f) Credit extended to broker or dealer subject to Regulation T. 
• t,., 
0 u^t of partnero, or to purchane ntock in, any broker or dealer who 
J o 
8 u bJect to ouch Part, whether with or without collateral.* Where the 
^ 
No lender shall extend or maintain any credit for the purpooe of 
ng or carrying any margin security to any broker or dealer who 
is 
8 Cubject to Part 220 of thin Chapter (Regulation T), and after July 16, 
no lender shall extend any credit to any customer to enable the 
V" •' • 
i^Uhf 
• 
3tome.r to contribute capital to nny broker or dealer who in subject to 
-
Fart, whether such contribution ifl in the form of a loan to ouch 
or dealer (whether subordinated or not) or of equities in the 
/ 

359 
- 2 -
'-x1 * 
\ 
credit 
Of St 
yHfed-' 
ct.dU or the proceeds of the loan or other contribution or purchase 
Of stock is to bo used in the ordinary course of busiuena of such 
*ustcncr or such broker or dealer, such credit is presuwd to be. for 
the purpose of purchasing'or carrying margin securities unless the 
lender has in his records a statement to the contrary obtained and ex-
c<*ted in conformity with the requirements of paragraph O ) of this 
Action. 
Hitler * 
(2) The prohibition of this paragraph ( O ehall not apply 
a* 
t 0 credit which io secured by collateral other than registered aecu-
'.ju 
•:••„. 
/ 
llties Which is (i) made to a dealer^/(whether or not secured) to aid 
lr> the distribution of securities to customer,, not through the 
mdtvn 
0 £ « rational securities exchange, or (ii) extended to a broker or 
de«ler cubject to Part 220 or to a customer for the purpose of making 
4 loan or contribution of capital to such a broker or dealer if the 
t e n s i o n of credit, loan or other contribution if. in conformity with 
th« requirements regarding satisfactory agreements or equities in the 
0 £ 
t n e t 9 of « rule of the Securities and Exchange Commission 
15c3-l(c) (2) (A) , (c)(4), and (c)(7) (17 CFR 240.15c3-l (c)(2)(A), 
(tH'»), c n d (c)(7)) or of the capital rules of an exchange of which the 
or dealer is a member if the member- thereof are exempt therefrom 
R»le 15ci-l(b) (2) of the Cotonission (17 CFR 240.15c3-l(b) (2)) or to 
^ t e h a o a stock in a broker or dealer which ia a corporation: 
Provided, 
fined in 15 U„S,C, 73c(a)(5). 

94 
AQ 
- 3 -
^hat in the case of credit described in this paragraph that in ex-
tended after July 16, 1971, and in the case of ar.y renewal of ouch 
c*edit extended between April 17, 1971 and July 17, 1971, such 
6*to.n$ion of cradle is. subject to the following conditions: 
(i) 
/ 
j 
case of credit extended to enable a customer to make a loan 
0 t other contribution of capital to, or purchase stock in, such a 
broker or dealer the lender holds in its possession collateral 
quate in good faith, to secure the amount of the credit, (ii) in 
event other than the death, disability, or (in the case of a lender 
customer who is a partner, officer, or employee of the broker or dealer) 
Voluntary retirement of the lender or customer may the subordinated 
ension of credit, loan or contribution be repaid or the stock be 
« 
Graed until one year after the subordinated extension of credit, 
> 
contribution was first made or stock first purchased and 
^ e a f t e r until nix months after the giving of written notice by the 
the case of a subordinated extension of credit) or customer 
(in tho 
• e c«se of a subordinated loan, contribution of capital, or purchase 
of 
8t°ck) to ouch broker or dealer, the Commission, and the Securities 
^ttye p 
Protection Corporation of intent to demand repayment of the 
**t(irisl o n of credit, loan, or contribution or redemption of the stock, 
110 event may such credit, loan or contribution be repaid or 
the B t 
k bej redeemed if the effect of such payment or redemption would 
net capital of such broker or dealer below the amount 

• rGfluirad by the net capital rule or capital rule to which ouch broker 
° r dealer is subject, or would otherwise be inconsistent with such 
rule$ (iv) ^11. of the proceeds of such extension of credit are so 
loaned or contributed-to the capital of such broker or dealer or 
Sed to purchase ouch stock, and (v) the proceeds of any withdrawal 
such loan or contribution of capital from ouch broker or dealer 
b y 
customer or redemption of such stock shall be used to reduce 
retire said extension of credit. 
M & r t 
(3) The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
by Order exempt from the prohibitions of this paragraph (f) ana 
th 
G requirements of this part, either unconditionally or upon specified 
t6rrns 
conditions or for stated periods, any loan for the purpose 
of 
E-aking a i 0 c n o r providing capital to a person who is subject to 
rltt 
of this Chapter (Regulation T), upon a finding that the 
of such an exemption in necessary or appropriate, in the 
So*/. 
u interest or for the protection of investors; Provided, That 
the 
-curities Investor Protection Corporation shall have certified 
to Hin, r, 
Board that such action is appropriate under the circuastancey„ 
'Mi*: 
/ 

359 
- 5 -
2. Section 220.4 would he amended by rev loins (subparagraph 
<
f
>(2) a 
ft 
. 
220.A Special Accounts 
s set forth below: 
v. 
it 'U «Jf V* fc 
(f) Special Miscellaneous account. 
•<V "iV * £ VV 
(2)(i) Subject to the provisions of subdivisions (ill) 
$ (iv) 0 £ this oubparagroph extend and maintain credit, (a) to or for 
•L-
cner of a firm which is a member of a national securities exchange 
u 
such partner to make a contribution of capital to ouch fizra, cr 
to 
, 
stock in an affiliated corporation of such firm, or (t>) to or 
y Person vho is or will become the holder of stock of a corporation 
a member of a national securities exchange to enable ouch person 
t o Pu 
u cnase stock in cuch corporation, or to purchase stock in an affiliated 
c°rp0r 
'' 
• 
l0"n of such corporation; provided the lender as well as the 
i s a partner in such taetaber firm or a stockholder in cuch member 
C % 0 B , 
Co-
vion, or the lender is a firm or a stockholder in cuch member 
Porj 
ttli°n, or the lender is a firm or corporation 
which is a member of 
al securities exchange and the borrower is a partner in cuch firm 
a 
vockholder in cuch corporation; 
(ii) Subject to the provisions of subdivisions (iii) and . 
(iv) o f 
t his subparagraph extend and maintain subordinated credit to 
C rcditor for capital purposes: 
Provided, That 

. (fl) Either the lender or the borrower is a firm or corpora-
tion v?h<r> 
..a a member of a national securities exchange, the other 
co the credit is an affiliated corporation of such member firm or 
and, in addition to the fact that an appropriate ccrcniittce 
^•change is satisfied that the credit is not in contravention of 
frule of the exchange, the credit hns the approval of 
cocxnittee, or 
(ly The lender as well as the borrower is a member of such 
m 
» cue credit•haa the approval of an appropriate committee of the 
' • «n<j tne committee, in'addition t:o being satisfied that tho 
. 
r*ot in contravention of any rule of the exchange, io satisfied 
Pj 
^ct t£ • 
• 
credit is outside the ordinary course of the lender's business, 
^ 
that 
, 
v « the bo; 
rrower's firm or corporation or an affiliated corporation 
or corporation does any dealing in securities for its ovm" 
t h e 
. 
•• 
• 
' 
credit is not for the purpose of increasing the amount of such 
J1 
. 
.. 
. 
. 
• 
. 
. 
. 
* 
. 
8 
(iii) For the purpose of subdivisions (i) and (ii) of this 
oV,iPn, the tern "affiliated corporation" means a corporation all 
|| 
' G ocl: of which ia o\.Tned directly or indirectly by the member 
** o- „ 
*• gener a I 
^ 
1 Partners and employees of the firm, or by the member 
^ c l o n or h 
jw, 
nolderc of voting stock and employees of the corporation. 
r*-°P».iatc committee of the exchange lias approved the member firm's 
°rPoration'c affiliation with fiuch affiliated corporation. 
• : 

(iv) No crcdit shall be extended pursuant to thin sub-
Paragraph after July 16, 1971, and no such credit extended between 
April 16, 1971, and July 16, 1971, shall be renewed unless (a) in 
0 event other than the death, disability, or (in the case of a 
borrower who is a partner, officer, or employee of the firm or 
c°iporation to which the subordinated loan or other contribution 
o 1* 
• 
capital is made or in which the stock is purchased) involuntary 
tGtiretncnt of the borrower may the subordinated loan or contribution 
of 
capital be repaid or the stock be redeemed until one year after 
loan or contribution was first made or such stock first purchased 
the 
ifter until six months after the giving of written notice by 
ko. - 0 W e r t Q tjl(J 
tlie securities and Exchange Commission and 
Securities Investor Protection Corporation of intent to demand 
repays 
c 0 1 sucn 'loan or contribution or redemption of such 3tock, 
(b) t n 
no event may such loan or other contribution of capital be 
^paid 0 r tt 
n e stock be redeemed by a creditor to whom the loan or 
ution was made or whose stock was the subject of purchase, 
^ the effn < c 
u- 
such payment or redemption would reduce the net 
t 
°f such creditor below the amount required by the net capital 
0 r 
. 
ilPrtal rule to which such creditor is subject, or would 
° t h G r v U e 
oe inconsistent with such rule; (c_) all of the proceeds of 
S U c h ex to 
'••nsions of credit are so loaned or contributed to the capital 
such fi 
r m o r affiliated corporation or used to purchase such stock 
<£) the 
c 
Proceeds of any withdrawal of such loan or contribution of 
1,1 such creditor or redemption of such stock shall be used to 
or r ctlro r.aid c:;Cens io;-, of crcdit. 

954 
i 
Section 221,2 would be amended by revising paragraph (m) and section 
hil , 
, , X 
° Would be amended by adding subparagraph (b) (4) and revising paragraph (c) 
ty 
°Gccignating the first sentence as subparagraph (1) and adding a new sub-
8raPh (2), as set forth below: 
5 221 
Exceptions Co General Rule. 
* * V: * * 
... 
• 
(m) Any credit extended to a customer 
the purpose of making a 
contribution of capital to a broker or dealer subject to Part 220 (Regula-
the loan or contribution is in conformity with the requirements regarding 
n^to.ry subordination agreements or equities in the accounts of partners ot a 
« 
the. Securities and Exchange Commission (Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(a)t (c)(4), 
t \ 
V C ) 0 ) (17 C F R 240.15c3~l(c) (2) (a), (c)(4), and (c)(7)) or the capital rules 
0f an exchange of which the broker or dealer is a member if the members thereof 
therefrom bv Rule 15c3-l(b)(2) of the Commission (17 CFR 240.15c3-l 
(b>(2V 
' 
' 
r 
to purchase stock in a broker or dealer which is a corporation: 
That in the case of credit described in this paragraph that is extended 
> 
J u iy 16, 1971, and any renewal of such credit extended between April 16, 
\ 
-
ull(1 July 16, )971, such subordinated loan, contribution, or purchase of 
l s subject to the following further conditions: 
(1) the bank holds in 
lt| pQ SGession collateral furnished by the customer adequate, in good faith, to 
amount of the credit, (2) in no event other than the death, disability, 
(i 
n the case of a partner, officer, or employee of the broker or dealer 
t 
V i 
retirement of the customer can the subordinated loan or contribution bo 
° r the stock be redeemed until one year after the subordinated loan or 
lbution was first made or stock first purchased and thereafter until six 
N u 
^ 
3 after uhe giving of written notice by the customer to the broker or 
, 
Qt> t h« Commission. and the Securities Investor Protection Corporation of 
t 0 
and repayment of the loan or contribution or redemption of the stock, 

- 9 -
n S o 
(3) 
955 
in no event: m y such loan or contribution be repaid or the stock be redeemed 
i f* 
the effect of such payment or redemption would reduce the net capital of the 
^Qicer or dealer below the amount required by any net capital or capital rule 
to ' 
^lich the broker or dealer is subject, or would otherwise be inconsistent 
Vitu 
11 such rule, (4) all of the procoeds of such extension of credit are so 
lCr. 
*ned or contributed to the capital of such firm or affiliated corporation, or 
to purchase such stock and (5) the proceeds of any withdrawal of such loan 
Of c °ntribution of capital from such broker or dealer or redemption of such 
stotlf i • 
/ 
* shaJl be used to reduce or retire said extension of credit. 
• 
Miscellaneous provisions 
* 
* * it 
(b) Purpose of a credit. * * * 
* * * * * 
W 
(4) Credit extended to enable a customer to contribute capital to a 
k . • 
or dealer subject to Fart 220 (Regulation T), whether such contribution 
U t 
form of a loan to the broker or dealer (whether subordinated or not), 
* °£ r 
• 
, 
d u t i e s in the accounts of partners, or a purchase of stock in an 
lncQt 
> 
Crated broker or dealer, or otherwise, is "purpose" credit. 
Indirectly secured. 
(1) The term "indirectly secured" includes 
cangement with the customer under which the customer's 
right or ability 
t(> * , 
sel i 
» Pledge, or otherwise dispose of stock owned by the customer is in any 
trie ted so long as the credit remains outstanding, or under which the 
ot of such right, whether by written agreement or otherwise, is or may be 
V 
f 
acceleration of the maturity of the credit: 
Provided, That the forc-
i n g 
n o t apply (1) if such restriction arises solely by virtue of an 
° "°nt with the customer which pertains generally to the customer's assets 
a substantial part of such assets consists of stock, or (2) if the bank in 
^ f< 
has not relied upon such stock as collateral in the extension or 

- 
1.0 
-
a ? C c o C L h c particular credit: And provided further, That the fore-
shall not apply to stock held by the bank only in the capacity of 
depositary, or trustee, or under similar circumstances, if the bank 
faith has not relied VP 011 such stock as collateral in the extension or 
^in h chance cf the particular credit. 
(2) Credit described in S 221.3(b)(4) is deemed to be indirectly 
lr^d by a n y s t o c k owned by the broker or dealer unless such credit in in 
*ty wrth the requirements of g 221.2(m). 
4. 
The proposed revision of paragraph (f) in 6 207.1 
Vbuirf 
lcJ rest 
es-trice the ability of lenders to extend credit to 
> 
. 
L l l i o r s> or to other customers for the nurpo.se of providing 
to broker/dealers in conformity with proposed amendments 
Co 
220 and 221 (Regulations T and IJ). 
V-1 ••1.7!''*i i 
•f>. The proposed revision of subparagraph (f)(2) in 
8 
. 
•;ou..d restrict the ability of creditors to extend credit to 
0 t V 
c r 
credicors or to the partners, officers or employees of 
C G (or the partners, officers or employees of affiliated 
S ^ a t l o 
n s 
creditors) for the purpose of purchasing the capital 
of -i 
• ; 
r °therv;ise providing capital to a creditor or to an 
Q 
corporation of a creditor in conformity with proposed 
^ ^ . e n t •J to Parts 207 and 221 (Regulations G and U). 
,, ^ 
6* 
T h c Proposed revision of paragraph (m) in S 221.2 
ld Permir -
Pi
 
n banks to extend credit for the purpose oC enabling the 
S t 0 ^ r 
t o provj.oe capital to a broker/dealer firm, whether 
'iii1--!:'?^ 

J 
- 11 -
in the form of a subordinated loan, equities in the accounts of 
Partners, or a purchase of stock in a corporation or otherwise, 
Without regard to the initial margin requirements of §§ 221.1 and 
(the Supplement to Regulation U) only on the following 
• * 
Editions. 
The bank must hold adequate collateral to cecurc 
^ 
credit, so that the bank does not look to the broker/dealer 
repayment as an assignee or successor in interest to the 
Cjr'tcwf 
)V otherwise. The terms under which the capital is 
•*-°Vided to the broker/dealer, must be subject to the rules 
the exchange of which the broker/dealer is a member or the 
Ug t* ^pital rule of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
In 
^ i t i o n , the capital must not be withdrawable (except in the 
« 
GVont- r 
" lL Oi.- the death, disability, or retirement by the customer 
fro 
service with the broker/dealer) until a year has elapsed 
only after an adeqvtatc period of notice so that the broker/dealer 
not be forced to liquidate securities in order to permit the 
^j-thd 
a rawal of such capital. All the proceeds of the extension of 
C l t must be used to provide capital for the broker/dealer and the 
' & ^iCri' - . , 
Pro CC;cds of any withdrawal of capital must be used to reduce or retire 
t-k 
cnft c r ,. 
iecixt. The Board considers that subjecting credit extended for 
tho1; •• 
P^poae of providing capital to broker/dealer firms to these 
ulons wou1d tend to reduce the destabilising potential of such 
croeit 
c, 
• Such credit would not, of course, be available under the pro-
pOs n 1 
c t o purchase or carry stock in broker/dealer firms which was 
Publ i c ly traded. 

- 12 -
359 
The proposed new subparagraph (b)(4) of fl 221.3 would codify 
interpretation of the Board .issued in 1946, and would apply the 
Principle of the interpretation to credit extended to purchase stock in 
ay , - . 
incorporated broker/dealer• 
The proposed subparagraph (c)(2) of § 221.3 would provide that 
b i 1 
an.; credit extended to make it possible for the customer to contribute 
Capital t:o a broker/dealer is deemed to be indirectly secured by any stock 
°^ned by the broker/dealer unless the conditions of proposed 5 221.2(a) 
ai*c satisfied. 
If adopted by the' Board, the changes will apply to credit 
°"tcnded by banks, broker/dealers, and persons subject to Regulation G 
a c t«r July 16, 1571, and to renewals after July 16, 1971, of credit 
t e n d e d by banks after April* 16, 1971. 
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) of Title 5. 
Ur\i tr o l 
Leu states Code, and g 262.2(a) of the rules of procedure of the Board 
of rv. 
Pernors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 262.2(a)). 
To aid in the consideration of these matters by the Board, 
'tested persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or 
•"Cnts. A ny 8liCh material should bo submitted in writing to the 
SeCrf 
ary, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
^ash-f 
i:Lnaton, D. C. 
20551, to be received not later than May 24, 1971/ 
^terial will be made available for inspection and copying upon 

t i ' 
vM'/, 'J 
359 
- 13 -
r e C 1 U G £ t' G : X C P C ^ 
P r ° V i d G d 
5 261.6(a) of the Board 'a Rules Regarding 
Availability of Information. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 16, 1271. 
Cenneth A. ICenyon, jf 
Deputy Sacr-scary 
