FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
March 17, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes. 

853 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, March 17, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
A 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherri11 
•J 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Hackley, Molony, and Cardon, Assistants 
to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Messrs. Axilrod and Gramley, Associate Directors, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Hersey and Norwood, Advisers, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mes srs. Egertson and Lyon, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Greenspan and Noble of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Ducy, Fraas, and Lawrence of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Achor of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 

854 
3/17/70 
-7-
Testimony by Chairman Burns. A draft had been distributed of 
a statement to be presented by Chairman Burns on March 18, 1970, before 
the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency. 
Members of the Board expressed general satisfaction with the 
statement, and ensuing discussion developed agreement on relatively 
modest changes in particular passages. 
It was understood that certain 
other suggestions would be considered in the further editing of the 
draft and that the statement would be presented in a final form satis-
factory to Chairman Burns. 
(Note: A copy of the statement, as presented, 
has been placed in the Board's files.) 
First National City. 
The Board approved unanimously, in the 
form attached as Item No. 1, a letter granting permission to First 
National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, to 
purchase the stock of First City Finance, S.A., San Jose, Costa Rica. 
Summit and Elizabeth Trust Company. Under recently-enacted 
New Jersey law, Springfield Township had become temporarily open to 
de novo branching. Summit and Elizabeth Trust Company, Summit, New Jer-
sey, which had obtained State approval for a branch in the Township on 
January 20, 1970, proceeded to open the branch on January 22 without 
awaiting Board approval. The branch was open for only one day, because 
a new bank (Springfield State Bank) obtained an injunction on the ground 
that home office protection existed in the Township from the date the 
new bank had been granted its charter even though it had not opened for 

855 
3/17/70 
-7-
business. Court determination of that question was still pending. 
Summit and Elizabeth Trust Company now requested the Board's approval 
of the establishment of its branch, preferably retroactive to January 20, 
1970. The Division of Supervision and Regulation, in a memorandum dated 
March 11, recommended that establishment of the branch be approved, con-
tingent upon a favorable decision in the pending litigation, but that 
the approval not be made retroactive. 
The Division's recommendation was approved unanimously; a copy 
of the letter sent to Summit and Elizabeth Trust Company pursuant to 
this action is attached as Item No. 2. 
Reports on competitive factors. Transmittal of reports on the 
competitive factors involved in the following proposed mergers was 
_approved. with the respective conclusions indicated, the first report 
listed being for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency and the 
others to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Governor Daane ab-
stained from participation in the discussion of the report regarding two 
banks in Fort Wayne, Indiana,because of a family relationship with an 
officer of a competing Fort Wayne Bank. Also, that report, in the form 
in which it was approved for transmittal, was to be revised to incorpo-
rate additional material from the market analysis of the Banking Markets 
Section. 

856 
3/17/70 
-7-
The State Bank of Wingate, Wingate, North Carolina, into First 
National Bank of Eastern North Carolina, Jacksonville, North Carolina 
There is no existing competition between First National Bank 
of Eastern North Carolina, Jacksonville, and The State Bank of Wingate. 
However, some potential for competition exists between the two banks 
by virtue of a pending application by Jacksonville Bank to establish a 
de novo branch in Monroe, which is in the same market area as Wingate. 
The overall effect of the proposed merger on competition would 
be slightly adverse. 
The First National Bank in Frackville, Frackville, Pennsylvania, 
into American Bank and Trust Co. of Pa., Reading, Pennsylvania 
There is a small amount of competition existing between The 
First National Bank in Frackville and American Bank and Trust Co. of 
Pa., Reading, and the potential for an increase in such competition 
through the establishment of de novo branches appears remote. 
The 
overall effect of the proposal on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
Anthony Wayne Bank, Fort Wayne, Indiana, into Indiana Bank and 
Trust Company, also of Fort Wayne 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Indiana Bank and Trust 
Company, Fort Wayne, and Anthony Wayne Bank, Fort Wayne, would eliminate 
significant competition between the two banks. Further, consummation 
of the proposal would increase banking concentration in an area already 
highly concentrated. 
The overall competitive effect of the proposal 
would be substantially adverse. 
State Mutual Savings Bank, Tacoma, Washington, with United Mutual 
Savings Bank, also of Tacoma 
Because it would eliminate competition, existing and potential, 
between State Mutual Savings Bank, Tacoma, and United Mutual Savings 
Bank, Tacoma, the effect of the proposed transaction on competition 
would be adverse. 
Barnett Banks of Florida. 
The Board authorized issuance of an 
order and statement reflecting approval on March 5, 1970, of the appli-
cation of Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to 

857 
3/17/70 
-7-
acquire shares of Bank of Osceola, Kissimmee, Florida. Copies of the 
documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 3. 
Midlantic Banks. The Board authorized issuance of an order and 
statement reflecting approval on March 12, 1970, of the application of 
Midlantic Banks, Inc., Newark, New Jersey, to become a bank holding 
company through acquisition of shares of four banks in New Jersey. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 4. 
Southern Bank and Trust Company. 
The Division of Supervision 
and Regulation had recommended favorably on (1) the application of Grace 
Street Bank, Richmond, Virginia, to merge with Southern Bank and Trust 
Company, also of Richmond, and (2) the application of the former bank 
for membership in the Federal Reserve System. The membership and merger 
proposals were devices to facilitate the formation of a one-bank holding 
company that would own the stock of the continuing bank. 
The applications were approved unanimously and the issuance of 
an order and a statement was authorized. Copies of the latter documents, 
as issued, are attached under Item No. 5; a copy of the letter concerning 
the membership application is attached as Item No. 6. 
Applicability of section 23A. In a memorandum dated March 5, 
1970, the Legal Division presented a question raised by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City whether section 23A of the Federal Reserve 
Act, which limits the amount of loans a member bank may make to an 

858 
3/17/70 
-7-
affiliate and prescribes the nature of the collateral required for such 
loans, would apply to loans made by a member bank (Commerce Trust Company) 
that is a subsidiary of a registered bank holding company (Commerce Banc-
shares, Inc.) to a small business concern 25 per cent of the stock of 
which 
is owned by a small business investment company that is also a 
subsidiary of the holding company. The Division's view was that the 
limitations were applicable, for reasons set forth in a draft of letter 
to the Reserve Bank. 
The memorandum noted that with respect to loans by a member bank 
that is not part of a holding company system an affiliate relationship 
based on stock ownership does not arise until there is 50 per cent owner-
ship. Therefore, the limitations of section 23A would not be applicable 
where the interrelationship between the bank and the business concern is 
based on stock ownership of less than 50 per cent. 
The Division of Supervision and Regulation had indicated that as 
a matter of policy it would prefer a conclusion contrary to the Legal 
Division's view, if a satisfactory supporting argument could be developed. 
The Legal Division agreed that perhaps the 25 per cent measure was unduly 
restrictive. 
However, it believed that the law required the conclusion 
it had recommended. 
During a discussion that included comments on the apparent intent 
of Congress in the 1966 amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act, 

859 
3/17/70 
-7-
members of the Board agreed that present law appeared to require the 
construction recommended by the Legal Division. Although some sympathy 
was expressed for the policy stance advocated by the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation, it was felt that any representations to Congress 
should be made in a broader context than in connection with this specific 
point, for example, in response to a request for comment on proposed legis-
lation in the small business area. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the letter to the Kansas City 
Reserve Bank was approved unanimously; a copy is attached as Item No. 7. 
VFCR guidelines. A memorandum dated March 13, 1970, from Gover-
nor Brimmer noted that the revised guidelines published in December 1969 
for the voluntary foreign credit restraint program had resulted in an 
inadvertent tightening in one respect. The guidelines stated that a 
bank should not make new term loans to residents of developed countries 
of continental western Europe except loans qualifying as export term 
loans; the exception in previous guidelines had applied to loans to fi-
nance U.S. exports. 
The 
effect of the new language was to prohibit, 
unintentionally, certain term loans to western Europe that previously 
had been permissible. 
The proposal was to rectify the error by an amend-
ment to restore the language used previously, which amendment would be 
published in the Federal Reserve Bulletin and transmitted to interested 
officers at the Federal Reserve Banks. 

3/17/70 
-10-
Governor Brimmer's recommendation was approved unanimously. 
Unsolicited credit cards. Governor Brimmer called attention, 
without recommendation for any Board action, at least at this time, to 
the publication yesterday of a Federal Trade Commission ruling banning 
unsolicited mailings of credit cards. The Commission had noted that its 
rule did not apply to banks, common carriers, or airlines, but stated 
that it would proceed against those types of business "on a case-by-case 
basis." 
After a discussion bearing principally on the implications of 
the jurisdictional question, it was understood that the staff would 
continue to study the matter so that the Board could be prepared to 
reconsider its position on unsolicited mailings of credit cards by 
banks as and when necessary. 
Members of the staff except Mr. Kenyon then withdrew. 
Foreign travel. Governor Sherrill noted that he was approving 
travel on an actual expense basis by Martin J. Kohn, Economist in the 
Division of International Finance, on an orientation trip to visit the 
central banks and certain financial institutions in England and Ireland 
for approximately three weeks in May, as recommended in a memorandum 
dated March 10, 1970, from Mr. Robert Solomon. 
There ensued discussion, in a broader context, of expenditures 
under the Board's budget, with particular reference to travel expendi-
tures. 
It was noted that the Board had urged the New York Reserve Bank 

3/17/70 
-10-
to proceed carefully under its 1970 foreign travel program, that the 
Chairman of the House Banking and Currency Committee had requested 
information on 1969 Reserve Bank expenditures, with focus on the travel 
and "all other" accounts, and that official travel was frequently a tar-
get of criticism, even though such criticism was unwarranted. 
It was 
further noted that travel items were probably less susceptible to precise 
advance planning than many other programs because of changing circum-
stances in the course of the fiscal year. The possibility was suggested 
of calling the travel account of the Board's 1970 budget back for review 
by the Board, and also of reviewing the approved budget in entirety. 
Another suggestion was that the divisions might be asked to consider the 
budget as a ceiling rather than in terms of funds that should necessarily 
be expended. 
It was pointed out, however, that under the current budget 
concept divisions had been asked to formulate programs, that they would 
be expected to account for their performance in carrying out the programs 
for which funds had been authorized, and that the introduction of a differ 
ent concept at this stage might have an uneven effect and result in pro-
gram lags; therefore, any budget revisions should preferably be decided 
upon at Board level. Comment then was made that the budget procedures 
included provision for a midyear review, and it was agreed that that 
would present an appropriate occasion for consideration of progress under 
authorized programs as well as the pace of expenditures. 

3/17/70 
-10-
Change in status of officer. Governor Sherrill then referred 
to the recommendation in a memorandum from Mr. Robert Solomon dated 
March 12, 1970, that the status of John F. L. Ghiardi, Adviser in the 
Division of International Finance, who was on reimbursable loan from 
the Department of State to the Board, currently for a two-year term 
that would end early in May, be changed from that of a "temporary 
appointment" to an "indefinite appointment." 
It was agreed that it 
would be appropriate to effect the recommended change in status. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
item No. 1 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
3/17/70 
A D D R E S S 
D F r i C I A L CQRRESPQNOC 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 18, 1970 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 9, 1970, the 
Board of Governors grants permission for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") 
to purchase and hold 100 per cent of the shares of First City Finance, 
S.A. ("FCF"), San Jose, Costa Rica, to be renamed First National City 
(Costa Rica), S.A. ("FNCCR"), at a cost of approximately $100,000, 
provided the investment is made within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of FNCCR by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions : 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FNCCR if FNCCR at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if FNCCR establishes any branch 
or agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Costa Rica or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FNCCR as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FNCCR 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if FNCCR were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
- 2 -
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by FNCCR in Costa Rica in 
the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of FNCCR. 
In granting the foregoing consent, the Board took note that 
you arc aware that the consent of the Board should have been obtained 
prior to the formation of FCF and that in discussions with the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, assurances were given that the proper reg-
ulatory procedures would be followed in the future. 
The Board has noted that as of January 31, 1970, the foreign 
loans and investments of First National City Bank and its subsidiaries 
exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect. The foregoing consent is given with 
the understanding that those foreign loans and investments will be 
reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent with the guidelines; 
that the investment now being approved will be made within those guide-
lines; and that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

bx 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 2 
3/17/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 17, 1970 
Board of Directors, 
Summit and Elizabeth 
Trust Company, 
Summit, New Jersey. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment of a branch by Summit and Elizabeth 
Trust Company at the intersection of Mountain Avenue and the 
Rahway Valley Railroad, Springfield Township, Union County, 
New Jersey, provided the branch is established within six months 
from the date of this letter. 
In approving this branch, it has been determined that 
your bank's management is satisfactory and that establishment of 
the branch will serve the convenience and needs of the community 
without creating an undesirable competitive situation. 
It is understood that the branch hereby approved will 
not open for business unless the litigation presently pending 
in the courts of the State of New Jersey is resolved in your 
favor. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

Item No. 
3/17/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC., 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Bank of Osceola, Klsslmmee, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., 
Jacksonville, Florida, for the Board
f
s prior approval of the acquisi-
tion of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Bank of Osceola, 
Kissimmee, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Florida 
Commissioner of Banking, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Deputy Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 

867 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on January 16, 1970 (35 Federal Register 612), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
°f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such time shall be extended by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 17, 1970. 
Voting for this action: 
Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns and Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

8«8 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC., JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
OF BANK OF OSCEOLA, KISSIMMEE, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Bank 
of Osceola, Kissimmee, Florida ("Bank"). Applicant controls 19 banks 
1/ 
with aggregate total deposits of $580 million. 
Bank, with total 
deposits of $4.5 million, is the smallest of two banks in Kissimmee 
a
nd of three banks in Osceola County. Bank is located approximately 
24 miles from Applicant's closest subsidiary. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
receipt of the application to the Florida Commissioner of Banking 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Deputy Commissioner 
recommended approval of the application. 
1/ 
Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of June 30, 1969, 
refer to insured commercial banks, and reflect holding company acquisi-
tions for which Board approvals have been issued to date. 

869 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monop-
oly, or which in any other aanner would be in restraint of trade, 
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the prob-
able effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of 
the community to be served. 
In each case, the Board is required to 
take into consideration the financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, 
a
nd the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 
10 largest banking organizations in Florida, each of which is a bank 
holding company, control close to 38 per cent of the total deposits 
in the State. Applicant, the third largest banking organization on 
the basis of deposits, controls 5 per cent of such deposits. 
After 
acquisition of Bank, Applicant would continue to control 5 per cent 
°f total bank deposits in the State and to rank third. 
Acquisition 
°f Bank would have no meaningful effect upon Applicant's share of 
control. 

-i-
870 
Bank's primary service area is stated by Applicant to be the 
City of Kissimmee and the populated area immediately adjacent thereto, 
with a total estimated population of 12,000. 
However, inasmuch as a 
significant portion of Bank's business comes from the remainder of 
Osceola County, that county is regarded as the market area relevant 
to the subject proposal. The other bank in Kissimmee is an independent 
well-established institution with deposits almost twice as large as 
Bank's. The third bank in Osceola County is located in St. Cloud, 
10 miles southeast of Kissimmee and is a subsidiary of an Orlando-
based holding company. No banking alternative would be eliminated by 
the proposed transaction. 
The acquisition of Bank would have no signi-
ficant effect upon concentration of banking resources in any relevant 
area. 
There is no significant competition between Bank and any 
of Applicant's subsidiaries. Metropolitan Orlando lies between 
Bank and Applicant's nearest subsidiary, a bank in Winter Park, 
Florida. 
Five Orlando banks, with deposits ranging from $12 million 
to $189 million also compete in Osceola County. 
Three of the com-
peting Orlando banks are subsidiaries of holding companies other 
than Applicant. 
The distances separating Bank from Applicant's sub-
sidiaries, the presence of alternative sources of banking services 
in the intervening areas, the fact that Florida law prohibits branch 
banking, and the fact that there is no apparent need at this time 
for another bank in Osceola County make it unlikely that future 

-2-
871 
competition would develop between Bank and any of Applicant's sub-
sidiaries. 
It appears that consummation of the proposal would not 
have any significantly adverse effect upon the competitive ability 
of the banks in Kissimmee or in Osceola County, nor on the banks 
that compete with Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
On the record before it, the Board concludes that consum-
mation of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly 
nor be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize 
or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any area, and 
would not substantially lessen competition, 
tend to create a monopoly, 
nor in any other manner restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition, management, and prospects of Applicant are 
considered to be satisfactory. 
The condition and management of the 
subsidiaries are also regarded as satisfactory, particularly in the 
light of Applicant's plans to strengthen the capital of a number of 
the subsidiaries. 
Prospects of the group appear favorable. 
The financial condition and management of Bank are in need 
°f strengthening. Applicant has the resources and proposes to assist 
Bank with its capital needs and to improve management. 
Bank is the 
banking institution closest to the proposed entrance to the Disney 
World project, expected to open in 1971 and to add substantially to 
the economic growth of the area. Prospects of Bank appear favorable, 

particularly if it has the assistance of Applicant to handle expected 
deposit growth and to furnish added capital funds as needed. 
Con-
siderations under the banking factors weigh in favor of approval of 
the application. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. -
Consummation of the proposed acquisition would have no effect on con-
venience and needs in the areas served by Applicant's present subsid-
iaries. 
Bank's service area is located in central Florida, in an 
area that is principally agrarian. The area's banking needs appear 
to be generally well served. Acquisition of Bank by Applicant is 
expected to have little immediate effect upon the services or con-
venience currently offered to the public but Applicant states that 
such acquisition would increase the amount and quality of banking 
services offered by Bank. Also, affiliation with Applicant would be 
of assistance to Bank in serving the expanded demands and needs that 
are expected to result from the opening of the Disney World project. 
Considerations under convenience and needs are consistent with but 
lend only slight weight toward approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
March 17, 1970. 

873 
Item No. 4 
3/17/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D , C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
MIDLANTIC BANKS, INC., 
Newark, New Jersey, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of voting shares of four banks in the 
State of New Jersey. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of the Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Midlantic Banks, Inc., Newark, 
New Jersey, for prior approval of the Board of action whereby Applicant 
w
ould become a bank holding company through the acquisition of all 
(less directors' qualifying shares of the national banks involved) 
o f
 the voting shares of the following banks: 
a proposed new bank 
into which will be merged National Newark & Essex Bank, Newark; a 
Proposed new bank into which will be merged The Sussex and Merchants 
^ t i o n a l Bank of Newton, Newton; a proposed new bank into which will 

874 
- 2 -
be merged Raritan Valley National Bank, Edison; and Elmer Bank and 
Trust Company, Elmer, all in New Jersey. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller 
of the Currency and the New Jersey Commissioner of Banks, and 
requested their views and recommendations. Both the Comptroller 
and the Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 19, 1969 (34 Federal Register 19923), 
which provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit 
comments and views with respect to the proposed transaction. 
A 
copy of the application was forwarded to the United States 
Department of Justice for its consideration. 
The time for filing 
comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this order or (b) later than three months after the date 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
fc
he Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to 
delegated authority. 

875 
-3* 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 17, 1970. 
Voting for this action: 
vice Chairman Robertson, a n d 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Maisel 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

876 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
MIDLANTIC BANKS, INC.,.NEWARK, NEW JERSEY, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Mldlantic Banks, Inc., Newark, New Jersey ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of all 
(less directors' qualifying shares of the national banks involved) 
°f the voting shares of the following banks: 
a proposed new bank 
into which will be merged National Newark & Essex Bank, Newark 
("National Newark"); a proposed new bank into which will be merged 
The Sussex & Merchants National Bank of Newton, Newton ("Sussex 
National"); a proposed new bank into which will be merged the 
Raritan Valley National Bank, Edison ("Raritan Valley") and Elmer 
Bank & Trust Company, Elmer ("Elmer Bank"), all in New Jersey. 
The 
Proposed new banks, in each case, have significance only as means of 
accomplishing the acquisition of all of the voting shares of the 
banks to be merged into them. 

8 Si 
-6-
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, written notice of receipt of the 
applicati on was given to, and views and recommendations requested of, 
the Comptroller of the Currency and the State Bank Commissioner of 
New Jersey. The Comptroller and the Commissioner both recommended 
approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act 
Provides that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would 
result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination 
°r conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business 
°f banking in any part of the United States. 
Nor may the Board 
approve a proposed acquisition, the effect of which, in any section 
°f the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to 
tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in 
r
®straint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive 
e f
fects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the 
Public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meet-
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
In 
e
ach case, the Board is required to take into consideration the 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
i 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
the communities to be served. 

878 
-2-
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in New Jersey control total deposits of $4.7 billion, 
representing 35.6 per cent of the deposits held by all commercial banks 
1/ 
in the State. 
Upon consummation of its proposal, Applicant would 
become the first bank holding company and the second largest banking 
organization in New Jersey. Its four proposed subsidiaries control 
$663 million in deposits, representing 5.1 per cent of the total bank 
deposits in the State. 
In 1969, amendments to the New Jersey Banking Law permitted 
State-wide bank holding companies, and divided the State into three 
banking districts, with branching permitted within district lines, 
subject to a "home office protection", provision, and to "branch 
office protection" in towns with a population of less than 7,500. 
National Newark ($596 million deposits) and Sussex National ($43 mil-
l3
-on deposits) are located in the First Banking District; Raritan 
v
alley ($17 million deposits) is in the Second, and Elmer Bank 
million deposits) is in the Third. 
National Newark, the third largest bank in the State, 
derives most of its business from Essex County and from adjoining 
Portions of Union, Morris, and Hudson Counties, 
In November 1969, 
it acquired by merger three offices which serve the central portion 
°f Warren County. 
Sussex National, which primarily serves 
^
 
A
U banking data are as of June 30, 1969. 

879 
-2-
southeastern Sussex County* is the second largest of eight banks in a 
market approximated by Sussex County and the northern part of Warren 
County. Raritan Valley primarily serves central Middlesex County and 
is the twelfth largest of 17 banks in a market centered in New Brunswick. 
Elmer Bank primarily serves the eastern section of Salem County, to-
gether with adjoining portions of Gloucester and Cumberland County, 
and is the eleventh largest of 12 banks in the Vineland market. 
The closest offices of any of the proposed subsidiaries are 
miles apart, with several banks located in the intervening areas. 
None of the areas principally served by the banks overlap. 
Raritan 
Valley derives 2,3 per cent of deposits and 3.4 per cent of its 
loans from the service area of National Newark; in most cases, how-
ever, these accounts are attributable either to persons who live in 
National Newark's area and work in the Edison area, or to personal 
relationships, and do not appear indicative of extensive competition. 
National Newark derives less than 1 per cent of its deposits and 
loans from the service area of Raritan Valley. 
It does not appear 
likely that significant competition between the two would develop 
in the future because of the many banks located in Union County, 
^hich intervenes the areas served by Raritan Valley and National 
Newark; because New Jersey law prohibits National Newark from 
R a n c h i n g out of the First District into Union County; and because 
Raritan Valley, in view of its relatively small size, appears unlikely 
t o
 branch into the highly competitive northern Union County area. 

The proposed affiliation of National Newark and Sussex 
National is of some concern with respect to potential competition, 
because both of those banks are located in the First Banking District, 
and both are therefore permitted under New Jersey law to branch within 
that District, 
However, the facts of the present case limit the 
significance of that consideration. The nearest offices of National 
Newark to Sussex National's service area are three offices in Warren 
County acquired through merger in 1969 with Washington Trust Company. 
The nearest of these is 22 miles from any office of Sussex National, 
a
ad none of such offices is competitive with Sussex National. 
More-
over, there are few available, economically attractive de novo branch 
sites in the Sussex County area served by Sussex National or in the 
barren County area served by Newark National, and it is considered 
Ut
*likely that the $43 million Sussex National would establish branches 
the Greater Newark market, which is dominated by much larger banks. 
Therefore, despite the absence of legal barriers to future competition 
between the two banks, it does not appear likely that such competition 
develop. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
c
°nsummation of the proposed acquisition would not result in a 
^ n o p o l y or be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or 
a t
tempt to monopolize the business of banking in any area, and 
V o u
i d not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, 
°
r
 restrain trade in any section of the country. 

8 Si 
-6-
Finan ial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant was recently organized and has not engaged in. any business 
activities. 
Its projected financial condition is satisfactory, its 
management competent, and its prospects, which would be dependent 
on those of its proposed subsidiaries, appear favorable. 
The financial condition and management of National Newark, 
Applicant's proposed lead bank, are also satisfactory. 
Prospects 
of the bank appear favorable. 
The financial condition and management of Sussex National 
a r
e satisfactory. Applicant has recognized that an increase in 
capital of that bank may be desirable in the near future, and 
a
PPears likely to have the capability of providing such capital as 
m
ay be required. Prospects of the bank appear favorable, and would 
b e
 improved as a result of the greater marketability of Applicant's 
shares, as compared with those of the bank. 
The financial condition and management of both Raritan 
v
alley and Elmer Bank are satisfactory. 
While the prospects of 
e
ach are favorable, affiliation with Applicant and access to 
Management ej;pertise of National Newark is likely to enhance their 
Prospects. 
Considerations regarding these factors lend some weight 
t o
ward approval of the application. 

-7-
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of the communities affected by Applicant's proposal 
are being adequately served by present banking facilities. 
However, 
while there is likely to be little effect on the area served by 
National Newark, the areas served by each of the smaller subsidiaries 
would benefit measurably from consummation of the; proposal. 
All 
three serve rapidly growing areas which will need substantial 
amounts of credit to finance business and residential construction, 
and to meet the other needs of local industry and municipal govern-
ments. Applicant's proposal would help to meet these needs, as well 
as to provide a broader range of commercial and international banking 
services, and improved trust, investment and data processing services. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the communities involved lend weight in support of approval of 
the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
March 17, 1970. 

893 
Item No. 5 
3/17/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
GRACE STREET BANK 
for approval of merger with 
Southern Bank and Trust Company 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Grace 
Street Bank, Richmond, Virginia, which is to be a State member bank 
of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of 
the merger of that bank with Southern Bank and Trust Company, 
Richmond, Virginia, under the charter of Grace Street Bank and with 
the name of Southern Bank and Trust Company. As an incident to 
the merger, the eight branches of Southern Bank and Trust Company 
would become branches of Grace Street Bank. Notice of the proposed 
m
crger, in form approved by the Board, has been published pursuant 
to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light 
°f the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished 

by the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, and the Attorney General on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in 
the Board's Statement of this date, that said application be 
and hereby is approved, provided that said merger shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
of this Order unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 17, 1970. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Brimmer, and 
Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governors Mitchell and Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

885 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY GRACE STREET BANK 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
SOUTHERN BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
• • . 
i 
Grace Street Bank, Richmond, Virginia ("Applicant"), a newly 
organized bank not in operation, has applied pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval 
of the merger of that bank with Southern Bank and Trust Company, 
Richmond, Virginia ("Southern Bank"), which has total deposits 
of $93 million. The banks would merge under the charter of Applicant, 
which is to be a member of the Federal Reserve System, and under 
the name of Southern Bank. As an incident to the merger, the 
eight branches of Southern Bank would become branches of Applicant. 
The proposed merger is one step in a plan of corporate 
reorganization whereby Southern Bankshares, Inc. would become 
a one-bank holding company. Applicant is a wholly-owned subsidiary 
of Southern Bankshares, Inc. Upon the merger of Southern Bank 
with Applicant, stock of Southern Bankshares, Inc. would be exchanged 
for stock of Southern Bank. Use of a merger transaction in the plan 
to form a one-bank holding company would assure to Southern Bankshares, 
Inc. that the resulting bank would be its wholly-owned subsidiary. 

886 
- 2 -
. fi; 
Statutory considerations. - The proposed merger of Southern Bdnk 
and Applicant--the latter being a bank with no operating history, formed 
solely to facilitate the corporate reorganization plan described above--
would itself have no effect on competition or on banking convenience and 
needs. The financial and managerial resources and prospects of Southern 
Bank are satisfactory, as they would be with respect to the resulting bank. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should be 
approved. 
March 17, 1970. 

B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
nr 
THE 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 6 
3/17/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20b51 
ADDRESS QJ-TimAL ntlRCEGPDNOEN 
TIJ THE UDAWD 
March 17, 1970 
Board of Directors, 
Grace Street Bank, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application of Grace Street Bank, Richmond, Virginia, for stock in 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, subject to the numbered conditions 
hereinafter set forth. 
(1) 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the safety 
of its depositors, and, except with the permission of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
such bank shall not cause or permit any change to be 
made in the general character of its business or in the 
scope of the corporate powers exercised by it at the 
time of admission to membership. 
(2) 
The net capital and surplus funds of such banks 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and 
condition of its assets and to its deposit liabilities 
and other corporate powers. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
that Gr ace Street Bank will not conduct a banking business with the 
public until it has merged with Southern Bank and Trust Company, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H , regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 203.7 
thereof. 
A copy of regulation is enclosed. 
It appears that the bank possesses, but, at the time of its 
application for membership, was not exercising, certain powers not 
necessarily required in the conduct of a banking business, such as 
power to guarantee the payment of bonds. Attention is invited to the 
fact that, if the bank desires to exercise such powers or any oLher 

-2-
powers not actually exercised at the time of admission to membership, 
it would be necessary under condition of membership numbered 1 to 
obtain the permission of the Board of Governors before exercising 
them.
 
b 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the b^ard 
of directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to'Commence 
Business has been issued. 
A certified copy of such resolution should 
be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
is limited to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank 
applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the 
Board is advised that all of the requirements nave been complied 
with and that the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock 
lias been issued to the bank, the Board will fotward to the bank a ' 
formal certificate of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
899 
Item No. 7 
3/17/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 18, 1970 
Mr. Maurice J. Swords, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64198 
Dear Mr. Swords: 
This refers to your letter of January 28, 1970 enclosing 
(1) a letter dated November 21, 1969, from Commerce Bancshares, Inc., 
Kansas City, Missouri, a registered bank holding company, and (2) 
an opinion by your Bank's counsel relating to the question presented 
by the holding company. Commerce Bancshares asks whether Commerce 
Trust Co., a State member bank that is a subsidiary of the holding 
company, is subject to the limitations of section 23A of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c), in connection with loans to a small 
business concern, 25 per cent (but less than 50 per cent) of whose 
stock is owned by a small business investment company ("SBIC") that 
is a subsidiary of the holding company. 
Prior to the 19 66 amendments to the Holding Company Act, 
section 6 of that Act forbade a bank in a holding company system 
to make any loan to any other subsidiary in that system. The 19 6b 
amendments to the Act repealed section 6 but made the provisions of 
section 23A applicable to a member bank's dealings with its parent 
holding company and with other subsidiaries of that holding company. 
The legislative history indicates a Congressional intent to relax 
certain prohibitions (in section 6) against dealings between cor-
porations in a holding company system and, in lieu thereof, to 
make the limitations of section 23A applicable to such dealings. 
Thus, the following statement was made in the Senate 
Banking Committee Report: 
"In the light of the proposed repeal of section 6 of 
the Bank Holding Company Act, the limitations of section 23A 
would be made specifically applicable not only to dealings 
with 'affiliates' as now defined, but also to dealings with 
any bank holding company or fellow subsidiary as defined in 
the Holding Company Act." 
(Sen. Rept. No. 1179, 89th Cong., 
p. 11 (1966)) 

Mr. Maurice J. Swords 
- 2 -
relates, .
p
^
^ 
!» * * * it 
section 23A applicable "not onl y to ^
U
^ 
t h ^ a S ? ? ™? ' ^ 
fellow 
h *H
 
a l S
°
 t 0 
d S a U n g S 
W i t h 
b a n k
 
company or 
fellow subsidiary as defined in the Holding Company Act » ? n other 
words, the 1966 amendments relaxed the limftations^n dealings 
among members of a holding company system but did not authorize 
d e a i n g s among them on a basis identical to, or as extensive as 
that applicable to dealings between member banks and "affiliates" 
n n ^ r V
0
"
 
3 
h
°
l d i n g 
C O m p a n y 
s
y
s t e m
- 
Neither the language 
nor the legislative history of section 23A as amended reflects any 
intent to exempt from that section, or accord special treatment to 
loans to a small business concern that becomes a subsidiary of a 
' 
holding company by virtue of control by an SBIC that is a sub- ~ 
sidiary of the holding company. 
-v, . n 
°
n
 ^
 
b a S i S
 °
f t h G 
f o r e
g °
i n
8 , the Board has concluded 
that Commerce Trust Co., a subsidiary of Commerce Bancshares 
Inc 
is subject to the limitations of section 23A in connection with 
" 
loans to a business concern that is also a subsidiary of Commerce 
Bancshares. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
