MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 30, 1969 

2113 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, July 30, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lawrence of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Consumer Federation of America. After consideration of an 
invitation to the Board to participate in a conference being sponsored 
by the Consumer Federation of America, it was agreed that the Board 
should be represented by a staff member as an observer. Mr. Partee 
was asked to select an appropriate person, and it was understood that 
a reply reflecting the Board's decision would be made to the Federation. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Valley Bank and Trust Company, 

2 4 1 , 4 
7/30/69 
-2-
Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, with National Valley Bank and Trust Company, 
also of Chambersburg, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion stating that 
consummation of the proposed merger (which was merely a transaction to 
facilitate the acquisition of National Valley Bank and Trust Company 
by National Valley Corp., a newly-formed holding company) would have 
no adverse competitive effects. 
Main State Bank. Main State Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, 
an organizing bank, had applied for permission to acquire substantially 
all of the assets and to assume the deposit and certain other liabilities 
of Main State Bank, Chicago, Illinois, an existing State member bank, 
and application also had been made on behalf of the organizing bank 
for membership in the Federal Reserve System. The organization of the 
new bank and the application for membership were parts of a plan under 
which ownership of the existing bank would be transferred to Main Corpo-
ration, a one-bank holding company that had been organized to own all 
of the capital stock of the new bank. 
After discussion, the application of Main State Bank of Chicago 
to acquire assets and assume deposit and other liabilities of Main 
State Bank was approved unanimously, and the issuance of an order and 
statement reflecting the decision was authorized. Copies of the docu-
ments are attached under Item No. 1. 

2415 
7/30/69 
-3-
The application made on behalf of Main State Bank of Chicago 
for membership in the Federal Reserve System also was approved unanimously. 
A copy of the letter sent to the organizers is attached as Item No. 2. 
S. 1754. Chairman Sparkman of the Senate Committee on Banking 
and Currency had requested a report from the Board on S^ 1754, a bill 
introduced by Senator Proxmire on behalf of himself and Senator Hart 
"To protect consumers from abuses relative to excessive charges for 
life, health, and accident insurance pursuant to consumer credit 
transactions." The bill, the short title of which would be the Consumer 
Credit Insurance Act, would add to the existing truth in lending legis-
lation a new chapter requiring the Board, by regulation, to prescribe 
ceilings for premiums on life, health, and accident insurance provided 
or arranged for by a creditor in connection with any consumer credit 
transaction. 
A proposed reply had been submitted by the Legal Division with 
a memorandum of July 28, 1969. 
It was the unanimous view, in discussion of the matter, that 
a strong position should be taken against assignment to the Board of 
regulatory responsibilities in connection with legislation of the kind 
provided in S. 1754, and certain language changes in the proposed letter 
were agreed upon for that purpose. It was also agreed that the Board 
should refrain from expressing itself in the report on the question 
whether such legislation would or would not be desirable. 

2416 
7/30/69 
-4-
At the conclusion of the discussion, unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to Chairman Sparkman in the form attached as Item No. 3 
Cost of truth in lending functions. Pursuant to a suggestion 
by Governor Brimmer, it was understood that Governor Sherrill would 
arrange to have compiled for the Board's information a statement on 
the cost incurred to date, not only by the Board but also by the Federal 
Reserve Banks, in connection with functions performed in relation to 
Regulation Z, Truth in Lending. 
Architectural consulting services. Governor Mitchell reported 
on a conversation that he and Governor Maisel had had with Mr. Lethbridge 
of the firm of Keyes, Lethbridge & Condon with regard to prospective 
arrangements for the obtaining of consulting architectural services in 
connection with Federal Reserve Bank construction projects. A letter 
was now to be sent to Mr. Lethbridge describing the needs thought to 
exist for such services, on the basis of which Mr. Lethbridge would 
submit a proposal, including a suggestion for the establishment of fees. 
Mr. Lethbridge would also provide a statement on the relationship that 
would be envisaged with a person who might be added to the Board's staff 
as an "in-house" architect. 
Pending legislation. In connection with the pending one-bank 
holding company legislation, Mr. Cardon reported that Congressman Patman 
apparently was going to make a serious effort to move back as far as 
January 1, 1965, the effective date of the so-called "grandfather clause' 

2417 
7/30/69 
-5-
and that facts had been requested on which to base an analysis of the 
impact of such an amendment. Mr. Cardon indicated that the staff would 
present to the Board shortly a proposal for the handling of Mr. Patman1s 
request for information. 
control legislation, Mr. Cardon reported that hearings were planned soon 
after Labor Day, with indications that Congressional thinking might be 
in the direction of a temporary extension in order to provide time for 
the consideration of certain other major issues. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Bank of the Commonwealth. Governor Robertson reported on the 
most recent developments in relation to the efforts of the bank supervisory 
authorities to deal with the problems presented by Bank of the Common-
wealth, Detroit, Michigan, and more generally the other banks included 
in the so-called Parsons Group. Among other things, he referred to the 
likelihood of action on the part of the respective supervisory agencies 
to undertake simultaneous examinations of the banks concerned. 
With respect to the bill to extend the so-called interest rate 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2118 
Item No. 1 
7/30/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
MAIN STATE BANK OF CHICAGO 
1 
for approval of acquisition of assets of1 
Main State Bank 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK'S ASSETS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Main 
State Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, which is to be a State 
member bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior 
approval of its acquisition of assets and assumption of deposit 
liabilities of Main State Bank, Chicago, Illinois. Notice of the 
proposed acquisition of assets and assumption of deposit liabilities, 
in form approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to said 
Act. 

I, 
2419 
- 2 -
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light 
of the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished 
by the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, and the Attorney General on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed transaction, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board1s Statement of this date, that said application be and here-
by is approved, provided that said acquisition of assets and 
assumption of deposit liabilities shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 30th day of July 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairmen Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, ilaisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman liartin and Governor 
Daane. 
/sicned/ Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2120 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY MAIN STATE BANK OF CHICAGO 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF ASSETS OF 
MAIN STATE BANIC 
STATEMENT 
Main State Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois ("Applicant"), 
a new bank not yet in operation, has applied, pursuant to the Bank 
Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's approval of its 
acquisition of assets and assumption of deposit liabilities of Main 
State Bank, Chicago, Illinois ("Main State"), which has total 
deposits of about $55 million.-^ 
Upon consummation of the proposal Main State's sole office 
would become the sole office of Applicant, which is to be a member 
of the Federal Reserve System and which is a newly organized bank 
not yet in operation. Applicant is the only subsidiary of a holding 
company organized to facilitate the sale of Main State to persons 
of demonstrated banking ability and e:iperience familiar with the 
operations of Main State which, following the transaction, would 
be dissolved. 
1/ Figures are as of March 31, 1969. 

-2-
Statutory considerations. - The proposed transaction 
would have no adverse effect on banking competition. There are 
about 90 other commercial banks with offices in the area served 
by Main State, and consummation of the proposal v:ould not change 
the number of banking institutions serving the relevant area. 
Considerations relative to financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects are satisfactory. While Applicant would have a 
lower loan limit than Main State, it is not expected that this 
would affect Applicant's ability to serve adequately the needs 
and convenience of the relevant community. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application 
should be approved. 
July 30, 1969. 

Item No. 2 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N • R S 
7/30/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
O D A R D 
July 30, 1969 
Organization Committee, 
Main State Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Main State Bank of Chicago, Chicago, 
Illinois, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
subject to the number conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System;, such bank shall not cause or 
permit any change to be made in the general character 
of its business or in the scope of the corporate 
powers exercised by it at the time of admission to 
membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character 
and condition of its assets and to its deposit 
liabilities and other corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank 
shall have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of 
not less than $1,500,000, and other capital funds 
of not less than $2,000,000. 
The Board has approved the application with the under-
standing that Main State Bank of Chicago will not conduct a banking 
business with the public until it has acquired most of the assets 
and deposit liabilities of Main State Bank, Chicago, Illinois. 

Organization Committee 
- 2 -
2 4 * * 3 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors of Main State Bank of Chicago. A certified copy of such 
resolution should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve stock has been issued to the bank, 
the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership 
in the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

* ,f 
• > 
1 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
or the 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/30/69 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E 
O F 
T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
August 1, 1969 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D.C. 20510 
Dear Mr.' Chairman: 
This is in reply to your request of April 3, 1969, for 
a report from the Board on the bill, S. 1754, which would add to 
the Truth in Lending Act (P.L. 90-321) a new chapter to be known 
as the "Consumer Credit Insurance Act". 
The bill would require the Board, by regulation, to 
limit the maximum premiums chargeable to consumers for life, 
health, and accident insurance provided or arranged for by cred-
itors pursuant to consumer credit transactions. In prescribing 
such regulations, the Board would be required to consider the 
criteria set out in the bill, and to ensure that maximum pre-
miums established by it would be reasonable in relationship to 
the benefits conferred and adequately protect consumers against 
excessive premium charges. 
In administering the bill, the Board could classify 
creditors or transactions and would have authority to raise or 
lower the maximum permissible premiums for such classes. The 
Board would be required to exempt from the bill charges for 
credit life, health, and accident insurance in States deter-
mined by the Board to have adequately enforced premium ceilings 
subs tantially similar to those prescribed under the bill. 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
As the bill would add a new chapter four to the Truth 
in Lending Act, some of the provisions of that Act would also 
apply to the bill, such as the provision placing in the Board 
broad regulatory authority, including the authority to make 
exemptions; the provision for administrative enforcement dis-
tributed among nine Federal departments and agencies; and the 
provision for criminal penalties. 
The Board is not prepared to assume responsibility for 
prescribing regulations setting maximum permissible premiums 
that may be charged by creditors for credit life, health, and 
accident insurance, and otherwise implementing the bill. Setting 
insurance premiums requires a special expertise that the Board 
does not have. Furthermore, as indicated in our report of 
March 14, 1969, to your Committee on the Fair Credit Reporting 
bill, S. 823, assignment of wide-ranging duties to the Board 
in regard to consumer protection legislation would divert 
attention and resources from the effective performance of our 
primary responsibilities in the field of monetary policy. 
The Board has no position on the merits of the bill. 
If, however, your Committee should determine that legislation 
along the lines of S. 1754 is needed, we strongly urge that 
responsibility for its implementation be vested not in the 
Board but in an agency more familiar with consumer problems 
and more expert in coping with them. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
