PR 609 
(Rev. 
3/70) 
Minutes for 
April 5, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
a-
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
• ' • • > *J C '.i ;1 O .V 
Governor Sherrill 
3. 
Note: No changes from draft minutes except addition to last 
sentence on page 2 requested by Governor Daane. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, April 5, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr 
Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Hobbs of the Office of the Secretary 
. • C 
i . • 
• \Xi 
, 
-I 
' 
J 
The staff presented an economic and financial review of the kind 
customarily given in advance of meetings of the Federal Open Market 
Committee. 
Copies of the statistical charts and tables prepared for 
today's review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies 
°f the individual briefings. 
There followed a summary of legislative developments, after which 
members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland and Kenyon withdrew. 
% 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division were also present. 

871 
4/5/71 
-2-
Governor Brimmer said that a draft of his testimony to be 
given on Wednesday, April 7, before the Subcommittee on Financial 
Institutions of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban 
Affairs regarding provisions of S. 1201 that would authorize the Board 
to fix variable reserve requirements against different types of bank 
assets would be supplied to each Board member later today, and that 
he would be glad to consider any comments members might have. 
Governor Sherrill reported advice he had received informally 
from a representative of one of the proponents regarding negotiations 
being conducted by two West Coast banks looking toward the filing of 
a merger application with the Comptroller of the Currency-
Governor Sherrill also described measures being taken for the 
improvement of security in the Board's building and summarized the 
nature of scattered picketing that had occurred outside several Federal 
Reserve Banks one day last week. 
He then reviewed plans for the ground-
breaking ceremonies for the Board's annex building, scheduled to be 
held this afternoon. 
Governor Daane referred to certain questions that had been 
raised with him by a writer who was preparing an article on the Federal 
Reserve, such questions having focused on the circumstances surrounding 
the Board's action in June 1970 to suspend ceilings on large-denomina-
tion CD's with maturities from 30 to 89 days; the writer had apparently 

372 
4/5/71 
-3-
been given information by some source privy to the Board meetings and 
was attempting to confirm his story. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
