PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
'•:•' ''if.' 
I 
' 
Minutes for 
May 6. 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

1423 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, May 6, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. 0'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Schober, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other staff members of the following divisions 
also attended portions of the meeting: 
Legal, 
Research and Statistics, Supervision and Regulation. 
i./ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

143*2 
5/6/70 
-10-
First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation. Pursuant to the under-
standing on April 9, 1970, a public oral presentation on the applica-
tion by First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation, Little Rock, Arkansas, 
to become a registered bank holding company had been scheduled for 
May 21, 1970, in the Board's building. The Board's order also included 
the provision that written notice to appear at the oral presentation 
should be filed no later than May 7. 
At today's meeting Mr. O'Connell commented on documents that 
had been filed on behalf of three protesting banks. The papers presented 
alternative petitions as follows: 
(1) that the Board conduct a formal 
Public hearing in Little Rock; (2) that the Board extend for a minimum 
°f 60 days the date on which the oral presentation would be held in 
Washington; or (3) that the Board extend from May 7 to May 15, 1970, 
the time within which written notice of intent to appear at the oral 
Presentation in Washington might be filed. 
Mr. O'Connell also called attention to a letter dated May 4, 
1970, from Chairman Patman of the House Banking and Currency Commit-
tee indicating that he would not appear in person at the proposed oral 
Presentation but stating his opposition to the application. 
Chairman 
Burns added that a telephone message from Chairman Patman had conveyed 
the view that the hearing should be held in Arkansas to enable maximum 
Participation by interested persons. 

14^5 
5/6/70 
-3-
Mr. O'Connell summarized reasons why the Legal Division was of 
the view that the petition to hold a formal hearing should be denied. 
As an alternative, he suggested that an oral presentation might be held 
in Little Rock before a Board member or a hearing examiner. 
Comments by members of the Board indicated general agreement 
that, from the standpoint of public relations, the oral presentation 
should be held in Little Rock. There was some initial divergence of 
views as to whether a Board member or a hearing examiner should preside. 
Consideration was also given to the possibility of appointing a member 
°f the Board's staff to act in this capacity. The consensus that emerged 
(from which Governor Robertson dissented) favored the designation of a 
Board member as the presiding officer. Accordingly, it was understood 
that an oral presentation would be held in Little Rock at a convenient 
time ,-.. 
A copy of the order subsequently issued is attached as Item No. 1. 
(Governor Mitchell agreed to preside at the oral presentation.) 
New Hampshire Bankshares. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated April 27, 1970, and other pertinent 
Papers had been distributed in connection with an application of New 
Hampshire Bankshares, Inc., Nashua, New Hampshire, to acquire shares 
°f The Keene National Bank, Keene, New Hampshire. The staff recommenda-
tions were favorable. 

5/6/70 
-4-
The principal discussion related to the question of control 
and possible disruptive effects should the applicant be unable to 
obtain 50 per cent of the stock. Comments indicated that members of 
the Board other than Governor Robertson viewed the application favorably. 
However, Governor Brimmer suggested conditioning approval on the ability 
°f the holding company to acquire 50 per cent or more of the stock 
within a reasonable time. Chairman Burns and Governor Maisel supported 
this approach generally, and Governors Mitchell and Daane indicated 
they would accept it, although they would be willing to approve the 
aPplication without qualification. 
Governor Robertson stated the pro-
Posed acquisition appeared to represent a corporate raid, and he was 
n°t willing to give his blessing to that kind of an effort by the 
largest banking organization in the State. Accordingly, he would deny 
the application. 
Subject to the specified condition, the application was then 
§££?oved, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
Mercantile Bankshares. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated April 20, 1970, and other pertinent papers 
had been distributed in connection with an application of Mercantile 
Bankshares Corporation, Baltimore, Maryland, to become a bank holding 
company through acquisition of shares of the successors by merger to 
Mercantile -Safe Deposit and Trust Company, Baltimore, a noninsured State 
bank, and The Annapolis Banking and Trust Company, Annapolis. The Board's 
staff recommended approval, as did the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 

143*2 
5/6/70 
-10-
During preliminary discussion of the application on April 29, 
1970, concern had been expressed by Governor Brimmer over the noninsured 
status of the proposed lead bank. At today's meeting Mr. Kline discussed 
the predominantly wholesale nature of Mercantile-Safe Deposit and Trust 
Company's activities and its substantial capital position. Although 
the bank was not federally-regulated, this would be offset by the Board's 
right to examine subsidiary banks of holding companies; and in order to 
bind the bank to the provisions of section 23A of the Federal Reserve 
Act with respect to that bank's relationships with affiliated organiza-
tions, it was proposed to recognize in the Board's statement the resolution 
recently passed by the trust company's board of directors to comply with 
the restrictions and limitations of section 23A. 
Governor Brimmer referred to data on the distribution of the 
trust company's deposits from which it appeared that approximately 20 
Per cent were in amounts less than the limit of Federal deposit insur-
ance. Also, Mr. Hackley had reviewed the noninsured status of the lead 
bank and had expressed the view that a conclusion that lack of insur-
ance represented an unsafe or unsound banking practice could not be 
sustained. However, approval of an application by a holding company 
whose lead bank was not insured might be considered as contrary to the 
Public interest. On the other hand, the Congress had legislated insur-
ance coverage on a voluntary basis. Another point to keep in mind, 
according to Mr. Hackley, was the diversity of stock (railroads, utilities, 
industrials, etc.) owned by Mercantile-Safe Deposit and Trust Company. 

14*18 
5/6/70 
-6-
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the Board had the 
right to require the maintenance of certain standards by applicant 
bank holding companies and their subsidiaries, among which might be 
deposit insurance for the subsidiary banks. He also suggested that a 
comparative deposit profile of the principal Baltimore banks be developed. 
Governor Maisel stated that such a policy would place the Board 
in the position of accomplishing through the Bank Holding Company Act 
that which had not been explicitly legislated by the Congress, namely, 
enforced insurance coverage of banks, and he was opposed to such a pro-
cedure on the part of the Board. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the staff focus on the question 
of advantages, if any, that a noninsured subsidiary might have in the 
holding company structure over an insured subsidiary bank. 
Governor Daane pursued the question of the proposed acquisition 
in terms of benefits accruing to the public, the validity of the argu-
ments against the likelihood of de novo branching by Mercantile-Safe 
Deposit and Trust Company, and the managerial competence and financial 
standing of the proposed lead bank. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether advantages accrued under 
Maryland statutes to noninsured banks and suggested that this was an 
area requiring additional study. 
Governor Robertson also expressed an interest in this aspect of 
the matter. He raised the further question whether as a matter of policy 

143*2 
5/6/70 
-10-
the Board wished to support expansion of noninsured banks, in Maryland 
or elsewhere, through the holding company device. 
Chairman Burns suggested that the issue was one that should be 
taken up with the Congress. As the statute presently stood, he would 
support Governor Maisel's position. 
Following further discussion during which the staff commented 
on various elements of the case, Chairman Burns and Governors Daane and 
Ma isel indicated that they would be disposed to approve the application 
while Governors Robertson, Mitchell, and Brimmer favored denial. 
It was understood, therefore, that the application would be 
brought back for further consideration at a time when all members of the 
Board could be present, and that in the meantime the staff would attempt 
to obtain additional information on some of the issues raised during this 
morning's discussion. 
First Bancshares of Florida. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated May 1, 1970, and other pertinent papers 
had been distributed in connection with an application of First Banc-
shares of Florida, Inc., Boca Raton, Florida, to become a bank holding 
company through acquisition of shares of First Bank and Trust Company of 
Boca Raton, National Association; University National Bank of Boca Raton; 
First National Bank and Trust Company of Riviera Beach; and Citizens 
Bank of Palm Beach County, West Palm Beach. The recommendations were 
favorable. 

143*2 
5/6/70 
-10-
Mr. Lyon suggested that if the application were approved, First 
Bancshares be advised that the Board had given weight to the holding 
company's expressed intention to strengthen the capital of the subsidiary 
banks within six months, and that the Board would continue to review 
the capital levels of the subsidiary banks in considering future applica-
tions . 
Unanimous approval was given to the application with the under-
standing that the matter referred to by Mr. Lyon would be called to the 
applicant's attention. 
Chairman Burns withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
First Wisconsin Bankshares. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated May 1, 1970, and other pertinent papers 
had been distributed in connection with an application of First Wisconsin 
Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of First 
West Towne National Bank of Madison. The State Commissioner of Banking 
and the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago recommended denial, while the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Division of Supervision and Regulation, 
and the Banking Markets Section recommended approval. 
Members of the staff discussed the principal differences between 
their evaluation of the situation and that of the Commissioner of Bank-
ing, noting among other points that while First Wisconsin Bankshares 
already had a high concentration in the market area, no other applica-
tions for entry in the immediate vicinity of the new bank were pending 

143*2 
5/6/70 
-10-
and the public convenience and needs were felt to outweigh whatever 
adverse effect the proposal might have on concentration and competition. 
The staff also summarized points of difference seen between this case 
and the application of First Wisconsin Bankshares to acquire First 
Wisconsin National Bank of Greenfield, which the Board had rejected. 
The application was then denied, largely for the reasons cited 
by the Chicago Reserve Bank, Governors Mitchell and Daane dissenting. 
In view of the 3-2 vote, it was agreed that a request for reconsidera-
tion might appropriately be made at the time a draft order and state-
ment were brought to the Board for consideration. 
Applications of Commerce Bancshares. Drafts of orders reflecting 
the Board's approval on April 17, 1970, of the applications of Commerce 
Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of American 
Trust Company of Hannibal and Tipton Farmers Bank, Tipton, had been dis-
tributed. 
The issuance of the orders was authorized. Copies of the docu-
ments, as issued, are attached under Item No. 2. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Dime Banking and Loan Associa-
tion, Rochester, New York, into The Community Savings Bank of Rochester 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insur-
ance Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 

143*2 
5/6/70 
-10-
Consummation of the proposed merger of Dime Banking and Loan 
Association, Rochester, into The Community Savings Bank of Rochester 
would eliminate some existing as well as potential for greater compe-
tition. Community Savings is currently the second largest thrift 
institution in the area and its position would be further enhanced. 
Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition would be adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Peoples Bank of Clymer into The First National Bank of Ebens-
burg, Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of First National Bank 
of Ebensburg, Ebensburg, Pennsylvania, and The Peoples Bank of 
Clymer, Clymer, Pennsylvania, would eliminate virtually no present 
or potential competition between the two institutions. 
Overall, 
the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of University National Bank, College Park, Maryland, with 
Montgomery Banking and Trust Company, Rockville, Maryland, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
conclusion being stated as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of University National 
Bank, College Park, and Montgomery Banking and Trust Company, 
Rockville, would eliminate some existing and potential compe-
tition. However, numerous banking alternatives would remain 
including offices of the largest banks in the State as well as 
banks located in Washington, D.C. The overall competitive effect 
would be slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
consolidation of National Bank of North America and Trade Bank and 
Trust Company, both of New York, New York, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion 
read as follows: 

143*2 
5/6/70 
-10-
There is some competition now existing between Trade Bank 
and Trust Company, New York, and National Bank of North America, 
New York, which would be eliminated by the proposed consolidation. 
In addition, there is potential for greater competition through 
the establishment of de novo branches. However, in view of the 
disparity in size and scope of the participants' operations, 
together with the wide variety and number of competing institu-
tions, the overall effect of the proposed consolidation on competi-
tion would be slightly adverse. 
Policy record entry. With a memorandum dated May 4, 1970, from 
Mr. Holland there had been distributed a draft of policy record entry 
covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on February 10, 
1970. The entry had been approved by the Board on April 27 and no 
further suggestions for changes had been received. 
It was proposed to 
release the entry to the press on May 11, 1970, with subsequent publi-
cation in the Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
In view of the probable public 
interest, the entry was now being submitted for final review by the 
Board prior to release. 
Release of the material on May 11 was approved unanimously. 
Health insurance. A memorandum dated April 27, 1970, from the 
Division of Personnel Administration relating to a recommendation of 
the Conference of Presidents for certain changes in the health insur-
ance program of the Federal Reserve Banks was referred to the Commit-
tee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans for review and 
recommendation. 
Application for Nassau branch. A letter to First Union National 
Bank of North Carolina, Charlotte, North Carolina, granting permission 

143*2 
5/6/70 
-10-
for the establishment of a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, was approved, 
Governor Robertson dissenting and Governor Brimmer abstaining. A copy 
of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
Application of Crocker-Citizens International Corporation. 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to Crocker-Citizens International 
Corporation, San Francisco, California, granting permission for the estab-
lishment of a branch in London, England. A copy of the letter is attached 
a s Item No. 4. 
Exemption for State of Oklahoma. In a memorandum dated April 30, 
1970, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended that, except 
for minor exclusions, the application of the State of Oklahoma for exemp-
tion from certain requirements of the Truth in Lending Act be granted. 
The staff noted that the application had generated a great deal of opposi-
tion in view of the adoption by the State of Oklahoma of the controversial 
Uniform Consumer Credit Code. However, the rules adopted by the State's 
Administrator of Consumer Credit were virtually identical to Regulation Z, 
Truth in Lending, and the question of the authority of the State Legis-
lature to delegate to the Administrator responsibility in this regard had 
been resolved to the satisfaction of the staff. 
Previous objections by the Federal Trade Commission were noted. 
It was suggested that there be a further clearance with the staff of the 
Commission and that, if they remained firm in their previous view notwith-
standing the subsequent State legislative action, the matter be referred 

143*2 
5/6/70 
-10-
to Governor Robertson. 
It was also suggested that the letter of notifi-
cation to the State of Oklahoma and the Board's press release make clear 
that Board action related only to the applicable parts of the Oklahoma 
regulations and not to the total Uniform Code. 
Subject to satisfactory resolution of the foregoing, the State 
of Oklahoma was granted exemption under the Federal Truth in Lending Act, 
effective June 1, 1970. 
Copies of the press release and of the documentation reflecting 
this action, as subsequently published in the Federal Register, are 
attached under Item No. 5; a copy of the letter sent to the State of 
Oklahoma is attached as Item No. 6. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o < 
l 
5/6/70 
FIRST ARKANSAS BANKSTOCK CORPORATION 
Modified Order for Oral Presentation 
On April 21, 1970 the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System ordered (35 Federal Register 6622.) a public oral presentation 
before the Board on May 21, 1970 at the Board's offices in Washington, 
C., with respect to the application of First Arkansas Bankstock 
Corporation, Little Rock, Arkansas, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Arkansas First National Bank of Hot Springs, Hot Springs, Arkansas. 
Applicant presently owns 99.34 per cent of the outstanding voting shares 
Worthen Bank and Trust Company, Little Rock, Arkansas. 
On further consideration of the interest shown in this matter, 
the Board has determined that the convenience of witnesses and other 
interested persons would best be served by a change in the location and 
date of the scheduled oral presentation. 
Accordingly--
It is hereby ordered, That pursuant to section 262.3(f)(3) of 
th»e Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 262.3(f)(3)), the public oral 
Presentation on the said application be held at the Little Rock Branch 
°f the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 325 West Capitol Avenue, 
kittle Rock, Arkansas 
72203, commencing at 9:30 a.m. on June 26, 1970 
0 n the third floor. 
It is further ordered, That any person desiring to present 
comments and views at the June 26 oral presentation should file with 
the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 

1137 
-2-
Washington, D. C. 20551, no later than June 5, 1970, written notice 
of intent to appear at the oral presentation in Little Rock, such 
written notice to contain a brief summary of the statement which will 
be presented at the oral presentation, and the name of the person who 
proposes to appear. Persons who file notices of intent to appear will 
be advised of the time allotted for such appearances. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 8, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1438 
Item No. 2 
5/6/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE UJtffi BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEIi 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc. 
1 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of more than 
20 per cent of the voting shares of 
' 
American Trust Company of Hannibal, 
' 
Hannibal, Missouri. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1242(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)) an application by Commerce Bancshares, Inc., 
Kansas City, Missouri ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of more than 80 per cent 
the voting shares of American Trust Company of Hannibal, Hannibal, 
Missouri ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
Notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Finance of 
the State of Missouri, and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Commissioner indicated that he had no objection to approval of the 
application. 

1439 
Not 
ice of receipt of the application was published in the Federal 
Agister on January 24, 1970 (35 Federal Register 1027), providing an 
Opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with respect 
to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the United States 
DePartraent of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing comments has 
exPired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
f a C t o r s s e t forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of the 
Proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, and the con-
er*ce and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such consideration, 
the Board finds that: 
Applicant has 10 subsidiary banks with $700 million in deposits, 
l s the largest bank holding company and the third largest banking organi-
° n in the State of Missouri. (All banking data are as of June 30, 196S, 
Justed to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by 
h e Board to date. Not reflected in the foregoing figures is the Board's 
Pproval today, under separate Order, of the acquisition of Tipton Farmers 
Bank t • 
» Tipton, Missouri (deposits $3.5 million)). Bank, with deposits of 
$7t6 
Million, is the smallest of three banks in Hannibal and of four banks 
| ^ 
County, and is located about 60 miles from the nearest of Applicant's 
Ptesenh subsidiaries. It does not appear that escisting competition would be 
^inated, or significant potential competition foreclosed, by consummation 
A 
P leant's proposal, or that there would be undue adverse effects on other 
in the area involved. 

-3-
1440 
Based upon the foregoing,, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect competition in any 
^levant area. The banking factors lend some support for approval of the 
aPPlication, in that it will resolve a management succession problem at 
fiank, result in improved asset administration, and generally enhance Bank's 
Prospects. Applicant intends to expand the services offered by Bank 
a n d imPr°ve its physical facilities, which should enable it to better 
S G r V e i t s c^munity. 
It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the 
Proposed acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the appli-
cation should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, on the basis of the Board's findings, 
summarized above, said application be and hereby is approved, provided 
th*t the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thl-rtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
t h an three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
e*tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
o f Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 6, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1411 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc., 
1 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of more than' 
c$0 per cent of the voting shares of 
' 
Tipton Farmers Bank, Tipton, Missouri. 
1 
% ^ 
I 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)),an application by Commerce Bancshares, Inc., 
Kansas City, Missouri ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of more than 80 
cent of the voting shares of Tipton Farmers Bank, Tipton, 
Missouri ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
finance of the State of Missouri, and requested his views and recommendation. 
Th 
n e Commissioner commented that he viewed the proposal as a progressive step 
f o r banking in the area involved. 

1442 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the Federal 
Register on December 18, 1969 (34 Federal Register 19839), providing an 
°Pportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with respect 
to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the United 
States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing comments 
r. 
a s expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of the 
Proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, and the 
CorWenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such consideration, 
the Board finds that: 
Applicant has 10 subsidiary banks with $700 million in deposits, 
is the largest bank holding company and the third largest banking 
°r8anization in the State of Missouri. (All banking data are as of 
3o, I960, adjusted to reflect holding company formations and acqui-
Sltions approved by the Board to date. Not reflected in the foregoing 
^Sures is the Board's approval today, under separate Order, of the 
n of American Trust Company of Hannibal, Hannibal, Missouri 
(d 
ePosits $7.6 million)). Bank, with deposits of $3.5 million, is the 
° n l y bank located in Tipton, and ranks third in size among five banks in 
niteau County. Applicant's closest subsidiary is located about 56 miles 
Tipton. It does not appear that esiisting competition would be eliminated, 
r significant potential competition foreclosed, by consummation of Applicant's 
p t 0 
P°sal, or that there would be undue adverse effects on any other bank in 
the a r ea involved. 

-3-
1443 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect competition in any 
relevant area. Banking factors, as related to the facts of record, are 
consistent with approval of the application. Bank has pursued very con-
servative lending policies and has a limited service offering; it does not 
Presently offer time and savings deposit services. Affiliation with 
Applicant would result in a liberalization of lending policies and an 
expansion of the services offered, and should increase Bank's service to 
th 
1 6 community. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the application should 
b e approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that, on the basis of the Board's findings, 
summarized above, said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
Acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
CQlendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
aft 
, 
the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause 
ky the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, Hay 6, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
. ... ••- . . 
. : • - • 
' 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

/-pOfCOj*. 
K 
1444 
B O A R D • F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
item No. 3 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
! 
^ * 
W A S H I N G T O N . 
D . 
C . 
20551 
5/6/70 
A D D R E S S 
n C F I C I A L 
K D R H E S P O N D E N C E 
' 
T O T H E 
R O A R D 
'•f^LRESf:-' 
May 6, 1970 
First Union National Bank of North Carolina, 
301 South Tryon SLreet, 
Charlotte, North Carolina. 28201 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to First Union National Bank of North Carolina, 
Charlotte. North Carolina, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 
°f the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions 
°f such Section avid of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
n o t as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in. the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no con-
tact with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, 
stafft and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under con-
tract by another party. In view of the special character of this 
operation, the foregoing permission is granted subject to continuing 
observation and review by the Board and after due notice may be 
Withdrawn or modified. The foregoing permission is also granted on 
the condition that adequate information covering the branch's opera-
tions will be maintained at your head office and will be available 
to the Board and its accredited representatives. The Board should 
^e promptly informed of any modification in the branch's methods 
operation, including changes in any contract under which services 
are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
•business on or before May 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby shall 
}e deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
V3-ll automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond, when the branch is opened for business, 
tarnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
oard should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 

1445 
First Union National Bank of 
North Carolina 
-2-
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally sub-
ject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Section 213.7 
of Regulation M). The general purpose of these exemptions is to al-
low foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad with 
foreign banks. 
In these circumstances, it has long been and continues 
to be the poliey of the Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits 
by United States residents at foreign branches of United States banks 
unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, necessary 
Purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions 
outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capi-
tal, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of 
the Board's concern vith minimizing the impact of foreign invest-
ments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with 
the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
Squired will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

C'.-V I.W 
m m £ : 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F' T H E 
S g ^ S - 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 4 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20351 
5/6/70 
S5-ii IIZAXi-y <o" • 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
• 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 6, 1970 
Crocker-Citizens International Corporation, 
One Sansome Street, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Slants its permission for Crocker-Citizens International Corpora-
tion, San Francisco, California, pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in 
London, England, and to operate and maintain such branch subject 
to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation K. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or beiore May 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
. will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Fed-
eral Re serve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for 
business, furnishing information as to the exact location of the 
branch. The Board should also be promptly informed of any future 
change in location of the branch in London. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
Capit:al, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign 
assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In 
yiew of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
th the understanding that in the conduct, of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 

1447 
•-.... . i 
Crocker-Citizens 
International Corporation 
-2-
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your Corporation, and 
that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

Item No. 5 
r 
5/6/70 
immediate release. 
May 7, 1970. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today that it has exempted certain credit transactions in Oklahoma from 
the disclosure and rescission provisions of the Federal Truth in Lending 
effective June 1. Oklahoma law, which is substantially similar in 
these provisions to the Federal statute, will apply to all classes of 
ctedit transactions within that State, except for the following: 
1. Transactions in which a Federally chartered institution--
8uch as a Federal Credit Union, Federal savings and loan association, or 
nationa1 bank--is a creditor. 
2. Consumer credit sales of insurance by art insurer. 
3. Transactions under common carrier tariffs in which the 
charges for the services involved, the charge for delayed payment and 
° n y d i scount allowed for early payment are regulated by a subdivision or 
a8enCy of the United States or the State of Oklahoma. 
4. Transactions in which a licensed pawnbroker is a creditor. 
Section 123 of the Truth in Lending Act provides that the Board 
8ha 1 l 
exempt from the disclosure and rescission requirements of the Act 
class of transactions within a State if the State law provides re-
^irements substantially similar to those imposed by the Federal law, 
there is adequate provision for enforcement. 
In making its determination, the Board considered only that part 
°f H 
lc Oklahoma statute that relates to disclosure and rescission. 
The 

1449 
-2-
Uniforra Consumer Credit Code, which Oklahoma adopted, goes beyond these 
fields and, accordingly, the action taken by the Board cannot be con-
strued as an endorsement of that code. 
The Board earlier granted an exemption to Maine for all classes 
credit transactions except those in which a Federally chartered insti-
tution is a creditor. Pending applications have been received from 
Connecticut., Massachusetts, Utah and Virginia. 

1450 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Z] 
PART 226—TRUTH IN LENDING 
Exemption of Certain State Regulated Transactions 
1. Effective June 1, 1970, Supplement III to Regulation Z 
(Section 226.12—Supplement) is amended by adding paragraph (c) 
as follows: 
(c) Oklahoma. Except as provided in § 226.12(c), all classes 
credit transactions within the State of Oklahoma are hereby granted 
an exemption from the requirements of Chapter 2 of the Truth in Lending 
A^t effective June 1, 1970, with the following exceptions: 
(1) Transactions in which a federally chartered institution 
i s a creditor; 
(2) Consumer credit sales of insurance by an insurer; 
(3) Transactions under common carrier tariffs in which the 
charges for the services involved, the charge for delayed payment and 
anV discount allowed for early payment are regulated by a subdivision 
0 r agency of the United States or the State of Oklahoma; and 
(4) Transactions in which a licensed pawnbroker is a creditor. 
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to exempt certain credit 
t r 
f a c t i o n s in the State of Oklahoma from the requirements of Chapter 2 
0 f the Truth in Lending Act (Title I of the Consumer Credit Protection 
A c t> 15 U.s.C. 1601ff)). 

1451 
-3-
b. Pursuant to the provisions of 12 CFR 226.12 (Supplement II 
to Part 226 (Regulation Z)), the State of Oklahoma applied to the Board 
for an exemption from the Truth in Lending Act; notice of receipt of the 
application was published in the Federal Register of January 7, 1970 
( 3 5 F.R. 245). The Board granted this exemption after consideration of 
a H relevant material, including communications from interested persons. 
Tk 
e effective date of the exemption was deferred for less than the 30~day 
Period referred' to in section 553(d) of title 5, United States Code. The 
R°ard found that the amendment: essentially involves no change in a sub-
stantive rule and deferral of the date beyond that adopted by the Board 
V o u l d serve no useful purpose. 
By order of the Board of Governors, Hay 6, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1452 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
5/6/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 8, 1970 
Mr. Richard L. Wheatley, Jr., 
Administrator, 
Department of Consumer Affairs, 
State of Oklahoma, 
Lincoln Office Plaza, Suite 74, 
4545 North Lincoln, 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. 
73105 
Dear Mr. Wheatley: 
On May 6, 1970, the Board granted to the State of Oklahoma the 
exemptions for which you applied under section 123 of the Truth in Lending 
c t and Supplement I I to Regulation Z, except for three classes of trans-
actions which your statute specifically excludes. 
They are: 
1. Consumer credit sales of insurance by an insurer; 
2. Transactions under common carrier tariffs in which 
the charges for the services involved, the charge 
for delayed payment, and any discount allowed for 
early payment are regulated by a subdivision or 
agency of the United States or the State of 
Oklahoma; and 
A copy of Supplement III to Regulation Z and the amendment to that 
pplement setting out the Oklahoma exemption are enclosed. 
Q 
Under the provisions of §22 6.12, as amended, consumers in 
lahoma will, of course, continue to have the option to seek redress for 
V ll damages under your statute and regulations in either Federal or State 
court. 
In taking such action, the Board determined that the classes of 
ansactions for which exemptions were granted are subject to regulatory 
tyiirements substantially similar to those imposed under the Truth in 
nding Act and Regulation Z and that there was adequate provision for 
torcement. 
The Board in making its determination, did not consider the 

1453 
Richard L. Wheatley, Jr. 
-2-
J-emainder of your statute, the Uniform Consumer Credit Code, which as you 
Know, goes beyond the fields of disclosure and rescission, except to satisfy 
urselves that no other provisions of that statute would contradict or 
nullify the disclosure and rescission provisions. Accordingly, this action 
y the Board cannot be construed as an endorsement of the Uniform Consumer 
Credit Code. 
In view of the Board's primary responsibility to effectuate the 
Purposes of the Truth in Lending Act, it will expect each State which has 
^een granted exemptions to report to it semiannually as of June 30 and 
^ecember 31 each year on the enforcement activities within that State. 
^ would expect such a report to include the number of complaints processed, 
e number and types of administrative proceedings brought against violators, 
en^l r e s u* t s o f t h o s e administrative proceedings, a description of the methods 
^ Ployed by the State in its examination procedures, and other appropriate 
a ters. Our staff is now working to develop a form of report for this 
n^rp°se- 
Inasmuch as your exemption is effective June 1, 1970, we can see 
U S G f"l purpose in asking you for a report after only 30 days under the 
option. Accordingly, we will ask that you furnish your report as of 
Member 31, 1970, and semiannually thereafter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Closures 
