FR 609 
^ev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
April 23, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
1/ 
. V 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, April 23, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel If 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 2/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
The usual weekly economic and financial review was presented; 
copies of the individual staff briefings and of the relevant statis-
tical materials have been placed in the Board's files. 
As the result of a question raised during the staff review, it 
w
as understood that a computation of the consumer price index for the 
Past two years exclusive of the mortgage interest component would be 
furnished to the Board. 
W 
Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
y 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1 0 0 C 
4/23/71 
-2-
There followed a report on pertinent legislative developments, 
after which members of the staff who had attended for the purpose of the 
economic and financial review withdrew from the meeting. Other staff 
members, including Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board, Messrs. O'Connell, 
Sanders, and Crews of the Legal Division, and Miss Hart of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation, entered to participate in the considera-
tion of the following matters. 
Consent calendar. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
Chase International Investment Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
fchac 
.^ilu 
so :: , M • , ; • . 
an extension of time for the corporation and/or Arcturus Investment 
and Development Limited, Montreal, Canada, to acquire shares of Flagship 
Pacific Holdings Limited, Wellington, New Zealand. A copy is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to counsel for a 
Petroleum company concluding that section 220.7(a) of Regulation T, 
r
^lating to arranging of credit by brokers and dealers, would not apply 
to the sale of interests in limited partnerships under certain conditions. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
Testimony on Banking Reform Act. There had been distributed a 
draft of a statement to be presented by Chairman Burns before the 
House Committee on Banking and Currency on Monday, April 26, with respect 
xx 
• 
• 
t o
 H.R. 5700, cited as the Banking Reform Act. The statement had been 

4/23/71 
-3-
drafted in the light of views expressed during a discussion at the 
Board meeting on April 13, and also views expressed by members of 
the Federal Advisory Council at a meeting with members of the Board 
on April 20. 
Suggestions were made for a number of changes in the draft 
designed to accomplish clarification of certain points, amplification 
of others, and shifts in emphasis. It was then understood that the 
statement would be edited in the light of today's discussion and 
that it would be presented in a final form satisfactory to Chairman 
Burns. (Note: A copy of the statement, as presented, had been placed 
in the Board's files.) 
Governor Maisel entered the meeting at this point. 
Bank Tax Study. At an earlier meeting it had been suggested 
that the proposed letter to the Congress concerning the Bank Tax Study 
undertaken pursuant to Public Law 91-156 be restructured so as to 
Present the Board's recommendations in an appended document. With a 
m e
morandum dated April 21 the Division of Research and Statistics had 
submitted a revised draft of letter. 
Transmittal of the letter and attachments was approved 
u
nanimously. Copies of the letter and recommendations, as transmitted, 
a r e
 attached under Item No. 3; a copy of the staff report has been 
Placed in the Board's files. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
. k 
Secretary 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Of" THE 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
4/23/71 
• 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
i -
A D D R E S S 
D r r i C t A L 
C n R R C S I ' a N O E N C E 
i n 
T H E 
B Q A H D 
April 23, 1071 
Chase International Investment Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of March 30, 1971, 
the Board of Governors extends until March 11, 1972, the 
time within which your Corporation and/or Arcturus Investment 
and Development Limited, Montreal, Canada, may purchase and 
hold 2 5 per cent of the shares of Flagship Pacific Holdings 
T/iihiterl, Wellington, New Zealand, at a cost of approximately 
$725,000. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

B D A R D • F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
4/23/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
April 26, 1971 
Barry J. Gait, Esq., 
Conner, Winters, Ballaine, 
Barry & McGowen, 
First National Building, 
Tulsa, Oklahoma. 
74103 
Dear Mr. Gait: 
This refers to your letter of April 12, 1971, setting 
forth modifications which your client, Cotton Petroleum Company 
(Cotton) proposes to make in respect of the financing of the 
purchase of limited partnership interests as originally described 
in your letter of March 25, 1971. The limited partnership would 
engage in oil and gas drilling, development and production op-
erations in the United States. 
You ask whether brokers and dealers selling the programs, 
a s
 so modified, would be deemed to arrange for credit in violation 
°f section 220.7(a) of the Board of Governors' Regulation T, "Credit 
by Brokers and Dealers". Section 220.7(a) provides that: 
"Arranging for loans by others. A creditor 
may arrange for the extension or maintenance 
of credit to or for any customer of such 
creditor by any person upon the same terms 
and conditions as those upon which the 
creditor, under the provisions of this part, 
may himself extend or maintain such credit 
to such customer, but only upon such terms 
and conditions, except that this limitation 
shall not apply with respect to the arranging 
by a creditor for a bank subject to Part 221 
of this Chapter (Regulation U) to extend or 
maintain credit on margin securities or 
exempted securities." 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Q
Q
^ 
Barry J. Gait, Esq. 
- 2 -
Cotton proposes to offer participations in its 1971 oil 
and gas drilling program. Each participant would become a limited 
partner, and the partnership would become effective and commence 
operations when Cotton elects to terminate the offering by ceasing 
to accept subscriptions, provided that there has been subscribed 
at least $500,000 by June 30, 1971. The minimum subscription would 
be $10,000 and no subscription payment would be due until the 
partnership becomes effective. 
Under the modifications described in your letter of 
April 12, 1971, the subscriptions would be payable in two equal 
installments, 50 per cent within seven days after notice front Cotton 
to the participants that the acceptance of subscriptions has ter-
minated and the program has become effective, and the remaining 50 
per cent within 90 days after the program's effective date. Your 
April 12 letter states that the partnership will not commit to 
expenditures in excess of the portion of the aggregate subscription 
that has actually been paid in. In addition, you state that the 
sale of the subscriptions will be subject to the following terms 
and conditions. 
(1) The participant's subscriptions will not be legally 
enforceable obligations; 
(2) If a participant fails to pay any portion of his 
subscription, his partnership interest will be equivalent only to 
the amount of cash previously paid in, and neither the partnership 
nor Cotton can enforce payment of the balance of his subscription; 
(3) If Cotton solicits additional capital contributions 
(in the event there arc over-expenditures by the partnership), only 
those participants who actually pay their additional contribution 
to the partnership within seven days after notice of acceptance by 
the partnership will participate in profits or losses arising from 
the additional operations. As in paragraph (2), neither the 
partnership nor Cotton can enforce payment of such subscriptions; 
(4) A participant shall only be permitted to assign, 
convey, transfer, mortgage, pledge or otherwise encumber his part-
nership interest for which payments have been made. 
The Board is of the view that there would be no extension 
of credit by Cotton or the partnership to the participant where the 
above conditions, as set forth in your April 12, 1971, letter are 
observed. Rather, the prospective payments by the participants 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Barry J. Gait, Esq. 
3 
would seem to be the result of a continuing offer to the partnership 
to purchase a pro tanto partnership interest for which payment is 
made within seven days following its acceptance by the partnership. 
Accordingly, brokers and dealers engaged in selling such programs 
would not be "arranging" for credit within the meaning of section 
220.7(a) of Regulation T. 
This opinion is based, of course, upon the representations 
made to the Board in your letter. It should be noted that any 
different facts or conditions might require a different conclusion. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary. 

C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 3 
4/23/71 
May 4, 1971 
tlldt; 
'WJ;: 
D
e a r Mr. Vice President: 
directed by Public Law 91-156, the Board of Governors has undertaken 
a
 study of the possible impact on the banking systems and other economic 
e
ffects of changes in existing law to be made by section 2 of that Act 
8 o v
erning income taxes, intangible property taxes, so-called doing busi-
r
e s s
 taxes, and other similar taxes that are or may be imposed on banks 
y
 State and local governments. Accompanying this letter are a state-
e n t
 of the Board's recommendations and a staff report summarizing the 
e s
ults of the study. Background papers and compilations will be 
fitted when they are processed. 
c
°nducting this inquiry into State and local taxes on banks, the 
yard's staff has been assisted by an advisory panel of lawyers and 
^°nomists particularly qualified to consider questions of State and 
e°
Ca
l tax policy, intergovernmental relations in this field, and the 
c
°nomic functions of financial institutions. Several members of the 
Panel and other consultants have contributed papers on selected topics. 
yrirf v 
c
 e
 advisory group included representatives of the Comptroller of the 
J^rency and the Office of Tax Analysis of the Treasury Department, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Advisory Commission 
Intergovernmental. Relations. Information, opinions, and ideas were 
thered from State bank supervisors and State tax administrators, 
f^
l e
fly through letters and responses to a detailed questionnaire; and 
bankers, banking organizations, and other trade groups through 
till 
'
 m e e t i n
8
s
>
 
a
 special survey of bank tax expenses, and informal 
Cities. 

10C7 
Mr. Vice President 
- 
2 
The Board has formulated its recommendations after receiving the 
report of its staff and evaluating the alternative courses of action 
that are discussed therein. 
In our judgment, these recommendations 
constitute a feasible program for attaining the policy objective set 
°nt in Public I.aw 91-156. 
Yours respectfully, 
Artluir F. Burns 
Hncloc 
Wlw 
osures 
Identical letter to The Honorable Carl Albert 
Speaker of the House of Representatives 
The Honorable Wright Patvnan, Chairman 
Committee on Banking and Currency 
The Honorable John J. Sparkman, Chairman 
Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and 
Urban Affairs 

1008 
STATE AtTD LOCAL TAXATION OF BANKS 
Part T. 
RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM REGARDING STATE AMD LOCAL TAXATION OF BANKS PURSUANT 
TO SECTION 4 OF PUBLIC LAW 91-156 
Section 4(a) of Public Law 91-156 requests that the Board 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System make a study— 
"to determine the probable impact on the banking systems 
and other economic effects of the changes in existing 
low to be made by section 2 of this Act governing income 
taxes, intangible property taxes, so-called doing business 
taxes, and any other similar taxes which are or may be 
imposed on banks." 
Section 4(b) requests that the report of this study shall 
ln
clu"de— 
"the Board's recomraendations as to what additional Federal 
legislation, if any, may be needed to reconcile the pro-
motion of the economic efficiency of the banking systems 
of the Nation with the achievement of effectiveness and 
local autonomy in meeting the fiscal needs of the States 
and their political subdivisions." 
The Board concludes that additional Federal legislation is 
"^det before the "permanent amendment" of section 5219 of the Revised 
S t a
tutes (12 U.S.C. 548) becomes effective on January 1, 1972. If that 
P r
°
v
isi 0 n is allowed to go into effect without revision, the changed 
tnv 
k
 status of banks might open the way for State and local tax measures 
a t
 could impair the ability of the banking system and possibly the 
n t i r e
 structure of financial intermediaries to contribute to the 
0 ff J 
l c i
ent allocation of the Nation's credit resources. Although the 
P r e c
ise nature and magnitude of these impacts are not predictable, the 
Pto 
b
Pfcct is that they would be sufficiently detrimental to economic 

1009 
- 
? 
-
efficicncy to warrant Congressional action in 1971 to continue limited 
statutory restraints upon the taxing authority of the States and their 
Political subdivisions as to national banks and to apply corresponding 
restraints for other depositary institutions. 
The two major areas which appear to warrant further legislation 
felnte to the new authority in section 2 of Public Law 91-156 for State 
local governments to tax intangible personal property of national 
banks and for States other than the State of the principal office to 
l e v
y income or other "doing business" taxes on national banks. 
These 
Q r
° covered in Recommendations 1 and 2. An additional problem area 
r
°*ates to the possibility of discriminatory State and local taxes, an 
*
s
sue which is covered in Recommendation 3. Two subsidiary issues—the 
treatment of interest income on U.S. Government securities and of 
cash m i 
i ana currency--are covered in Recommendations 4 and 5. 
The issues raised by section 2 of Public Law 91-156 deal 
lively with State and local powers to tax national banks. 
However, 
the 
fioard recommends that any further legislation be addressed to a 
Urpor R» 
5
 
group of financial institutions. 
In view of the declared Congres-
s
ion i 
policy of seeking equal treatment of State and national batiks 
Under Si-
atate tax laws, and the close competition between banks and 
e
P°
s
itary institutions, it would be desirable that the restrictions 
PfOpQo ^ , 
^ 
in our recommendations apply to all commercial banks (national 
S t n
t e ) 
a n other depositary institutions (savings banks, savings 
Q
nd ] 
a n
 associations, and credit unions). 

- 3 - ' 1014 
Insofar as they relate to national banks, the Board's proposals 
contemplate withdrawal of no authority to impose types of taxes that 
States have possessed heretofore; they would only limit new authority 
that is now scheduled to become available to States for the first time 
°n January 1, 1972. 
Under the earlier section 5219 and the interim 
a
mendment now in force, States have not been permitted to tax intangi-
ble personal property of national banks or to impose on out-of-State 
National banks the taxes named in Recommendation 2. 
Nor would the proposals entail any appreciable curtailment of 
C:,. „ 
Authority heretofore exercised by State nnd local governments with 
respect to taxation of State-chartered banks and other depositary 
n s
titutions. Generally, those States that tax intangible personal 
fK, ' • '.'it*.
 
1
 • 
^
r
°P°rty have accorded to State-chartered banks the same exemption 
this tax that Federal law has required for national banks; and 
°
nl
V infrequently have States imposed "doing business" taxes on State-
bartered banks from other States (exclusive of their subsidiaries). 
As t o
 other depositary institutions, the tax policies of the several 
St
3te; are quite varied, but there appears to be little direct taxation 
the intangible assets or net income of mutual savings banks, savings 
i°an associations, and credit unions. 
M Ui > 
Recommendation 1--Intangible personal property: 
Continue with- • 
limit: the present denial of authority for States and their sub-
impose taxes on intangible personal property owned by national 

A 
- 4 -
Jianks and extend that deni.nl to intangible personal property owned by 
r 
banks and other depositary institutions. 
FT');
 :
 
' 
The case for prohibition of ad valorem taxation of intangible 
Personal property of banks and other depositary institutions, in the 
board's view, stands on firm ground in terms of both equity and economic 
impact. Moreover, the potential significance of action or inaction by 
the Congress at this time is heightened by the prospect that if the 
it Permanent amendment" of section 5219 takes effect in its present form, 
S t
ates may decide, in their search fcr additional revenues, to reverse r 
Ui >•; 
the long-term trend toward abandonment of this generally undesirable 
f
°rm of tax. At present, taxation of intangibles yields little revenue 
State and local governments. 
With respect to the question of equity, it is widely recognized 
that a general tax on intangibles would bear with considerably greater 
l , e i
Rht on banks and other depositary institutions than on nonfinancial 
businesses. 
Virtually all the assets of such institutions are in the 
°
rm
 of intangibles, whereas this class of property is much less important 
V?
r
 nonfinancial businesses. Depositary institutions are unable to move 
-
l o i
r 
base of operations from State to State; they are closely regulated 
• <1 N C J 
Q n d
 Supervised, with published balance sheets; and tax assessors cannot 
t G Q c
H l y undervalue fixed claims, such as bank assets, to the degree that 
l G
V ^an an^ generally do undervalue other types of assets. However equal 
t l l G
 treatment provided in the tax laws, in practice depositary institutions 

101 
- 5 -
would be at a marked disadvantage compared with other businesses and 
individuals, particularly where intangibles arc blanketed into a 
Reneral property tax that purports to apply the same valuation 
standards and rates to real property and all varieties of tangible 
a
nd intangible personal property. 
An intangibles tax applied to banks and other depositary 
institutions would have a number of adverse economic consequences, 
depending 
in magnitude on the level and geographic coverage of the tax. 
l n
 the first instance, the principal effects would be on the function-
ing of financial intermediaries in gathering savings and allocating 
f
nnds for productive investment —locally, regionally, and nationally— 
b u
t ultimately any impediments to this process would have a bearing 
the performance of the entire economy. 
The process of financial intermediation performed by banks 
Q n
d other depositary institutions is particularly vulnerable to an in-
tangibles tax since the duplication of financial assets that is 
inherent 
l n
 the flow of savings, first into deposits of those institutions and 
into customer loans, would expose savings flowing through intcr-
m e
<Haries to an additional layer of taxation not encountered where funds 
flow directly from savers to ultimate borrowers. 
A tax on intangible assets would tend to induce banks and 
°ther depositary institutions to divert funds from taxable to tax-
G
*Cmpt forms of assets—that is, from the financing of consumers and 

- 6 -
' 1014 
businesses, particularly local businesses, to the acquisition of Federal, 
State, and local obligations. If the tax were imposed in only a few 
States«~as likely would be the case in the early years under the new 
law interstate competition would severely limit the ability of the 
taxed institutions to recoup the tax by seeking higher rates on loans 
ar
>d investments or paying lower rates on deposits. The flow of savings 
through banks and other depositary institutions into consumer and busi-
e s financing would tend to be diverted from the taxing States into non-
taxing States, with parallel effects on the volume of capital investment 
the level of economic activity in those States. If the tax were 
itT
iposed quite generally, the effect would be to discriminate against the 
Process of financial intermediation performed by depositary institutions, 
thus tending to divert flows of savings into direct financing through 
market, with some consequent loss in economic efficiency. 
Another implication of an intangibles tax of concern to the 
^°ard is that it would fall more heavily on member banks in the Federal 
°tve System than on nonmember banks and thus would constitute an 
^itional cost of membership. The Federal Reserve Act requires that 
l
egal reserves of member banks be held either in the form of vault 
9 s
h or balances at the Reserve Banks—both of which are nonearning assets-
i L
 nonmember banks generally may hold their reserves in earning forms 
n
 balances with other banks for which correspondent banking services 
received. 

- 7 - 
' 1014 
Witle many of the arguments in support of a prohibition of an 
intangibles tax for depositary institutions would also support a similar 
ban for other financial institutions, anv attempt to determine a broader 
area of application raises difficult problems in the setting of boundaries 
fend the definition of the institutions to be covered. In any event, since 
depositary institutions account for the bulk of all intangibles held by 
the financial sector, and a large part of the remainder—namely, pension 
funds--would undoubtedly be exempt from tax in any event, a prohibition 
limited only to depositary institutions probably would serve effectively 
t o
 protect the entire financial sector. If the Congress wished to broaden 
t h
e prohibition, it could do so, for example, by extending it to cover all 
institutions that derive 50 per cent or more of their income from interest 
°
r
 dividends on loans and investments. 
Rccomtnendat^_2^^atjjo^bv States other than_the_State of the 
•HXjncina 1 office: 
Limit" the circumstances in which nat J onn l_j>nnksJI_State 
fegnks t o n ( 1 other depositary institutions may be subject to State or local 
f O: CO'.., 
• • • . • ; v 
r; x\ -<." J> 
^ernment: tnves on or measured by net income, gro«s receipts, or capital 
l ^ j l ^ or to other doing business' taxes in a State other than the State 
Principal office, and prescribe rules for such_tnxj?tion. 
As to the application of net income and "doing business" taxes 
l n States other than the home-office State of a bank or other depositary 
i n s
titution, the central problem relates not to the aggregate sum of State 
Q n d
 local taxes that may be collected from these institutions but rather 
t o
 the methods for determining which States have a legal basis for imposing 
and for dividing any given tax base between the home State and other 

,/ 
r 
- 8 -
States that have such claims. With the possible interstate division of 
the net income or other tax base of national banks that is permitted under 
section 2 of Public Law 91-156 and which would also be permitted under 
the above recommendation, the home State may be required to divide the 
tax base of its domiciliary banks with other States. On the other hand, 
it may acquire jurisdiction over part of the tax base of non-domiciliary 
banks. 
With interstate division of the tax base, assurances are needed 
that the sum of the taxable base on which two or more States levy taxes 
will not exceed 100 per cent of the actual base. But even where this 
limit is not exceeded, serious burdens may result when two or more States 
claiming jurisdiction to tax, for example, the same net income, use 
different rules for interstate division of the tax base and require dif-
ferent kinds of records and reports. 
If interstate division of the taxable net income of banks were 
to conform closely to procedures currently applied to other businesses by 
most States, there would be--with present lending practices—coraparatively 
little allocation or apportionment of the tax base to States other than the 
States of the banks. However, if all restrictions on taxing out-of-
1 : 
State institutions were removed, States could be expected to modify their 
allocation procedures so as to apply their levies to an increasing propor-
tion of the tax base of out-of-State banks. This could involve the 
Introduction of new division-of-base measures tailored particularly to 
f . 
financial intermediaries. 

1021 
- 9 
~ 
The aggregate of taxes paid by any individual bank or other 
depositary institution probably would be reduced by multiple State taxation 
as compared with taxation confined to the headquarters State because 
applicable tax rates in the home State (especially in the major banking 
center States) may be higher than in other States, and some States may 
not tax the out-of-State institution. However, in some instances the 
added costs of acquiring technical competence regarding the differing tax 
laws and procedures of all States where business is done, maintaining 
records needed to determine which taxes are applicable and the amount of 
liability, and preparing and filing returns in all affected States may 
be even greater than the taxes. 
Important as it is to avoid overtaxation of any given tax base, 
it is at least equally important, therefore, to avoid excessive compliance 
costs and the erection of barriers to interstate credit flows. Such 
barriers would be raised not only by the imposition of the tax itself 
but also if there ensued uncertainty, controversy, and litigation of the 
sort that for decades have characterized taxation of interstate mercan-
tile and manufacturing businesses. Uncertainties about potential tax 
liabilities and concern about compliance burdens could become material 
factors in decisions to make particular loans or investments. 
The imposition of income or other "doing business" taxes on the 
business done in a State by out-of-State institutions, together with the 
b u
rdens and costs associated with compliance with the tax laws in that 
S t Q
t e , tfotild tend to induce out-of-State lenders to divert credit flows away 

1021 
- 10 
~ 
from States Imposing such taxes and Into States with a more favorable tax 
climate or into marketable securities. Such reallocations might be parti-
cularly marked in the case of the large money market banks, which in some 
cases appear to have placed half or more of their outstanding loans with 
out-of-Statc borrowers. But many smaller institutions also handle consider-
able out-of-State business by virtue of their location close to State 
borders, and some of these might curtail their out-of-State lending to 
reduce the possibility of nondomiciliary taxation. While the amounts 
withdrawn from a particular State by any one lender might be small, with-
drawals by a large number of institutions could mount to a sizable total. 
The impacts of such an exodus of funds on the economy of the 
affected State could be substantial, particularly in States that were 
rapidly expanding and heavily dependent on outside sources of financing. 
Hut the impacts would not be uniform; rather they would tend to focus on 
intermediate sized local businesses which required outside financing but 
lacked the flexibility of large national corporations to shift their base 
for financing to a non-tax State or to obtain funds in the national money 
°r capital markets. Smaller firms and other local borrowers, too, might 
be adversely affected, by having to pay higher rates on borrowed funds 
than they otherwise would, due to curtailment of supply. 
The Board's recommendation on out-of-State taxation is addressed 
t 0
 the problem of minimizing these barriers to interstate and interregional 
^ b i l i t y of funds while recognizing also the Congressional desire to minimi 
constraints on State taxing powers. 
It is intended to forestall the 

1018 
- ii -
development of significant impediments to such mobility while safeguarding 
the authority of the States to collect taxes in circumstances where an 
outside bank or other depositary institution has established a clear 
relationship to the taxing State or political subdivision through a 
physical presence or a pattern of sustained and substantial operations. 
If the Board's proposals are adopted, States would not be limited in their 
choice of tax measures applicable to banks and other depositary institutions 
(except as to intangible personal property). Rut the circumstances in 
which these taxes would be applied to out-of-State institutions would be 
clearly defined and circumscribed and certain State procedures for applying 
taxes to out-of-State institutions would be standardized throughout the 
Nation. 
The Federal statute should establish uniform criteria for 
determining when a State or its subdivisions may exercise jurisdiction 
t o
 tax a bank or other depositary institution which has its principal 
°ffice or is chartered in another State; principles and procedures that 
w
lll govern the interstate division of each type of applicable tax base 
in circumstances where the jurisdictional tests are met; and rules that 
guide the States in their administrative procedures, such as the 
a
Pplication of a unitary business concept, requirements of consolidated 
°
r
 combined tax returns from related or affiliated corporations, audits 
Out-of-State corporations, and other procedures. 
It may be desirable 
s
uch legislation to designate a Federal administrative agency to 
^
r
°vide interpretations and regulations. 
O S i a ...... 
. 
. ,, 
, 

1021 
- 12 
~ 
Like the present Federal statute that applies to net income taxes 
°n business involving interstate sales of tangible personal property 
(Public Law 86-27?.), the law relating to depositary institutions might 
Provide that certain common occurrences do not, by themselves, constitute 
0
 sufficient connection with the State to establish jurisdiction to tax 
, mere solicitation of prospective borrowers by a depositary 
institution or its representatives, the loans being approved or rejected 
0 u
tside the State; the holding of security interests in property located 
a State; or enforcement of obligations in the courts of a State). In 
es
tablishing such criteria, the overriding objectives should be to avoid 
' y- ,. 
, 
' 
N a t i o n 
of tax impediments to the continued free flow of credit across 
^ate lines and uneconomic changes in the procedures that now govern the 
°verwhelming bulk of interstate lending by depositary institutions. 
Any jurisdictional standards and division-of-base rules that 
Q r
° applied to State taxation of out-of-State depositary institutions should 
applicable to local government levies as well. In this connection, the 
°
n
£ress may wish to examine whether additional restrictions would be 
n G e
de^ t 0 avoid imposition of a variety of local levies and recordkeeping 
and °ther compliance requirements upon banks from other parts of the same 
St 
a
te or from other States, which would tend to discourage banks and other 
^Positnry institutions from widening their service areas. 
Recommendation 3--T)iscriminatorv taxation: 
Proscribe the impo-
y^jon_of discriminatory or more onerous license, privilcnc, or other 
^ U a L -
M
d o i n > ! business" taxes upon o u t - o f - S t a t e depositary institutions 
N ^ U j o n l d be imposed upon these Institutions if chartered by the taxing 
5L* •• v 

- ij - 
1 0 2 0 
State. The nrovision might take the form of a specific limitation, under 
which an out-of-Scnte corporation or association could nnt be.required to 
nav a higher license, privilege, or other ''doing business" tax or fee, 
than it would nnv under the same circumstances if it were domiciled or 
chartered in the taxing State. 
Because constitutional doctrines in this field are not clear, 
there is at least a risk that States would have power to levy for the 
privilege of doing business in a State heavier taxes on out-of-State banks 
and other depositary institutions than they impose on those institutions 
incorporated or domiciled in the taxing States. This risk should be 
eliminated by a Federal statutory provision to avoid the creation of 
undesirable barriers to interstate credit operations. 
In the case of ad valorem taxes, direct corporate net income 
taxes, and gross income taxes, existing constitutional safeguards appar-
ently suffice to prevent discrimination against out-of-State institutions. 
A related issue concerns possible classifications of banks 
for taxing purposes that could have the effect of discriminating between 
national and State banks. We assume that the principle of requiring 
• 
, -
equal treatment of national and State banks, incorporated in the ''perman-
ent amendment" of section 5219, will be retained in any further legis-
lation and that this provision will be interpreted as prohibiting discrim-
o. t 
inatory classifications. 
Another related issue is the possible discriminatory taxation of 
banks or all depositary institutions as a class distinguished from other 

1021 
/ 
- 14 ~ 
businesses. Under the expiring provisions of section 5219, property tax 
r a
tes on national bank shares are not permitted to exceed those on "other 
moneyed capital" competing with the banks, and rates of net income taxes 
°
n
 national banks may not exceed those upon other financial corporations 
n
°t the highest rates upon other businesses. Decades of litigation over 
these provisions suggest that, although such comparative limitations do 
n
°t dispel uncertainty and controversy, they may narrow its range. The 
Co 
n
Rress might wish to consider incorporating into the statute a declaration 
0 f
 Policy on this question of the comparative treatment of banks (or all 
^Positary institutions) and other businesses. 
Recommendation 4--Interest: on Federal obligations: Amend the 
Fed 
-JlVhTJ c debt: statutes to authorize States to include, in the mea-
-—gJLjjthervise valid direct net income taxes, the income realized by 
^ ^ J L n d other depositary institutions from Federal Government obligations, 
Under present law, States are permitted to include interest income 
t l v 0 f 1
 from Federal obligations in the tax base for a franchise or excise 
according to or measured by" net income, but they must exempt such 
s c
 from the base of a direct tax on net income, The problem is a 
^tlgv.- -i one that goes beyond depositary institutions. 
There is no economic difference between these two types of taxes. 
f rrom the treatment of tax-exempt interest, they are identical in all 
i£
il characteristics except the circumstances in which they may be 
lrtlp
°sed k o 
D
Y States. Most States that tax banks with respect to their net 
use excise taxes, and the number has gradually increased. 
Under 
i 
their choice among forms of taxation is influenced by the 

-si A O ' ) 
- 15 - 
ivJ'Crf-' 
fact that banks and other depositary institutions have large holdings of 
Government obligations. 
To the extent that States other than the home State are to be 
permitted to participate in taxing net income under either the "permanent 
amendment" of section 5219 or our Recommendation 2, above, they should be 
authorized also to include in the base of the direct tax interest income 
received by banks and other depositary institutions on their holdings 
of Federal securities. 
In addition, elimination of the distinction between 
direct and indirect taxes on net income would give the States considerably 
greater freedom in formulating tax legislation. 
The change could be made in the Federal public debt law (31 U.S. 
Code 742) and any other relevant statutes. 
Recommendation ^-Classification of coins and currency: 
Establish 
•to-ILlatute. a nationwide rule that coins and paper currency are to be con* 
•^Il-Jl'^ intangible personal property for State and local tax purposes. 
At present, application of State and local ad valorem taxes to 
"cash or currency" holdings of national banks is prevented not only by 
the earlier section 5219 but also by provisions in the "temporary amend-
m
°nt'! which continue the prohibition of taxes on intangible personal 
Property and expressly exclude "cash or currency" from taxation as tangible 
Property. Without further amendment, these restrictions will expire at 
t h
e end of 1971. 
Some States classify cash or currency as tangibles and others 
treat them as intangibles under laws imposing taxes on personal property. 

102G 
- 16 - ' 1014 
But money held by other taxpayers generally is either exempted or not 
assessed. 
If the Congress adopts Recommendation 1, above, a continuing 
prohibition o* taxes upon "cash or currency" or'boins and paper currency
11 
should be included in that amendment. 
But if the Congress prefers to 
permit ad valorem taxation of intangibles owned by depositary institutions, 
it might consider enacting a limited exemption for reserves of these 
institutions that are required to be held in the form of deposits or currenc-
Concluding comment. The Congress undoubtedly will wish to make 
a detailed review of the proposed rncdifications of policy, with the result 
that definitive action may not be feasible before Section 2 of Public Law 
becomes effective on January 1, 1972. Unless action on the 
Proposals can be completed this year, the Board would recommend that the 
effec 
tive date of the "permanent amendment" be postponed beyond next 
January 1, since some of the potential adverse effects of the new statutory 
Provisions in their present form might prove difficult to remedy. 
May 3, 1971 
