3/70) 
Minutes for 
February 6f 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. (Meeting with Federal Advisory Council.) 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
A2ZI 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes. 

418 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the 
Board Room of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D. C., 
at 10:30 a.m. on Friday, February 6, 1970. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Meyer, Brown, Mayer, Harvey, Craft, 
Graham, Morgan, Nason, Conn, Gray, and 
Clausen, Members of the Federal Advisory 
Council from the Second, Third, Fourth, 
Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, 
Tenth, Eleventh, and Twelfth Federal 
Reserve Districts, respectively 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of the 
Council 
Mr. Wheeler, Member of the Council from the First Federal 
Reserve District, was unable to be present, and in his absence the 
District was represented by Roger C. Damon, Chairman, First National 
Bank of Boston, Boston, Massachusetts. 
The following officers had been elected by the Federal Advisory 
Council to serve for the year 1970: 
President 
Philip H. Nason 
Vice President 
Jack T. Conn 
Secretary 
Herbert V. Prochnow 
Assistant Secretary 
William J. Korsvik 

157 
2/6/70 
-2-
The following had been elected members of the Executive 
Committee to serve with the President (Mr. Nason) and Vice President 
(Mr. Conn): 
John A. Mayer, George S. Craft, and Donald M. Graham. 
The following persons, newly elected, were attending their 
first meeting as members of the Council: 
John M. Meyer, Jr., Chairman of the Board, Morgan Guaranty 
Trust Company of New York, New York, New York 
Robert D. H. Harvey, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, 
Maryland National Bank, Baltimore, Maryland 
Allen Morgan, Chairman of the Board, The First National 
Bank of Memphis, Memphis, Tennessee 
A. W. Clausen, President and Chief Executive Officer, 
Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
Association, San Francisco, California 
1. Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. 
How does the Council appraise the general 
economic outlook for 1970? Will there be important 
changes in the pace of business in the second 
half of the year as compared with the first half? 
The Council anticipates that the slowdown in economic activ-
ity, which is becoming increasingly evident, will continue through 
the first half of the year, with at best only a moderate resumption 
of growth in the last six months of 1970. 
As inflationary pressures 
are likely to persist throughout the year, it is doubtful that mon-
etary policy, even though it may be eased somewhat, will precipitate 
a marked change upward in business activity in the latter half of 
the year. 
President Nason observed that two members of the Council expected 
no resumption of growth in the second half of the year. 
In response to 
a question, one of those members clarified that, rather than a continu-
ation of slowdown, a level about equal to that of 1969 was envisaged. 

157 
2/6/70 
-3-
It was anticipated by the Council that large business capital 
expenditures in the first part of the year would taper off as profits 
margins narrowed and costs increased. 
However, factors such as lower 
Federal income tax rates and higher Social Security benefits should 
stimulate consumption. 
Business loans were likely to continue flat, 
but it was thought that prices would continue to advance, although 
perhaps at a more moderate pace. 
Industries such as railroads, air lines, and aerospace seemed 
to have major problems coming up from a financial standpoint. 
Companies 
in those industries were substantially in debt to banks; although they 
could probably work out of it, this would apparently take some time and 
loans would have to be renewed. . Severe increases in operating costs 
were creating problems. 
B. 
How would the Council assess the present situ-
ation and outlook in the building industry? 
Are there significant differences as regards 
prospects for construction of homes, apartments, 
and commercial buildings? 
The outlook for the building industry generally is not encour-
aging for the near-term, although total expenditures for new construc-
tion remain on the high plateau which has prevailed for about a year. 
Of all the sectors, the outlook for home building is least bright 
and reflects the shortage of long-term funds, high interest rates, 
and rising construction and land costs. 
The construction of apart-
ments and commercial buildings remains high with prospects good, 
except for certain areas in one or two districts. 
An increasing 
number of institutional lenders request market rates of interest 
as well as "a piece of the action!" 
The size of the equity posi-
tion demanded by lenders, together with changes in tax treatment, 
have led some developers to postpone construction until financing 
conditions may be more favorable. 

157 
2/6/70 
-4-
There was no significant discussion of this topic. 
C. What are the Council's views regarding the outlook 
for corporate profits? How do developments in 
this area seem likely to affect capital spending 
plans ? 
The Council believes that corporate profits will continue 
to decline, with after-tax profits down perhaps as much as 10 to 
15 per cent year to year, and 15 to 25 per cent from the peak last 
year. This will reflect the coincidence of a number of develop-
ments inc luding the following: 
(1) A rise in fixed costs, because of the present 
high level of capital investment, at a time 
when output is leveling out or declining and 
unused capacity increasing; 
(2) The inability, because of declining product 
demand, to increase prices sufficiently to 
cover rising costs of labor and material. 
In these circumstances, businessmen are likely to moderate 
their capital spending plans. 
By extending their outlays over longer 
periods of time, the rise in total spending is likely to be less than 
now projected. 
There was a general view within the Council, as mentioned earlier, 
that capital expenditures in 1970 were likely to be substantial in the 
first half, principally because of the need to complete projects under 
way. However, there was believed to be an increasing tendency for corpo-
rations to review critically budgeted expenditures for projects still in 
the planning stage, and to sort out facilities that were not urgently 
needed. Some substantial cutbacks had already been made that would 
affect the second half of 1970. Some industries, such as utilities, 
of course had little choice. 

157 
2/6/70 
-5-
There had been some tendency to move ahead with new plant and 
equipment expenditures on the assumption 
that costs would continue to 
rise, but a change in attitude could be expected, on the basis of past 
experience, in the face of a decline in earnings. 
The decline in product demand was resulting in inventory problems 
in various lines. The automobile industry was seeking to reduce inven-
tories through offering a variety of sales incentives, most of which 
essentially involved price cuts. 
Increasing labor costs were spurring capital expenditures in 
cases where corporations hoped to reduce their need for labor by construc-
ting new plant, modernizing present facilities, or purchasing new equipment. 
Yet it appeared to the Council that for the year as a whole capital 
expenditures would be perhaps 3 to 5 per cent less than the level being 
talked about at present. 
D. How would the Council assess the present 
outlook for labor-management wage contract nego-
tiations? Is there evidence of easing in labor 
markets, and is there any prospect that this 
could significantly modify the size and charac-
ter of agreements reached this year? 
The present outlook for labor-management wage contract 
negotiations is not encouraging. 
There is little evidence as yet 
of easing in labor markets and little immediate prospect of any 
downward revision in the size or character of demands. 
However, 
a decline in profits and narrowing margins will probably strengthen 
management negotiators to resist high wage demands. This suggests 
a rise in the number and length of strikes in the year ahead. A 
reduced demand for labor as the economy slows should ultimately 
bring about some easing in labor markets. 

157 
2/6/70 
-6-
Comments to the effect that wage contracts had to take into 
account cost-of-living increases over a past period were followed by 
the observation that some contracts contained increases well in excess 
of the cost-of-living catch-up factor. 
The fact that greater alarm was 
not being expressed regarding the size of wage increases was in itself 
a reflection of the degree of deterioration of expectations about price 
stability. 
The view was expressed that if inflation was to be brought 
under control, profits would have to suffer more than they had so far. 
Lower productivity per labor unit, while probably in part a 
reflection of the fact that a low unemployment rate had necessitated 
the hiring of workers who were only marginally productive, still was 
discouraging by any reasonably valid norms. 
There was also an excep-
tionally high rate of worker turnover in many industries, including 
the banking industry. 
E. 
How do Council members assess the current 
state of inflationary attitudes and expec-
tations? 
Do these differ markedly as 
among businessmen, labor leaders, consumers, 
and investors? 
In general, inflationary attitudes have not changed signifi-
cantly in recent weeks and the expectation of continued rising prices 
persists. 
Moreover, these do not appear to us to differ markedly 
between businessmen, labor leaders, consumers, and investors. 
How-
ever, the consumer's concern about the uncertainty of the future 
has persuaded him to exercise restraints in his buying and 
borrowing despite the continuance of inflationary expectations. 

157 
2/6/70 
-7-
Corisumer uncertainty appeared to be a key factor. 
Even though 
prices were expected to continue to rise, the consumer was becoming 
concerned that if he did not continue to have a job, or at least over-
time pay, his personal savings might not be sufficient to complete 
payment for major purchases. 
In response to an inquiry whether any movement was seen on the 
part of trust departments to shift from stocks to bonds, one member of 
the Council answered in the negative, another reported some tendency 
in that direction because of the yield differentials, and a third indi-
cated that the attitude of trust men was mixed according to their age, 
the older ones being more receptive to the idea. 
F. 
(1) If such attitudes are regarded as still 
undesirably strong, what further actions, if 
any, in the field of public policy do the 
members believe should be considered in order 
to deal more effectively with inflationary 
sentiment and its consequences? 
Several members of the Council reported that a small but 
increasing number of businessmen favor some type of wage and price 
controls. 
However, the Council was unanimous in its opposition 
to wage and price controls, and all but one member of the Council 
are opposed even to wage and price guidelines. 
The Council strongly 
favors a restrictive fiscal policy as would be evidenced by an 
adequate budget surplus. 
President Nason commented that, with full realization of the 
difficulty of putting a Federal budget together, the Council members 
were disappointed that the predicted budget surplus was only $1.3 
billion. 
There ensued a discussion of the rationale of the budget 

157 
2/6/70 
-8-
during which the possibility was mentioned that a larger projected 
surplus might have fostered an attitude of less restraint in Government 
spending. 
Nevertheless, the thin surplus of $1.3 billion obviously 
could vanish quickly in some circumstances. 
Governor Robertson said he gathered the Council believed that 
the combination of fiscal restraint as presently envisaged, plus mon-
etary policy, was adequate to combat inflation without price and wage 
controls, even though at present there seemed to be little dampening 
of inflationary expectations. 
Mr. Conn, the one member of the Council with some inclination 
to the contrary, made clear that he did not like wage and price controls, 
which were admittedly very difficult to administer. 
However, further 
monetary restraint would lead to severe economic distortions and a reces-
sion that involved a high unemployment rate would not be politically 
acceptable. 
Although classically the remedy for inflation had been 
monetary controls accompanied by fiscal responsibility, in the present 
situation even a moderate further monetary tightening, when only a modest 
budget surplus seemed possible, might not control inflation yet produce 
an unpalatable recession. 
In this war and cost-push economy, when major 
strikes were expected because unions did not see any signs that prices 
would stabilize, it did not seem credible that present policies would 
control inflation. 
Therefore, it seemed advisable at least to consider 
alternatives, one of which would be wage and price guidelines. 
The 

157 
2/6/70 
-9-
President might be able to accomplish something through moral suasion 
by making it clear that prices and wages must be stabilized and that 
if present programs did not work, others must be tried. 
As matters 
now stood, outside of the barely-balanced budget, the burden of combat-
ing inflation fell on monetary policy and thus on the banking system. 
Chairman Burns, in response to President Nason's suggestion that 
the Council would be interested in his views regarding wage and price 
guidelines, pointed to the example given to the country in the President's 
proposal that mid-1970 salary increases scheduled for civil servants be 
postponed for six months. 
He drew contrasts between the moderately 
effective use of guidelines in the past and considerations that made it 
seem doubtful that they could be used effectively in the present environ-
ment. 
However, he did not like to take ideological or dogmatic positions, 
and he had some sympathy with Mr. Conn's remark to the effect that if one 
tool did not accomplish the desired result, another should be sought. 
(2) Are there any actions that the banking 
industry could take that would be helpful in 
dealing with this problem? 
The banking industry has been a major tool used in the 
Federal Reserve's fight against inflation, and banks should ad-
here strictly to self-imposed credit policies restricting loans 
to essential purposes. 
Response to a question whether banks had in fact been granting 
only essential loans indicated that more and more of the major banks, at 
least, had moved in that direction in the course of 1969, if not by choice 

157 
2/6/70 
-10-
then out of liquidity considerations. 
Questions regarding the use and advertising of credit cards 
elicited comments that the dollar volume of credit card business was 
very small in relation to the total banking picture. 
It was urged that 
credit card business had not contributed importantly to inflationary 
pressures, that there seemed to be a demonstrated relationship between 
the volume of outstanding credit and the decline in other types of 
consumer credit. 
Chairman Burns noted that there was nevertheless some psycholog-
ical significance. 
A large volume of correspondence was being received 
in Washington charging that banks, by urging people to expand their 
credit through the use of cards,, were undermining the Government's 
efforts to control inflation. 
2. 
Financial developments. 
A. What is the Council's assessment of the probable 
strength of business loan demand in the first 
half of 1970? How has loan demand during the 
fall and winter differed from prior expectations? 
Although there are differences between districts and between 
banks in their assessment of the probable strength of business loan 
demand in the first half of 1970, the overall prospect now is for a 
continuing strong loan demand. 
As to whether loan demand during the 
fall and winter differed from prior expectations, the reports also 
are mixed, although in general totals were probably about equal to 
expectations. 
Mr. Meyer's comment that loan demand at New York City banks since 
the first of the year appeared to have been surprisingly modest was the 
principal exception to reports by other members of the Council that demand 

157 
2/6/70 
-11-
in January had been unusually strong, especially since a degree of 
weakness was more typical in that month. 
Many loans were being 
requested for the purpose of providing working capital, and the demands 
were broadly based across industry lines. 
It was felt that there was 
also a substantial latent demand from customers who were not applying 
for loans now because they did not believe credit would be available. 
Some loans were being made to tide Over utilities until they could go 
to the market, but many utilities were availing themselves of the commer-
cial paper market. 
B. 
How do Council members appraise the current 
liquidity position of the banking system? 
How do members regard the liquidity position 
of nonbank savings intermediaries? 
Are many 
of the latter coming to commercial banks for 
loans to assist in meeting their cash needs? 
The liquidity position of the banking system is substantially 
lower than it was a year ago and is a matter of deep concern. 
The 
money center banks have been able to obtain funds at high cost from 
non-deposit sources. 
However, even the ability to purchase Federal 
funds has not prevented liquidity from reaching unduly low levels in 
the money center banks. 
The liquidity of many of the country banks 
has been maintained because of the attractiveness of the Federal 
funds market. 
In a sense, the response of the banking system to a 
persistently restrictive monetary policy has resulted in an increas-
ingly efficient use of the resources of the system. 
Despite the disintermediation that has occurred and continues 
at nonbank savings institutions, the decline in liquidity, while 
troublesome, probably has not reached critical levels. 
In the case 
of the S and L's, this reflects in large measure 
the more generous 
credit policy of the FHLB. There are reports that thrift institutions 
in some areas have come to commercial banks for loans to assist in 
meeting their cash needs. 

157 
2/6/70 
-12-
Discussion brought out that outstanding lines of credit were a 
matter of some concern, since the totals were generally so high that 
concentrated drawings could cause real problems. 
Many corporations, 
having experienced difficulties in obtaining credit during the 1966 
crunch, had endeavored to insure themselves against a recurrence of 
such problems by increasing their credit lines. 
Although in many cases 
the line thus obtained was higher than the corporation intended to use, 
the percentage rate of usage of credit lines was significantly higher 
in most Districts than in 1966. 
However, some corporate customers had 
turned to the commercial paper market, especially if money could be 
obtained there at a favorable rate. 
C. 
How does the Council view the advertising and 
merchandising by some banks of small-denomination 
longer-term subordinated debentures to the general 
public? 
Is this potentially a sizable source of 
funds, and are there any dangers to issuing banks, 
the banking system, or the public? 
There are varying opinions on the merchandising to the general 
public by some banks of small-denomination longer-term subordinated 
debentures. 
Some bankers consider it a commendable effort to attract 
small savings in view of the unrealistic interest rate ceilings on 
deposits. 
Other bankers believe that these debentures will simply 
siphon funds from present deposits and that the purchaser may not 
understand that his funds are tied up for a long period. 
Although most of the members of the Council did not expect that 
the issuance of such small denomination obligations would assume trouble-
some proportions, several were somewhat concerned that the practice might 
result in a bad public image for the banking industry. 
The investor might 

157 
2/6/70 
-13-
th ink he was depositing his funds, whereas he was actually purchasing 
an instrument for which there was no secondary market. 
Even if disclo-
sure requirements were imposed, it seemed likely that many purchasers 
would disregard the printed explanation, because they were attracted 
mainly by the rate of return. 
These dangers of poor public relations 
argued basically for relief from Regulation Q ceilings; if a bank could 
maintain its liquidity through selling CD's, it would not have to resort 
to practices such as the one in question. 
Members of the Council confirmed that they regarded the issuance 
of the small-denomination obligations more as a method of attracting 
savings rather than of raising capital. 
It was hoped that the super-
visory rules would not be changed in such a way as to damage the ability 
of banks to raise capital legitimately through issuing notes, typically 
in larger denominations and for longer maturities. 
3. 
Balance of payments. 
What is the Council's judgment as to the outlook 
in 1970 for the U.S. balance of payments? 
On 
current account? 
On capital account? 
What 
further official actions, if any, do the members 
believe should be considered in the interests of 
improving the balance of payments? 
The outlook for the balance of payments of the United States 
for 1970 appears to be for another large deficit, but for some improve-
ment as compared with 1969. 
Any improvement on current account will 
probably have to come from a larger trade surplus and reduce military 
expenditures abroad. 
In both cases, there is reason to hope for some 
improvement but little chance of dramatic gain. 
The members of the 
Council feel that only appropriate monetary and fiscal policies will 
bring any lasting and meaningful improvement in the balance of payments 
and do not recommend any further "special" actions to contain or reduce 
the balance of payments deficit. 

157 
2/6/70 
-14-
Th e members of the Council believe it would be advisable 
gradually to ease the present foreign credit restraint program as 
soon as this can be reasonably done. 
The Council also believes 
that it would be desirable to consider ways of encouraging foreign 
investment in the United States. 
In a discussion of short-run prospects and the use of Euro-dollars, 
members of the Council noted that it had been necessary to resort to 
Euro-dollars, among other sources of funds, to replace CD run-offs. 
Their banks would be reluctant to reduce holdings of Euro-dollars below 
their reserve-free base unless there appeared to be a clear path ahead 
to obtain funds through CD's. 
Governor Robertson observed that it did not seem possible to 
tolerate a large balance of payments deficit year after year. 
If present 
restraints were lifted, alternatives apparently were necessary, since it 
did not seem realistic to believe that the deficit could be erased solely 
by building up exports. 
Members of the Council indicated that they were 
not able to offer constructive suggestions at this time. 
4. What are the Council's views on monetary and credit 
policy under current circumstances? 
Because of the importance the Council attaches to easing the 
upward pressure on prices and arresting inflationary expectations, 
it has strongly supported a restrictive monetary and credit policy. 
However, the time is near when some modest growth in the monetary 
base and consequent expansion in bank credit would be desirable. 
Monetary restraint probably has gone as far as it should and 
the emphasis now should be strongly on fiscal policy to lessen infla-
tionary pressures. 
Members of the Council indicated that by "monetary base" they had 
referred to the money supply in a broad sense, and that they were really 

157 
2/6/70 
-15-
advocating moderate bank credit expansion. 
5. 
The Board would be interested in the Council's views 
regarding the following regulatory matters: 
1. The Board's action of January 20, 1970, to 
. increase maximum rates of interest payable 
by member banks on time and savings deposits. 
Although some bankers felt that the increase in the 
maximum rates on consumer type savings merely added to interest 
expense while not adding to deposits, the members of the Council 
concur in the Board's action as a step in the right direction. 
The new higher rates may not enable banks to make net additions 
to their savings and time deposits but they constitute a defensive 
move that may in time modify the rate of disintermediation that 
has been occurring. 
Moreover, to the extent that higher interest 
rates may stimulate savings and thus moderate demand, the attack 
on inflation will be strengthened. 
In response to a question whether the increased rate on one and 
two-year maturities was proving useful, comment was made that it was too 
early to tell. 
However, the permissible rate was still not competitive. 
More generally, there was some sentiment, especially among bankers in 
the larger centers, that the Board's action was too little and too late, 
because funds that had already left the banking system could not be 
recovered as long as banks could not offer competitive rates. 
2. The proposal of the same date to apply a 
ten per cent reserve requirement on funds 
obtained by member banks through the 
issuance of commercial paper by bank 
affiliates, including a parent holding company; 
and the proposal of October 29, 1969, on which 
action has been withheld, to apply the rules 
governing the payment of interest on deposits 
to such funds. 

157 
2/6/70 
-16-
3. 
The Board's determination of October 29, 1969, 
regarding the applicability of the rules 
governing payment of interest to commercial 
paper issued by bank subsidiaries, the 
effective date of which has been deferred 
to February 26, 1970. 
Items 2 and 3 are so closely related that they will be 
considered together. 
All members of the Council are opposed to the application 
of a reserve requirement on the, issuance of commercial paper by 
bank affiliates, bank subsidiaries, and parent holding companies. 
If, contrary to the above views, reserve requirements are applied, 
the same requirements should apply to bank affiliates, bank sub-
sidiaries, and parent holding companies. 
If, contrary to the views of the Council, a reserve require-
ment is applied, it should be the time deposit rate, and it should 
not be applicable to commercial paper presently outstanding. 
The long-run effect of a reserve requirement on commercial 
paper is to penalize those borrowers who must rely solely on banks 
for credit accommodation as against those who have direct access to 
the commercial paper market. 
The Council strongly opposes the application of Regulation Q 
to commercial paper issued by bank affiliates, bank subsidiaries, and 
parent holding companies. 
Members of the Council said they objected to the proposed actions 
as being discriminatory and inequitable, both to banks and their customers, 
If,for example, a bank could not obtain money to lend, its large corporate 
customers could go to the commercial paper market directly, whereas 
medium and small-sized customers did not have such access and therefore 
would be hurt. 

4 6 4 
2/6/70 
-17-
President Nason stated that at its meeting yesterday the Council 
had discussed the uses made of the memorandum containing the Council's 
comments on the topics suggested for consideration. 
It appeared that 
practices varied s.omewhat from District to District, and it seemed 
desirable that a more uniform policy be followed. 
It was suggested that a degree of confidentiality should be 
maintained sufficient to insure that the Board obtained the benefit of 
the candid views of the Council. Among other things, it was noted that 
under a current procedure, to which the Council — as then composed--had 
agreed, copies of the statement were sent by the Board to Reserve Bank 
directors requesting them. Several members of the Council described 
their own use of the statement, including the extent, if any, to which 
they made the substance thereof available to bankers whom they consulted 
in bringing together opinions. 
At the conclusion of the discussion there was agreement that 
copies of the memorandum should be sent by the Board only to the Chair-
man and President of each Federal Reserve Bank, with indication that 
because of its confidential character the statement should be used with 
discretion. 

465 
2/6/70 
-18-
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Council would be 
held on April 3 0 - May 1, 1970. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
