Minutes for 
January 15, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

1H2 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, January 15, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Egertson and Lyon, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Duerson and Messrs. Doyle and Noble of 
the Legal Division 
Messrs. Hanweck, Lawrence, and Schweitzer of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Miss Greene and Messrs. Burton, Rumbarger, 
and Sanford of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs 
Mrs 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller 
°f the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 

u 
1/15/69 
-2-
merger of Canal National Bank, Portland, Maine, with Middle Street 
National Bank, also of Portland, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion stated that consummation 
of the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
There had been distributed a draft of report to the Comp-
troller of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the 
Proposed purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of National 
City Bank in Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, by The Manufacturers National 
Bank of Chicago. The conclusion stated that the proposed transaction 
would eliminate a small amount of competition and that the overall 
competitive effect would be slightly adverse. 
In the light of questions raised by members of the Board 
regarding the loan and deposit structure of National City Bank in 
Chicago and the effect of elimination of that bank from the community 
it served, it was agreed that the staff would study the matter further, 
after which the Board would again consider the report. 
Application of Bank Securities, Inc. (Items 1 and 2). 
There 
had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's approval on December 31, 1968, of the application of Bank 
Securities, Inc. (NSL), Alamogordo, New Mexico, to become a bank 
hold ing company through the acquisition of a substantial majority of 
the shares of Security Bank and Trust, Alamogordo, New Mexico, and 
Citizens State Bank, Vaughn, New Mexico. 

164 
1/15/69 
-9-
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
of the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are attached 
as Items 1 and 2. 
Application of Exchange Bancorporation. A memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated December 31, 1968, and other 
pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an application 
by 
Exchange Bancorporation, Inc., Tampa, Florida, to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of The Exchange National Bank of Tampa, Tampa, Florida; 
The Exchange Bank of Temple Terrace, Temple Terrace, Florida; and Exchange 
National Bank of Winter Haven, Winter Haven, Florida; and 60 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of Gulf-to-Bay Bank and Trust Company, 
Clea 
rwater, Florida. The Division recommended approval. 
Following comments by Mr. Lyon the application was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that an order and statement reflecting 
this decision would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Application of Barnett National Securities Corporation. 
There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated January 6, 1969, from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation, with other pertinent papers, 
regarding the application of Barnett National Securities Corporation, 
Jacksonville, Florida, for permission to acquire 80 per cent or more 
of the voting shares of The Tallahassee Bank and Trust Company, Tallahassee, 
Florida. The Division's recommendation was favorable. 

165 
1/15/69 
-9-
Mr. Burton summarized the background facts, after which he 
responded to questions by Governor Mitchell regarding the signifi-
cance of correspondent balances in the deposit structure of the 
Tallahassee bank and the likelihood of passage of par clearance 
legislation in southeastern States. 
All members of the Board then expressed themselves in favor 
°f the application, although Governor Mitchell noted that he had 
some uneasiness about it. Governor Daane commented that, although 
he would be willing to go along with approval, he did not think 
there was a great deal of weight in that direction. 
The application was thereupon approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that an order and statement reflecting this decision 
would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Time involved in processing applications. 
There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated December 30, 1968, from the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation regarding the exploration, pursuant 
to comments during Board discussion of the Division's budget, of 
Possible ways to shorten the time for processing merger, holding 
company, and foreign operations applications at both the Division and 
the Reserve Bank levels. 
The Division was preparing a letter that would standardize 
certain procedures at the Reserve Banks in the interest of reducing 
Processing time. 
It had negotiated with several Reserve Banks that 

liiti 
1/15/69 
-5-
had experienced difficulty in processing applications in the month's 
time suggested as a general maximum in the Board's letter of May 26, 
1967. There seemed reasonable expectation of improvement at those 
Reserve Banks except for Kansas City. 
In particular, that Bank was 
finding difficulty in completing its memoranda with respect to two 
applications filed in October 1968. The Division believed information 
could be drawn from the applications themselves as a basis for decision 
by the Board if it was desired to proceed without awaiting the Reserve 
Bank's submission. 
The memorandum also outlined the status of various groups of 
applications now in process within the Division, along with plans for 
maintaining tighter time control and recruiting of additional staff. 
Mr. Solomon commented on the memorandum and requested guidance 
on whether the two Tenth District applications mentioned in the memo-
randum should be submitted to the Board without awaiting the Kansas 
City Reserve Bank's documentation, which apparently would not be 
available for an additional two or three weeks. 
In response to questions as to why such a delay should be 
necessary if the applications were relatively simple, it was brought 
out that the Kansas City Bank had had difficulty in maintaining staff 
that was knowledgeable in such matters. An additional element had been 
the necessity to choose between completing the regular examination 
schedule and processing applications. 

167 
1/15/69 
-9-
Governor Sherrill noted that he had worked with the Division 
on the general problem, as the Board had requested. Since it did not 
appear that the Kansas City Bank would be able to increase its staff 
measurably in the near future, he was inclined to favor giving priority 
to applications at the expense of some risk to the examination schedule. 
Governor Robertson said that he had provided names of several 
Possible appointees to President Clay, who was arranging for the Bank 
to interview them. Governor Robertson did not think the Board should 
act on applications, including the two in question, without having 
the memoranda containing the Reserve Bank's conclusions, even though 
some additional delay might be involved. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that, upon receipt of an application, 
it might be possible for the staff to review it promptly in sufficient 
depth to judge its complexity, and then confer with the Reserve Bank 
regarding the time that would seem reasonable for processing. While 
he was in favor of expediting, he thought the effort should be related 
to the complexity of particular applications, and he disliked to exert 
so much pressure that inferior reports from the Reserve Banks might 
result. With respect to the two applications in question, he agreed 
with Governor Robertson that the Board should await the Reserve Bank's 
reports. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that perhaps the Board 
should suggest more interchange of personnel among the Reserve Banks. 

1/15/69 
-7-
Some Reserve Banks apparently did not have as much difficulty as the 
Kansas City Bank appeared to be having in obtaining qualified staff. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the expeditious han-
dling of applications, and maintaining the staff necessary to that end, 
should be the fundamental responsibility of the Reserve Bank President, 
and that this responsibility should be emphasized. 
Governor Sherrill remarked that the growth in the volume of 
applications had not been anticipated. This created a problem not 
only at Reserve Banks but also at the Board. The need might be covered 
temporarily by shifts of resources, but basically it would be necessary 
plan on expansion of staff. 
A number of peripheral problems were then touched upon, 
including the handling of applications involving more than one Federal 
Reserve District and the need to reduce the quantity and improve the 
quality of documentation as the caseload rose. 
Chairman Martin observed during the discussion that the American 
Bankers Association had written to the Board regarding the work of its 
Monetary and Payments System Committee, which was to study and plan 
"for those changes in the nation's payments system that are foreseen 
to be most desirable in the interest of the public and sound commercial 
banking." 
The Association had invited a member of the Board to attend 
future meetings of the Committee as an observer, and there was agreement 
with Chairman Martin's suggestion that Governor Sherrill be designated. 

1/15/69 
-7-
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
Governor Sherrill would continue to work with the staff on the 
processing of applications and related problems. 
Municipal "warrants" as collateral (Item No. 3). There had 
been distributed a memorandum dated January 10, 1969, from the Legal 
Division referring to the Board's tentative adoption, on December 18, 
1968, of a revision of the fourth paragraph of its November 1968 
ruling relating to the eligibility of municipal "warrants" as collateral 
for advances to member banks. That paragraph, in the original ruling, 
Provided that to be eligible as collateral such warrants must meet the 
requirements of Regulation E (Purchase of Warrants) governing eligibility 
for purchase by Reserve Banks. The tentative revision, designed to 
eliminate the necessity of complying with Regulation E, had been sub-
mitted to the Reserve Banks for comment. Six Banks had expressed the 
view that the tentative revision appeared satisfactory. However, in 
the light of comments from the other Reserve Banks (copies of whose 
letters were attached) a new version of the paragraph on warrants was 
set forth in the memorandum for the Board's consideration. 
After discussion, the new version of the paragraph was approved 
unanimously. A copy of the notice sent to the Federal Register pursuant 
to this action is attached as Item No. 3. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Kenyon, and Johnson. 

170 
1/15/69 
-9-
Merit salary increases. A question in connection with the 
Board's program of merit salary increases, as it related to the 
Board members' offices, was presented by Governor Sherrill, with 
suggestions as to how it might be handled. Views were expressed, 
and it was understood that Governor Sherrill would decide the question 
in the light thereof. 
Dallas salary structure (Item No. 4). Unanimous approval 
was given to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas approving 
a special maximum of $22,000 for Grade 16 of the nonofficer salary 
structure of the Bank. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

171 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
Item No. 1 
1/15/69 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
the Matter of the Application of 
JJANK SECURITIES, INC. (NSL), 
Alamogordo, New Mexico, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
Riding company through the acquisition 
* 91.47 per cent or more of the voting 
®nares of Security Bank and Trust, 
Alamogordo, New Mexico, and 74.59 per 
ent or more of the voting shares of 
Citiz ens State Bank, Vaughn, New Mexico, 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1 8 4 2 ( a ) ( 1 ) ) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Bank Securities, Inc. (NSL), 
Al 
amogordo, New Mexico, for the Board's prior approval of action 
h e r e b y Applicant, which presently owns a majority of the voting 
8 h a r e s of The First State Bank, Cuba, New Mexico, would become a 
holding company through the acquisition of 91.47 per cent or 
°re of the voting shares of Security Bank and Trust, Alamogordo, 
w Mexico, and 74.59 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Citi zens State Bank, Vaughn, New Mexico. 

172 
-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the A c t , the Board notified 
the New Mexico Commissioner of Banking of receipt of the application 
a n d requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner responded 
that he had no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 10, 1968 (33 Federal Register 9920), which 
Provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the appli-
c ation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for 
i t s consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
^tended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
^
allas pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 15th day of January, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Martin. 
(Signed) 
Robert P . Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

173 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 2 
1/15/69 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
BANK SECURITIES, INC. (NSL), 
ALAMOGORDO, NEW MEXICO, TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Bank Securities, Inc. (NSL), Alamogordo, New Mexico 
("Applicant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) 
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval 
°f action to become a bank holding company. Applicant, which presently 
0 v m s a majority of the voting shares of The First State Bank, Cuba, 
New Mexico ("First Bank"), would become a bank holding company through 
acquisition of 91.47 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
n 
ecurity Bank and Trust, Alamogordo, New Mexico ("Security Bank"), 
a n c* 74.59 per cent or more of the voting shares of Citizens State 
B a n k , Vaughn, New Mexico ("Citizens Bank"). 
Through First Bank, Applicant presently controls three 
b a t*king offices and total deposits of $3.8 million."" 
Security Bank 
A** J 
Citizens Bank, each of which has three offices, have total deposits 
o f $15.4 million and $6.5 million, respectively. 
A 1 1 banking data are as of June 29, 1960, unless otherwise noted. 

-2-
174 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority, - As 
r equired by section 3(b) of the A c t , notice of receipt of the appli-
c ation was given to, and views and recommendation requested of, the 
New Mexico Commissioner of Banking, The Commissioner responded that 
had no objection to approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
t o monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
a n y part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
Substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
°
r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
a y, 
e Clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to K 
be served. 
In each case the Board is required to take into consider-
a tion the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
i 
needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The three banks 
whlch would comprise Applicant's system are presently affiliated through 
C o imnon ownership and top-level management. The Bonnell family, which 
hag „ . 
d long history in the banking industry in New Mexico, founded the 

175 
-3-
Security Bank in 1912, and in 1961 acquired control of Citizens Bank. 
1967, family members organized Applicant, which acquired control 
o f First Bank early in 1968. Management of the three banks is headed 
ty T. A . Bonnell, President of Applicant, and his brother, Kenneth 
Bonnell. 
Consummation of Applicant's proposal would result in Appli-
C a n t ' s becoming the seventh largest banking organization in the State 
°f New Mexico. The $25.7 million aggregate deposits held by its 
Present and proposed subsidiaries represent 2.2 per cent of the total 
d ePosits held by banks in the State. 
The head offices of Security Bank and Citizens Bank are 
located about 140 miles apart, while First Bank's head office is 
located about 190 miles from the head office of Citizens Bank and 
0 miles from the head office of Security Bank. The shortest dis-
tance between branch offices of any two of the subject banks is 
4 5 - i 
y 
m i l e s . 
The three banks are located in different counties and, 
Ut*der State law, each is precluded from branching into the head office 
c°unty of the other two. Virtually no competition exists among the 
t^ree banks, and, in view of the distances which separate them and 
th 
e restrictions on branching, there is little probability that such 
2/ 
J 
Applicant has indicated that Citizens Bank has requested from its 
^Pervisory authority permission to move its main office from Vaughn 
^ Carrizozo, the present location of one of its branches, which is 
miles from the Tularoosa branch of Security Bank. The Board has 
^onsidered the present proposal in the light of that possible develop-
and concludes that the essential findings herein would not be 

-3-
176 
competition would exist or develop, even in the absence of the earlier-
ascribed close relationship among them. For the same reasons, it does 
n°t appear that consummation of the present proposal would eliminate 
listing or potential competition. 
Each of the offices of the present and proposed subsidiary 
banks serves principally the town in which it is located and the 
immediately surrounding area. Competition is, in most cases, limited 
by the small number of banks proximately located to such areas. 
The 
®ain office of First Bank, the only bank located in Sandoval County, 
h a s no direct competition; its two branches, however, are located 
ncar Albuquerque, and compete with large banks located in that city. 
Citizens Bank's three offices, only one has a competing bank 
located within the area which it serves; its main office and its 
branch at Carrizozo are each located over 35 miles from the nearest 
°ffice of a competing bank. Security Bank competes with one other bank 
($10.4 million deposits) in Alamogordo. It does not appear that consum-
p t i o n of the acquisitions proposed would impair the viability or 
competitive 
effectiveness of any competing bank. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that the 
Proposed action will not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of 
ariy combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the business of 
banking in any relevant area, and will not substantially lessen 
ccmpetition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any 
Action of the country. 

17 
-2-
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant is in generally satisfactory financial condition, with 
experienced management and favorable prospects. Acquisition of First 
Bank by Applicant solved a considerable management problem at that bank, 
vhich had several years of operational difficulties immediately preced-
*
ng the acquisition. Since acquiring control of First Bank, Applicant 
^as initiated a number of corrective measures which have resulted in 
significant improvements in the condition of the bank, and has increased 
Ls capital accounts. Applicant also proposes to provide additional 
C aPital to Security Bank upon its acquisition. Based on recent expe-
dience of the banks and the proposals of Applicant for further improve-
ments, the financial condition of each of the three banks is regarded 
a s reasonably satisfactory; management of each appears capable, and 
fchelr prospects are favorable. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors lend significant 
V eiGht toward approval of the present application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking services offered in the communities served by the present and 
Proposed subsidiary banks appear sufficient to serve customer needs. 
APPlicant proposes that customers of Citizens Bank and First Bank will 
offered trust services, which are not presently available, through 
^ e facilities of Security Bank. It is also asserted that consummation 
the proposed acquisitions will permit more efficient use of personnel 

178 
-6-
among the three banks, and that automated bookkeeping services nbw 
. 
. . . . 
handled by Security Bank will be assumed by Applicant and offered to 
First Bank and Citizens Bank as the need arises. 
All of the foregoing benefits asserted by Applicant are or 
could be made available under the present affiliation existing among 
three banks. The transfer of control to a single corporate entity, 
however, should provide somewhat more efficient and economical opera-
tions, and that consideration lends slight weight toward approval of 
t h e application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
c°ntained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
S eotion 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
s hould be approved. 
January 15, 1969. 

179 
Item No. 3 
1/15/69 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE- FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg* A] 
PART 201 - ADVANCES AND DISCOUNTS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Obligations Eligible as Collateral for Advances 
Section 201.108(d) is hereby revised to read as follows: 
(d) Also eligible for purchase under section 14(b) are 
"bills, notes, revenue bonds, and warrants with a maturity from 
date of purchase of not exceeding six months, issued in antici-
pation of the collection of taxes or in anticipation of the 
receipt of assured revenues by any State, county, district, 
political subdivision, or municipality in the continental 
United States, including irrigation, drainage and reclamation 
districts*"— 
In determining the eligibility of such obliga-
tions as collateral for advances, compliance with the 
requirements of Regulation E is not necessary; but the Reserve 
Bank will satisfy itself that sufficient tax or other assured 
revenues earmarked for payment of such obligations will be 
available for that purpose at maturity, or within six months 
1/ Paragraph 3 of section 1 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 
221) defines "the continental United States" to mean "the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia", thus including 
Alaska and Hawaii* 

• * * 
*: 
v. * * 
from the date of the advance if no maturity is stated. 
f. 
• 
• 
- - 
- 
- 
- 
- . - 
• 
Payments due from Federal, State or other governmental units 
may, in the Reserve Bank's discretion, be regarded as "other 
assured revenues"; but neither the proceeds of a prospective 
m 
~ V-V ' .. 
V 
\V< mV 
m 
; Vi b 
, ,0 _ , 
• Si 
issue of securities nor future tolls, rents or similar col-
> . 
lections for the voluntary use of government property for 
•
v 
1 i 
• 
non-governmental purposes will normally be so regarded. 
Obligations with original maturities exceeding one year 
would not ordinarily be self-liquidating as contemplated by 
the statute, unless at the time of issue provision is made 
for a redemption or sinking fund that will be sufficient to 
pay such obligations at maturity. 
•0't 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 347) 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 15th day of January, 1969 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m N o. 4 
• F T H E 
1/15/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
. 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 17, 1969. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
M r . Philip E . Coldwell, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Dear M r . Coldwell: 
In accordance with your verbal request, the 
Board of Governors approves a special maximum of $22,000 
for Grade 16 of the nonofficial salary structure of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, effective January 15, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
