MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 13, 1969 

3D«9 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, October 13, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott and Mr. Grajcar, of the Office 
of the Secretary 
Messrs. Axilrod, Gramley, Williams, Keir, Eckert, 
Weiner, Baker, Burns, Ettin, Fry, Kelty, 
Kichline, Struble, and Wendel of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Ghiardi, Hersey, Norwood, Wood, Pizer, 
Bradshaw, and Stem of the Division of 
International Finance 
Money market review. The staff presented the usual weekly 
review, including today reports by Mr. Baker on the Government securities 
n^rket, by Mr. Fry on bank credit developments, and by Mr. Stem on 
foreign exchange market developments. Copies of the several charts 
a
nd tables distributed in connection with the review have been placed 
i n
 the Board's files. 

3100 
10/13/69 
-2-
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions other than Messrs. Partee and Norwood withdrew from 
the meeting, as did Mr. Broida, and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Messrs. Marinaccio and Noble of the Legal Division 
Mr. Ducy of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Cloth and Goodfellow of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Watt of the Division of Data Processing 
Ratification of actions. Actions taken at the meeting of the 
available members of the Board on October 9, 1969, as recorded in the 
minutes of that meeting, were ratified by unanimous vote. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on October 4, by the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f Boston on October 6, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, 
Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas on 
October 9, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in their exist-
ing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
a
PPropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Applications for Nassau branches (Items 1 and 2). Letters to 
North Carolina National Bank, Charlotte, North Carolina, and The Cleve-
land Trust Company, Cleveland, Ohio, respectively, granting permission 

3101 
10/13/69 
-3-
for the establishment of branches in Nassau, Bahamas, were approved, 
Governor Robertson dissenting. Copies of the letters are attached 
a s
 Items 1 and 2. 
Application of Exchange National Bank (Item No. 3). 
Unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to Exchange National Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois, granting permission to establish a branch in Tel Aviv, 
Israel. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Peoples National Bank of 
Sussex County, Sparta, New Jersey, into New Jersey Bank (National Associ-
ation), Clifton, New Jersey, was approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is little competition existing between Peoples 
National Bank of Sussex County, Sparta, and New Jersey 
Bank (National Association), Clifton, although there is 
some potential for increased competition between them. 
The overall competitive effect of the proposed transaction 
would be slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Millikin Trust Company, Decatur, Illinois, into The 
Millikin National Bank of Decatur was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The conclusion 
stated that the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The City National Bank and Trust Company of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri, with City Bank, National Association, also of 
Kansas City, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller 

O l t ; ^ 
10/13/69 
-4-
of the Currency, the conclusion stating that the proposed merger would 
have no adverse competitive effects. 
Application of Bank Securities, Inc. 
(Items 4 and 5). There 
had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's approval on October 2, 1969, of the application of Bank 
Securities, Inc. (NSL), Alamagordo, New Mexico, to acquire 77 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of American Bank of Carlsbad, Carlsbad, 
New Mexico. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents^ as issued, are attached as Items 4 and 5. 
Application of Shawmut Association, Inc. 
(Items 6 and 7). 
There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on September 18, 1969, of the application of 
i 
Shawmut Association, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts, to acquire up to 
100 per cent of the voting shares of First Bank and Trust Company of 
Hampden County, Springfield, Massachusetts. 
After discussion during which a minor change in the statement 
was agreed upon, the issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 6 and 7. 
Proposed amendment to Regulation T 
(Item No. 8). On July 14, 
1^69, the Board temporarily suspended the provisions of Regulation T 
(Credit by Brokers and Dealers) as they applied to certain insurance 
companies that had become subject to the regulation because they had 

10/13/69 
-5-
been required by the Securities and Exchange Commission to register 
as brokers/dealers in connection with their sales of variable annuities. 
The purpose of the suspension, which would expire on October 18, 1969, 
was to avoid alleged dislocation of normal lending activities of the 
companies while details could be worked out for a compromise under 
which the variable annuity activities would be subject to Regulation T, 
with credit extended in connection with conventional lending operations 
remaining subject to Regulation G (Securities Credit by Persons other 
than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers). 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated October 8, 
1969, from the Division of Supervision and Regulation submitting a 
draft notice of proposed rule making that would implement this compromise. 
The Division also recommended that if the proposal was published in the 
Federal Register for comment the suspension of the pertinent provisions 
of Regulation T be extended for six months or until an amendment was 
adopted, whichever occurred first. 
Following comments by Mr. Cloth, the publication of the proposed 
amendment in the Federal Register as a notice of proposed rule making 
was approved unanimously, as was the Division's recommendation with 
respect to the further suspension of the provisions of Regulation T. 
A copy of the notice is attached as Item No. 8. 
Boston Reserve Bank Conference. Governors Daane and Maisel 
reported briefly on the proceedings at the Conference on the International 

3104 
10/13/69 
-6-
Adjustment Mechanism sponsored by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
on October 8 through 10, 1969. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

M B 6 
o l u o 
BOARD • F GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
item No. l 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20!i51 
10/13/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 13, 1969 
North Carolina National Bank 
P. 0. Box 120, 
Charlotte, Norch Carolina. 
28201 
Gentlemen: 
e r f l n f
 
l h e 
: 3 o a r o 
o f
 Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
S
r f
S
i
P e n
'
1 1 S S i 0 n 
t 0 
N
°
r t h C a r o l i n a
 National Bank, Charlotte, 
Fedorn? P 
' A
p u r s u a n t 
t 0 
t h e
 P u l s i o n s of Section 25 of the 
' 
?
e S e r
7
 
t o
 establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and 
such
P
 
•
 a
 
T
X
T n
l
n 
S U C h 
b r a n c h 
s u b j e c t 
t o 
t h e
 provisions of 
such Section ard of Regulation M. 
k r 
, 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
ranch will be used for developing new international business and 
United e,TnS r
 
U
n
g 
l 0 a n S 
o r 
d e
P ^ i t s from offices in the 
United States 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact 
and h 
L
 
? U b l l C 
a t 
t h e 
b r a n c h
»
 
a n d 
t h a , : 
i t s
 Quarters, staff, 
and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract 
by another party. 
In view of the unusual character of this operation 
ne foregoing permission is granted subject to continuing special 
observation and review by the Board and after due notice may'be with-
c o n d i t i o n T h l ' t
 
T h G 
f
° r
8
°
i n 8
 
- also granted on the 
w i U he I ' f / 
,
G q U a t e 
l n f o r m a t i o n
 covering the branch's operations 
Board 
r
i n t a i U e d 
a t 
h
ead office and will be available to the 
P r o m l r
 
a <
^
r e d i t e d
 representatives. 
The Board should be 
" 
!
y
 informed of any modification in the branch's methods of 
peration, including changes in any contract under which services 
d
r e supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
s h a n T J" °
r b e f o r e
 November 1, 1970, all rights granted hereby 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
R e q 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Tho
G
R
V G B a n k
 °
f R i c h m o n d
>
 
w h e n 
t h e
 branch is opened for business. 
e Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
vocation of the branch in Nassau. 

3106 
North Carolina National Bank 
-2-
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits 
payable only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the 
States of the [Jni.ted States and the Districc of Columbia are exempt 
from any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 
and Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to the: reserve requirements of. Regulation D (but see Sec-
tion 213.7 of Regulation M). The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete 
abroad with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long 
been and continues to be the policy of the federal Reserve System 
to discourage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches 
of United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to 
serve a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or 
international transactions outside the United States. 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of 
foreign branches, funds provided by home of::ice (whether in the 
form of allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded 
as foreign assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
with the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance v.
7
ill be placed on resource:-, obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investments 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD • F GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE E^YSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
10/13/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N O E N 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 13, 1969 
The Cleveland Trust Company, 
Euclid at East Ninth Street, 
Cleveland, Ohi.o. 
44101 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to The Cleveland Trust Company, Cleveland, 
Ohio, pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and 
to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of 
such Sections and of Regulation M . 
The foregoing permission is 
granted subject to any necessary approval of the Ohio State Banking 
department. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. 
It is also understood that there is to be no con-
tact with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, 
staff, and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under 
contract by arother party. 
In view of the unusual character of 
this operation, the foregoing permission is granted subject to con-
tinuing special observation and review by the Board and after due 
notice may be withdrawn or modified. 
The foregoing permission is 
also granted on the condition that adequate information covering 
the branch
1
s operations will be maintained at your head office and 
will be available to the Board ana its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the 
branch's methods of operation, including changes in any contract 
under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before November 1, 1970, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland, when the branch is opened for business. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of "the branch in Nassau. 

The Cleveland Trust Company 
- 2 -
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits 
payable only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the 
States of the United States and the Distric t of Columbia are exemp : 
from any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 
and Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to th?. reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Sec-
tion 213.7 of Regulation M) . The general purpose of these examptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourag 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United 
States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definit 
necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international trans-
actions outside the United States. 
As you are aware, with respect tc the establishment of 
foreign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form 
of allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as 
foreign assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of the Board s concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
with the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United St ateSj 
Accordingly, it is understood that any investments 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

•f^Risf:.-
BOARD • F GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
3109 
Item No. 3 
10/13/69 
A D D R E S S QrriCIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 13, 1969 
Exchange National Bank of Chicago, 
LaSalle and Adams Streets, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors grants its permission to Exchange 
National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, pursuant to the pro-
visions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a 
branch in Tel Aviv, Israel, and to operate and maintain such branch 
subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before November 1, 1970, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and jhe authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is opened for business. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Tel Aviv. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home, office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes o (: the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of 
the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign invest-
ments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with 
the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations, 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank, and that 
due consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 

Exchange National Bank of Chicago 
You:-: attention is called 
of June 4, 1969. 
Enclosure. 
- 2 -
to the enclosed press release 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert F. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3111 
1
 
Item No. 4 
,,IL 
10/13/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C, 
i 
In the Matter 
tlhe Application of 
SANK SECURITIES, INC. (NSL), 
Alamagordo, New Mexico, 
f°r approval of acquisition of 77 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
American Bank of Carlsbad, 
Carlsbad, New Mexico, 
l 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
fc
o section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regu-
lation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Bank Securities, Inc. 
(NSL), Alamagordo, New Mexico, a registered bank holding company, 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 77 per cent or 
m
°re of the voting shares of American Bank of Carlsbad, Carlsbad, 
New Mexico. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
W r
ltten notice of receipt of the application to the New Mexico 

3112 
-2-
. 1 
* 
Commissioner of Banking, fthti requested his Views and recommendation, 
The Commissioner expressed views favorable to approval of the 
application. 
< 
i
 
1
 i 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 27, 1969 (34 Federal Register 13712), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consider-
ation. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
°r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 13th day of October 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
(SEAL) 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3113 
GoVernOrs 
Item No. 5 
10/13/69 
THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
BANK SECURITIES, INC. (NSL), ALAMAGORDO, NEW MEXICO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
AMERICAN BANK OF CARLSBAD, CARLSBAD, NEW MEXICO 
STATEMENT 
Bank Securities, Inc. (NSL), Alamagordo, New Mexico 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to 
the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior ap-
proval of the acquisition of 77 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of American Bank of Carlsbad, Carlsbad, New Mexico ("American Bank"). 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the 
f 
application was given to the New Mexico Commissioner of Banking, and 
his views and recommendation were requested. The Commissioner ex-
pressed views favorable to approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
! i 
BOAAD OF 
OF 

acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, 6r tb tend to create a monopoly, 
which in any other manner wotild be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
a
ction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 
ir
^to consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant, the 
1/ 
0 t
Uy bank holding company based in New Mexico, 
is the seventh largest 
K ,
 1 
1 1 
D a
nktng organization in the State. 
It has three subsidiary banks, 
w
hich operate 10 banking offices and hold about $23 million in deposits, 
Acquisition of American Bank, which has $11 million in deposits, would 
result in Applicant's becoming the sixth largest banking organization in 
tll
e State, and would increase its share of total deposits in the State 
fr
°m 2.3 per cent to 3.2 per cent. 
A California-based bank holding company operates five New Mexico 
b£
*nks with 26 offices. 
y All banking data are as of December 31, 1968. 

o l 
-3-
American Bank, the only office of which is located in 
i 
i 
| ; 
Carlsbad (Eddy County)j serves an area within a radius of 20 miles of 
i 
1 ( 
city, it is the second largest of three banks in Carlsbad, which 
a
re the ohly bankd ideated iri thd sei'Vice a ted. 
Two other banks, with 
d e
Posits of $16 million and $6 million, respectively, are located lh 
E (
% County, about 36 miles northwest of Carlsbad. 
Applicant's three subsidiary banks have deposits of $16.8 
m i
U i o n , $7.1 million, and $4.A million, respectively. The closest 
°ffice of any of the present subsidiaries is located in Alamagordo, 
about 150 miles northwest of Carlsbad, and none of them competes to any 
s i
8nificant extent with American Bank. In view of the size of the banks 
involved and branching restrictions imposed by New Mexico law, it does 
n o t
 appear that such competition would likely develop in the future. 
Th 
e
 proposed acquisition, therefore, would neither eliminate existing 
c
°nipetition nor foreclose significant potential competition. 
Finally, 
it:
 does not appear that any undue adverse effects on competitors of 
American Bank or of Applicant's present subsidiaries would result. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly or be in fur-
therance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the 
^
u
siness of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen 
°mpetition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any sec-
tion of the country. 

3116 
•4-
Financial, and managerial resources atld future prospects, -
T h
e financial conditions of Applicant and its present subsidiaries are 
generally satisfactory, their managements are competent, and all are 
considered to have favorable prospects, 
American Bank is in satisfactory financial condition, with 
capable management. Its prospects appear favorable, regardless of 
whether the proposed acquisition is consummated. 
These considerations are consistent with approval of the sub-
l e t application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
economy of Carlsbad, which has a population of 27,000, is dependent pri-
marily on cotton raising, ranching, and potash mining. Tourist trade 
i s
 also of some importance, with Carlsbad Caverns National Park being 
located 20 miles southwest* 
Banking needs of the area appear adequately 
served by the three banks located in the community. 
The principal community benefit of the proposed acquisition 
w
°uld be its facilitation of credit allocation through participations 
among Applicant's banking subsidiaries, which would benefit areas served 
Applicant's present subsidiaries, as well as the Carlsbad community,, 
Applicant 
also proposes to make trust services available to American 
bank's customers by referral to Applicant
f
s largest subsidiary; such 
S e
rvices are presently available in Carlsbad only through the largest 
kank located there. Operational and advisory services which Applicant 
Proposes to provide to the bank would also be of seme indirect benefit 
t o
 the latter*s customers. 

Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
communities involved provide some support for approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
Action 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
October 13, 1969. 

3118 
Item No. 6 
10/13/69 
• »x 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
SHAWMUT ASSOCIATION, INC., 
B
°ston,Massachusetts, 
for approval of acquisition of up to 
100 per cent of the voting shares of 
First Bank and Trust Company of 
Hampden County, Springfield, 
Massachusetts. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l 8
^
2
(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Shawmut Association, Inc., 
Boston, Massachusetts, a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board s prior approval of the acquisition of up to 100 per cent 
°f the voting shares of First Bank and Trust Company of Hampden 
County, Springfield, Massachusetts. 
t 

As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Banks of the State of Massachusetts and requested her views and 
^commendation thereon. In response, the Board was notified that, 
Pursuant to Massachusetts law, and following a hearing in the matter, 
the Massachusetts Board of Bank Incorporation, of which the Commissioner 
Banks is a member, had granted permission to Shawmut Association, 
*
n
c. to acquire and vote stock of First Bank and Trust Company of 
Hampden County. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
federal Register on May 20, 1969 (34 Federal Register 7935), pro-
v i n g an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
v
iews with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the appli-
C a
tion was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for 
*
t s
 consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
a
nd all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
B
°ard*s Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
C o
nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
thi s Order, or (b) later than three months after the date of this 

0 r d
e r , unless s ich period 
0 r
 by the Fede::al Reserve 
authority. 
Bank of Bostoh pursuant to delegated 
is extended for good cause by the Board 
-3 
i 
/. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 13th,day of October, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governor Robertson. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 
v 
. 

*> i * >1 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
I t e m N o # 
7 
10/13/69 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
SHAWMUT ASSOCIATION, INC., EOSTON, MASSACHUSETTS, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
FIRST BANK AND TRUST COMPANY OF HAMPDEN COUNTY, 
SPRINGFIELD, MASSACHUSETTS 
STATEMENT 
Shawmut Association, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts ("Applicant"), 
a
 registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 
prior approval of the acquisition of up to 100 per cent of the 
v
°ting shares of First Bank and Trust Company of Hampden County, 
Springfield. Massachusetts ('Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
r e
quired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
Of 
y 
receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banks of the 
State of Massachusetts and requested her views and recommendation 
thereon. i n response, the Board was notified that, pursuant to 
ssachusetts law, and following a hearing in the matter, the 
Massachusetts Board of Bank Incorporation, of which the Commissioner 
Banks is a member, had granted permission to Shawmut Association, 
*
n c
» to acquire and vote stock in First Bank and Trust Company of 
Hampden County. 

9 9 
- 2 - 
i 
.: i -
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(d) of the Act ptovides 
^hat the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a
 monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
t o m o n
opolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
a
ny part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
a c
quisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
ition are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
e
£fect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
c
°mmunity to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 
i n t o
 consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant 
i s
 the second largest banking organization and the largest of two bank 
Elding companies located in the State of Massachusetts. 
It controls 
u 
subsidiary banks with 79 banking offices. The deposits 
held 
b y
 Applicant's subsidiaries total $1,178 million, and they represent 
11 o 
per cent of the total deposits held by all commercial banks in 
t l l e
 State. Applicant's largest subsidiary, the National Shawmut Bank, 
B o f J
ton (deposits of $896 million), is the third largest bank in the 
^ 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1968, and refer to insured 
cmmercial banks. 

' M O O 
i 
: ! 
State. By comparison, however, the State's largest bank, The First 
National Bank of Boston, has deposits of $2.7 billion, which represeht 
27 per cent of the deposits held by all banks in the State. 
Applicant's subsidiaries are located in five counties in 
fc
he greater Boston area. Applicant's share of deposits, and the 
relative size of its subsidiary banks in such counties, are as follows: 
Essex County - 6.3 per cent (sixth largest); Middlesex County - 14 per 
c
ent (sixth largest); Norfolk County - 3.7 per cent (fifth largest); 
Plymouth County - 22.4 per cent (third largest); and Suffolk County -
per cent (third largest). It is reasonably concluded that in 
none of these market areas do Applicant's subsidiaries occupy a 
dominant or monopoly position. 
Bank is located in Springfield, approximately 85 miles west 
of Boston. It operates 16 banking offices, all in Hampden County, and 
has deposits of $101 million. Bank is the third largest of four com-
mercial banks located in Springfield and the third largest of nine 
banks located in Hampden County. Its deposits represent 20 per cent 
of 
the deposits held by all commercial banks in the Hampden County 
market. Bank derives no business from areas served by Applicant's 
subsidiary banks, and Applicant's subsidiaries derive no substantial 
business from the area served by Bank. No office of Bank is closer 
than 66 road miles to any office of a subsidiary of Applicant. There 
is, therefore, no significant existing competition between Applicant 
a
nd Bank which would be eliminated by consummation of the proposed 
transaction. 

3124 
-44-
Under existing Massachusetts banking law, Bank could not 
establish a de novo office in any area served by Applicant, nor could 
any subsidiary of Applicant establish a de novo office in any area 
served by Bank. Worcester County and portions of Middlesex and 
Norfolk Counties intervene in a wide geographic area separating 
Hampden County in western Massachusetts from the areas in eastern 
Massachusetts in which Applicant's subsidiaries operate, 
Numerous 
°ther banks are located in the intervening area. The probability of 
future competition developing between Bank and Applicant's banks as 
Presently located is, therefore, remote. 
The Board has also considered the probability of future 
competition developing between Bank and Applicant, in the event 
Applicant's proposal were denied, by reason of Applicant's entry 
ir
*to the relevant market by either the establishment of a new bank 
the acquisition of a bank possessing a smaller share of commercial 
banking deposits in Hampden County than the share possessed by Bank. 
Applicant has made no acquisitions of existing banking institutions, 
n
°r has it established a banking subsidiary, during the past 10 years. 
All of its subsidiary banks are concentrated in eastern Massachusetts 
and surrounding the Boston area. There is nothing in the record 
t o
 indicate that Applicant has or would consider an alternative 
a c
quisition, or the chartering of a new bank in Hampden County. 

• 
While Applicant may possess capability to enter the Hampden 
market absent the proposed transaction, incentive to enter the market 
either by establishing a new bank or by acquiring a smaller existing 
bank is not substantial. Springfield's population has declined 5 per 
cent from 174,463 in 1960 to 165,520 in 1965, and 9 per cent during 
the period 1960 to 1969. While population has increased in Hampden 
County as a whole since 1960, the rate of such growth during the 
1960-1965 period was below the average for the State as a whole, as 
Were other indicia of growth such as personal income and effective 
buying income. Moreover, population projections to 1975 forecast the 
continuation of an unfavorable growth trend for Hampden County in 
relation to other banking markets in the State (e.g., Worcester 
County, which lies in the geographic area separating Bank from 
Applicant's subsidiaries). Hampden County, therefore, does not 
r
epresent a particularly attractive banking market for Applicant in 
which to establish a new bank or to acquire a bank smaller than Bank. 
There appears to be no reasonable probability that Applicant would 
enter the Hampden County market in such manner if the application 
were denied. In the Board's judgment consummation of the proposed 
transaction would not foreclose significant competition between Bank 
and Applicant's subsidiary banks. 
Consummation of the proposed transaction would not result 
in an increase in concentration of banking resources in any area 
served by Bank or by any subsidiary of Applicant. If the proposed 

transaction is completed, Applicant's share of the total deposits held 
by all fcommercial banks in the State of Massachusetts would increase 
from 11.8 to 12.8 per cent. The Board finds, therefore, that acquisi-
tion of Bank by Applicant would not significantly increase the con-
centration of commercial banking resources in the State. 
As previously stated, Applicant is one of two existing 
registered bank holding companies in the State. The other, Baystate 
Corporation, holds the second largest share of deposits held by 
Hampden County banks (31.6 per cent). The largest bank in Hampden 
County, The Third National Bank of Hampden County (deposits $173 mil-
lion), is also located in Springfield and possesses about 34 per 
cent of such deposits. The proposed acquisition will likely have 
the effect of increasing competition between Bank and the two domi-
nant banks in the market. At the same time the proposed transaction 
should have no adverse competitive impact on the other six banks 
In Hampden County. The proposed acquisition would not serve to 
freeze the existing structure of the Hampden County banking market. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation of 
the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly nor be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any area, and would not substantially 
lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, nor restrain trade 
in any section of the country. 

U l ^ 4 
-7-
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
^he financial conditions, managements, and prospects of Applicant and 
its subsidiary banks, and those of Bank, are regarded as generally 
satisfactory. Considerations relating to the banking factors, as applied 
to the proposed transaction, therefore, are regarded as consistent with 
approval. 
Convenience and needs of communities involved. - Consummation 
o f
 the proposed transaction would have no effect on customers of 
Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
There is no evidence that the general banking needs of 
Hampden County are going unserved. Applicant would, however, establish 
a t
 Bank a full-service international department, thereby increasing the 
S c
ope of banking services to customers in this heavily industrialized 
m a
rket„ 
This factor, together with the increased competition which 
should result between Bank, as a subsidiary of Applicant, and the 
Present two largest banks in the market, lends some weight to the 
approval of the acquisition. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth in 
S e
ction 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
a c
quisition would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
°ctober 13, 1969. 

3t%8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 8 
10/13/69 
[12 CFR PART 220] 
[Reg. T] 
CREDIT BY 3R0KERS AND DEALERS 
Certain Credit by Insurance Companies; 
Proposal and Extension of Temporary Suspension 
Pursuart to the authority contained in the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 (15 tl.S.C. 78g), the Board of Governors is considering amend-
ing P?rt: 220 in the following respects: 
Sectior 220.7 would be amended by adding paragraph (f) to read 
0
s follows: 
5 220.7 Misee 11?neous provisions. 
* * * 
(f) Credit by insurance companies that issue variable annuity 
contracts. (1) Except as provided in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, 
Part 207 of this Chapter (Regulation G) rather than this part shall apply 
to any credit extended, maintained, or arranged for by a life insurance 
company which (i) meets the definition of "insurance company" set forth 
in section 2(a)(l7) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 
S0a-2(a)(17)), (ii) is engaged in the offer or sale of any variable 
a
nnuity, or any interest in a separate account established by such 
insurance company, registered under the Securities Act of 1933 
(15 U.S.C. 77) or exempt therefrom by Rule 156 of the Securities 
a
nd Exchange Commission (17 CFR 230.156), and (iii) is required to 
Agister as a broker or denier pursuant to section 15 of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o) by virtue of the activity described 

3129 
- 2 -
In subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph, and has registered as a broker 
or dealer. 
(2) The provisions of this part shall apply to trans-
actions between a customer and a life insurance company described in 
subparagraph (1) of this paragraph in connection with the conduct of 
its business as a broker or dealer, including 
(i) 
the offer or sale of any securiiy or securities register-
ed under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77) or exempt there-
from by Rule 156 of the Securities and Exchange Commission (17 CFR 
230.156), by (a) such insurance company, or (b) an investment company 
registered pursuant to section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 
1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-8) for which the insurance company or an affil-
iated person thereof is an underwriter, investment advisor, or dealer; 
end 
(ii) 
those activities normally associated with a broker or 
dealer or which, in accordance with the usage of the trade, would be 
considered part of a securities business. 
•k -k -k 
The proposed change in § 220.7 would permit certain life 
insurance companies registered under section 15 of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o) as a consequence of the offer 
°r sale of a variable annuity to extend, maintain, or arrange for 
credit subject only to any applicable provisions of Part 207 (Regu-
lation G) rather than this Part 220 (Regulation T), where the credit is 
u
nrelated to transactions involving a variable annuity or a general secu-
r
ities business. 

3130 
- 3 -
Insurance companies who are also registered as brokers or 
dealers have become subject to the requirements of Regulation T as 
a result of a recent change in that regulation making all brokers and 
dealers subject thereto (Federal Register of June 11, 1969 (34 F.R. 
9196)). Several of these insurance companies had previously registered 
with the Board of Governors under Regulation G in connection with their 
conventional lending operations which include loans secured by margin 
securities, as defined by § 7.07.2(d) of that regulation. Inasmuch as 
extensions of credit pursuant to certain normal lending activities of 
such insurance companies would be in violation of Regulation T, although 
distinct from any broker-dealer activity of the companies and permissible 
under Regulation G, the proposed amendment would functionally allocate 
the lending operations of such companies between Regulations G and T. 
If the proposal is adopted, extensions of credit related to 
transactions involving the offer or sale of the insurance companies' 
variable annuities, or connected with the activity of the companies as 
broker or dealer, would be subject to Regulation T>in the same manner 
as ere the financial relations between any broker or dealer and his 
customers. Extensions of credit normally associated with conventional 
lending practices of such insurance companies, however, would be governed 
** . 
by the provisions of Regulation G to the extent they are applicable. 
This functional allocation would apply where an insurance company has 
dealings with the same customer in connection with both types of activ-
ities. For example, the fact that a person is a holder of a variable 
annuity would not of itself cause credit extended to such person by 

3133 
. 4 -
the insurance company as part of the company's mortgage, commercial, 
or industrial loan operations to be subject to Regulation T. 
In order to provide relief pending the promulgation of this 
proposal, the Board of Governors ordered the provisions of Regulation T 
suspended for 90 days, effective July 19, 1969, as they apply to credit, 
extended by insurance companies registered as broker-dealers, which is 
unrelated to transactions involving variable annuities offered or sold 
by such insurance companies or affiliated persons thereof (34 F.R. 12132) 
The notice of suspension further provided for compliance with the 
regis-
tration and oth.ir requirements of Regulation G to the extent that the 
nature of the conventional lending operations of such insurance com-
panies would require such compliance. 
The period of suspension is 
hereby extended for an additional 180 days, or until a rule based upon 
this proposal is adopted, whichever event shai.l occur first. 
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) of Title 5, 
United States Code, and § 262.2(a) of the rules of procedure of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 262.2(a)). 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, in-
terested persons are invited to submit, in writing, relevant data, views, 
arguments. Such material should be submitted to any Federal Reserve 
Bank, to be received not later than November 19, 1969. Under the Board's 
rules regarding availability of information (12 CFR 261), such materials 
will be made available for inspection and copying to any person upon 

313 
- 5 -
request unless the person submitting the material requests that it be 
considered confidential. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 13, 1969. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
•" . 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 
