MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 24, 1969 

3933 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, December 24, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Acting Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Officer salaries at Minneapolis. Unanimous approval was given 
to (1) payment of salary to President Galusha and First Vice President 
Strothman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis at the respective 
annual rates of $50,000 and $37,500 fixed by the Board of Directors, 
effective January 1, 1970; and (2) payment of salary to other officers 
°f the Bank, also effective January 1, 1970, at the respective annual 
rates fixed by the directors. 
Copies of the letters sent to the Bank pursuant to the afore-
mentioned action are attached as Items 1 and 2. 

12/24/69 
-2-
Boston building program. On December 11, 1969, the Board 
had authorized the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston to spend $9,853,000 
for the purchase of eight of nine parcels of real estate composing a 
new building site. In a letter of December 19 the Bank requested 
authorization to spend an additional $287,650 representing real 
estate commissions on five of the eight parcels, that amount having 
been omitted from the costs mentioned earlier by the Reserve Bank. 
Pursuant to the recommendation in a memorandum from the 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated December 24, 1969, 
the Reserve Bank's request was approved unanimously. A copy of the 
telegram sent to the Bank is attached as Item No. 3. 
Interest Equalization Tax. The Bureau of the Budget had 
requested the Board's views on a proposal by the Treasury under which 
the exemption of certain Japanese debt obligations from the Interest 
Equalization Tax would be terminated. 
After comments by Governor Brimmer favorable to the proposal, 
unanimous approval was given to a reply to the Budget Bureau in the 
form attached as Item No. 4. 
Monetary Fund matters. Governor Brimmer commented on, and dis 
tributed material prepared by the staff with respect to, problems 
being encountered by the International Monetary Fund incident to the 
forthcoming increase in Fund quotas. 

3335 
12/24/69 
-3-
Governor Daane reported his understanding that the Executive 
Board of the Fund appeared to be moving toward a fundamental decision 
on the question of purchases of South African gold by member countries. 
Reserve Bank budgets. Pursuant to the understanding at the 
meeting on December 22, 1969, further consideration was given to the 
proposed budgets of the Federal Reserve Banks and branches for the 
first half of 1970. 
With respect to a suggestion by the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations that the Atlanta Reserve Bank might be asked 
to postpone its plans for a money museum (an educational exhibit that 
would be located in the head office building), Governor Brimmer sum-
marized discussion that he had had with President Kimbrel concerning 
the project, which he said was thought of primarily as a display that 
would be of interest to visitors to the Bank building. 
Governor 
Brimmer noted that the cost involved would be relatively modest and 
recommended that no objection be interposed. Other members of the 
Board agreed that the budget provision should not be questioned. 
The remainder of the discussion concerning the Reserve Bank 
budgets was devoted to questions that had been raised at the December 22 
meeting with respect to the exercise of surveillance, on an ongoing 
basis, over plans of the respective Banks for expansion or upgrading 
of data processing systems. Pursuant to a suggestion that had been 
made at the earlier meeting, it was agreed that a letter should be 
sent to the Reserve Banks asking them to submit information with 

3936 
12/24/69 
-4-
regard to their present data processing systems. Such a census, 
it was thought, would provide a starting point from which to work 
out procedures for monitoring new computer projects as they were 
developed around the System. 
As to arrangements that might be made for building up within 
the Board's staff a capability for intelligent review of Reserve 
Bank plans for major changes in data processing hardware, several 
alternatives were explored. Governor Sherrill then commented that 
one possibility would be to assign overall leadership responsibility 
for such an undertaking to the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations, with technical advice from the Division of Data Pro-
cessing and perhaps other sources. It was agreed, however, that 
the matter should be studied at more length. Accordingly, Governor 
Sherrill was assigned responsibility for developing a satisfactory 
surveillance arrangement and for advising the Reserve Banks of the 
procedures to be followed. 
The proposed budgets of the Federal Reserve Banks were then 
accepted, but with the understanding that the New York Bank would be 
asked to submit additional information on a proposed expansion and 
upgrading of computer facilities for the research function before 
committing itself to a study by a computer software firm for which 
$60,000 had been provided in the budget. 

3937 
12/24/69 
-5-
A copy of the telegram sent to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston reflecting acceptance of its budget for the first half 
of 1970 is attached as Item No. 5; the telegrams sent to the other 
Banks, except New York, were similar in form. A copy of the telegram 
sent to the New York Bank is attached as Item No. 6. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, 
Kakalec, and Halley withdrew at this point. 
Board Budget. Upon resumption of discussion with respect 
to the Board's budget for calendar 1970, Governor Maisel expressed 
the view that it was important at this stage to develop a statement 
of principles. Referring to the posture of the Federal Government 
as a whole, he noted that the Budget Director was being asked to 
hold increases to about 4 per cent, whereas there were built-in 
requirements of 8 or 9 per cent, which meant cutting back programs 
in place to meet the goals of fiscal policy. The Board, he felt, 
should be cognizant of that situation and guide itself accordingly. 
Therefore, he would think in terms of a maximum Board budget for 
1970 of approximately $18.5 million, which was the level of the program-
in-place budget. He would then review the additional items included 
in the capability budget and make allowance for those that were approved 
by requiring equivalent cuts in the program-in-place budget. The 
manner in which those cuts could be made might be left to the dis-
cretion of the respective division heads, subject to approval by 

3938 
12/24/69 
-6-
Governor Sherrill, and the decisions could be finalized over the 
next month or two. 
Governor Maisel added that he thought it was poor budget 
procedure simply to build from a given base. The appropriate pro-
cedure, in his opinion, would be to begin by cutting a stipulated 
amount percentagewise from the program-in-place budget and to require 
justification each year. 
Governor Sherrill agreed that an exercise of the kind pro-
posed by Governor Maisel was a standard aspect of program budgeting 
procedure. It had not been followed this year, he said, mainly be-
cause of pressures of time and because it was a difficult procedure 
to initiate. 
There followed a discussion of the overall guidelines that 
had been suggested by Governor Maisel. Three members (Governors 
Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill) indicated that they would prefer to 
approach the budget for 1970 by concentrating on the items contained 
in the capability budget but not in the program-in-place budget. In 
going through such a process they would evaluate the items, perhaps 
assign different orders of priority from those assigned by the divisions, 
and choose among the items on a selective basis. They might also add 
certain items not provided for in the capability budget. In terms of 
the total budget, they would not be too concerned if it approached the 
level of the capability budget. 

3933 
12/24/69 
-7-
In support of their reasoning the three members observed, 
among other things, that an increasing level of responsibilities 
was being assigned to the Board, that some expansion appeared to be 
required in order to meet those responsibilities without sacrificing 
quality of performance, that the Board had deliberately followed 
stringent budget policies for a number of years, and that a certain 
amount of catching-up therefore seemed to be justified if the Board's 
functions were to be discharged adequately. They also suggested that 
at times like the present when the country was faced with critical 
economic and financial problems, responsibilities of the kind per-
formed by the Board appeared to deserve a higher priority, when 
thought of in budget terms, than those performed by certain other 
agencies of the Government. Similarly, the Board's budget was not 
in the same order of magnitude as those of the major departments and 
agencies of the Government, and a moderate increase therein, though 
it appeared substantial percentagewise, could result in an ability to 
contribute more significantly in vital areas. 
It was stated at this point that Chairman Martin had expressed 
his desire not to participate in decisions on the Board's budget for 
1970. In reply to a question from the Acting Chairman, the view was 
expressed that Governor Robertson's general budget philosophy would 
be similar to that of Governor Maisel. 
Governor Mitchell commented that in principle he was inclined 
to sympathize with the position that the Board should not exceed a 

39* 10 
12/24/69 
-8-
certain budget level and also with the view that there should be 
some retrenchment mixed with expansion. He then explored the possi-
bility of deferring final budget decisions, perhaps even until after 
the new Chairman of the Board had assumed his duties. For a variety 
of reasons, however, a delay of more than a temporary nature did not 
appear feasible, and other Board members indicated that they were 
prepared to proceed. Accordingly, Governor Mitchell suggested that 
the Board move forward with a review of the proposed division budgets 
against the background of the presentations that had previously been 
made concerning them, with the understanding that the right was re-
served to ascertain the views of Governor Robertson on any narrow 
issues if that should appear desirable. 
Governor Sherrill then called attention to a document in 
which the Controller had estimated the cost of certain activities 
not provided for in the division budgets as originally submitted but 
mentioned during the Board meeting of December 19, 1969. After dis-
cussion of those items, it was decided that provision for the conduc-
ting of a second survey of consumer awareness of credit terms ($100,000) 
should not be included in the budget of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation, although the staff could present the proposal for con-
sideration by the Board during the year as a special item if it so 
desired. It was decided to include in the budget of the Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations an amount of $75,000 for architectural 

39 
12/24/69 
-9-
consulting services and to include in the budget of the Division 
of Personnel Administration three items totaling $37,000 to provide 
for recruiting among minority groups and for additional training 
opportunities. For the Division of Administrative Services, it was 
decided to include in the budget $23,600 for improvement of cafeteria 
services (Governor Maisel dissenting) and $25,800 to provide for 
additional cars and chauffeurs (Governor Maisel favoring the inclusion 
of only $16,400 for that purpose). Other items included in the Con-
troller's tabulation were rejected. 
The Board then reviewed the capability budgets of several 
divisions and decided upon certain adjustments therein, among them 
deletion of funds provided in the budget of the Division of Research 
and Statistics for conducting a business loan survey and deletion of 
funds provided in the budget of the Office of the Secretary for power 
file equipment. Although Governor Maisel did not disagree with the 
deletions, his preferred approach would have been to award only a 
percentage of the dollar amounts included in the capability (but not 
the program-in-place) budgets. 
It was understood that the Board would review the capability 
budgets of the remaining divisions later. 
The following staff members returned to the room at this 
point: Messrs. Molony, Farrell, Solomon (Supervision and Regulation), 
Kiley, and Mcintosh, and Mrs. Semia. The following additional staff 

12/24/69 
-10-
members entered the room: 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
D-ivision of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Williams, Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bilby, Consultant 
Messrs. Doyle, Mertz, and Plotkin of the 
Legal Division 
Mr. Ettin of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Burton and Miss Greene of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Pflueger of the Division of Data Processing 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Commercial Bank and 
Trust Company of South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina, with 
Citizens Bank of South Carolina, Dillon, South Carolina, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpor-
ation, the conclusion reading as follows: 

12/24/69 
-11-
There is no competition existing between 
The Commercial Bank and Trust Company of South 
Carolina, Columbia, and Citizens Bank of South 
Carolina, D i l l o n , and there would seem to be only 
a remote potential for development of competition 
between them in the foreseeable future. Thus, the 
proposed merger would have no adverse competitive 
effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed purchase of assets and assumption of deposit liabilities 
of Bank of Grand Cane, Grand Cane, Louisiana, by First National 
Bank in Mansfield, Mansfield, Louisiana, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion 
reading as follows: 
The proposed acquisition of Bank of Grand 
Cane, Grand Cane, Louisiana, by First National 
Bank in Mansfield would eliminate such competition 
as exists between them. Due to the small size 
of Bank of Grand Cane and its limited competitive 
capability, the potential for greater competition 
appears minimal. Overall, effect of the proposal 
on competition would be no more than slightly adverse. 
Government check procedures. A letter to the Fiscal 
As sistant Secretary of the Treasury with regard to Federal Reserve 
participation in a proposed study of Government check procedures was 
approved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 7. 
Rights of the Congress to information. A letter to Chairman 
Moss of the Foreign Operations and Government Information Subcommittee 
°f the House Committee on Government Operations in response to his 
letter of November 7, 1969, presenting several questions with regard 

12/24/69 
-12-
to the basic rights of the Congress to information was approved 
unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 8. 
Emergency credit assistance. In a memorandum of July 3, 
1969, the Division of Research and Statistics had outlined a con-
tingency plan for providing emergency credit assistance to nonmember 
depositary institutions in the event liquidity problems at such in-
stitutions became widespread. That plan had focused on aid to 
mutual savings banks and nonmember commercial banks because the 
Federal Home Loan Bank System appeared to have ample resources to 
meet any immediately foreseeable call on its responsibility as 
lender of last resort to the savings and loan industry. 
With a memorandum of December 23, 1969, the Research 
Division provided an updating of its earlier contingency plan. 
Activation thereof would be accomplished by the sending of a letter 
to the Federal Reserve Banks containing groundrules and authorization 
for the extension of emergency credit assistance. With the letter 
there would be transmitted selected passages from the section on 
emergency credit assistance of the System Committee Report on Re-
appraisal of the Federal Reserve Discount Mechanism; the sending of 
those passages would indicate endorsement by the Board of the princi-
ples set forth therein. 
However, the December 23 memorandum pointed out that it 
n
ow appeared to be a distinct possibility that the Home Loan Bank 

394 
12/24/69 
-13-
System would not have sufficient resources of its own to continue 
serving the savings and loan associations as an effective lender of 
last resort. This suggested that a decision on the part of the 
Board to activate an emergency credit assistance program should 
include provision for aid to the savings and loans. It appeared 
to the Board's staff that any Federal Reserve program of emergency 
credit assistance to the savings and loan industry could be most 
effective if such assistance were provided through the Federal Home 
Loan Banks, either under the last paragraph of section 13 of the 
Federal Reserve Act or under a conduit loan arrangement, rather than 
directly to individual savings and loan associations. That approach 
could be activated more quickly than other alternatives, and problems 
of coordination with the Home Loan Bank System would be minimized. 
Nevertheless, the memorandum pointed out, the Federal Reserve 
Board was hardly in a position to make a final decision at this junc-
ture since an anticipated document from the Home Loan Bank Board 
evaluating possible means of providing emergency Federal Reserve 
assistance to the savings and loan industry had not yet been received. 
(Note: During today's meeting it was reported that the Bank Board 
paper was en route.) 
In the circumstances, while there was a general discussion 
of incorporation into a Federal Reserve program of plans for emergency 
credit assistance to the savings and loan industry, it was recognized 

3946 
12/24/69 
-14-
that a decision would have to be deferred. The comments made 
indicated that the conclusion of the Board's staff that it would 
be preferable to extend assistance through the Home Loan Banks 
rather than directly to savings and loan associations was supported 
generally by the members of the Board. When it came to savings and 
loan associations that were not members of the Home Loan Bank System, 
there was some difference of opinion. At least one Board member 
felt rather strongly that it would be desirable to work out an arrange-
ment whereby the Home Loan Banks would function as intermediaries; 
however, it was not clear whether that would be acceptable to the 
Home Loan Bank Board, and one Board member expressed the view that 
pressure should not be exerted on the Bank Board. In any event, a 
decision could not be made on that point at this stage, and it was 
noted that only a relatively small segment of the savings and loan 
industry was involved. For the present, the possibility of provid-
ing emergency Federal Reserve credit assistance to such institutions, 
either on a direct or conduit basis, would be established under the 
terms of the authorization contained in the proposed letter to the 
'•S-*'.V.;' 
. 
Federal Reserve Banks. 
Subject to the understanding that the question of making 
emergency credit assistance available to the savings and loan industry 
generally would be considered further at a later date, today's dis-
cussion indicated that the members of the Board were prepared to 

3947 
12/24/69 
-15-
activate the contingency plan for providing emergency credit 
assistance to other types of nonmember depositary-type institutions 
by transmitting appropriate guidelines and authorization to the 
Federal Reserve Banks. 
(Note: As to life insurance companies, the 
staff concluded in the December 23 memorandum that the extent of 
any further liquidity squeeze in the near term was not likely to 
be sufficient to warrant a special Federal Reserve assistance 
program for those institutions. No view to the contrary was ex-
pressed at today's meeting.) 
Certain minor technical adjustments, as suggested by the 
staff, in the proposed letter to the Federal Reserve Banks were 
accepted by the Board. The principal discussion therefore related 
to suggestions that had been made by the Committee on Discounts and 
Credits of the Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks 
with respect to an earlier draft letter, as follows: (1) that refer-
ences to rates that would be charged on advances to or discounts for 
member banks that were providing conduit loans to nonmember institutions 
be deleted: 
and (2) that the rate charged on loans by member banks to 
nonmember institutions under conduit loan arrangements be required to 
be the same as that charged by Reserve Banks under the last paragraph 
of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act. 
The question of what statements to include in the letter to 
the Federal Reserve Banks with respect to rates was debated at some 

3948 
12/24/69 
-16-
length and several possible alternatives were mentioned, including 
the option of not making any statement with regard to rates at this 
time. Two Board members (Governors Daane and Sherrill) were inclined 
toward taking advantage of that option. Eventually, however, it was 
decided that the statement of principles in the letter, as it applied 
to conduit loans (indirect extensions of credit to nonmember institu-
tions through a member bank or banks) should include a statement that 
it would be desirable that the rate charged be no more than two per-
centage points above the rate set on advances under section 10(b) of 
the Federal Reserve Act. It was also decided to retain in the letter 
the suggestion contained in the draft that the rate on advances to 
individuals, partnerships, and corporations other than member banks 
under the last paragraph of section 13 of the Act be established uni-
formly in all Federal Reserve districts at 7-1/2 per cent. 
Unanimous approval then was given to the sending of a letter 
to the Federal Reserve Banks in the form attached as Item No. 9. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, 
Kakalec, and Halley then withdrew from the meeting. 
Board budget. The Board resumed its consideration of the 
Board budget for 1970 and reviewed the proposed budgets of the 
remaining divisions, that is, those whose budgets had not been reviewed 
earlier during this meeting, with the results summarized in the follow-
ing paragraphs. 

394 
12/24/69 
-17-
As to the Division of International Finance, the full 
capability budget was approved, although Governor Maisel would 
have favored reducing somewhat the amount provided for travel. 
Governor Maisel also expressed the view that a relatively low 
priority should be assigned to studies of economic trends in less-
developed countries. After some discussion of that point, and of 
a suggestion by Governor Brimmer that consideration be given to a 
more extensive travel program incorporating visits to areas not 
generally visited by members of the Board and staff, Governor 
Sherrill observed that from the standpoint of the budget the 
questions involved were not particularly significant and that the 
basic issues appeared to deserve study within a somewhat different 
framework. 
The full capability budget of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation was approved except for one item in the amount of 
$35,000, the reduction reflecting an understanding that the Division 
would negotiate with the Federal Reserve Banks to ascertain their 
willingness to assume part of the cost of the program designed to 
Provide special training for bank examiners in electronic data pro-
cessing techniques. 
For the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations the 
capability budget was approved, Governor Maisel stating that he would 
have favored providing for the high priority items only. 

3950 
12/24/69 
-18-
The high priority items in the capability budget of the 
Division of Personnel Administration were approved, with the 
notation that the Board also had approved earlier during this 
meeting the inclusion of certain other items not contained in 
the capability budget as submitted by the Division. 
For the Division of Administrative Services, the Board 
approved everything listed in the high priority section of the 
capability budget except a $27,000 item for public information 
facilities and also approved, on a selective basis, several items 
in the remainder of the capability budget. These were in addition 
to the items not included in the budget, as originally submitted, 
that had been acted upon by the Board previously during this 
meeting. 
The capability budget of the Office of the Controller was 
approved, along with the budget submitted by the Office of Defense 
Planning. 
For the Division of Data Processing, Governor Maisel sug-' 
gested a flat increase of $100,000 over the program-in-place budget. 
However, after discussion of the extent to which user requirements 
W e
r e mirrored in the Division's budget and a statement by Governor 
Sherrill that in another year arrangements might be made to push 
some of the budget back to the using divisions, the Board approved 
approximately half of the items listed in the capability budget, with 

3951 
12/24/69 
-19-
the understanding that Governor Sherrill could return to the Board 
during 1970 for further consideration of the Division's program if 
The Controller reported that after making adjustments 
reflecting the Board's decisions the overall budget figure stood 
at $20.3 million. 
Governor Maisel then moved that a cut of $1 million be made 
from the proposed budget so as to establish an expenditure ceiling 
of $19.3 million, which would be approximately $800,000 in excess 
of the amount necessary to continue programs in place. The motion 
was lost for lack of a second. 
With Governor Maisel dissenting, the Board then approved a 
budget totaling $20.3 million for calendar 1970, the make-up being 
as indicated in the documentation attached under Item No. 10. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
substantial difficulties were encountered. 
Secretary 

Item No. 1 
B O A R D 
O F G O V E R N O R S 
12/24/69 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E S Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
»? • 5 5 I 
G E O R G E W. M I T C H E L L 
M E M B E R 
O F T H E 
B O A R D 
December 24, 1969. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FK) 
Mr. Dnvid M . Lilly, Deputy Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
Dear Mr. Lilly: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., as President, and to 
M. H. Strothman, Jr., as First Vice President of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis at rates of $50,000 and $37,500 
per annum, respectively, effective January 1, 1970. 
The 
rates approved are those fixed by your Board of Directors, 
as reported in your letter of December 19, 1969. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) George W. Mitchell 
George W. Mitchell 

KJ 953 
BOARD of 
GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
12/24/69 
A D D R E S S 
o r n n i A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
TC T H E 
U D A M D 
December 24, 1969 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
Dear Mr. Galusha: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis, for the calendar year 1970, as set forth in 
the enclosed schedule. The rates, listed are those fixed 
by your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter 
of December 11, 1969. 
i 
Very truJy yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

Fedora 1 Reserve Rank of Minneapolis 
3954 
Nome 
A. Mac Don a Id 
foment A. Von Mice * 
;
h r
iotopher E. Bjork 
J
r
®derick J. Craaier 
>
Kal
P
h
 J, Dreitzlar 
pQiiavd W. Ferneliua 
i
e
;
fc
e* c. Gable 
D. Graham 
?
0u
8las R. Hellw-g 
R
« McDonald 
^ e n e * w. Nelson 
P. 01 in 
^• VJorcester 
Beeth 
MM,,, ' ^ S q u i a t : 
l v i
K L. Burst ein 
^oih-je i? 
r n 4 
Ui^ 
Gaxnor 
0. aallln 
0. Heiber 
J. Herder 
S:;v\Hostad 
Art,/ 
Hugnes 
Viii. 
Litterer 
Hich
 
A
' O'Brien 
Jo, ,
rd
 
Thomas 
°
Gph
 R. Vogel 
Title 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
General Auditor 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President and 
General Counsel 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President and 
Director of Research 
Vice President and 
Secretary 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant General Counsel 
and Assistant Secretary 
Assistant Vice President 
Emergency Opera tiors 
Officer 
Assistant General Auditor 
Assistant Research 
Director 
Assistant Vice President 
Building Officer 
Assistant Vice president 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Chief Examiner 
Annua 1 
Sala ry 
$29,000 
32,0CC 
21,000 
26,000 
25,00C 
23,500 
25,50C 
25,000 
25,000 
25,000 
27,50C 
25,000 
22,000 
21,000 
14,50C 
2.2, 50C 
22,500 
16,000 
17,000 
22,000 
18,500 
20,000 
18,500 
19,000 
20,000 
22,500 
19,000 
Ho 
hlt
X d
 
Knous 
Kedblom 
Helena Branch 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
26,000 
17,000 

T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M 
item No. 
L E A S E D W I R E S E R V I C E 
I 
12/24/69 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
December 24, 1969. 
MORRIS _ BOSTON 
Reurlet December 19, Board approves, expenditure of $287,650 for 
purpose stated therein. 
(signed) 
FORRESTAL 

Item No. 4 
12/24/69 
B O A R D 
D P 
G O V E R N O R S 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
P O S S I 
A N D R E W 
F. B R I M M E R 
M E M B E R 
O F T H E 
O D A R O 
December 24, 1969 
Mr. Arthur B. Fccke, 
General Counsel, 
Eureau of the Budget, 
Executive Office cf the President, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Focke: 
In response to your letter of December 11, 1969 
to Chairman Martin, and on behalf of the Board of Governors 
of the 
Federal Reserve System, I concur in the recommendation 
of the Acting Secretary of the Treasury that the President, 
by 
Executive Order, terminate the limited exemption from the 
Interest Equalization Tax for new or original debt obligations 
issued, guaranteed, or approved by the Government of Japan. 
Sincerely >ours 
(Signed) Andrew F. Brimmer 
Andrew F. Brimmer 

Item No. 5 
T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M
 
1 2 / 2 4 / 6 9 
L R A S t D 
W I R E S E R V I C E 
O
A
f 
• 
ol.Ki> 
/ 
BOARD Or GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
December 24, 1969. 
Morris - Boston 
Board has reviewed and accepts budget of Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston for period January 1 - June 30, 1970, as 
Uw! ' ' 
' . • 
submitted with Mr. Latham's letter of November 17, 1969. 
(signed) 
FORRESTAL 

Item No. 6 
T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M 
12/24/69 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
December 24, 1969. 
j c; . 
HAYES •• NEW YORK 
Board has reviewed and approves your budge: for the first half of 
1970 at; submitted with your letter or. November 21, 1969, except for 
the provision of $60 thousand for fees in the General Overhead 
function for the assistance of a computer software firm in making 
certain system analysis and program conversions preliminary to a 
major expansion and upgrading of equipment and staff in your Research 
and Statistics function. In light of the estimate total project 
cost of between $4 and $5 million as noted in your letter, the Board 
vould like an opportunity to consider the project in its entirety 
before a commitment is made for the assistance of a software firm 
and will be interested in receiving a report on this matter at y o u r 
e
arliest convenience. 
(signed) 
FORRESTAL 

Item No. 7 
12/24/69 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
W l B l i 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20 5 5, 
A D D R E S S nr-iciAL C O R H C S P O N D G N C E 
* f'^n. nts^C * *
 
T D T H E f : n A R
 ° 
December 20, 1969 
John K . Carlock, 
Fiscal Assistant Secretary, 
Tr ea sury Do par tmeit t, 
Washington. D. C. 
2.0220 
ftear John: 
o f 
, ,
 
Y c a r 
l e t t e r 
o f
 December 8, 1969, regarding the increasing number 
cneccs that need to be issued to pay the Government's obligations was 
- - Particular interest because we share the same problem of handling grow-
nsnumbers of checks. We would be happy to join with you in a broad ' 
qe „ 
' 
""i-r; "-
w
 j 
w.-Lii 
j.n a uroa< 
} ] y ^ ^ n . n e n t check procedures, and the Board of Governors has asked 
• wohn R. Far re] "i, Director of the Division of Federal R 
'••'per" • ' 
5 ton v 
. 
- 
— 
— " — 
-uuj.uo. reserve Baiin. 
pa^ioi
 
1 < 5 > 
t 0 
c
°
n t a c t 
y o u 
i n 
o r d e r 
t 0 
m a k e
 arrangements for our partici-
t l
 
T h e
 
growing volume of checks of all kinds has motivated 
C o ;
 a
W>'.ntment within the Federal Reserve System of a System Steering 
C
o r ? » «
 
f o r
 p r o v i n g the Payments Mechanism. 
Since Government checks 
Vritt 
V*
3 
s i
6
n i f i
c a n t
 
f r a c
t i o n
 
o f
 the total (2-1/2 per cent of checks 
Uo-s*- 
r."
 t l t t U
'
S
-
 
a n d 
1 0
 P
e r
 cent of checks handled by the Federal 
n c t ^ T
 
i U 
m i
&
h t 
b e
 useful to consider Government payment methods 
Q < H 
,
 ! n 
u
'
e l a t i o n 
t o
 increasing the efficiency of disbursing and re COP-
natio^t
 t l n e S e 
i t e m s
'
 
b u t 
a i s o 
i n 
t h e
 Perspective of their import on the 
t h l n°?
 S 
t o t a l
 Payments mechanism. 
If further discussion indicates that; 
sa rr
 i S 
d c
'
s i r a
b l e , then Mr. Farrell will t- able to provide for the racns-
cheoi.
C 0 0 1
"
d i l U i t i
°
n b e t w e e n 
o u r
 System Steering Committee and the Government 
study group. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

tJ 
Item N o . 8 
12/24/69 
3360 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F THE: 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
G E O R G E W. M I T C H E L L 
M E M B E R OF THE BOAR a 
December 20, 1969 
The Honorable John E. Moss, Chairman, 
Foreign Operations and Government 
Information Subcommittee, 
Committee on Government Operations, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C.. 20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
i 
This is in reply to your letter of November 7, 1969, in 
which you requested the Board to respond to several questions designed 
to reaffirm and clarify the basic rights of the Congress to information 
from its delegate agencies. 
Before replying to the specific questions posed in your 
letter, I should like to say that the Board s position in this matter 
has always been that the Board of Governors, as a statutory body 
ereated by the Congress, is fully responsible to Congress and the 
Board fully recognizes the rights, privileges and duties of Congress 
3.n discharging its Constitutional responsibilities. 
In this regard 
the Board has always endeavored to be fully responsive to requests 
information from Congress and its constituent Committees. 
The following are our answers to the specific questions 
which ycu raised: 
1. "Does your Board claim, under any circumstances, the 
r
ight to withhold facts or information from the Committees of Congress 
having jurisdiction over your agency under the rules of the respective 
Houses or the Reorganization Act of 1946?" 
The Board does not claim the right to withhold facts or 
information from the Committees of Congress having jurisdiction over 
t^e Board under the rules of the respective Houses or the Reorganiza-
tion Act of 1946. However, in discharging its statutory responsibilities 

The Honorable John E. Moss 
-2-
in the areas of monetary policy and bank supervision and regulation, 
the Board obtains a great deal of statistical and other information 
from bantcs and other institutions, some of which is confidential in 
nature. Much of this information is cf a type which such businesses 
would not make public for competitive reasons, and would be reluctant 
to provide to the Board without assurance of its confidential treat-
ment. Occasionally, requests for such information have been received 
from Congressional Committees. Since it is more useful to a Committee 
to have information that can be released, and the purpose for which the 
information ii sought can usually be accomplished through provision of 
information that can be released, we try in these instances to work out 
with the Committee a method of satisfying the request in that manner. 
At times when such an arrangement could not be made, we have furnished 
the information on a confidential basis. 
Similarly, the Board would be reluctant to furnish to 
Congressional Committees documents whose premature release could damage 
this country's international relations or handicap the Federal Reserve 
System in carrying out its statutory responsibilities or redound to 
the special advantage of sophisticated participants in the money markets, 
unless wa could be sure that their contents would not be made public. 
However, we believe that these considerations are understood and respected 
b
>' the Committees concerned. 
2. "If any such claim is made or has been made, describe the 
circumstances of the claimed right and cite the specific authorities upon 
which you rely, including statutes, court decisions, legal opinions, etc." 
Not applicable. 
3. "If the claim is based on statute, is the Congress specif-
ically named as being excluded from having access to information regard-
ing your agency's activities?" 
Not applicable. 
4. "Please state specifically whether your agency recognizes 
right of Congressional Committees in exercising oversight over your 
agency's activities to have access to all facts during the entire course 
consideration of matters pending before your agency." 
The Board does recognize the right of Congressional Committees 
to have access to all facts during the course of the Board's considera-
tion of matters pending before it. The Board would, of course, refrain 
from commenting on the merits of an application pending before it. 
5. "If the answer to Number 4 is in the negative, 
"(a) State the specific conditions which would cause the 
a
gcncy to withhold facts or information from Congress. 

The Honorable John E. Moss 
-3-
%J J D i V 
"(b) Cite specifically and in precise detail the statutes, 
court decisions, legal opinions, etc. on which the agency relies and 
relate them specifically to inquiries by Congressional Committees. 
'(c) Define in detail 'adjudicatory' process if a right 
to withhold is claimed during such process." 
Not applicable. 
6. "Describe in detail the process through which your agency 
makes decisions regarding the availability of information to Congres-
sional Committees." 
Routine requests for information are handled by the Board''s 
staff, often by furnishing the requested information on the telephone. 
Routine mail from Members of Congress is answered by the Chairman of 
the Board, or by another Board member in his absence. Requests for 
c o m m e n t s on legislation and other requests involving policy decisions 
are considered by the Board and answered in a letter signed by the 
Chairman, or by another Board member in his absence. 
7. "Do you or members of your Commission or Board keep 
detailed records qf ex parte contacts formally or informally made during 
the time you c?re considering matters pending before your Board or which, 
in all probability will be pending at an early date? 
Give details." 
We assume that by "ex parte contacts", the Committee means 
contacts made by or on behalf of one party involved in a proceeding 
or other matter pending before the Board. Board members do not enter-
tain such ex parte contacts during the consideration of pending matters. 
In most matters that come before it, t'.ie Board solicits the views of 
the pub lie and any factual issues raised by a member of the public, 
formally or informally, are brought to the attention of the applicant, 
so that i-j may be av/are of all facts in the record which might be adverse 
to its proposal. From time to time, the Board holds hearings or oral 
presentations on matters involving bank supervision and regulation at 
which interested parties may appear following publication of notice of 
such proceeding in the Federal Register. Detailed records of such 
proceedings, generally in the form of a stenographic transcript, are 
kept by the Board. 
8. "Do you regard inquiries from the appropriate Committees 
of Congress exercising their responsibility of oversight as constituting 
'ex parte' contacts?" 
No. 

The Honorable John E. Moss 
-4-
9. "Do you regard your responses concerning access to infor-
mation by the Committees of Congress applicable also to individual Member 
of Congress? 
If not, please explain." 
The Board is fully responsive to requests by individual Members 
of Congress for general information solicited on behalf of their constit-
uents. With respect to confidential information in its possession 
the 
Board would be reluctant to provide an individual Member of Congress 
with such information without assurance that its confidentiality would 
be respected in the same manner as by a Congressional Committee. 
I hope that this information will be useful to the Subcommittee 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) George W. Mitchell 
George W . Mitchell 

r 
3964 
Item No. 9 
B O A R D 
OF G D V E R N D R S 
12/24/69 
.• V/oVcoV^-. 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
ftft^rf^^jis.: 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
'••mM-
C O m P E H T T M . (Fit I 
T D T H E 
Q D A R D 
December 24, 196$ 
C'ear Sir: 
The sharp further advance in market yields during the fourth 
quarter; the unusually large net savings withdrawals at depositary 
institutions in the October quarterly reinvestment period; and pre-
liminary reports of rather poor savings experience in some areas thus 
f 2 r 
l n
 Uecen:ber hnve all created considerable concern in industry 
circles about the possibility of substantially enlarged savings attri-
tion at such institutions during late December and January. 
In these 
circumstances the Board believes th'at as a matter of general policy 
the Reserve Banks should be prepared-as :.n the summer of 1966-to 
Provide emergency credit facilities 
to nonmember depositary institu-
tions in difficulty as to the adequacy of their liquidity reserves. 
Because the Federal Home Loan Bank System is responsible for 
Providing a lender of last resort accommodation to its members, the 
B
°ard believes that it is more efficient for the Home Loan Banks to 
continue exercising full responsibility for providing such assistance 
0 5
 long as their resources permit. There is some possibility, however, 
t h
« t the Heme Loan Banks will exhaust their own liquidity in the period 
ahead. 
if this should happen, the FHLBB would have the option of 
c
 rawing on its statutory borrowing line at the Treasury. Hence the 

task of providing an ultimate source o£ liquidity to members of the 
Home Loan Bank System may be viewed as a joint responsibility of the 
F11LBB, the Treasury, and the Federal Reserve. 
In order to coordinate possible measures that might be take 
by all three or these agencies in meeting any emergency liquidity 
needs of the savings and loan industry, the Board is currently explor 
ing ways in which Federal Reserve assistance mi^ht be supplied throng 
the Home Lean Banks rather than directly to individual S and L's, As 
soon as appropriate procedures have been developed to achieve this 
Purpose y you will be advised of any ways in which they affect your 
operations. Such procedures would probably not become operative in 
°
n
y event, however, until other sources oi liquidity available to the 
Home Loan Bank Sv.item had been substantially usod up. 
In the meantime, Reserve Banks r.eed be prepared to provide 
emergency credit assistance only to mutual savings banks, other banks 
a
nd savings arid loan associations that are members of neither the 
t G r
leral Reserve nor the Federal Home Loan Bank Systems. 
Emergency 
credit to these latter types of institutions should be provided in 
Accordance with the following principles: 
1. Any such institution experiencing a deposit 
drain too large to be handled through internal 
portfolio and other operating adjustments with-
out severe loss unrelated to the quality of assets 
should make the fullest use possible of its 
existing credit lines and other arrangements with 
member commercial banks. The member banks, in 
turn, should be expected to honor their customer 
commitments—with such institutions as well as 

with other customers--without being given special 
treatment at the discount window. The Reserve 
Banks should be prepared to accept, collateral 
pledged by the nonmcmber institutions with member 
banks as security for advances to member banks 
under Section 13 or Section 10(b) of the Federal 
Reserve Act, but the resulting advances to member 
banks should be on short-term notes and subject 
to the usual administration and policy discipline 
of the discount window. 
The Reserve Banks should stand ready to extend 
credit directly to applicable nonmetnber institu-
tions thai: have exhausted their private sources of 
credit in accordance with paragraph 1 above to the 
extent that appropriate collateral'can be provided. 
Such credit assistance would include advances 
directly to such institutions 011 the collateral of 
Government and Federal agency securities under the 
thirteenth paragraph of Section 13 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and also the discount under the third 
paragraph of Section 13 of any eligible paper such 
institutions may have. Extensions of credit under 
eit.he r paragraph should be for periods of 30 days 
or ju;ss, subject to renewal. Utilization of any 
available collateral for such direct assistance 
under these paragraphs shoul.1 precede activation 
of indirect lending arrangements for individual 
institutions as provided in paragraph 3 below. 
In the event that an applicable nonmember 
institution has exhausted both its private credit 
sources and its supply of collateral eligible 
to support direct credit extensions from the Reserve 
Banks, arrangements to extend credit indirectly 
through a member bank or banks should be activated. 
Such arrangements should be initiated only as the 
n:?ed is indicated for individual institutions. 
Federal Reserve credit should be extended to the 
member bank involved in such arrangements on the 
basis of ordinary advances or discounts or through 
Section 10(b) advances. 
In cither event, 
renewable notes of 30 days or less should be 
utilized, and any such "conduit" credit rhould 
be considered as separate from and in addition 

3967 
to the member bank's normal access to discount 
r-r facilities. 
It would be expected that such special 
treatment as to discount policy would provide the 
basis for close Reserve Bank supervision of the 
terms and conditions of any credits extended by 
memb?.r banks under the arrangement. 
In particular, 
it would be desirable that the ra:e charged be no 
more than 2 percentage points above the rate set on 
Section 10(b) advances and uhat the policies and 
practices with respect to repayment requirements 
be comparable to those observed by the Reserve 
Bank in its direct credit extensions to these or 
similar institutions. 
In order to provide for prompt implementation of such a program 
for extensions of emergency credit facilities during the next few weeks, 
the Board haa taken the following actions: 
Effective today and until April 1, 1970: 
(a) member banks are permitted pursuant to Section 19(e) 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.3.C. 374) and 
section 2.01.5 of Regulation. A, to use as security 
for advances from your Bank, whether under Section 13 
or Section 10(b) of the Act, assets acquired from 
mutual savings banks, other banks, and savings 
and loan associations, that are members of neither 
the Federal Reserve nor the Federal Home Loan Bank 
Systems, but only in accordance with, and subject 
to the limitations provided in paragraphs 1 and 3 
above; and 
(b) your Bank is authorized, in accordance with the 
third paragraph of Section 13 of -.he Federal 
Reserve Act, in unusual and exigent circumstances 
to disccunt for the same types of nonrr.ember institu-
tions paper of the kinds described in that para-
graph, subject, however, to the limitation therein 
contained and in accordance with, and subject to, 
the limitations contained in paragraph 2 above. 

Wo specific Board action is required for direct advances by 
your Bank to any such nonmember institutions pursuant ro the thirteenth 
Paragraph of Section 13 of the Federal Rererve Act; but any such 
advances should be wade in accordance with paragraph 2 above. 
There is likewise no necessity for any specific Board action 
as a prerequisite to the acceptance by ycisr Bank as security for 
advances to member banks of any assets acquired by the member banks 
£rorr, ncnmc-mbr-.r institutions of the types indicated that are not banks 
i o r
 purposes of the Federal Reserve Act, but any such indirect exten-
sions of Federal Reserve credit to such institutions should be made in 
accordance with paragraphs 1 and 3 above. 
Since the provisions of the third paragraph of section 13 
the Federal Reserve Act have never heretofore, been utilized, no 
,;
al:e of discount has been established for discounts under that para-
graph. while it seems unlikely that resort to the authority contained 
11
 this paragraph will be necessary under the current program, it is 
Su
8gestc.ci Chat, if such resort should appear inxvtnent, your Lank might 
V/
ish to establish, subject to review and determination by the Board, 
the same discount rate as that now established for direct advances to 
Individualo, partnerships, and corporations other than member banks unde 
the. thirteenth paragraph of section 13. 
It is also suggested that 
this latter rate be established uniformly in all Reserve districts at 
^"1/2 poj: cent. 

w '6 u 
3969 
To keep abreast of any special credit assistance granted in 
accordance with this program, the Board would appreciate receiving, 
as of the close of business each day in which such credit assistance 
is outstanding, a special telegraphic borrowing report containing the 
following information, identified by iten number as noted: 
I, Out standing borrowing by member banks secured by 
collateral received from nonmember institutions 
of the types indicated in the first full paragraph 
on page 2, but subject to usual Regulation A 
restraints (in accordance wiith paragraph 1 above); 
(a) Number of banks '.'orrowing 
/ 
; 
Total amount outstanding 
J.IV 
Outstanding borrowing by such nonmember institutions 
(in accordance with paragraph 2 above): 
(a) Number of nonmember institutions borrowing 
(b) Total amount outstanding 
III. Outstanding "conduit" borrowing by member banks. 
outside usual Regulation A restraints, for proposes 
of relending to a depositary-type institution (in 
accordance with paragraph 3 above); 
(a) Number of banks borrowing 
(b) Total amount outstanding 
Such telegraphic, reports should bo addressed to Mr. Ring at the 
Board; a coy/ should also be sent to Mr, Weidner, Market Statistics 
Department, Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The daily wire should 
ke supplemented by a daily m i l report addressed to Mr, Ring at-'the 
fioard, listing the name of each institution initiating renewing, repaying, 
otherwise changing borrowing from the Federal Reserve Bank in the 
banner specified under items I, II, or III above, and the outstanding 
amount of such borrowing by that institution, classified by type of 
collateral. 

I 
3370 
-7-
No general publicity is being given to this program at this 
time. However, it is expected that the Reserve Banks will make 
reasonable effort-, to bring the arrangements for special assistance 
to the attention of those financial institutions that may find 
themselves in need of such special assistance. 
It is important: that the policies and procedures of the 
Federal Reserve B.tnks be reasonably uniform in the event any sizeable 
number of emergency assistance loans are made. For this purpose 
the Board endorser; the. principles spelled out tor emergency assistance 
t o n
<»nn:eruber insti tutions contained in Section V on Emergency Credit 
in the System Committee Report on Reappraisal of the Federal 
serve Discount Mechanism, a copy of which is enclosed. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure. 
1 0 THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RF,SERVE BANKS. 

* I 
Selected Passages from Section V on Emergent y Credit Assistance 
from the System Committee Report on Reappraisal 
__ 
of the Federal Reserve Dlscount Mechanicm 
Under-present conditions, sophisticated open market opera-
tions enable the System to head off general liquidity crises, but 
such operations are less appropriate when the System is confronted 
vith seriouw financial strains among individual firms or specialized 
groups of institutions. At times such pressures may be inherent in 
the nature of monetary restraint, in the sense that monetary policy 
actions, no matter how impersonally applied, often have, in fact, 
excessively harsh impacts on particular sectors of the economy. At 
°ther times underlying economic conditions may change in unforeseen 
^ ' s , to the detriment of a particular financial substructure. 
And, 
°t course, the possibility of local calamities or management failure 
a
 Electing individual institutions or small groups of institutions is 
ever-present. 
It is in connection with these limited crises that 
discount winch;*? can play an effective role as "lender of last resort." 
This responsibility is not cons.rued as placing the Federal 
Reserve in the position of maintaining the financial structure in status 
qu
°« 
The System should not act to prevent losses and impairment of 
Ca
Pit:al of particular financial institutions. 
If pressures develop 
a
8ainst and impair the profitability of institutions whose operations 
have become unstable, inappropriate to changing economic conditions, 
°
r
 competitively disadvantaged in the marketplace, it is not the 
ef
^oj.al Reserve's responsibility to use its bread monetary powers 

• M v < 
W - J c 
in a bail-out: operation. Except in the case of member banks, where 
its responsibilities are somewhat more direct, the System should 
intervene in its capacity as 'lender of last resort
-
' only when 
liquidity pressures threaten to engulf whole classes of financial 
institutions whose structures are sound and whose operational impair-
ment would be seriously disruptive to the economy. 
Thje_Sj£s tern a;- ' Jen ler of last re sort ' 
t h e 
e c on o t i y 
J: 1 i t o u g h 
n o n m e m b e r 
j j I s t i U i U , o _ n s 
The role of the Federal Reserve as the ''lender of last 
resort"
1
 to o:her financial sectors of the economy may, under justifiable 
c
ircumstancer., require loans to institutions other than member banks. 
The apparent general approval of recent instances of lending and offering 
to lend tc lvmmembtr institutions has strengthened the belief that the 
System's ability to carry out this function should be readily available 
use when needed. 
In. contrast to the case o:: membar banks, however, 
Justification for Federal Reserve assistance to nonmember institutions 
must be i.n terms of the probable impact of failure on the economy's 
financial structure. 
It would be most unusual for the failure of a 
s i n g l e 
institution or small group of institutions to have such significant 
r e
percussions as to justify Federal Reserve action.—
1
'' 
An exception might be made in a case where the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation requested Federal Reserve assistance for a 
nonmember commercial bank while the FDIC carried out a program 
to remedy the situation. 

*> i 
-3-
The Federal Reserve Act places no exp-.icit limitations 
on the types or institutions eligible for direct emergency credit 
assistance, since it authorizes direct advances to ''any individual, 
partnership, or corporation.
1
''; but in fact, rather stringent limita-
tions are imposed by the requirement that these advances be secured 
by 'direct obligations of the United States,
rr
 
(and since September 
9 / 
I960 obligations if U, 3. agencies).- 
In effect this means that, 
in an emergency, credit in any significant: amount could probably be 
extended to nonmember> at least nonbank, institutions only by us'i.r.g 
a member bank as a conduit. That is. the Federal Reserve would lend 
funds to cooperating member banks that would in turn make loans to 
nonmember irs titmions. The relevant Federal agency can also sometime 
serve in ths role of a conduit, so long as that agency has lending 
authority and assets eligible for Federal Reserve acquisition. 
Thus 
the current law is not prohibitive of indirect lending to nonbank 
institutions, although it does involve additioral arrangements and 
costs over those >;hat would be involved in direct loans. 
Decisions as to what types of institutions will be regarded, 
under justifiable circumstances, as eligible fcr emergency credit are 
In unusual and exigent circumstances the Board of Governors, by 
the affirmative vote of at least five members, may authorize any 
Federal. Reserve Bank to discount eligible paper for any individual 
partnership, or corporation which is unable to obtain adequate 
credit accommodation from other banking institutions. 
However, 
in practice this provision is of little use, since nonmember 
institutions typically have only very limited holdings of 
eligible paper. 

o ( 
o f fcj - t 
-A -
best made in the light of the surrounding circumstances and relative 
severity of particular situations. Therefore, no inclusive or 
exclusive list of the types of institutions to -vhich emergency 
credit may b- extended should be established in advance of anticipated 
possible developments. 
Federal Reserve cvedit would be advanced to 
nonmember institutions only after other avenues of relief have been 
exhausted. Depositary institutions, the suppliers and holders of 
the nation's liquidity, are the most likely to encounter situations 
where this in necessary, and for this reason emergency credit would 
b
o accorded, in all but the most extraordinary circumstances, only 
to those institutions. 
Supervised nonmember financial institutions would be 
required to cbrain the support and assent of the relevant super-
visory agency to receive Federal Reserve emergency credit. 
On the. 
other hand, the Federal Reserve should not be obligated to lend to 
nonmembers merely on the reqiest of their supervisor. While institu-
tions can be declared insolvent only by the chartering authority or 
th'--
" courts (and such a declaration would effectively preclude Federal 
Reserve lending), the System should retain the option to reject 
r e
quests for assistance even when the other agency considers the 
institutions solvent. 
When lending to nonmembers, the System will require, in 
c
°operation with the relevant supervisory agency, that the institutions 
develop and pursue a workable program for alleviating rheir difficulties 
a
nd vjj.il follow the progress of the agreed-upon program closely. 

Credit v?ill be prcvided only at a significant penalty rate vis-a-vis 
that charged member banks. This penalty rate can be thought of as 
offsetting, in part, the cost of maintaining reserves with the System 
which is continuously borne by member banks. 

Item No. 10 
Summary of 1970 Budget Adjustments 
12/24/69 
as Approved by Board on December 24, 1969 
Board 
Secretary 
Legal 
Regular 
502,400 
One-Bank Holding Co. 
82,100 
Research 
Regular 
3,630,900 
One-Bank Holding Co. 
75,600 
International 
S u
P . & Reg. 
Regular 
1,169,200 
One-Bank Holding Co. 
81,900 
R e
s . Bank Operations 
Personnel 
Administrative Services 
Controller 
defense Planning 
Data Processing 
Retirement & Ins. Bon. 
Regular 
1,951,600 
One-Bank Holding Co. 
31,000 
T
°TAL OPERATING BUDGET 
Ar
>nex Building 
T
°TAL BUDGET 
Original 
Capability 
Budget 
$ 
713,500 
768,100 
584,500 
3,706,500 
1,195,100 
1,982,600 
$19,631,400 
960,000 
Adjustments 
$ 
(70,000) 
(166,500) 
$(291,400) 
Revised 
Budget 
$ 
713,500 
698,100 
584,500 
3,540,000 
1,195,100 
1,251,100 
(35,000) 
1,216,100 
1,315,800 
75,000 
1,390,800 
37,000 
461,200 
(10,100) 
488,100 
96,100 
3,276,700 
(111,100) 
3,261,700 
286,900 
286,900 
53,600 
53,600 
4,035,800 
(106,800) 
3,929,000 
$20,591,400 
$(291,400) 
1,982,600 
$19,340,000 
960,000 
$20,300,000 

97 7 
1970 Program Budget 
by Program Structure 
Approved by Board on December 24, 1969 
Summary Table 1 
Program Structure 
Formulation of Monetary Policy 
A
- 
Devel. & Dissem. of Econ. 
Intelligence 
B
- 
Prog. Direction & Support 
H. Q 
a u
P- & Reg. of Fin
1
1 Inst. 
A
- 
Federal Reserve Banks 
B
- 
Com'l Bk Opns & Banking 
Structure Changes 
C- 
Selective Credit Regulation 
Truth in Lending 
E
- 
Prog. Direction & Support 
IV. 
One 
^ n ' l Svcs for Sys., Gov't & 
Public 
Currency & Coin Supply 
Payments Mechanism 
• Prog. Direction & Support 
S
ystem Pol Ley Dir. & Bd. Support 
A. Sys tem Policy Direction 
Board Support 
C
- 
Other Support 
TOTAL Board Programs 
3 t l k h o l d
i n g company program 
-GRAND TOTAT.S 
1968 
Expenses 
(Actual) 
$ 3,126,156 
2,092,042 
1,034,114 
$ 1,932,644 
722,000 
665,454 
115,899 
157,884 
271,407 
$ 
30,400 
1969 
Expenses 
(Estimate) 
$ 3,653,100 
2,526,900 
1,126,200 
$ 2,632,800 
853,000 
863,500 
176,200 
414,500 
325,600 
1970 
Budget 
Over (Under) 
1969 Expense 
$ 4,460,400 
$ 807,300 
22.1 
3,140,100 
1,320,300 
$ 3,034,100 
1,172,700 
1,080,900 
208,600 
174,900 
397,000 
613,200 
194,100 
24.3 
17.2 
$ 
401.300 
15.2 
$ 
49,900 
$ 
79Tl00 
25,800 
4,600 
29,100 
20,800 
$ 8,116,200 
823,500 
5,214,000 
2,078,700 
$10,443,600 
$13,205,400 
954,500 
6,488,600 
3,000,500 
$16,779,400 
27,800 
51,300 
319,700 
37.5 
217,400 
25.2 
32,400 
18.4 
(239,600) 
(57.8) 
71,400 
21.9 
$ 
29,200 
58.5 
$12,455,800 
1,009,500 
8,534,700 
2,911,600 
$20,029,400 
270,600 
(1,300) 
30,500 
(4.5) 
146.6 
$2,012,200 
19.3 
55,000 
5.8 
2,046,100 
31.5 
(88,900) 
(3.0) 
$3,250,000 
19.4 

337a 
1970 Budget 
Summary Table 2 
Summary by Divisions 
Approved by Board on December 24, 1969 
1969 
1 
- - - - -
Division 
Budget 
Expenses 
(Estimated) 
1970 
Budget 
Over (Under) 
1969 Expenses 
Offices of Members of the Board 
$ 
614,575 
$ 
705,800 
$ 
713,500 
$ 
7,700 
1.1 
Office of the Secretary 
515,789 
547,000 
698,100 
151,100 
27.6 
Legal Division 
399,723 
405,000 
502,400 
97,400 
24.0 
Division of Research and Statistics 
2 ,673,061 
2,788,200 
3,464,400 
676,200 
24.3 
Division of International Finance 
Regular 
Special: 
944,526 
1,010,600' 
1,195,100 
184,500 
18.3 
Central Bank Conference 
20,000 
29,500 
- -
(29,500) 
(100.0) 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
888,549 
1,158,200 
1,134,200 
(24,000) 
(2.1) 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations 
970,141 
1,032,100 
1,390,800 
358,700 
34.8 
Division of Personnel Administration 
Regular 
Special: 
327,869 
349,000 
464,400 
115,400 
33.1 
Youth Aid 
10,500 
12,600 
23,700 
11,100 
88.1 
Division of Administrative Services 
Regular 
Special: 
2 ,611,430 
2,916,300 
3,196,600 
280,300 
9.6 
Furniture Replacement Program 
Building Improvements 
18,350 
159,900 
35,000 
209,700 
46,100 
19,000 
11,100 
(190,700) 
31.7 
(90.9) 
Office of the Controller 
166,058 
181,800 
286,900 
105,100 
57.8 
Office of Defense Planning 
43,987 
48,300 
53,600 
5,300 
11.0 
Division of Data Processing 
Regular 
Special: 
2 381,903 
2,348,300 
3,929,000 
1 ,580,700 
67.3 
Portable Projection System 
1, 5C0 
1,500 
- -
(1,500) 
(100.0) 
Employee Retirement and Insurance 
Benefits 
1 336,376 
1,843,200 
1,951,600 
108,400 
5.9 
Totals 
One-bank Holding Company Program: 
Legal Division 
Research and Statistics 
Supervision and Regulation 
Retirement and Insurance Benefits 
$14,084,237 
$15,622,100 
$19,069,400 
$3,447,300 
22.1 
Totals 
One-bank Holding Company Program: 
Legal Division 
Research and Statistics 
Supervision and Regulation 
Retirement and Insurance Benefits 
- -
- -
2 70,600 
270,600 
Totals 
One-bank Holding Company Program: 
Legal Division 
Research and Statistics 
Supervision and Regulation 
Retirement and Insurance Benefits 
- -
- -
82,100 
75,600 
81,900 
31,000 
82,100 
75,600 
81,900 
31,000 
Total Operating Budget 
$14, 084,237 
$15,622,100 
$19,340,000 
$3 ,717,900 
23.8 
Construction -
Annex Building 
5, 500,000 
1,157,300 
960,000 
(197,300) 
(17.0) 
:===_r_____GRAND TOTAL 
$19, 584,237 
$16,779,400 
$20,300,000 
$3 ,520,600 
21.0 

1970 Program Budget Positions 
Summary Table 3 
by Division and Office 
Approved by Board on December 24, 1969 
1968 
1969 
1970 
Budgeted 
Positions 
Net 
Additions 
During 
Year 
Net 
Additions 
in 
Budget 
Budgeted 
Positions 
Net 
Additions 
During 
Year 
Net 
Additions 
in Budget 
Budgeted 
Positions 
Board Members 
29 
1 
1 
31 
1 
- -
32 
Office of the Secretary 
55 
1 
- -
56 
2 
5 
63 
Legal Division 
34 
- -
-3 
31 
- -
-1 
30 
Research & Statistics 
218 
8 
5 
231 
11 
29 
271 
International Finance 
65 
2 
7 
74 
2 
2 
78 
Supervision & Regulation 
78 
-18 
7 
67 
3 
5 
75 
FR Bank Operations 
31 
34 
- -
65 
2 
9 
76 
Personnel 
37 
1 
- -
38 
26 
3 
67 
Administrative Services 
181 
17 
7 
205 
-18 
11 
198 
Office of the Controller 
13 
- -
1 
14 
4 
3 
Ji 
21 
Defense Planning 
2 
- -
- -
2 
- -
- -
2 
Data Processing 
133 
6 
8 
147 
22 
34 
203 
One-bank holding company 
program: 
- -
- -
- -
- -
31 
31 
Legal 
Research & Statistics 
Supervision & Regulation 
- -
:: 
- -
- -
8 
12 
11 
8 
12 
11 
Total 
876 
52 
33 
961 
55 
131 
1,147 

3980 
1970 Budget 
Summary of Account Classifications 
Approved by Board on December 24, 1969 
Summary Table 4 
Page 1 
Offi 
Ofr.
 e s
 °f Members of the Board 
lea-?® °
f t h e
 Secretary 
l 0 n Of Research and Statistics 
v
ision of International Finance 
Di 
Di 
^'Divi
 
o f 
F R 
B a n k
 Operations 
D i v ^ g
L O n
 °f Personnel Administration 
• VioJ 
l.'ll.^lWHUlH.l 
&
i o n of Supervision & Regulat 
Offi °
n
 of Administrative Services 
0f f.
C e o f
 the Controller 
D i n
C (
:
 o f
 Defense Planning 
S l 0 n
 of Data Processing 
Total 
«ett-
Si 
r
em. 
e n t
 Contributions 
°yee 
Tot 
Ins urance 
Amount 
1969 
Budget 
548,455 
502,028 
380,445 
2,409,186 
823,726 
757,232 
747,439 
265,512 
1,007,092 
161,568 
35,213 
1,401,025 
Expenses 
(Estimated) 
606,600 
533,800 
382,300 
2,491,900 
875,800 
783,5P 
762. ,0 
29' oOO 
1,r ^,400 
.76,300 
37,200 
1,452,000 
1970 
Budget 
Over (Under) 
1969 Expenses 
Amount 
Percent 
9,038,921 
256 
^0 
1. A,566 
84,460 
a l
 Personal Services 
$10,631,887 
9,408,200 
279,300 
1,756,900 
83,900 
$11,528,300 
634,900 
658,000 
466,300 
3,106,300 
1,034,700 
999,400 
933,800 
353,000 
1,192,800 
278,100 
43,100 
2,337,400 
12,037,800 
383,100 
1,835,600 
115,000 
$14,371,500 
28,300 
124,200 
84,000 
614,400 
158,900 
215,900 
171,000 
56,400 
183,400 
101,800 
5,900 
885,400 
4.7 
23.3 
22.0 
24.7 
18.1 
27.6 
22.4 
19 .0 
18.2 
57.7 
15.9 
61.0 
2,629,600 
28.0 
103,800 
78,700 
31,100 
$2,843,200 
37.2 
4 
J7.1 
24.7 
J f l " J 
1970 

3981 
Summary Table 4 
Page 2 
.Classification of Expenses 
1969 
1970 
Over (Under) 
Budget 
(F, stimated) 
Budeet 
Dollars 
Percent 
$ 
368 309 
$ 
482 900 
$ 
635,200 
$ 
152,300 
31.5 
163 017 
199 ,500 
194,100 
(5,400) 
(2.7) 
226 495 
193 500 
238,200 
44,700 
23.1 
594 261 
773 900 
718,700 
(55,200) 
(7.1) 
107 545 
115 000 
127,000 
12,000 
10.4 
72 053 
112 300 
149,500 
37,200 
33.1 
935 029 
1 ,058 600 
1 ,789,500 
730,900 
69.0 
36 155 
37 000 
43,600 
6,600 
17.8 
58 000 
64 700 
63,500 
(1,200) 
(1.9) 
184 950 
233,000 
66,300 
(166,700) 
(71.5) 
32 494 
34 600 
36,500 
1,900 
5.5 
1 895 
3 300 
4,800 
1,500 
45.5 
485 858 
586 500 
363,300 
(223,200) 
(38.1) 
305 800 
135 400 
111,600 
(23,800) 
(17.6) 
11 000 
84 250 
99 300 
93,000 
(6,300) 
(6.3) 
17 000 
17 700 
12,000 
(5,700) 
(32.2) 
20 796 
58 000 
86,300 
28,300 
48.8 
34 992 
45 400 
43,300 
(2,100) 
(4.6) 
4 040 
8 000 
6,900 
(1,100) 
(13.8) 
4 880 
3 400 
6,200 
2,800 
82.4 
3 100 
3 700 
4,000 
300 
8.1 
215 600 
(215,600) 
(100.0) 
186 289 
199 000 
267,700 
68,700 
34.5 
87 987 
86 000 
126,300 
40,300 
46.9 
27 000 
27 000 
27,000 
4 500 
3 000 
4,200 
1,200 
40.0 
16 622 
17 700 
44,300 
26,600 
150.3 
21 625 
28 100 
10,800 
(17,300) 
(61.6) 
7 000 
7 700 
7,500 
(200) 
(2.6) 
3 650 
3 800 
3,800 
17 905 
25 700 
43,800 
18,100 
70.4 
3 ,452 350 
4 ,093 800 
4 ,697,900 
604,100 
14. 7 
10 ,631 887 
11 ,528 300 
14 ,371,500 
2,843, 200 
24.7 
14 ,084 237 
15 ,622 100 
19 ,069,400 
3,447,300 
22.1 
264,400 
264,400 
6,200 
6,200 
_ _ _ 
270,600 
270,600 
14 ,084 237 
15 ,622 100 
19 ,340,000 
3,717,900 
23.8 
5 ,500 000 
1 ,157 300 
960,000 
(197,300) 
(17.0) 
$19 ,584 237 
$16 ,779 400 
$20 ,300,000 
$3,520,600 
21.0 
^ S O N A L SERVICES 
E x
P
e n s e s 
|i
 
a
nd Expressage 
'lnM°
ne a n d 
T e l e
§
r a
P
h 
t i n
8 and Binding 
j^ionery a n d Supplies 
and Equipment 
a
nd Subscriptions 
.JJj
 L l
8 h t and Power 
.p9J
rs Q
nd Alterations 
asu/
8 a n d
 Maintenance 
ra
nce 
Jnt 
(Bldg & Gr, 
(F&E) 
r a c
tual Professional Services 
J J ^ l c a l , Prog, and Other Outside 
R„ , Proc essing Division Services 
i n
8 Markets Surveys 
aeVi
 8 6 3
 Project - SSRC 
5
 
e w
 of Examination Procedures and 
0
 
C r
et Service Surveys 
S E '
8 t u d i
" 
L
> Medical, Instructional & Other Svcs 
Tt
 
r l t
y Clearance Investigations 
AU(j.
S
^
ati
-ng and Reporting Services 
w J
l n g 
Books of Board 
"In-Lending Public Information 
U
 °ther 
(net) 
Spe 
Membership Fee and Expenses 
V M
 
S t a t i s t
i c a l Services 
0 f f .
l O n a
n d Registration 
H e a l
l c i a
l Dinners, Receptions, etc. 
H 6 W s
S f
°r Official Guests 
K
j
^ 
Service 
iJ
-aneous 
^°
ta
l Nonpersonal Services 
^°
ta
l Personal Services 
T
°tals 
•tie. 
ffito^ holding company program 
V
n
a
l
 
Servic es 
e r s
o n a l Services 
^
0 t : a
l one-bank holding co.program 
Total Operating Budget 
Jfi,|
l 1970 
