MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 14, 1970 

2 3 1 5 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, August 14, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Morgan and Mrs. Byrn of the Office of the 
Secretary 
<.<• 
i • •.' :. 
•* L: 
I 
-1 v. £ !' •' ' t; i* ''li
 1
 t 
-.a < ' 
> u*~<i ! u 
Oi- 
u ' • i; " 
V.\ > L •'
;
' 
A review of economic and financial developments in the inter-
national sphere was presented; copies of the individual briefings have 
been placed in the Board's files. 
After discussion based on the review, members of the staff who 
»-ilC .i j'-.' t-a i> fci\Il \ 
~ >•>.?• M CJ • k v * l\*' 
Jw p<'/;V >. : H* • iYi *> r ! tin t i 0> ti J n. 
had attended the meeting for that purpose left the room. Messrs. Hexter, 
•» ^ •::.•:: > jar- ixcuiri- alio-.-.-.-., ro pay • !>..-: Lr 
r
-
Assistant to the Board; Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
/ 
' I " . . .:• r?- 
v . r; - . . a ' 1 
• i ' . : i.: L 
•I 
V 
Bank Operations; Sanders, Deputy General Counsel; and Axilrod, Associate 
;.:'> d'l ' t; • U:
 
:
 L j - \ . u> ur uJ
 
;
 .Sa v 
in > ' . : : . .
; 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics, entered, along with appro-
Priate supporting staff. 
U 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2346 
8/14/70 
-2-
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. Governor Robertson 
brought to the Board's attention three items that had been considered 
at the meeting of the Interagency Coordinating Committee on August 12, 
1970. 
(1) Loans to minority business enterprises. 
The consensus of 
the Committee had been that the supervisory agencies should avoid indi-
cating that bank examination standards would be relaxed with respect to 
loans to minority enterprises, although they should express general 
support for the American Bankers Association's effort to promote within 
the banking industry a $1 billion Minority Lending Program. 
After discussion, the Board approved unanimously a letter to the 
President of the American Bankers Association in the form attached as 
Item No. 1. with the understanding that copies would be sent to the 
Federal Reserve Banks. 
(2) Massachusetts deposit rates. The Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board had responded to the 
increased rates that non-federally insured depositary institutions in 
Massachusetts were recently allowed to pay to their depositors by raising 
from 5 to 5-1/4 per cent the maximum rate payable on regular passbook 
savings accounts at federally-insured mutual savings banks in Massachusetts. 
However, the Board's staff and the Boston Reserve Bank had devel-
oped data indicating that an adjustment in the rate structure for commer-
cial banks in Massachuesetts did not seem to be justified. 
Accordingly, 
Governor Robertson recommended that the Board take no action at this 

23\7 
8/14/70 
-3-
time regarding interest rate ceilings applicable to savings deposits 
and consumer-type time deposits at Massachusetts member banks, but that 
the question be left open for further study as additional data became 
available. 
The Board agreed with Governor Robertson's recommendation and 
unanimously approved a letter in the form attached as Item No. 2 in 
answer to correspondence from the American Bankers Association. A simi-
lar letter was sent to the Massachusetts Bankers Association. 
(3) Brokered deposits. Governor Robertson reported that the 
Comptroller of the Currency and the FDIC were planning to survey banks 
under their respective jurisdictions to obtain data on the use of brokered 
deposits. He recommended that the Board conduct a similar survey of State 
member banks. The purpose would be to develop the information base neces-
sary to understand the use of brokered funds and the tie-ins that often 
exist between brokered deposits and loans. For one thing, such data would 
be useful in preparing the Board's position on the Safe Banking Act of 
1970 (H.R. 18676), recently introduced by Congressman Patman, to prohibit 
the use of brokered funds. Governor Robertson suggested the use by the 
Board of a more detailed questionnaire than the one being used by the Comp-
troller. 
After discussion, the Board authorized the survey of State member 
banks but decided against transmitting a detailed questionnaire to all 
such banks at this stage. This contemplated, however, that a follow-up 

2t348 
8/14/70 
-4-
questionnaire could be sent to those banks that responded positively 
to the first survey. Attached as Item No. 3 is a copy of the letter 
in which the Reserve Banks were requested to make an initial survey 
of the State member banks in their respective Districts. 
Reserve requirements. The Board gave further consideration 
to the question of possible changes in reserve requirements. For this 
Purpose, and in response to a request from the Board, Mr. Partee pre-
sented a new staff proposal that would restructure reserve require-
ments on demand deposits and time deposits and impose a reserve require-
ment on commercial paper. The proposed restructuring would make 
reserve requirements at country banks identical to those at reserve 
city banks on all deposits except demand deposits over $50 million. 
The idea was discussed at some length and its basic attractive-
ness on theoretical grounds was noted. However, the proposal was observed 
to have disadvantages from a practical standpoint. It would involve a 
substantial net release of reserves, yet a fair number of large country 
banks would be adversely affected. Certain possible variations of the 
proposal were explored, none of which appeared to offer a markedly more 
attractive alternative. Discussion of those possible alternatives brought 
out that a formula under which no significant group of banks would be dis-
advantaged would have to involve a very substantial total release of 
reserves. 

2349 
8/14/70 
-5-
In light of the factors brought out during the discussion, the 
Chairman observed that he would not be inclined to proceed with such a 
move in the absence of legislation, or at least the tacit consent of the 
Banking and Currency Committees. 
The likelihood of obtaining legisla-
tion was considered remote. While the alternative of checking with the 
Committees was thought to offer some possibilities, it was noted that 
the fact that this was an election year probably argued against the pros-
pect of successful negotiation. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was the consensus that 
the possibility of a move of the kind suggested should be borne in mind 
for consideration at some more propitious time in the future, at which 
time additional thought could be given to means that might be available 
for obtaining some form of Congressional concurrence. 
The discussion then reverted to the fundamental problem the 
Board had considered previously of imposing a reserve requirement on 
commercial paper issued by bank affiliates, with some concurrent action 
in respect to reserve requirements generally so as to produce a relatively 
neutral reserve effect. One alternative considered was to lower the 
reserve requirement against time deposits over $5 million at any member 
bank to 4-1/2 per cent and to place a 4-1/2 per cent reserve require-
ment on commercial paper. Another alternative was to make both require-
ments 5 per cent. 

2350 
8/14/70 
-6-
The Chairman, who favored the first alternative, observed that 
the arguments had been presented quite extensively in previous discus-
sions. In summary, he felt that any move that would carry a restrictive 
tone must be ruled out at this time. Another argument for the action 
he favored, although not a major one, was that it might help, through 
improving sentiment, to forestall the further erosion of membership in 
the System. Also, in his opinion, the System was not quite on target 
as far as monetary policy was concerned. Although he would have pre-
ferred a net release of reserves somewhat smaller than the approximately 
<.$700 million that would be involved, he did not believe that action of 
such magnitude could be characterized as extreme, and any lesser move 
would exert pressure on the New York. City banks, which he did not feel 
would be desirable at this time. At this stage, with recessionary ten-
dencies in evidence, he was particularly concerned about public sentiment. 
Governor Maisel was inclined toward the 5 per cent proposal. 
He did not believe that the effect on the New York City banks would be 
significant, and in his view the best move at this time would be one 
that in the overall sense would be interpreted as essentially neutral. 
He was apprehensive about the announcement effect of an action that 
wight be interpreted as an easing move. 
The Chairman, on the other hand, saw the action he favored as 
a moderate one and believed that the announcement effect would be help-
ful in offering reassurance to the business and financial community. 

2 3 5 1 
8/14/70 
-7-
Governor Sherrill agreed that some action on commercial paper 
was required and concurred in the view that the announcement effect of 
the action favored by the Chairman would be minor, while Governor Mitchell 
leaned toward the point of view that had been expressed by Governor Maisel. 
Governor Robertson then observed that the other two members of 
the Board would be available to participate in a decision the first part 
of next week and suggested that the subject be discussed further at that 
time. There was agreement with that suggestion. 
The staff then distributed information on the maturity structure 
Of outstanding certificates of deposit, and the Chairman inquired whether 
the Board would like to take up in the near future the question of 
removing the interest rate ceilings on large certificates. Other Board 
members having indicated that they would be agreeable, the Chairman 
said he would schedule such a discussion within the next few weeks and 
that in the meantime he would ask the staff to prepare another memo-
randum for study by the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

O'J r o 
Item No. 1 
8/14/70 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2 0 5 5 1 
August 27, 1970. 
Mr. Nat S. Rogers, President 
American Bankers Association 
815 Connecticut Avenue 
Washington, D. C. 
20006 
Dear Mr. Rogers: 
I am responding fco your letter of May 25, 1970, requesting 
the Board to issue a statement of policy in support of the billion-
dollar commitment of the banking industry to assist in developing 
minority business enterprise. 
We believe the proposed program of the banking industry is 
worthwhile and are pleased to see that the Association's undertaking 
has the needed support of the commercial banks. The problems of the 
nation's cities and its disadvantaged minorities are areas in which 
commercial banks can make a most important contribution to progress. 
<i•!>,-'.'i - i 
. i , 
In the Board's judgment, the more loans to disadvantaged 
minorities the better, provided they are sound. Implicit in this 
policy is the understanding that banks will furnish guidance and 
assistance to members of minority groups in connection with their 
borrowings. However, in examining banks, a loan to a disadvantaged 
Person or firm must be evaluated just as any other loan - that is, 
the basis of the ability of the borrower to make timely repayment 
a
nd his record of performance. 
We hope that your program will be successful. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 

of COV-c • • 
'.f^lR^V 
tCOOO 
Item No. 2 
8/14/70 
C H A I R M A N 
O F T H E B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
August 21, 1970 
M r . Nat S . Rogers, President 
American Bankers Association 
815 Connecticut Avenue, N. W . 
Washington, D. C. 20006 
Dear Mr . Rogers: 
I am responding to your letter of July 28, 1970, regarding 
the rates of interest that'member banks in Massachusetts may pay on 
savings deposits and on multiple maturity time deposits payable at 
intervals of at least 90 days. You urge that the Board adopt an 
upward adjustment of the rates those banks may pay on such deposits 
in view of the recent action by the Massachusetts Commissioner of 
Banks fixing the maximum rates that Massachusetts depositary insti-
tutions whose deposits are not insured by a Federal agency may pay 
on comparable deposits. 
The Board has considered this matter in the light of data 
developed by its staff and the staff of the Boston Reserve Bank 
reflecting the experience of member banks in Massachusetts relative 
to banks in Connecticut and to all member banks in the country since 
the January 1970 upward adjustment in deposit interest rate structure. 
Based on these data, and other relevant considerations, we do not 
Relieve tnau raising the rate member banks in Massachusetts may pay 
°n either savings deposits or 90-day accounts would be justified at 
this time. 
We appreciate your concern with the competitive situation 
relative to commercial banks and other Massachusetts depositaries, 
Particularly the non-federally insured institutions. The Board, its 
staff, and the Boston Reserve Bank will continue to observe develop-
ments in the flow of funds among the various institutions. Any 
material that you may wish to submit to assist us in this matter will 
be appreciated. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 

i ^ i i i s -
v.:;,: 
l^smJoil^; mi 
r^vlofc;-, .... 
2 
B O A R D n F 
G D V E R N • R B 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
8/14/70 
ADDRESS QFriCIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
August 26, 1970 
f : 
Dear Sir: 
the P V )
T h
!
r e
(
i
n
 
a t t a c
h e d a form designed.to develop current information 
°f the !? 
°r\
 m
°
n e y b r o k e r i n
8 " activities in member State banks, as 
liked o ^ h
0
1
 business July 31, 1970. Similar information is being 
of th« r.
 n a t l o n a l 
b a n k s 
a n d
 insured nonmember banks by the Comptroller 
ne Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, respectively 
to thn W° r
l
d 
aPP r e c i a t G 
reproducing the form and distributer 
c o m p L t ^ r 
Z
 
b a n k s 
i n y o u r 
D i s t r i c t
 with a request that the 
f 
m 
r e t u™ed to you no later than September 15, 1970 
Bcsurd\l°7
a t d
l
 S
U
T
r
y
 °
f t h e 
r c s , l l t s 
a n d 
t h e
 
forms to the 
a
 as soon thereafter as is practicable. 
Very truly yours, 
A t t
« c h m 0 n t 
T 
iSlizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
to 
PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS. 

2355 
of Bank 
D a t e 
^dress 
_ 
SURVEY OF "MONEY BROKERING" ACTIVITIES 
Purpose of this survey is to compile facts about the activities of persons or organizations engaged in the 
blJsiness of channeling funds (deposits) into banks for compensation paid by the bank receiving the funds 
delusive of interest permitted by current regulations), by a borrower of the bank, or by anyone else. 
1. Does your bank engage in such transactions? 
No • 
Yes 
• 
2. If your bank engages in such transactions, describe the arrangements in detail, 
including the names and addresses of any brokers involved. (Attach separate page(s) 
if necessary) 
3. As of July 31, 1970, state: 
(a) the dollar amount of such deposits 
$ 
> 
and 
(b) the number of such transactions 
4. With respect to loans made pursuant to arrangements or agreements with persons 
or organizations producing funds reported in Item 3 state: 
(a) the present dollar amount 
$ 
— 
and 
(b) the number of such loans 
Signature and Title of Official Preparing Report 
