J 
5-f 
" ^67) 
Minutes for * June 19, 1967 
pi 
i 
U 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
°nly that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, June 19, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members* 
Offices 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
'• SuC 
r. .,,: 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Gramley, 
Sigel, Eckert, Ettin, Fisher, Gehman, Keir, 
Trueblood, and Zeisel, and Mrs. Smelker of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
ix: O • , 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Katz, Wood, Baker, Emery 
Gemmill, Kohn, Maroni, Pizer, and Roxon, and 
Mr. Junz of the Division of International 
Finance 
Economic review. An economic and financial review of the type 
^o®arily presented in advance of meetings of the Federal Open Mar-
1'^Committee was given. The statements made by the participating 
s taf ^ 
^embers were based to some extent on materials that had been dis-
>,,
uted i n preparation for tomorrow's Committee meeting, and copies of 
the r e i G v a n t documents have been placed in the Committee's files. 

2452 
S/19/bl 
-2-
The members of the two research divisions other than Messrs. 
Brill and Hersey then withdrew, as did Miss Eaton and Miss McWhirter, 
and the following entered: 
Messrs. Hackley, Hexter, O'Connell, Forrestal, Noble, 
Porter, and Via of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Leavitt, Dahl, Kline, Poundstone, and Rumbarger 
of the Division of Examinations 
Mess rs. Farrell, White, Jones, Raymond, and Sampson of 
the Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Golden of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Hart and Wood of the Division of Personnel 
Administration 
ill. < 
11. 
Approved items. The following letters were approved unani-
1 
mously after consideration of background information that had been made 
available to the members of the Board. Copies are attached under the 
r espective item numbers indicated. 
It c-
Letter to Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, 
New York, New York, approving the establishment 
a branch in Plainview, Nassau County. 
Letter to First Trust and Deposit Company, 
yracuse, New York, approving the establishment 
a branch in North Syracuse. 
^
e t t e r to Grant County Bank, Bayard, New Mexico, 
approving an investment in bank premises. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
ion regarding the application of State Bank of 
de
 
ey» Hawley, Minnesota, for continuation of 
Posit insurance after withdrawal from member-
lP in the Federal Reserve System. 
e r to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
Lett 
^
n terposing no objection to changes in the Bank's 
0 u P hospitalization program and approving the 
Item No. 
Payme n t of two-thirds of the premium cost. 

6/19/67 
-3-
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
approving the payment of salary to William H. 
Wallace as Assistant Vice President at the rate 
fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. 
i 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
7 
approving the payment of salary to Lester G. Gable 
as Vice President in charge of the bank examination 
function at the rate fixed by the Bank's Board of 
Directors. 
In response to a question by Governor Brimmer with respect to 
N o - 1- the Division of Examinations recalled that Chemical Bank's 
JiUJL : • 
liquidity position had been cited by the Board in previous correspon-
dence with that bank and indicated that the New York Reserve Bank was 
receiving periodic progress reports from the member bank. Accordingly, 
1 d i d 
not seem necessary to refer again to the liquidity problem in 
n e letter approving the branch application. 
j. . , 
J U 
, ,„.,. 
Application of First Trust Company of Albany (Items 8 and 9). 
Th 
, 
ere had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting 
e Board's decision on June 5, 1967, to approve the application of 
lit"' " 
r s t Trust Company of Albany, Albany, New York, to merge with The 
°rth Creek National Bank, North Creek, New York. 
Issuance of the order and statement was authorized; copies of 
so . a •.,. 
, 
th 
. 
e documents as issued are attached as Items 8 and 9, respectively. 
Application of First National Bank of Tampa and Union Security 
" 
Hegtment Company. At the meeting of the Board on June 7, 1967, 
irninary consideration was given to an application by First National 

24.54 
6/19/67 
-4-
Bank of Tampa, Tampa, Florida, and Union Security 6c Investment Company, 
also of Tampa, to acquire a majority of the voting stock of First 
National Bank of Lakeland, Lakeland, Florida. —^ The staff was 
requested to obtain additional information since Union Security 6c 
Investment Company proposed to purchase a majority (50.25 per cent) of 
the voting stock of the bank from Mr. P. Scott Linder, a director of 
First of Tampa and a trustee of Union Security, at a premium amounting 
to more than 7 per cent of deposits but had made no similar offer to 
minority shareholders. 
A memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated June 12, 
1967, stated that slightly more than 40 per cent of the bank's out-
standing stock was owned by 128 shareholders who apparently had no con-
n ection with the applicants and many of whom owned individually less 
fchan 1 per cent of the outstanding stock. The directors of the bank, 
°ther than Mr. Linder, were said to own about 4 per cent of the stock. 
I V | 
Applicants had advised that no dividend, management, or service 
^
e e s , other than charges in connection with data processing services 
n°
w being performed by First National Bank of Tampa, would be paid by 
lakeland bank during the first year after its acquisition by the 
h°lding company. 
^ 
A majority of the stock of Union Security 6c Investment Company is 
trusteed for the benefit of the shareholders of First National 
B*nk of Tampa. 

6/19/67 
-5-
Applicants confirmed that no tender was being made to minority 
shareholders. However, four directors of the Lakeland bank, including 
Mr. Linder, had purchased for their own account a total of 2,038 shares 
since the application was filed and had expressed willingness to pur-
chase any additional shares tendered by minority shareholders at a 
Price of $30 per share. This offer, although below the price of $35.50 
that applicant was paying for control, amounted to about 38 per cent 
°ver book value or a premium of about 4.5 per cent of the bank's 
deposits• 
In 
a second memorandum, dated June 16, 1967, the Division of 
Examinations presented several facts that it believed to argue in favor 
°f approval of the pending application. Among these was the fact that 
u uring the 
corporate life of the Lakeland bank some one person appar-
ently had always owned more than 50 per cent of the outstanding stock, 
which was initially offered at $18.75 per share when the bank opened 
1963. it was stated that the Atlanta Reserve Bank considered the 
P
rospects of the Lakeland bank very good and anticipated that the four 
^dividuaig offering the $30 per share could expect to profit from 
growth and improved earnings of the bank. The minority shareholders, 
it: W a s pointed out, could sell their shares to the four directors at 
$30 Per share, retain their stock, or sell it at the market. 
After an initial statement by Mr. Leavitt summarizing the facts 
Of 4.L 
. 
, 
n e case and the additional data that had been obtained, Governor 
Hai 
b e i indie ated that he continued to believe that the circumstances 

2456 
6/19/67 
-6-
raised a basic question under the Bank Holding Company Act, namely, 
whether it was a proper stance to say that the Board was willing to 
see a premium paid for majority shares as compared with the price 
offered to minority interests. 
Mr. Leavitt noted that control of a bank or other business 
customarily commands a premium when sales are made between individuals, 
but Governor Maisel pointed out that the question confronting the Board 
was whether to allow a holding company to secure a position where it 
could use majority control to increase its income at the expense of the 
minority. 
Mr. Solomon noted that the purchasers of a controlling interest 
might 
feel that control would enable them to bring about changes that 
Would not only increase the value of the shares for themselves but for 
all shareholders. Therefore, the net result of such a transaction was 
n°t necessarily injurious to the minority interests. 
Mr. Solomon then raised the question whether there was a sound 
basis for the Board to disapprove an application simply because the 
same offer was not made to the minority as to the majority shareholders. 
^
uch a discrimination was customary throughout the business sector, 
and he had some doubt as to the Board's authority to prescribe a dif-
ferent rule in this particular area. 
Governor Maisel observed that calculations customarily were 
mad e by the staff in connection with analyses of holding company appli-
a tions to determine that excess value was not being paid for stock 

2457 
6/19/67 
-7-
• ao' • 
proposed to be acquired, and Mr. Leavitt referred to the Board's 
o r <, 
interest in assuring itself that self-dealing was not involved. 
In this connection Governor Robertson asked about the implica-
va l 
tions of the fact that four individual directors of the Lakeland bank 
. a : 
had bought up more than 2,000 shares of the bank since the holding com-
pany application was filed with the Board. 
Mr. Leavitt suggested, as one possibility, that if the pending 
t i V : ) \ • 
•• i J I 
aPplication was approved the holding company might have in mind acquir-
ing 
those shares, which it could do without coming back to the Board 
for further approval. On the other hand, the directors might be buying 
the stock because they felt the prospects of the Lakeland bank were 
favorable and its earnings would increase. 
Governor Maisel turned to the background of the bank holding 
company legis 
lation and raised the question whether holding companies 
should be allowed to expand under that legislation with a minimum out-
°f cash through acquisition of only the portion of a bank's stock 
n ecessary to insure control. He referred to problems that had arisen 
the past, particularly in relation to public utility holding com-
through fractional ownership. 
Mr. Hexter commented that the Congressional approach to the 
folding company problem in the public utilities field was quite differ-
from the Congressional approach in the banking field. During the 
there had been a flagrant misuse of power by public utility 

2458 
6/19/67 
-8-
6 / 
• 
• 
holding companies, and the Securities and Exchange Commission was given 
broad powers to prevent a repetition of those circumstances. In the 
i./i'f) 
I _ ' ; , 
-
bank holding company field the Congress did not find indications that 
such detailed regulations were required. Therefore, the statutes were 
L v • . • 
framed quite differently. 
'pCO.}: • 
i c' 
U 
> . y up, • • -
Mr. Solomon observed that in the public utility holding company 
tiilU. 
field control was obtained over large aggregates of productive capacity 
through small investments as the result of pyramiding. This was not 
the case with respect to bank holding companies. 
• VM* 
. 
. 
Mr. O'Connell commented that if the Board should require in this 
c ase the making of an offer of $35.50 to all shareholders the holding 
company apparently would have to borrow more heavily in order to purchase 
the stock. Conceivably, the Board might then criticize the prospective 
... • £ io t,| : 
• 
debt position of the holding company. 
Accordingly, he felt that the 
Board should be cautious about pursuing such a course, particularly w h e n , 
. • »»*".; ,J I _ • 
, . 
I ) i y 
in thi s case, there was no evidence that minority shareholders in sub-
Mid 
7 
sidiary banks of the holding company had been treated unfairly. 
V'V** 
r, . ;. t. : 
Governor Brimmer raised the question whether minority share-
elders of the Lakeland bank had knowledge of the fact that the majority 
UT 
* its -V.: RI, 
, 
shareholder was being offered a higher price per share than they were 
offered. The staff indicated that the record did not disclose 
v ether the minority shareholders were aware of that fact, and Governor 
Bri 
J-tnmer expressed the view that this was a question of some consequence 
•^Ul V 
i n 
aPpraising the situation. 

6/19/67 
- 9 -
Mr. Hexter commented that the question involved whether persons 
who controlled a bank should be permitted to sell their stock to other 
parties without taking all shareholders into their confidence during 
the negotiations. When parties owning a bank wished to sell, or when 
people desiring to buy approached them, there was no duty to inform all 
shareholders. 
Governor Maisel responded that purchase of stock by a holding 
company was a regulated transaction under laws passed by the Congress. 
This seemed to take such a transaction out of the same category as deal-
ings between private individuals. 
Mr. Hexter noted that the mere fact of regulation did not estab-
lish that the additional step was necessary, and Governor Maisel 
replied that this was really the basic question that he had been raising 
After some further discussion Chairman Martin inquired what 
disposition the Board wished to make of the matter, and Governor Maisel 
said he did not know enough about the background to reach a firm conclu-
sion. it was not clear to him what broad theory ought to be followed 
i n a case of this kind, but he did feel that the fact that the proposed 
transaction was a regulated transaction put it in a different category 
from nonregulated purchases and sales of stock among individuals. Only 
the staff felt sure that the point he had raised did not require 
Investigation would he be willing to go ahead with a decision on the 
aPplication. 

24 GO 
6/19/67 
-10-
Governor Brimmer inquired as to the views of the Banking Markets 
Section, and Mr. Golden replied that in this particular case there was 
nothing in terms of competitive impact, market structure, or convenience 
and needs that seemed to warrant denial. In a broader sense, however, 
the Section had been giving some consideration to the issue raised by 
Governor Maisel. In his personal view, the Board had a social obliga-
tion to make sure, when a holding company petitioned the Board for 
approval of the purchase of stock to obtain control of a bank, that all 
shareholders were treated fairly. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the Board could hold a hearing 
and notify all shareholders to see whether they wished to present views. 
Mr. O'Connell expressed concern about the Board's ability under 
the law to impose conditions that would require an equal offer to all 
shareholders. Subject to further study, it was his view that the Board 
lacked such power. The Federal Reserve Banks could be instructed, if 
a n application was received where it was clear that the minority share-
holders had not been approached, to express concern and see whether the 
Pplicant was willing to make a similar tender to all holders, within 
si
ts financial means. The Board could, of course, order an oral presen-
ts
 a tion, but he had some doubt as to what could be accomplished aside 
fro 
m inquiring whether the applicant was disposed to make an equal 
er*der to all shareholders. Personally, he would not favor exerting 
presqiiy. 
r e on an applicant in that respect. 

2481 
6/19/67 
-11-
In response to a question, Mr. O'Connell noted that announce-
ment of the receipt of all bank holding company applications was 
Published in the Federal Register, though there was no requirement for 
publication in the local press, and that each application was on file 
for inspection at the Federal Reserve Bank concerned and at the Board's 
offices. 
Governor Sherrill then commented that the basic concept involved 
was whether control should carry a premium. Clearly, control had cus-
tomarily commanded a premium in the business world for many years. He 
did not believe that the fact that a bank holding company was involved 
changed the situation markedly, and he would be reluctant to see the 
Board attempt to establish a different rule in the holding company area. 
Governor Robertson noted that there might be insiders involved 
with knowledge that the ordinary shareholder did not have. He inquired 
whether the four directors of the Lakeland bank who were offering $30 a 
S l l a r e to minority shareholders were also identified with Union Security, 
and m 
staff replied that such a connection existed in at least some 
of tu 
cases. Governor Robertson then ascertained from the staff that 
fording to correspondence from the holding company the four directors 
had 
Purchased the total of 2,038 shares since the application was filed, 
^PDar 
rently at the price of $30 per share. 
Governor Sherrill commented that if there was evidence of self-
dea i J 
" f 8 he would be in favor of moving against it. It was with regard 

2482 
6/19/67 
-12-
to the general concept of attempting to eliminate the payment of a 
premium for control that he would be reluctant to take action. 
Governor Mitchell said that he was prepared to vote to approve 
the pending application. He did not think that an effort to go back 
and unravel the details of all of the transactions involved would dis-
close grounds for disapproval. On the other hand, if other members of 
the Board felt that such an effort should be made, he would be willing 
t o go along. 
Governor Maisel again referred to the possibility of ordering 
a hearing and ascertaining that all shareholders of the Lakeland bank 
were informed of it. Governor Mitchell suggested that any parties who 
felt aggrieved could have contacted the Board, but Governor Brimmer 
p • } . | ; 
asked why it should be assumed that they would know that the majority 
shareholder was being offered more per share than they were being 
°ffered. Governor Mitchell commented that a person who bought or sold 
shar 
ores of stock ordinarily did not assume that everyone else was paying 
°
r r ecelving the same price. 
M l U ; j > 
^ 
^ 
Mr. O'Connell then said that, assuming the accuracy of the 
c t s reported by the Division of Examinations, namely, that directors 
°
f the Lakeland bank who were also identified with Union Security had 
acciuired shares of the bank since the application was filed, this 
r aised the question whether the shares acquired would be held perma-
n e n t l y by the directors as an investment. Mr. Solomon observed that 

24 art 
6/19/67 
-13-
one could not be sure that the directors would not be offered $35.50 
for those shares by the holding company. Mr. O'Connell noted that that 
could be done by the holding company, if the Board approved the present 
application, without further Board approval. If there was reason to 
believe that the directors had acquired such shares simply for resale 
to the holding company at a higher price, Mr. O'Connell thought that 
there might be a serious question of self-dealing. 
Governor Brimmer said that he would be reluctant to dispose of 
the matter until the question of possible self-dealing had been explored 
further, and Governor Sherrill expressed the view that the question was 
a legitimate one. If the directors in question were buying the shares 
a t as low a price as possible with the thought of reselling them to the 
holding company at a higher figure, he would be opposed to countenancing 
S U c h a procedure. 
Accordingly, it was agreed that further consideration of the 
Pending application would be deferred until the question under discus-
sion had been explored. Governor Maisel stated that in the meantime he 
w°uld appreciate further study by the staff of the broader policy ques-
ts 
tion that he felt was presented. 
Reserve Bank budgets (Item No. 10). In a memorandum dated 
June 12, 1967, the Division of Bank Operations presented an analysis 
°f the proposed budgets of the Federal Reserve Banks and branches for 
t l l e second half of 1967. Total operating expenses were expected to be 

24. B4. 
6/19/67 
-14-
$102 million, about $1.7 million more than estimated for the first half 
of 1967, with nine Banks budgeting increases and three budgeting 
decreases. 
Mr. White presented an oral summary of the budgets, with empha-
sis on factors that had contributed to the principal budget increases, 
following which he recommended on behalf of the Division that the bud-
gets be accepted. 
After discussion the budgets were accepted. A copy of the 
letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston is attached as Item 
the letters to the other Reserve Banks were in similar form. 
Banco del Comercio. The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Asso-
ciation), New York, New York, had requested permission to acquire 
through certain affiliated corporations up to 48 per cent of the voting 
shares of Banco del Comercio, Bogota, Colombia, at a total cost not to 
exceed $7,600,000. Because Colombian law imposes certain unusual 
c strictions on the voting of shares, Chase proposed that portions of 
e aggregate number of shares to be acquired would be held by an Edge 
c°rporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of another Edge corporation, a 
latik «... . 
. 
premises subsidiary, and a new corporation to be named Pan American 
^ares Corporation, the shares of which would be beneficially owned by 
chas e. 
The use of the realty corporation and the new corporation to 
^ 
shares of a foreign bank raised legal and policy questions. 
The 

J2465 
6/19/67 
-15-
Board's Legal Division and counsel for the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York were of the opinion that the acquisition and holding of shares 
through those corporations was legally permissible. Counsel for the 
New York Bank was of the opinion that the provisions of section 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act required that the new corporation be an agree-
ment corporation operating under agreement with the Board of Governors; 
the Board's legal staff did not believe this to be necessary. The 
Board's staff did recommend, however, that conditions be imposed that 
Pan American Shares Corporation engage in no activity except the hold-
ing of shares of foreign banks, that it make reports to the Board and 
submit to examination by the Board, and that its stock be disposed of 
if the Board at any time determined that Chase Manhattan Bank's holding 
°f such stock was inappropriate. 
The foregoing outline of the situation was presented in a memo-
r andum from the Division of Examinations dated June 8, 1967. The legal 
questions involved were covered in a memorandum from the Legal Division 
d a t e d June 5, 1967. 
After the nature of the proposal and the questions involved had 
^
e e n summarized by Mr. Dahl, Governor Robertson stated that he felt the 
r equest presented a difficult problem, one which should be called to 
Board's attention. For many years U.S. banks had been authorized 
to 
engage in foreign banking either through foreign branches or through 
e ownership of stock in Edge and agreement corporations. If they 
fH 

6/19/67 
-16-
proceeded through the latter route, the law limited the aggregate 
investment to 10 per cent of the parent bank's capital and surplus. 
In recent years the banks had sought liberalizing legislation on the 
ground that they should be able to do directly what they were able to 
do indirectly, and the Board went along with that proposal, but there 
Was no suggestion that the amendatory legislation was intended to 
expand the powers of the banks in other ways. The current Chase pro-
posal was based upon a contention that last year's amendment to sec-
tion 25 of the Federal Reserve Act authorized the purchase of foreign 
bflnk stock indirectly through new and additional types of subsidiaries 
ar*d that the 10 per cent restriction was no longer a limitation. This 
contention seemed to have some support from a reading of the third 
P a ragraph of section 25, but it attributed to the Congress an intent 
t o make a major change in the law contrary to the explicit purpose of 
the 
statutory change. In Governor Robertson's view the Board should 
t e rPret the 1966 amendment as accomplishing only the purpose presented 
t 0 t h e Congress. 
Governor Robertson also pointed out that when the Board adopted 
current version of Regulation M (Foreign Activities of National 
xt included a limitation on purchases of stock of foreign banks 
Per cent of the purchasing bank's capital and surplus. However, 
the a s 8 
soclation between the 25 per cent limitation and the language of 
thl r d Paragraph of section 25 apparently was not sufficiently con-
s i d e r G d 
u> and he now felt that a mistake had been made. 

i-ry .. .•; 
6/19/67 
-17-
Interpretations of the provisions of law to which Governor 
Robertson had referred were then presented by Mr. Dahl and by Mr. 
Forrestal, after which Governor Robertson reiterated, in reply to a 
question by Chairman Martin, that in his opinion important questions 
of law and policy were involved. He proposed that the Board consider 
them further later this week, prior to which time he would distribute 
copies of the memorandum that he had used in discussing the matter 
today. (Note: A copy of the memorandum has been placed in the Board's 
files.) There could also be distributed to the Board such other papers 
a s the staff might consider pertinent, including records relating to 
the background of the 1966 amendment. 
It was understood that the procedure suggested by Governor 
Robertson would be followed. 
Either at this point or earlier, several of the staff members 
concerned with the presentation of one or more of the foregoing topics 
Withdrew from the meeting. 
Open Market Committee policy record entries. There had been 
strlbuted to the Board a memorandum from Mr. Holland dated June 15, 
i967 » summarizing the results of the discussion at the Board meeting 
n June 13J 1967, concerning procedures for processing Federal Open 
^
a r k e t Committee policy record entries. 
The summarization reflected 
staff's understanding that the Board desired to continue present 
with respect to drafting, receiving comments on, and revis-
e s such entries, with the revised draft entries submitted to the Board 

2 4 8 8 
6/19/67 
-18-
for approval for publication in the Board's Annual Report. Each entry, 
in its approved form, would then be distributed to the members of the 
Open Market Committee and to other Reserve Bank Presidents, primarily 
for information but with an indication of the date by which any further 
comments should be submitted. Suggestions received, except for minor 
editorial changes, would be brought back to the Board for consideration. 
The memorandum noted that one question raised during the dis-
cussion was whether the Committee's directives should be published in 
advance of publication of the complete policy record entries. 
This 
question was also touched upon in a June 15 memorandum from Mr. Hackley 
in which the view was expressed that publication of the directives in 
the Federal Register would satisfy the publication requirements of the 
Freedom of Information Act and that a reasonable time lag could be 
successfully defended as complying with the requirement for "current" 
Publicati on. 
However, the policy record entries would appear to be 
"r 
J 
records" of the Committee subject to the requirements of the Act with 
respect to disclosure to the public upon request, and Mr. Hackley 
Relieved it would be difficult to sustain nondisclosure upon request 
a member of the public if the directive to which the policy record 
C r y related had already been published in the Federal Register. 
The procedure suggested by Mr. Hackley was (1) issuance by the 
t 4 rd of a press release approximately 60 or 90 days following the 
ac*°Ption of each Committee directive setting forth the directive and 

24 R9 
6/19/67 
-19-
the reasons therefor in the same form in which they would later be 
published in the Board's Annual Report, (2) transmittal of the direc-
tive alone for publication in the Federal Register on the day of 
issuance of such release, and (3) publication in the Federal Reserve 
Bulletin of directives, with the reasons therefor, that had been made 
public in the form of press releases. 
After comments by Mr. Holland and Mr. Hackley on their respec-
tive memoranda, Governor Maisel said it seemed to him there were two 
policy questions involved. First, it appeared to him that the policy 
record entry was a Board statement that came into existence when 
approved by the Board and fell within the purview of the Freedom of 
Information Act only when so approved. Second, he felt that it would 
be the best procedure to press release each policy record entry along 
with the relevant directive in order to aid public understanding. 
Mr. Hackley confirmed that in his opinion the policy record 
entries, until approved by the Board, were merely working papers not 
subject to availability under the Freedom of Information Act. 
Governor Brimmer said that he had talked briefly with Governor 
D aane prior to the latter's departure for meetings in Paris concerning 
C e*tain questions that Governor Daane had raised at the June 13 meet-
i n8- 
In his opinion, Governor Daane was concerned mainly about whether 
t h e policy record entries would be published in the Federal Register 
al°ng with the directives and about the problem of timing. 
* 'I','' 

2 4 ' ? n 
6/19/67 
-20-
Governor Brimmer then expressed agreement with the view of 
Governor Maisel that both the directive and the associated policy 
record entry should be released by the Board to the press on a date 
reflecting a time lag, whether 60 or 90 days, that was agreed upon as 
suitable. Since publication of the directives in the Federal Register 
appeared to be required under the new law, he would favor also publish-
ing the policy record entries in the Register if that could be done. 
Then there would be published in the Federal Reserve Bulletin any policy 
record entries, including directives, that had been released to the 
press since the previous issue of the Bulletin. 
Mr. Hackley noted that even if the Federal Register was not 
willing to publish the complete policy record entries it would probably 
agree to include with the publication of the directives a notation that 
the policy record entries were on file with the Register and available 
for inspection. 
Members of the Board expressed the view that such a procedure 
would be satisfactory. 
Governor Maisel observed that Mr. Holland's June 15 memorandum 
also presented the question whether, after Board approval of the 
PoliCy record entries for inclusion in the Annual Report, the entries 
8hould be subject to an additional review shortly before initial publi-
C a t l o n , the purpose of such review being to determine whether any 
m aterial in an entry was likely to prove prejudicial to the conduct of 

2471.. 
6/19/67 
-21-
open market operations following publication. This portion of the 
memorandum reflected a question that he (Governor Maisel) had raised 
with the staff following the June 13 meeting. 
Chairman Martin remarked that it might be found, as the date 
of publication approached, that people who were concerned with the word-
ing of the policy record entry would not happen to be available. He 
brought out that once a procedure was instituted that contemplated 
releasing the policy record entries on a regular basis, the procedure 
must be carried through. Reasonable safeguards were desirable, but a 
second review of the entries just prior to publication might not always 
be feasible. 
Governor Maisel replied that it was simply his thought that 
the Board should retain a review responsibility even though there had 
been tentative agreement on the wording of the respective entries. 
Governor Mitchell observed that accomplishment of the procedures 
approval of the respective entries would be difficult on a 60-day 
time schedule and that problems might be presented even with a 90-day 
time lag. 
Governor Brimmer agreed that the completion of such procedures 
Pr°bably would require a period of time extending almost to the eve of 
P u b U c a t i o n , and for that reason he did not visualize a serious problem 
the kind Governor Maisel had mentioned. 

2472 
b/19/bl 
-22-
Governor Robertson remarked that if there was some valid reason 
for a policy record entry to be changed just before publication, that 
ought to be done, although a change should be made only in unusual 
circumstances. 
Governor Brimmer agreed, adding that he assumed the Board 
obviously would not want to go forward with the publication of an entry 
if it contained material that the Board was convinced might prove 
prejudicial to the conduct of open market operations. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether it was contemplated that 
the purpose of the second review would be simply to determine whether 
any material in the entry was likely to prove prejudicial to the con-
duct of operations. When Governor Maisel replied in the affirmative, 
Governor Mitchell said he would agree to a second review for that 
limited purpose. 
As to the time lag, Chairman Martin said that after careful 
consideration he would still prefer a 60-day lag if that were the 
unanimous view. Since, however, that was not the unanimous view, he 
w°uld be agreeable to starting with a 90-day lag with the understanding 
that if it appeared, in the light of experience, that the time lag could 
aPpropriately be shortened, such a step could be taken. 
Wrt | 
In reply to a question by Governor Brimmer, Mr. Hackley said 
t^at the Justice Department's Manual on the Freedom of Information Act, 
Pleased over the week end, offered no assistance in determining whether 

2473 
6/19/67 
-23-
an agency that was required to publish policy statements in the Federal 
Register could delay for a certain time. However, he felt that the 
Department would defend the right to a reasonable delay in the event 
of litigation. 
Mr. Fauver pointed out that in recent years the Congressional 
Joint Economic Committee had been requesting that the Board submit to 
it the record of policy entries for the preceding calendar year with 
a lag of less than 90 days after the end of the calendar year, and 
Chairman Martin commented that he thought an exception could be made 
in that circumstance even if the policy record entries were still other-
wise being released with a 90-day lag. 
Reference then was made to another memorandum from Mr. Holland, 
also dated June 15, 1967, covering two matters that were left open for 
further consideration at the Board meeting on June 13, that is, the 
Wording of the proposed prefatory note to the record of policy actions 
and the contents of the entry covering the April 4 Committee meeting. 
Attached to the memorandum was a revised draft of the prefatory state-
ment. 
The revised draft of prefatory statement was approved except 
one paragraph, which reflected a modification for the purpose of 
m°derating possible implications as to the frequency and extent of 
disagreement among Committee members. It was noted that the original 
Paragraph tracked the language used for several years in the prefatory 

H: 
I. > ft ? 
2474 
b/19/67 
-24-
k'V 
statements presented in the Board's Annual Reports, and it was the view 
of the Board that the original paragraph should be reinstated. 
With respect to the draft of entry for the April 4 Committee 
meeting, Mr. Holland's memorandum stated that Governor Mitchell had 
advised the staff that he was prepared to stand on his memorandum of 
May 22, 1967, to the Open Market Committee on this matter. The staff 
was still inclined to feel that the language incorporated in the revised 
draft entry, as transmitted to the Board with Mr. Holland's memorandum 
of June 12, 1967, was the most reasonable summary statement of the 
consensus as reflected in the minutes of the meeting. However, if the 
Board desired to go further in reconciling the consensus with the 
language of the current economic policy directive adopted at the April 4 
m eeting it might want to consider certain wording, as quoted, along 
• 
* • •• 
• 
lines suggested by Governor Maisel. 
After discussion the language suggested by Governor Maisel was 
a ccepted, with one slight modification. Accordingly, subject to the 
U nderstanding that this change would be incorporated, the policy record 
1
 
e n | > 
n t r y covering the April 4 meeting was approved unanimously with the 
U n derstanding that it would be distributed to the members of the Open 
Market Committee and other Reserve Bank Presidents, primarily for infor-
( 
^tion but with an indication of the date by which any further comments 
•c" 
sh 
0 u l d be received. 
- 
- 
' 
, 
S ?„•' 1' 
" '-^VV'V 
Tlie meeting then adjourned. 

' A• • 
'N'T 
* •:»/ > 
?i! , 
'\x 
-•wv r • • 
* i 
V\ i 
6/19/67 
-25-
Secretary's Note: The requirements contem-
plated by the Board's action on June 6, 1967, 
in approving the issuance of a preliminary 
permit to Franklin International Corporation, 
New York, New York, having been completed, a 
letter (copy attached as Item No. 11) was sent 
today to that corporation transmitting a final 
permit to commence business and granting con-
sent to its acquisition of the capital stock 
of American Swiss Credit Co. Ltd., a Canadian 
corporation located in New York City. 
ft 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
Item No 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
6/19/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 19, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Chemical Bank New York 
Trust Company, 
New York, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Chemical Bank 
New York Trust Company, New York, New York, of a branch 
in the Morton Village Shopping Center at 1064 Old Country 
Road, Plninview (an unincorporated village), Town of 
Oyster Bay, Nassau County, New York, provided the branch 
is established within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L . Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
Item No. 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
6/19/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 19, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
First Trust and 
Deposit Company, 
Syracuse, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by First Trust and 
Dep osit Company, Syracuse, New York, of a branch approx-
imately 265 feet southwest of the intersection of U . S. 
Highway 11 and Bear Road, North Syracuse, Onondaga County, 
New York, provided the branch is established within one 
year from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L . Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that If an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

2 4 7f i 
BOARD DF G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 3 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
6/19/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
a d d r e s s 
o r n c i A t 
c o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 19, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Grant County Bank, 
Bayard, New Mexico. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves, under the provisions of Section 24A of 
the Federal Reserve Act, an investment in bank premises 
by Grant County Bank, Bayard, New Mexico, of approximately 
$64,949 for the construction of new banking quarters. 
This amount does not include the bank's present investment 
of about $121,378 in bank premises. 
v 
• Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2479 
AoOfGow: 
BDARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
6/19/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P O N D C N C I 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 19, 1967. 
The Honorable K. A . Randall, Chairman, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 
20429 
°ear Mr. Randall: 
Reference 
is made to your letter received on June 12, 
1967, concerning the application of State Bank of Hawley, Hawley, 
J-nnesota, for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal 
f r o m membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
There have been no corrective programs urged upon 
h e bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been fully 
consummated, and there are no programs that the Board would 
t Q
V i s e be incorporated as conditions of admitting the bank 
membership in the Corporation as a nonmember of the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
2 
8 » 
Item No. 5 
6/19/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 19, 1967 
^r. Gerald T. Dunne, 
l c e President, 
federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
?
 S t- Louis, Missouri. 
63166 
Dear Mr. Dunne: 
This refers to your letter of May 18, 1967, advising that 
U r 
B°ard of Directors has approved proposed hospital benefit 
Programs from Blue Cross and Blue Shield that will provide 
U tUfo 
more 
rm and adequate coverage at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
n<* the Little Rock and Memphis Branches. 
mo r e 
The Board of Governors will interpose no objection to these 
U n i f o r m and adequate programs, and approves the payment of 
"thirds of the premium costs for officers and employees. 
•v 
, , s ' * ! 
• •<• 1 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
i i
 1» > ': 
I 
I 
' • 

2481 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20351 
• F T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
Item No. 6 
6/19/67 
June 19, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
M r . Edward A . Wayne, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear M r . Wayne: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salary 
to Mr. William H. Wallace as an Assistant Vice President of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond at the rate of $18,000 per 
annum for the period September 16 through December 31, 1967. 
This is the rate fixed by your Board of Directors as reported 
in Mr. Hyde's letter of June 8. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman 
Secretary. 

2482 
Of GOw" •. 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
6/19/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 19, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FfO 
M r . Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
Dear M r . Galusha: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salary 
to Mr. Lester G . Gable as a Vice President of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis at the rate of $17,500 per annum for the 
Period July 1 through December 31, 1967. This is the rate fixed 
by your Board of Directors as reported in M r . Strothman's letter 
June 8. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

* 
Item No. 8 
6/19/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
mxi-
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
* 
<• 
„ 
i 
l n the Matter of the Application of
 1 
I 
plRST TRUST COMPANY OF ALBANY
 
1 
i 
aPproval of merger with 
h e North Creek National Bank 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by First Trust Company 
Alb 
arty, Albany, New York, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve 
Syst 
G m i for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank with 
^ r t h 
and 
the 
Creek National Bank, North Creek, New York, under the charter 
t ttle of First Trust Company of Albany. As an incident to the merger, 
t h * e e offices of The North Creek National Bank would become branches 
of the ^suiting bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved 
* the 
the fa 
CQ *Ptr 
Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
ct°ts set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
° U C r 
o f the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 

* ."vi ' 
, i/'i'f S;V 
- 2 -
2484 
ar»d the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
! | « V 1 
Proposed merger, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
l s approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated 
a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
e r or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order. 
Ord 
m § 
, v/. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this I9 th day of June, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
m mt ' 
h ,»w , •. . < . 
S 
r '•« • . . • t 
<SBA I) 
(signed) 
Herritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary, 
IfeX: 
•» L 
. • ii' 
• ill"; i>\ v;' 
V 
T 
, . . • 
- 3 • 
1 
4 
.. • .10 
.« 

2 4 8 5 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
S^ftft'f ~ • 
• •• - y
 1 
OF THE 
Item No. 9 
6/19/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATON BY FIRST TRUST COMPANY OF ALBANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
THE NORTH CREEK NATIONAL BANK 
STATEMENT 
First Trust Company of Albany, Albany, New York ("First Trust"), 
w*th total deposits of about $145 million, has applied, pursuant to the Bank 
-
^
r 8 e r Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval of the merger 
0 f that bank with The North Creek National Bank, North Creek, New York 
("N 
if 
\ ®
r t h Creek Bank"), which has total deposits of about $11 million."" 
The 
banks would merge under the charter and name of First Trust, which is a member 
O f 
t L 
n® Federal Reserve System. As an incident to the merger, the three offices 
N o r t h Creek Bank would become branches of First Trust, increasing the number 
°f If 
U
s o f f i c e s to 15. 
Competition. - The main office of North Creek Bank is in Warren 
',r: 
(population 44,000) at North Creek (population 2,250), approximately 
05 
I
 l e a north of Albany, which is the site of the head office of First Trust. 
ii 
°*th 
, 
u r e e k Bank operates a branch at Indian Lake in Hamilton County and at 
in 
Essex County, about 27 and 17 miles northwest and west, respectively, 
f |
t h Creek. The nearest office of another bank to North Creek is about 

15 miles auay; the nearest such offices to Indian Lake and Newcomb are 
about 24 miles distant. The proposed merger would have no significant 
effect on these institutions. 
First Trust operates five branches in Albany and two branches 
surrounding Albany County. The bank also operates one branch in 
each of the relatively small communities of Johnstown, Broadalbin (both 
n Fulton County), Uindham, and Tannersville (both in Green County). 
Th 
n e nearest office of First Trust to an office of North Creek Bank is 
s branch at Broadalbin, about 60 miles from North Creek. Neither 
Qnk derives more than a negligible amount of business from the areas 
•®rvCd by the o t h w . 
. 
While New York law permits a bank, subject to a home-office-
™
c t i o n feature, to branch de novo in the State Banking District in 
^ t ^ l * « * •• 
is located, it does not appear that meaningful competition 
would H 
oovclop between First Trust and North Creek Bank if they did not 
BlerCo 
n 
• because of North Creek Bank's small size, it seems unlikely 
that u 
c uould establish a branch near an office of First Trust. Hie 
i C e"Protection restriction, as well as the small size of the 
CotCniuniM 
that might otherwise be available, uould preclude First 
T tu s t 
f r n 
establishing a new branch near an office of North Creel; 
Bankf 
worth Creelc Bank is the only bank headquartered in North Creek 
*
n d Its m erger with First Trust would open the community to de novo 
btft*chin 
First Trust, with about 6 per cent of the deposits, ranks 
thir<J 
' 
a m°
nS the 40 commercial banks in the Fourth Banking District; 

-3-
 
2
4
8 
) 
second largest of these banks, which is headquartered in Albany, is 
than four times the size of First Trust. North Creek Bank holds 
ai -
 v% 4 
A ess than 1 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the Fourth 
^strict. First Trust is the sole subsidiary in the Fourth Banking 
^strict of BT New York Corporation, a registered bank holding company, 
. I , 
i c h held about 7 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in New 
State, as of September 20, 1966. 
*ork 
The effect of the merger on competition uould not be adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The banking 
ctors with respect to each of the banks proposing to merge are satisfactory 
as tlia 
"ey would be with respect to the resulting bank. 
' f 
r> 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - The merger would 
c t banking convenience and needs only in the area presently served 
b y 
b *th Creek Bank. The replacement of North Creek Bank by offices of 
^ u s t would provide more convenient access to broader credit 
Qations and a generally wider range of banking services for the 
Kotth Cr 
e c k , Indian Lake, and Newcomb communities. 
t.vy. 
AY 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
Pt0Posod m erger would benefit the banking convenience and needs of the 
. V i 
Co fjjkw^,' 
presently served by North Creek Bank, and would not have 
*
n y adver 
S e effect on banking competition. 
, V h;/ 
' 
K 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
^Proved. 

!'. i n 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
6/19/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 20, 1967. 
Mr. George H. Ellis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Ellis: 
The Board of Governors has reviewed and accepts 
i 
' 
\ 
the budget of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston for the 
m 
Period July 1 - December 31, 1967, as submitted with Mr. Thayer's 
> i j 
letter of May 18, 1967. 
' s 
| fM$ 
SSSWft? 
; IV !' •• » * • f J\ 't * i 
3 4 »Vf 
V 
V 
„, - H, *•- > > 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

2483 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 11 
6/19/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 19, 1967 
^anklin International Corporation, 
U 0 Pearl Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
K'-t'^". 
G e n t l e m e n : 
the P
 
T h e 
B o a r d 
o f Governors has received the certificate of 
tio
 
I e s i d e n t 
a n d three directors of Franklin International Corpora-
J u n e
, 6
C e r t i f y i n g 
t h e 
i n f o r m a t i o n required by the Board's letter of 
b U s i 
'
 1 9 6 7 »
 
a s prerequisite to issuance of a final permit t< to commence 
Gover 
There is enclosed herewith a final permit of the Board of 
commen°
rS 8 r a n t i n g 
t 0 Franklin International Corporation authority to 
S e c t i 0
C e o
b U S i n e S S 
a S 
a 
c o rP°ration organized under the provisions of 
Govern" 
°
f t h e 
F e d e r a l Reserve Act. 
Please advise the Board of 
through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, when the 
ration commences businesi 
'it» 
is. 
C°
rPor t-
 T h e
f |
B o a r d 
a l s o grants consent to Franklin International 
S v i s s c
 l Q n ( "
F I C M )
 
t 0 Purchase and hold all the shares of American 
a p P r o x i
r e d l t 
C°'
 L t d * (
, , A m e r s w i s s " ) » New York, New York, at a cost of 
°
ne y e a
m a t e l y 
u s $
1 »
8 0 0 , 0 0 0 , provided such shares are acquired within 
a pProves
 
t r°
m t h e 
d a t e °
f t h i s better. 
In this connection, the Board 
p e r
 
S 
t t l e purchase and holding of shares of Amerswiss in excess of 
10 
l*re8 
sh 
m 
cent of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
Amerswiss by FIC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
. < n t 
'
 
St-
( i-.j 
k 
That FIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in Amerswiss if Amerswiss at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to 
,1< 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and hold 

B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
Franklin International 
Corporation 
stock, or if Amerswiss establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in New York or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to FIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Amerswiss as it may require from 
time to time; 
0' * ' 
(3) That FIC will not carry on its books the shares ac-
quired of Amerswiss at a net amount in excess of its 
proportionate share of the book capital accounts of 
Amerswiss, after giving effect to the elimination of 
all known losses; and, 
W 
That any share acquisitions, or dispositions, by 
Amerswiss be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regu-
lation K in the same manner as if Amerswiss were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act. 
n i { 
: 
t h e in
 
1 1 1 0 
f o r e 8 °
i n 8 consent is given with the understanding that 
and i n v
G S t m e n t n 0 W 
b e i n g 
a P P
r o v e d > combined with other foreign loans 
total 0 '
! S t m e n t s 
o f FIC and Franklin National Bank, will not cause the 
Uahed 
!
U C h 
l o a n s 
a n d investments to exceed the guidelines estab-
eff e c t
 U n d e r the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort now in 
t ained'i
 H "
w e v e r » your attention is called to the understanding con-
*
d d l t i o n
n 
Sammons' letter of December 29, 1966, relating to the 
P U rP08«
n °
f t h e outstanding foreign credits of Amerswiss for the 
e s of the 1967 guidelines. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
sur, 

.•y^M) 
•IF"' 
- 
« 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
- 
-
OF T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
.•^FV.FV .. . 
June 19, 1967 
Permit to Begin Business 
WHEREAS, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on the sixth day of June, Nineteen Hundred and Sixty-Seven, 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
°f FRANKLIN INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION, in accordance with the terms 
°f Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
WHEREAS, by satisfactory evidence presented to the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, it appears that FRANKLIN 
INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION has complied with all of the provisions of 
h e statutes of the United States required to be complied with before 
11 corporatio n shall be authorized to commence business as a corpora-
^•on organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Res erve Act; 
NATT
 
N°
W'
 : C H ^
E F 0 R E »
 
l t 
i s hereby certified that FRANKLIN INTER-
t -TONAL CORPORATION is authorized to commence business as a corpora-
t, °
n organized and operating under the provisions of Section 25(a) of 
e Federal Reserve Act and the regulations of the Board of Governors 
the Federal Reserve System issued in accordance therewith. 
t h 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and caused 
^ 
seal of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to 
affixed on the day and year first above written. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
; * • 
