I 
Minutes for
 
J u n e 
1 8
»
 
1 9 6 9 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
.'T&Mi 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, June 18, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Lynch and Plotkin of the Legal Division 
Miss Murray of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The First National Bank of 
Westville, Westville, New Jersey, into Colonial National Bank, Haddon-
field, New Jersey, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 

x<m 
6/18/69 
-2-
Consummation of the proposed merger of Colonial 
National Bank, Haddonfield, and The First National Bank 
of Westville would eliminate some existing and potential 
competition between the two banks. However, there would 
remain in the area several commercial banking alterna-
tives, including banks located in Philadelphia, and the 
overall effect of the proposal on competition would be 
slightly adverse. 
Application of Bankers Trust (Items 1 and 2). There had been 
distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's 
approval on May 26, 1969, of the application of Bankers Trust New York 
Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire all of the voting shares 
of Bank of Jamestown, Jamestown, New York. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 1 and 2. 
Applicability of section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933. 
The 
request of CNA Financial Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, for a deter-
mination whether it was "primarily" engaged in any securities activi-
ties specified in section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 so as to make 
its directors ineligible to serve also as officers, directors, or 
employees of member banks was initially considered by the Board on 
November 25, 1968, at which time the staff was instructed to develop 
certain additional information, particularly with respect to the Tsai 
subsidiaries, which among other activities acted as investment advisers 
and distributors for open- and closed-end investment companies. 
i 
There had now been distributed a memorandum from the Legal 
Division dated June 4, 1969, which discussed in some detail the various 

1.982 
6/18/69 
-3-
interests of the Tsai subsidiaries and the question whether CNA's 
operations could be viewed separately from those of its Tsai subsid-
iaries. For the reasons set forth, the Legal Division concluded that 
they could not, and proceeded to examine the further question whether 
the Tsai subsidiaries and the open- and closed-end investment companies 
should be regarded as a single entity for section 32 purposes. On the 
basis of various considerations it was the view of the Legal Division 
that they should be so regarded. The Legal Division also reached the 
conclusion that the substantial section 32 activities of CNA, as dis-
cussed in the memorandum, warranted a determination by the Board that 
CNA was "primarily" engaged in section 32 business. Attached to the 
memorandum was a draft letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
along those lines. However, the Legal Division pointed out that the 
Board generally based its determinations of section 32 questions on a 
three-year history of operations. 
In the present case information 
over such a period of time was not available since CNA had not 
acquired the Tsai subsidiaries until 1968, but the staff of the Legal 
Division did not expect that the volume of mutual fund sales or the 
sales of equity products by CNA would decrease substantially in the 
foreseeable future. In the circumstances, appropriate revisions could 
be made to the proposed letter if the Board should prefer to indicate 
that while no final determination had been made, the Board was of the 
view that CNA was "primarily" engaged in section 32 activities unless 

1983 
6/18/69 
-4-
the level of such activities decreased substantially in 1969 and sub-
sequent years from that prevailing in 1968. 
Mr. Plotkin recommended that the substance of the proposed 
reply be published. He noted the major move in 1968 by the life 
insurance industry into the sale of mutual fund shares and variable 
annuities. He indicated that the Legal Division had hoped to be able 
to develop guidelines with respect to interlocking directorates of 
member banks and insurance companies on the basis of the present case. 
However, it appeared that sufficient data were not yet available, and 
future cases would have to be determined on their merits. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the Board should make 
a definitive determination at this time with respect to the applica-
bility of section 32 to all insurance companies offering more than a 
minor amount of equity accounts or mutual funds. The Board should 
then call the attention of the appropriate Congressional committees to 
the recent trend in the insurance industry to move into the sale of 
mutual fund shares and variable equity interests and present its views 
with respect to the applicability of section 32, as presently enacted, 
to interlocking directorships between member banks and insurance com-
panies. The Board should suggest that if Congress did not agree with 
the Board's interpretation, legislation amending section 32 should be 
considered. 
Mr. Shay inquired whether Governor Maisel would propose delay-
ing an answer to CNA pending consideration of the over-all question, 

6/18/69 
-5-
and Governor Maisel replied in the affirmative, provided the delay 
would not extend beyond a few months. The question was one that 
needed to be answered. Governor Maisel called attention to a recent 
move on the part of the Justice Department to challenge the plan of 
First National City Corporation, New York, New York, to merge with 
Chubb Corp., an insurance concern. He expressed the view that this 
action by the Justice Department to bring antitrust charges underscored 
the need for the Board to re-examine the question of overlapping direc-
torates between member banks and insurance companies. 
Mr. Shay observed that basically two different areas were 
involved: 
one related to the antitrust aspect and the other to conflict 
of interest. He noted that under the Patman bank holding company bill 
(H.R. 6778) interlocking personnel relationships between any insured 
bank and any insurance company or registered securities broker or 
dealer would be prohibited. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he would prefer not to delay 
action on the request of CNA. The matter had been before the Board 
for a considerable length of time, part of which had been devoted by 
the staff to strengthening the basis for its recommendation. 
He 
favored proceeding as the staff suggested. A conclusion on the over-
all question should be reached independently of this particular issue. 
Governor Robertson stated that in view of the law as presently 
written there would seem to him to be no course other than that recom-
mended by the Legal Division. He suggested that the Board adopt this 

6/18/69 
-6-
position as regards CNA but at the same time instruct the staff to 
review the whole question in terms of policy and legislation, with a 
view to bringing a recommendation back to the Board. 
There followed some discussion of the intent of Congress in 
the drafting of section 32 and the climate in which it was enacted. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he did not think that the Board 
had misinterpreted Congressional intent. He was of the view that it 
was the intention of Congress that there should be no interlock between 
banks and securities distributors. 
The problem arose when insurance 
companies drifted away from insurance business into securities. 
Governor Maisel said he was concerned that the Board would 
have to make many ad hoc decisions. 
It should be clear through legis-
lation whether interlocking directorates should be permitted where 
insurance companies sold variable annuities. 
Mr. Shay noted that over the years the Board had fashioned a 
number of criteria to follow, but in one case one factor would be con-
trolling whereas in another a different factor would govern. 
Conse-
quently, decisions would have to be made on an ad hoc basis. 
Governor Sherrill expressed the view that a fundamental issue 
was involved. It appeared to him that the question was whether the 
Board would eventually conclude that insurance company directors should 
be prohibited from serving on bank boards in view of the changing 
nature of the insurance business. Accordingly, he would prefer not to 

1 3 8 6 
6/18/69 
-7-
start out on a case-by-case basis, but to hold the CNA request pending 
the drafting of proposed legislation for consideration by the Congress. 
No consensus emerged from the discussion with respect to action 
that should be taken at this time, and there was agreement with Gover-
nor Robertson's suggestion that the matter be brought back for further 
consideration at a time when additional members of the Board were 
available. 
SEC stock market study. At its meeting on April 23, 1969, the 
Board authorized Governor Sherrill to negotiate the terms under which 
the Board would lend assistance to the Securities and Exchange Commis-
sion in connection with its special study of the role of institutional 
investors in the securities markets. 
It was understood that the con-
tribution might be in the form of either monetary payments or the 
services of competent personnel, but that the contribution would not 
exceed $100,000 either directly or indirectly. 
It was the consensus 
of the Board that the portion of the study relating to institutional 
equity investments to be undertaken by the National Bureau of Economic 
Research was particularly deserving of Board support. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated June 17, 1969, 
from the Division of Research and Statistics recommending (1) payment 
of $18,000 to the SEC as a cash contribution in support of the National 
Bureau monograph, and (2) establishment of the positions of research 
assistant and statistical clerk in the Division of Research and Statis-
tics should the need arise for supporting staff in connection with this 

ts&? 
6/18/69 
-8-
project. It was noted that the principal research resource would be 
an economist who had already been hired with the understanding that 
her services would be devoted essentially full-time to this project 
during the first year or more after joining the Board's staff. 
Following comments by Mr. Partee, Governor Sherrill noted that 
the proposed expenditure represented only a portion of that which the 
Board no doubt would make before completion of the SEC study. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the Division's recommen-
dations. Any resultant overexpenditure in the pertinent accounts of 
this year's budget of the Division of Research and Statistics was also 
approved. 
Special training for field examining staff (Item No. 3). 
Governor Sherrill stated that in a report to the Board dated January 31, 
1969, relating to the review of the procedures employed by the Board's 
examiners in the examination of Federal Reserve Banks, Lybrand, Ross 
Bros. & Montgomery had called attention to the need to familiarize the 
field staff with audit control procedures for electronic data process-
ing accounting systems. 
The Divisions of Federal Reserve Bank Opera-
tions and Personnel Administration were now recommending, in a 
memorandum dated June 10, 1969, (a copy of which has been placed in the 
Board's files), that arrangements be made with Lybrand, Ross Bros. & 
Montgomery to conduct such a training program, and that the resultant 
overexpenditure of approximately $4,500 to $5,000 in the pertinent 

6/18/69 
-9-
account of this year's budget of the Division of Personnel Administra-
tion be approved. 
The recommendation was approved unanimously. A copy of the 
letter subsequently sent to Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

1989 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
6/18/69*
 
1 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORPORATION, 
New York, New York, 
for approval of acquisition of all of 
the voting shares of Bank of 
Jamestown, Jamestown, New York. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
<
1 2
 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Bankers Trust 
Hew York Corporation, New York, New York, a registered bank holding 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of all 
o f
 the voting shares of Bank of Jamestown, Jamestown, New York. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Superintendent of Banks of the State of New York of the application 
3 nd 
requested his views and recommendation. The New York State 
Banking Board advised the Board of its action, consistent with a 
Commendation made to it by the Superintendent, approving an 
a
PPlication filed pursuant to the New York Banking Law with respect to 
t h e
 same transaction. 

1990 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application x*as published in the 
Federal Register on April 5, 1969 (34 Federal Register 6214), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, 
°r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this lOthday of June, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, 
and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1991 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 2 
OF THE 
6/18/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
BANK OF JAMESTOWN, JAMESTOWN, NEW YORK 
STATEMENT 
Bankers Trust New York Corporation, New York, New York 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to 
the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
Elding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1342(a)(3)), for prior approval 
°f the acquisition of all of the voting shares of Bank of Jamestown, 
Jamestown, New York ("Jamestown Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority.-
A s
 required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
Superintendent of Banks of the State of New York of receipt of the 
a
PPlication and requested his views and recommendation thereon. 
In 
V l G W 
o f h i s
 coordinate responsibilities under New York law, the 
S u
Perintendent did not comment directly to the Board. The New York 
Ot 
a
te Banking Board, however, advised this Board of its action, 
consistent with a recommendation of the Superintendent (a copy of 
V h l
c h was also provided to the Board), approving an application with 
r e s
Pect to the same transaction pursuant to Article III-A of the New 
V o r I
< Banking Law. 
Statutory considerations.. 
™ 
3 ( c ) 
o f 
t h e A c t 
p r o v i d e s 
t h a t
 the Board shall not. approve an acquisition that would result in 

1992 
-2-
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking 
l n
 any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve any 
other proposed acquisition the effect of which, in any section of 
the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend 
to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in 
restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive 
effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the 
Public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In each 
°
a S e t h e 
B
°ard is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding 
company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction.-••Applicant. the 
largest bank holding company and sixth largest banking organization 
i n
 the State of New York, controls five banks which have aggregate 
d e
Posits of $5.9 billion, representing about 7.2 per cent of the deposits 
h e l d
 by all commercial banks in the State.J/ It is one of 12 banking 
0 r
8anizations in the State which control over $1 billion in deposits 
e a c h
« 
Applicant's acquisition of Jamestown Bank, which controls 
^eree
 
k i n g 
d a t a 
a r e 
a s 
o f
 December 31, 1S68, adjusted to reflect 
auth
 r S 
a n d 
h o l d i n
8 company acquisitions approved by supervisory 
Ln
°rities to date. 

1393 
-3-
than .1 per cent of the deposits held by the State's commercial 
banks, would not significantly affect the present level of State-wide 
banking concentration. 
Jamestown Bank ($68 million deposits) is headquartered in 
Jamestown, in southeastern Chautauqua County. The bank has six 
branches, all located in the southern portion of the county, and serves 
t h
is area and a small portion of adjoining Cattaraugus County. It is 
t h
e third largest of four banks operating 22 banking offices within 
t h
is area, which has a population of 90,000. Two of the other banks, 
Wl
-th deposits of $89 million and $73 million, respectively, are located 
i n
 Jamestown, and each is a subsidiary of a registered bank holding 
company. 
T h e fourth bank in the area, the State Bank of Randolph, is 
a s
m g l e office bank with deposits of $6 million, located 15 miles 
e
ast of Jamestown in Cattaraugus County. 
It does not appear that any significant present or potential 
competition would be eliminated by consummation of Applicant's proposal. 
A
PPlicant's present subsidiary banks are located in New York City, 
0 n
 Long Island, and in the Hudson River Valley. None of the present 
Subs1(Jiaries has an office closer than 300 miles to Jamestown, and 
none p n 
competes to any significant extent in the Jamestown area. 
Further, 
U l l d
er New York law, none of Applicant's subsidiaries can branch into 
the 
e
 Ninth Banking District of New York, in which Jamestown Bank is 
lOCqf-o i 
a n d 
t 0
 which area its branches are restricted under State law. 
Neither does it appear that the proposed acquisition would 
v
ersely affect competition among banks in the Jamestown area. 

1994 
-2-
Rather, the effect would be to increase competition with the two larger 
banks in Jamestown, and to create a potential for branching into 
i 
Jamestown by other Ninth District banks, which are presently excluded 
from the City because of the "home office protection" feature of 
New York branching law. In addition, Jamestown Bank, with Applicant's 
support, would have greater potential for branching into other areas 
°f the Ninth District, thereby increasing competition in cfio&e areas. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
°f the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects.-
financial condition and management of Applicant and its present 
subsidiaries are satisfactory, and their prospects are considered 
favorable. 
Jamestown Bank is in good financial condition, with competent 
Management. Prospects of the bank would likely be improved by 
c
°nsurcmation of Applicant's proposal, but are considered favorable 
r e
gardless of whether or not the acquisition is effected. 
Considerations under the banking factors are consistent with 
a
PProval of the application, 

1995 
-2-
Convenience and_needs of^the. communities involved.-
Consummation of the present proposal would not affect the convenience 
°r needs of customers served by Applicant's present subsidiary banks. 
There is no indication that banking needs in the Jamestown 
area are not adequately served. Bank of Jamestown, however, has a 
somewhat more limited service offering than either of its two most 
direct competitiors, and, as a subsidiary of Applicant, it would be in 
a
 position to provide an alternative source of a more complete range of 
banking services. In particular, consummation of the proposal would 
enable Jamestown Bank to offer a full range of trust, investment, and 
international services; to expand its loan and credit services and 
r
espond more readily to demands for credit lines beyond its own 
lending ability; and to participate more fully in municipal bond 
underwriting and advisory services. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
community served by Jamestown Bank provide some weight in favor of 
approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion.- On the basis of all relevant facts 
c
°ntained 
in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
S e
ction 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest, and the application 
should be approved. 
June 18, 1969.' 

mm-. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1996 
Item No. 3 
6/18/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 27, 1969. 
Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery, 
1100 Connecticut Avenue, N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 
20036 
Gentlemen: 
This letter will confirm arrangements which the Divisions 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations and Personnel Administration 
have made with you to conduct a 21-hour Electronic Data Processing 
Audit Training Program for members of the Board's Field Examining 
Staff as outlined in your letters dated June 4 and June 10, 1969. 
It is understood the course will consist of seven 3-hour 
sessions to be conducted on mutually agreeable dates as arranged 
with Mr. Walcutt. 
The Board agrees to pay you a fee of $4,000 to $4,500 to 
cover charges for staff time spent in selection, preparation, and 
presentation of the course materials plus out-of-pocket expenses 
with the total fee not to exceed $5,000, payable upon completion of 
the course. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
