Minutes for 
November 22, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

4045 
Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Friday, November 22, 
1968. The meeting was held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard, Miss Eaton, and Mrs. Winkler of the 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Williams, 
Wernick, Eckert, Keir, Baker, Burns, Fry, 
Kelty, and Kichline of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Ghiardi, Hersey, 
Wood, Bradshaw, Bryant, Gekker, Gemmill, 
Pizer, and Stem of the Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Money market review. The staff presented the weekly review 
consisting today of reports on the Government securities market 
(Mr. Baker), on recent and prospective developments in the area of 
bank credit (Mr. Eckert), on the corporate and municipal bond markets 
(Mr. Kichline), and on gold and foreign exchange market activities 
(Mr. Stem), the latter's comments being devoted principally to an 
account of the volume of speculative transactions engendered by rumors 
of revaluation of the German mark and devaluation of the French franc. 

4 0 ' 
11/22/68 
- 2 -
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Partee 
and Sammons then withdrew, as did Miss Eaton, and the following 
entered: 
Messrs. Hexter, O'Connell, Shay, Lynch, and Noble 
of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Egertson, Lyon, and Goodfellow of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Cleaver and Wiles of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
The following actions were taken subject to ratification at 
the next meeting of the Board at which a quorum was present. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta on November 15, by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston on November 18, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of New 
York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and San Francisco on November 21, 
1968, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing sched-
ules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate 
advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, 
1 
Pennsylvania, granting permission to organize 
a corporation pursuant to section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act to be known as Girard Inter-
national Investment Corporation, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, and transmitting a preliminary 
permit. 

4047 
11/22/68 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to Chase International Investment Corpora- 
2 
tion, New York, New York, granting consent for 
the corporation to purchase directly and/or 
through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Arcturus 
Investment and Development, Limited, Montreal, 
Canada, additional shares of Industrial and 
Mining Development Bank of Iran, Teheran, Iran. 
Order granting an extension of time to First 
3 
Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, for the opening of First North-
western National Bank of Milwaukee, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, a proposed new bank. 
Letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve 
4 
Banks regarding a System conference of trust 
examiners to be held at the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York on February 13-14, 1969. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Farmers Bank of 
Mercersburg, Mercersburg, Pennsylvania, into National Valley Bank 
and Trust Company, Chambe rsburg, Pennsylvania, was approved unani-
mously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclu-
sion reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of National 
Valley Bank and Trust Company, Chambersburg, Pennsyl-
vania, and The Farmers Bank of Mercersburg, Mercersburg, 
Pennsylvania, would eliminate present and potential direct 
competition between the two institutions and would elimi-
nate a banking alternative in the Mercersburg area. The 
overall effect on competition would be adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of First National Bank of St. George, St. George, South 
Carolina, into First National Bank in Orangeburg, Orangeburg, South 

4048 
11/22/68 
-4-
Carolina, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller 
of the Currency, the conclusion reading as follows: 
There is no competition existing between the First 
National Bank of St. George and the First National Bank 
in Orangeburg, and potential for competition between 
them is limited. The merger would have no adverse com-
petitive effects. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
404 CI 
Item No. 1 
11/22/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B D A R D 
November 22, 1968 
Mr. Stephen S. Gardner, President, 
Girard Trust Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
Dear Mr. Gardner: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and Organization Certificate dated September 10, 
1968, of Girard International Investment Corporation, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, and there is enclosed a Preliminary Permit author-
izing that Corporation to exercise such of the powers conferred 
by Sec tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental 
and preliminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the 
Board authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the 
Board will issue its final permit to commence business, the 
President, Treasurer, or Secretary, together with at least three 
of the directors, must certify (1) that each director is a 
citizen of the United States; (2) that a majority of the shares 
of capital stock is held and owned by citizens of the United States, 
by corporations the controlling interest in which is owned by 
citizens of the United States, chartered under the laws of the 
United States or of a State of the United States, or by firms or 
companies the controlling interest in which is owned by citizens 
of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital stock 
specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent has 
been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individually 
paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. 

.. 4050 
Mr. Stephen S. Gardner 
o 
Thereafter the Treasurer or Secretary shall certify to the payment 
ot the remaining instalments as and when each is paid in in " 
accordance with law. 
Your attention is called to the fact that Girard 
International Investment Corporation will have no separate base 
under the foreign credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or 
investments will need to be made under the ceiling of Girard Trust 
Uank 
Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with the under-
standing that any foreign loans and investments of the Corporation 
will be made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
Lending and investment activities of Girard Trust Bank and that due 
consideration will be given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Enclosure. 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assist ant Secretary. 

B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
J 
' • 
November 22, 1968 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it 
by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this 
day approved the Articles of Association dated September 10, 1968, 
and Organization Certificate dated September 10, 1968, of GIRARD 
INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT CORPORATION duly filed with said Board of 
Governors, and that GIRARD INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT CORPORATION 
is authorized to exercise such of the powers conferred upon it 
by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization pending the issuance by the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System of a final permit generally to commence 
business in accordance with the provisions of said Section 25(a) 
and the rules and regulations of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto,, 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(SEAL) 
By 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4052 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
O F T H E 
Item No. 2 
11/22/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 22, 1968 
Chase International Investment 
Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of October 18, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation to purchase and hold either directly and/or through your 
wholly-owned subsidiary, Arcturus Investment and Development, Limited, 
Montreal, Canada, up to 18,438 additional shares of Industrial and 
Mining Development Bank of Iran, Teheran, Iran, at a cost of up to 
approximately $247,000, provided the shares are acquired within one 
year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), 
and Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, and that due con-
sideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4053 
Item No. 3 
11/22/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST WISCONSIN BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of 
First Northwestern National Bank of 
Milwaukee, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a 
Proposed new bank. 
ORDER EXTENDING PERIOD OF T H E PRESCRIBED 
BY PROVISO IN ORDER OF APPROVAL 
WHEREAS, by Order dated July 2, 1968, the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal 
Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), approved the acquisition by 
First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a 
registered bank holding company, of 30 per cent or more of the 
outstanding voting shares of First Northwestern National Bank of 
Milwaukee, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a proposed new bank; and said Order 
X;as made subject to the proviso "that First Northwestern National 
Bank of Milwaukee shall be open for business not later than six 
Months after the date of this Order"; and 

„ 4054 
-2-
WHEREAS, First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation has 
applied to the Board for an extension of time within which the pro-
posed new bank must be open for business, and i; appearing to the 
Board that reasonable cause has been shown for the extension of time 
requested, and that such extension would not be inconsistent with 
the public interest; 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the Board's Order of July 2, 196C, 
as published in the Federal Register on July 10, 1963 (33 Federal 
Register 9920), be, and it hereby is, amended so that the proviso 
relating to the date by which First Northwestern National Bank of 
Milwaukee shall be open for business shall read "not later than 
March 31, 1969." 
Dated at Washington, D. C. this 22nd day of November, I960. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4055 
•^bfGovA-
f^RFS^-
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
11/22/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 22, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
Arrangements are being completed for a System conference of 
trust examiners which will be held at the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York immediately following the Mid-Winter Trust Conference of the 
American Bankers Association which, as you know, will be held in 
New York City from February 10 through February 12, 1969. The System 
conference will be for either one or two days (February 13/14, 1969), 
tv/ith its length to be determined after receipt of topics for the agenda. 
The conference will be devoted to a discussion of developments 
during the period since the 1968 conference of trust examiners and to 
features of trust administration and trust examination of particular 
interest to examiners. 
It is expected that each Federal Reserve Bank 
will be represented by the senior trust examiner, and it is hoped that 
arrangements may be made for attendance of officials in the examination 
department or others in the department who are actively engaged in the 
supervision or examination of trust departments of State member banks. 
The Director of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
will ask the vice president in charge of examinations to suggest topics 
for discussion and to provide a list of those who will be in attendance. 
Copies of the agenda will be sent to you as soon as it is completed. 
Very truly yours, 
I P 0 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
I 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
