— 
j.'- . i ;.. 
PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
May 11, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Burns 
Robertson 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Maisel 
hi; 
I 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 
IM# Ap 

1134 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, May 11, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 
3:30 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Hobbs and Mrs. Semia of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Schoedel of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Margin requirements exemption. At the meeting on May 6 the 
Board approved proposed modifications in its order of April 2, 1971, 
exempting from margin requirements certain bank credit extended to 
PHMFG Corporation, Washington, D. C., for the purpose of providing 
capital to F. I. duPont Glore Forgan 6c Co., a registered broker-dealer. 
In a memorandum dated May 10 the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
stated that subsequently (before issuance of the amended order) counsel 
for the Perot interests (which controlled the duPont firm) had requested 
that the April 2 order be further amended in several respects, as described 
in the memorandum. Since these further changes also seemed to fall within 
the scope of intent of the Board's order of April 2 the staff recommended 
that the Board issue an amended order, a draft of which was attached. 

±±35 
5/11/71 
- 2 -
After a discussion during which certain aspects of the matter 
were clarified, the Board authorized the issuance of an amended order 
in the form attached as Item No. 1. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
m 
r >; u , 

1136 
Item No. 1 
5/11/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
?ttMFG CORPORATION, 
Washington, D. C. 
for An exemption from Securities Credit 
Regulations in conncction with certain 
bank loans for the purpose of acquiring 
a H the assets of F. I. duPont, Glore 
Morgan & Co. 
ORDER GRANTING MODIFICATIONS OF ORDER 
EXEMPTING CERTAIN LOANS BY 
BANKS FROM SECURITIES CREDIT REGULATIONS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 7(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g(d)) 
and sections 207.1(f)(3) of the Federal Reserve Regulation G (12 CFR 
2o?.l(f)(3)) and 221.2(1) of Federal Reserve Regulation U (12 CFR 221.2(1.)), 
the application of PHMFG Corporation, Washington, D. C. ("Applicant"), 
a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the District of 
C°lunibia, for modifications of the Board's Order dated April. 2, 1971, 
tempting from securities credit regulations certain bank loans for the 

1137 
- 2 -
purpose of providing capital, to the corporate successor to the 
business of F. I. duPont, Glore Forgan 6c Co., a registered 
broker/dealer and member firm of the New York Stock Exchange. 
Such successor is referred to herein as "duPont". 
On the basis of the information set forth in the application, 
° r otherwise available, the Board finds that: 
(1) Applicant's proposed investment in duPont may 
consist of up to $65 million rather than $30 
million as provided for in the original Order; 
(2) Applicant is in the process of concluding a 
loan agreement with a group of banks pursuant 
to which it will either borrow or guarantee 
in the aggregate amount of up to $50 million 
and in addition certain of the banks will commit 
to issue a $15 million letter of credit for the 
ultimate benefit of duPont; 
(3) Applicant and the banks have agreed that, 
although Applicant will be the borrower, a 
limited partnership to be organized under the 
laws of the State of Texas, in which Messrs. 
H. Pvoss Perot, Morton H. Meyerson, and Milledge A. 
Hart, III will be general partners owning 
approximately 80 per cent of the partnership 
interests, may succeed to the position of 
Applicant, in which event Applicant will 
become wholly-owned by such partnership. 
(A) A substantial portion of the loan or loans will 
be drawn down immediately and additional monies 
will be drawn down as needed following the completion 
of an audit of duPont as of April 30, 1971. 
Upon consideration of all the circumstances, the Board 
C°ncludes that the Order dated April 2, 1971, shall be modified as 
f°Uows: 

11 
- 3 -
(1) The maximum amount of the loan or loans described 
in such Order shall not exceed $65 million in the 
aggregate and when any transaction or transactions 
occur that result in a net withdrawal of capital 
from duPont by Applicant or by such limited partner-
ship the proceeds of such withdrawal less the net 
amount of Federal, State and local income tax directly 
attributable to such transaction or transactions 
shall be used to reduce or retire said loan or loans; 
(2.) Applicant or such limited partnership described 
hereinabove or a successor controlled by Mr. H. Ross 
Perot or his estate shall become and remain a con-
trolling person of duPont as long as all or any portion 
of the said loan or loans other than any portion 
attributable to such income tax is outstanding; 
(3) This Order shall expire upon repayment of all the 
said loan or loans to the banks, including any portion 
or portions thereof, but in no event later than 
May 11, 1979. 
(A) The agreement with the banks relating to said 
loan or loans shall be consummated and a substantial 
portion thereof drawn down within 90 calendar days 
following the date of the Board's Order dated 
April 2, 1971, and the remaining portions of such 
loan or loans shall be drawn down as needed following 
completion of the audit of duPont described hereinabove 
but in no event later than 6 months prior to Hay 11, 1979 
(5) All of the provisions of the Order of April 2, 1971, 
not modified herein shall remain unaffected. 
Dated at Washington, D. C. this 11th day of May, 1971. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
