Minutes for December 3, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary-
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 
Reduction in margin requirements. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below to indicate approval of the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
A 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

3254 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Friday, December 3, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 2:30 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division 
of International Finance 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago on November 24, the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas on November 26, the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston and 
Minneapolis on November 29, the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City on 
December 1, and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia on December 2, 
1971, of the rates on advances and discounts in their existing schedules 
w a s approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 

325G 
12/3/71 
-2-
The Board authorized issuance of an order and statement reflecting 
its denial on November 18, 1971, of the application of Florida National 
Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of 
Ormond Beach First National Bank, Ormond Beach, Florida. Copies of 
the documents are attached under Item No. 1. 
The Board authorized issuance of orders and a statement reflect-
ing its denial on November 18, 1971, of the applications of Southeast 
Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Combanks 
Corporation, Winter Park, Florida, and of Combanks Corporation to acquire 
shares of four Florida banks. Copies of the documents are attached under 
Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of United Banc-
shares of Florida, Inc., Miami Beach, Florida, to acquire shares of 
United National Bank of Westland, Hialeah, Florida, a proposed new bank, 
an<3 authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Margin requirements. On November 24, 1971, the Board considered 
a possible downward adjustment in margin requirements for stock trans-
actions but deferred a decision. The principal documentation for that 
discussion comprised memoranda of November 23 from the Division of 
Research and Statistics and the Capital Markets Section, which had now 
been supplemented by a memorandum of November 30 in which the Division 

325G 
12/3/71 
-3-
of Supervision and Regulation explored the question whether the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or its legislative history provided 
the Board with the authority to lower margin requirements and guidelines 
for such action. The Division concluded in the affirmative. 
Today's discussion began with staff review of market performance 
in the past week, which had seen recovery of about 57 points in the 
Dow-Jones index of industrials. 
Governor Daane inquired whether the case for a downward adjust-
ment of margin requirements was stronger or weaker than it had been a 
week ago. 
Mr. Partee responded that it was always a more comfortable 
position to make a margin change after the bottom of a decline had been 
reached, because an action during the course of a decline, without 
knowledge of how much further down the market would go, carried some 
risk of forced margin sales. The rise of the past few days therefore 
provided greater comfort, but on the other hand, especially given the 
size of the recovery that had occurred, the need for action was less 
clear. He said there was a body of sentiment that margin requirements 
should be as low as they reasonably could be with safety, because they 
forced stock purchasers to put up a greater percentage of collateral 
than was required in the purchase of almost any other asset. In the 
light of the present situation, Mr. Partee thought the Board could with 
safety reduce margin requirements. If they were reduced to 55 per cent 

325G 
12/3/71 
-4-
on stock purchases, from the present 65 per cent, it would take a 36 
per cent decline in the value of collateral in accounts to bring them 
down to the level at which most brokers issued margin calls; a reduction 
to 50 per cent would require a decline of 28 per cent to bring accounts 
down to that point. The cushion thus seemed satisfactory, and although 
he had not spoken to the policy questions, from the point of view of 
the status of accounts he did not believe action would be overly risky. 
In response to a question by Governor Brimmer regarding the 
advisability of a cut in margin requirements for purchasing convertible 
bonds, Mr. Partee reported a staff view that a cut in that area below 
the present 50 per cent would be risky because a large proportion of 
convertible bonds were selling so far above their conversion prices 
that there was not much buffer against a possible market decline. 
Governor Mitchell stated that he would prefer to delay action 
until after the coming meetings on international exchange rates, on 
the assumption that an agreement would be forthcoming that would have 
a favorable impact on the market. However, if other members of the 
Board felt that present action was called for, he would join with them 
in a reduction to 55 per cent but not to 50 per cent. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that in the present monetary 
climate, with the market continuing to edge'up, a reduction in margin 
requirements would not imply too much. He advocated going down to 55 
per cent rather than to 50 per cent. He would not wait for the coming 

325G 
12/3/71 
-5-
international meetings, because their results could not be foreseen 
accurately,, 
Governor Maisel also spoke in favor of present action, since 
there seemed to be no disadvantages. The move was widely expected, and 
it might be well to clear the slate of it. 
Governor Brimmer said he would not support the proposed action 
as it was stated. He had been struck by the comment that the need for 
a reduction was less clear than it had been a week ago. He was troubled 
by a proposed reduction in margin requirements geared to prices rather 
than to the amount of credit in the stock market. The staff reports 
indicated that credit had not risen very much. 
Governor Robertson stated that he was not in favor of the move; 
the past few days had seen a substantial rise in the market prompted 
primarily by expectations, and he believed that a much bigger surge 
would occur when the international monetary situation had been improved 
by an agreement on exchange rates. If action were taken now, he believed 
there would soon be a need to take an opposite action, and the Federal 
Reserve should not be in the position of frequent reversal of direction. 
However, the present was a better time than ten days ago for a downward 
change. 
Governor Daane remarked that he approached that aspect from the 
opposite tack, namely, that a downward adjustment, so long as it involved 
no great risk, would be advisable in order to provide room for a sub-
sequent increase, if necessary. 

3259 
12/3/71 
-6-
Governor Robertson suggested that an action now could give the 
opposite impression--that the Board was apprehensive rather than merely 
putting itself in a better position. 
Chairman Burns commented that it was by no means a foregone 
conclusion that the coming exchange rate meetings would result in a 
satisfactory settlement of that problem. It might be more realistic 
to hope for a settlement in January, if one was to be achieved at all. 
Chairman Burns also expressed the view that if margin require-
ments were reduced today or in the near future, the next time an increase 
seemed to be called for it should be preceded by a stiffening of the 
substitution rule. As he understood that rule, it resulted in inequities 
that should be corrected, whether in one step or in several. Once that 
imperfection had been remedied, a judgment could be better made whether 
or not an increase in margin requirements would be desirable. 
In a final review of positions, Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
indicated that while they would not dissent, they had reservations as 
to the wisdom of reducing margin requirements. 
The Board thereupon, by unanimous vote, amended the Supplements 
to Regulation G (Securities Credit by Persons Other Than Banks, Brokers, 
or Dealers), Regulation T (Credit by Brokers and Dealers), and Regula-
tion U (Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Margin 
Stocks), effective December 6, 1971, to decrease margin requirements for 
purchasing or carrying stocks from 65 per cent to 55 per cent, with a 

3260 
12/3/71 
-7-
corresponding change in the required deposit on short sales. No change 
was made in the 50 per cent margin requirement for purchasing or carry-
ing convertible bonds or in the 70 per cent "retention requirement" 
applicable to undermargined accounts. A press release, a draft of 
which was distributed during the meeting, was approved unanimously. 
Attached under Item No. 4 are copies of the press release and of the 
notice sent to the Federal Register. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
if 
Secretary 

3261 
Item No„ 1 
12/3/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE t m BOARD, OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FLORIDA NATIONAL BANKS OF FLORIDA INC 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
' 
" 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Ormond Beach First National Bank. Ormond 
Beach, Florida. 
ORDER DENYING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 225.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 225.3(a)), an application by Florida National Banks of 
Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, for the Board's prior approval 
°f the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Ormond Beach First National Bank, Ormond Beach, Florida ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The Comp-
troller recommended approval of the application. 

-2-
3262 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 2, 1971 (36 Federal Register 17630), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
a M m m $ m m respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
wag 
% Iteynlfeld SfilJtes Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
accompanying Statement, that said application be and hereby is 
denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 
3, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Daane, and Maisel. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, and 
Sherrill. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 

326 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FLORIDA NATIONAL BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC0, JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA 
FCR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
ORKOND BEACH FIRST NATIONAL BANK, ORKOND BEACH, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Florida National Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, 
Florida, a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Ormond 
Beach First National Bank, Ormond Beach, Florida ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
of the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
and recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 

-2-
3284 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the 
probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served. In each case, the Board is 
required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant, 
the largest banking organization in Florida, controls 31 banks 
located throughout the State with aggregate deposits of approximately 
$1.1 billion, representing 7.7 per cent of total commercial bank 
deposits in the State. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1970, 
and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
by the Board through October 31, 1971.) Consummation of the proposal 
herein would increase Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits 
l n t h e S t a t e by an insignificant amount. 
Bank ($34.3 million of deposits) maintains one banking office 
located i n Ormond Beach, Volusia County, Florida, and operates in 
the Daytona Beach banking market, which includes Daytona Beach plus 
the coastal portions of Volusia County. It is the largest of three 
commercial banks in Ormond Beach and the fourth largest commercial 
bank in the Daytona Beach banking market, controlling 15 per cent of 
commercial bank deposits in the latter area. 

3-
3265 
Applicant's closest subsidiary is located in Daytona Beach, 
6.6 miles southwest of Bank, and is the second largest bank ($37 million 
deposits) in the Daytona Beach banking market, controlling 17 per cent 
of commercial bank deposits in that market. The proposed acquisition 
would result in Applicant becoming the largest banking organization 
in the market, controlling 32 per cent of total deposits. 
Although Bank and Applicant's Daytona Beach subsidiary are 
separated by the Halifax River, numerous bridges connect Daytona Beach 
with the coastal portions of Volusia County and make both areas equally 
accessible to area residents. Bank's service area includes the entire 
service area of Applicant's Daytona Beach subsidiary and a significant 
amount of deposit and loan competition exists between these banks. Bank 
derives approximately 14 per cent of its total deposits and approximately 
O C 
per cent of its loans from Daytona Beach. Consummation of proposed 
acquisition would (1) eliminate competition between the second and 
fourth largest banks in the Daytona Beach market, (2) increase deposit 
concentration among the four largest organizations from 75.3 per cent 
to G4.5 per cent of total deposits in the Daytona area, (3) remove one of 
the largest banks in the market available for acquisition by another bank-
ing organization (It is understood that several bank holding companies 
other than Applicant have expressed interest in acquiring Bank.), and 
(4) raise barriers to entry by other organizations into the market. 
In connection with the review of the application, the Board 
has considered a comment of the Department of Justice which concluded 

3266 
-4-
that consummation of the proposed acquisition "would eliminate sub-
stantial existing competition and would seriously increase concen-
tration in an already overly-concentrated market." We concur with 
the Department's conclusion that the proposed acquisition would have 
a "significantly adverse" effect on competition in the Daytona Beach 
area. 
Although acquisition of Bank by Applicant would sever Bank's 
existing affiliation with Volusia County National Bank at Ormond Beach 
(with 2.5 per cent of market deposits), any benefit resulting from 
increased competition between these banks is clearly outweighed by 
the proposal's adverse effects on competition. 
Based on the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly, nor be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any area. However, the anticompetitive 
effects of the proposal are sufficiently serious as to provide signifi-
cant weight against approval of the application. 
Finaneial_and_manageri a1 resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is 
generally satisfactory, their management are capable and conservative 
and prospects of the group are favorable. Although affiliation with 
Applicant would enable Bank to draw upon Applicant's technical and 
managerial strength to alleviate its management succession problems 
and improve its financial condition, these factors are not regarded as 
sufficient to require approval of the application. 

-5-
3287 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of the residents of the Daytona Beach area appear to be 
adequately served at the present time by existing institutions since 
four of the five largest banking institutions in the State have banks 
in the Daytona Beach market. Consummation of the proposed transaction 
would have little impact on the convenience and needs of banking 
customers in the area since Applicant proposes no new service not 
already being offered by other banks in the area. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would have adverse effects on competition which would not 
be outweighed by other considerations. Consummation of the proposal, 
therefore, would not be in the public interest and the application 
should be denied. 
December 3, 1971. 

Item No. 2 
12/3/71 
8268 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
• 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION 
' 
Miami, Florida, 
' 
i 
for approval of acquisition of 100 per 
1 
cent (less directors' qualifying shares) 1 
of the voting shares of Combanks 
» 
Corporation, Winter Park, Florida. 
» 
ORDER DENYING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 225.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 225.3(a)), an application by Southeast Banking Corporation, 
Miami, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 
100 per cent(less directors' qualifying shares) of the voting shares 
of Combanks Corporation, Winter Park, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Florida Commissioner 
°f Banking, and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
recommended approval of the application. 

3269 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 22, 1971 (36 Federal Register 18817), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 3, 1971. 
Daane^ 
SJLJ?""" 8 ^
^ 
B U r n S a n d G ™
o
r
s *<*ertson, 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
3270 
In the Matter of the Application of 
COMBANKS CORPORATION, 
Winter Park, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 55.1 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of South 
Seminole Bank, North Orlando Bank, The 
Commercial Bank at Apopka, and The Commercial 
Bank at Pine Castle, all in the State of Florida. 
ORDER DENYING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
£ 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 225.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 225.3(a)), an application by Combanks Corporation, Winter 
Park, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 
55.1 per cent or more of the voting shares of South Seminole Bank, 
Fern Park, Florida; North Orlando Bank, Fairvilla, Florida; The 
Commercial Bank at Apopka, Apopka, Florida; and The Commercial Bank 
at Pine Castle, Pine Castle, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Florida Commissioner 
of Banking, and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
recommended approval of the application. 

-2-
3271 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 22, 1971 (36 Federal Register 18817), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired, and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 3, 1971. 
V ° l n g for. 
action; Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
uaane, and Maisel. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 

3272 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION, MIAMI, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
COMBANKS CORPORATION, WINTER PARK, FLORIDA 
and 
APPLICATION BY 
COMBANKS CORPORATION, WINTER PARK, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
OF SOUTH SEMINOLE BANK, FERN PARK, FLORIDA; 
r o 2 l H
T r A N D ° B A N K> FAIRVILLA, FLORIDA; THE 
THE S
E
™ 
A T A P 0 P K A > A P 0 P K A > FLORIDA; AND 
THE COMMERCIAL BANK AT PINE CASTLE, PINE CASTLE, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida ("Southeast"), 
a bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3) ), for prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent 
(less directors' qualifying shares)of the voting shares of Combanks 
Corporation ("Combanks"), located in Winter Park, Florida. Combanks 
controls 98.1 per cent of the voting shares of The Commercial Bank at 
Winter Park, Winter Park, Florida ("Commercial Bank"), and also owns 
24.9 per cent of the following four banks: 1) South Seminole Bank 
("Seminole Bank"), Fern Park, Florida; 2) North Orlando Bank ("North 
Orlando Bank"), Fairvilla, Florida; 3) The Commercial Bank at Apopka 
("Apopka Bank"), A p o p k a , F l o r i d a ; a n d 4 ) ^ 
C o m m e r c i a l ^ 
^ 
^ 
Castle ("Pine Castle Bank"), P l n« Castle, Florida. 

3273 
-2-
Corabanks has applied to acquire 55.1 per cent of the voting 
shares of Seminole Bank, North Orlando Bank, Apopka Bank, and Pine 
Castle Bank. Combanks proposes to acquire these shares through exchange 
f°r shares of Southeast and states that approval of the Combanks' appli-
cation is contingent upon approval of the Southeast application. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Florida 
Commissioner of Banking of receipt of the applications and requested 
H i s v i e w s and recommendations. The Commissioner recommended approval 
o f the applications. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acqui-
sition the effect of which, in any other manner would be in restraint 
o f trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of 
the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest 
b y t h e probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. In each case, the Board is 
required to take into consideration the financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and ueeda of the communities to be served. 

3 2 7 4 
-3-
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Southeast, the 
second largest banking organization in Florida, controls 15 banks, with 
1/ 
approximately $1.1 
billion in deposits, representing about 7.7 per 
cent of commercial bank deposits in the State. Commercial Bank, 
Seminole Bank, North Orlando Bank, Apopka Bank, and Pine Castle Bank 
control, respectively, $51.2, $18.5, $10.0, $3.0 and $2.4 million of 
deposits. Southeast'8 acquisition of these five banks through its 
acquisition of Combanks would increase its share of deposits in Florida 
by .6 per cent and would strengthen its position as the number two bank-
ing organization in the State. 
Commercial Bank, Seminole Bank, North Orlando Bank, Apopka 
Bank, and Pine Castle Bank all operate in the Orlando market, which 
is approximated by Orange County and the southern portion of Seminole 
County. These banks in the aggregate control 10.7 per cent of deposits 
in the Orlando market, making Combanks the third largest organization 
located there. Southeast also controls a bank in this market - Southeast 
National Bank (Southeast Orlando)- which it established in July 1970 
and which had about $6.5 million in deposits as of June 30, 1971. Though 
the present share of deposits controlled by Southeast's subsidiary in 
the Orlando market is not large, the rate of growth of this institution 
has been impressive and [with Southeast standing behind it] its rate of 
1/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
October 31, 1971. 

-4-
3275 
growth will likely continue in the future. Accordingly, Southeast 
Orlando is likely to become an important competitive influence in the 
concentrated Orlando market (the leading organization in this market 
controls over 40 per cent of market deposits and the top three organiza-
tions control almost two-thirds of market deposits). The Board concludes 
that significant existing and potential competition between Combanks 
and Southeast Orlando would be eliminated by approval of the subject 
application. 
Moreover, there would be other adverse effects on potential 
competition between Combanks and Southeast in Orlando since the Orlando 
market is an attractive one for entry by Southeast. The Orlando area 
has experienced substantial growth in recent years and this growth is 
expected to continue over the next decade, especially since the recent 
opening of the Disney World complex located about 11 miles outside of 
Orlando. Accordingly, Southeast would be likely to increase its presence 
in the Orlando market, either by opening up another new bank or by 
acquiring a smaller bank than the complex controlled by Combanks. Either 
°f these courses of action would be more desirable than the acquisition 
°f Combanks by Southeast since it would increase competition and decrease 
the concentration existing in the Orlando market. In addition, though 
a minor consideration, consummation of the proposal would preclude the 
potential for competition in other markets between Combanks and Southeast 
since Combanks has the potential to expand on a Statewide basis. Based 
°n the foregoing, the Board concludes that Applicant's acquisition of 
Combanks would have serious competitive consequences in foreclosing 
present and potential competition. 

i ' 
327C 
-2-
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Southeast and its subsidiary banks is satis-
factory, Their management is capable and prospects of the group are 
favorable. The financial condition and management of Combanks and its 
subsidiary banks are generally satisfactory and their prospects, whether 
operating individually or as subsidiaries of Southeast, are favorable. 
These considerations provide no significant support for approval of the 
application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The Orlando 
market area is presently well served by existing banking organizations. 
Southeast does plan to assist Combanks and its subsidiary banks to improve 
come of its services such as trust services and consumer and mortgage 
financing. However, customers desiring such services have numerous 
alternatives in the Orlando market at present. These considerations lend 
some weight for approval of the acquisition, but do not offset the serious 
competitive consequences arising from the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record and, in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the application 
to acquire Combanks is not in the public interest and should be denied. 
Since Combank's applications to acquire additional shares in its subsidiary 
banks are contingent on approval of the Southeast application, Combanks' 
application also should be denied. 
December 3, 1971. 

Item No, 
12/3/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
UNITED BANCSHARES OF FLORIDA, INC., 
M W , Florida, 
fo* approval of the acquisition of 100 
Per cent of the voting shares (less 
directors1 qualifying shares) of United 
Rational Bank of Westland, Hialeah, 
l°rida, a proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 225.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 225.3(a)), an application by United Bancshares of Florida, 
I n c., Miami, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisi-
t "i 
°n of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of United National Bank of Westland ("Bank"), Hialeah, Florida, 
a Proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
th 
e Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Co mPtroller had no objection to approval of the application. 

i ' 3278 
i -2" 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on October 9, 1971 (36 Federal Register 19719), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
flnd views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
a H those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of Applicant and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
m 
be served, and finds that: 
Applicant has five subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits 
°f approximately $348 million, representing 2.5 per cent of the com-
mercial bank deposits in Florida. 
(Banking data are as of June 30, 
1971, and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
by 
the Board through November 30, 1971.) Approval of the acquisition 
°f Bank would not increase Applicant's percentage shares of such 
deposits in Florida since Bank is a proposed new bank. 
Though Applicant presently has four subsidiary banks in 
°ade County in which Hialeah is located, Applicant does not dominate 
the County and none of its banks presently draw any significant amount 

I 
3279 
-3-
of business from the proposed service area of Bank, Moreover, there 
is little likelihood of significant future competition developing 
between these banks and Bank because of the large number of intervening 
banks and Florida's restrictive branching laws. Based on the record 
before it, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed 
acquisition would not adversely affect competition in any relevant 
area. In fact, competition will be benefited by the opening of a 
new banking alternative in an area which is relatively underbanked 
(as measured by the ratio of persons to banking offices in the proposed 
service area of Bank relative to the State ratio of persons to banking 
offices). 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant, its subsidiary banks and Bank are regarded as satisfactory, 
and these considerations are consistent with approval of the application. 
Considerations related to the convenience and needs of the community 
lend weight for approval of the application in that Applicant will 
be opening a new banking office in an area which, as mentioned earlier, 
is relatively underbanked. Additionally, the prospects for growth of 
the area are good because of a regional shopping center being constructed 
in the area. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition 
W o u l d be in the public interest and that the application should be 
approved, 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 

-4-
3280 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order, or (b) later than three months after the date 
°f this Order, and provided further that (c) United National Bank of 
Westland shall be open for business not later than six months after 
the date of this Order. Each of the periods described in (b) and 
(c) hereof may be extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 3, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 

•fylRfcS?.-
For immediate release. 
Item No. 4 
12/3/71 
December 3, 1971. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
lowered its margin requirement for purchasing or carrying stocks from 
65 to 55 per cent, effective Monday, December 6. 
In making the change, the Board cited the moderate level of 
outstanding stock market credit and the absence of indications of the 
excessive use of such credit. Margin credit extended by brokers 
totaled about $5 billion at the end of October compared with the peak 
of about $6.5 billion reached during June 1968. At large banks, loans 
for the purpose of purchasing or carrying securities currently amount 
to about $2.5 billion. 
Today's action will cover new extensions of credit by 
brokers and dealers (Regulation T) and loans by banks and other 
lenders (Regulations U and G, respectively) for the purpose of purchas-
ing or carrying stocks registered on a national stock exchange or named 
in the Board's over-the-counter margin list. 
No change was made in the 50 per cent margin requirement 
for purchasing or carrying convertible bonds or in the 70 per cent 
"retention requirement" applicable to undermargined accounts. This 
latter requirement specifies the portion of the proceeds of a sale of 
securities from a margin account that must be retained in the account 
if its equity docs not match the new margin requirement. 

2-
3282 
In line with the new margin requirement, the required 
deposit on short sales was also lowered from 65 to 55 per cent, also 
effective Monday, 
Federal Reserve margin requirements set the minimum down 
payment that must be made to purchase margin securities. Under a 
55 per cent margin requirement, a purchaser is required to pay 55 
per cent of the purchase price and may obtain credit for the remain-
ing 45 per cent. 

TITLE 12--BANKS /lND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Regs. G, T, U] 
Maximum Loan Value of Stocks 
Parts 207, 220, and 221 of Title 12 are amended as follows: 
PART 207— SECURITIES CREDIT BY PERSONS 
OTHER THAN BANKS, BROKERS, OR DEALERS 
4 if . i ~ " 
' 
" > / " 1 -; i •' 
i < V.ic s. iic 0 O'.iii*- » Ovarii vi.'V.lL w.C* 
. t, - .•• 
1. Effective December 6, 1971, section 207.5(a) (the Supplement. 
Regulation G) is amended to read as follows: 
§ 207.5 
Supplement. 
(a) Maximum loan value of margin securities. For the purpose 
§ 207,1, the maximum loan value of any margin security, except 
convertible securities subject to § 207.1(d), shall be 45 per cent of 
its current market value, as determined by any reasonable method. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
PART 220--CREDIT BY BROKERS AND DEALERS 
,; ..,,(. 
• •, . 
. . . . ; - 
f *>' : 
2. Effective December 6, 1971, section 220.8(a)(1) and (d) 
' 
, 
*» 
s .» f , -> 
, 
••• -> <-.1' * <r - >" j i ' - O T 
f'i. kj » 
' C'l'i c. 
(the Supplement to Regulation T) is amended to read as follows: 
•AVi 
r u c t t u $ aiitnw'M 
UiaXl be 
sir-cad* of It j currcai: 
5 220.3 Supplement. 
(a) Maximum loan value for general accounts. The maximum 
value of: securities in a general account subject to § 220.3 
shall be: 

3284 
- 2 -
(1) of a registered non-equity security held in the account 
Scciii'i-:. : .. 
. i. ; 
j 
'i : . 
. ; . •: : 
March 11 1963, and continuously thereafter, and of a margin equity 
'•J Uo 
1 
t
 SGcurity (except as provided in § 220.3(c) and paragraphs (b) and (c) 
5 
v. 
o £ this section) , 45 per cent of: the current market value of such 
• : 
••• h . . 
' 
: 
• ' .V, .. 
' 
. ., .'•. 
» << ' . 
• - * 
' 
securities. 
* 
. , 
• : 
' *1 • 
; > •. . L1- ,:<•.'.• 
i 
• 
• • >-.-•• . ........ 
* 
* 
•:< 
* 
* 
( d ) Marrd.n required for short sales.. The amount to be included 
the adjusted debit balance of a general account, pursuant to § 220,3(d)(3), 
<'.;•.• I, 
-v.. 
. 
• 
a s margin required for short sales of securities (other than exempted 
»Vf*.-N'- ;. ... ,, 
Securities) shall be 55 per cent of the current market value of each 
security. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
PART 221 — CREDIT BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE 
OF PURCHASING OR CARRYING MARGIN STOCKS 
3. Effective December 6, 1971, section 221.4(a) (the Supplement 
t o Regulation U) is amended to read as follows: 
^ 2 2 1 S u p p l e m e n t . 
( a ) Maximum loan value of stocks. For the purpose of § 221.1, 
tllG maximum loan value of any stock, whether or not registered on a 
Mglonal securities exchange, shall be 45 per cent of its current 
Market value, as determined by any reasonable method. 
•V 
* 
if 
* 
* 

4a. These amendments are issued pursuant to section 7(b) of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 703(b)). The changes 
arc to lower the margin requirements for purchasing or carrying stocks 
fv ° m 
to 55 per cent. 
b. The requirements of section 553 of Title 5, United States 
with respect to notice, public participation, and deferred 
G^ective date were not followed in connection with these amendments 
kQcause following such requirements wouL1 have prevented the Boaru's 
a cUon from becoming effective as promptly as necessary in the public 
Merest. 
By order of the Boar of Governors, December 3, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
"Tynan Smith 
r
S
e
c
r
e
t
a
r
y 
of the Board 
