Minutes for May 1, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 1 
Amendment to arbitrage provisions of 
Regulation T, Credit by Brokers and 
Dealers, and Regulation U, Credit by 
Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing 
or Carrying Margin Stocks. 
'" 
• '' 
' 
I ' , ! ' . ? " 
, 
' 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
? 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 
'''/MK " 

1 3 4 9 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, May 1, 1970. The Board met in the Special Library 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Ettin and Stoffels of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
v •••••.•-. 
> .•. . 
.:. 
.. 
-j' 
,!t 
, : ' 
v: ': J.'' 
•'.'..''.•*. \ 
. 
' 
• 
: ; i • •, . 
Amendments to Regulations T and U. In a memorandum dated May 1, 
1970, the Divisions of Research and Statistics and Supervision and 
.. > 
Regulation recommended that Regulations T, Credit by Brokers and Dealers, 
and U, Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Margin 
Stocks, be amended so as to extend from 90 days to 180 days the period 
within which securities must be exchangeable or convertible if arbitrage 
operations are to be eligible for exempt credit. The extension would 
be limited to the case of the purchase of an instrument with a temporary 
life, such as a due bill that would merely entitle the holder to receive 

J350 
5/1/70 
- 2 -
a security not yet issued, together with the offsetting sale of that 
security in when-issued form. 
The proposed amendments were suggested because of the unusual 
characteristics of the financing instrument being offered by American 
Telephone & Telegraph Company and the effect of deteriorating bond 
market conditions on the marketability of the $1.6 billion offering, 
which was the largest in history. 
When the terms of the offering were 
set, it had been thought that there would not be much need for arbitrage. 
However, in view of the current market situation it was now probable 
that the success of the issue would depend upon the support of arbitra-
geurs . 
Question was raised as to the possibility of the company's 
changing the terms of its offering so as to allow warrant detachment in 
3 months instead of 5 months, but staff reported it was the feeling of 
the underwriters that such a move would be interpreted as an admission 
of failure, with resultant upsetting effects in the market. However, 
the proposed change in the Board's regulations was of such a technical 
nature that the same result would not be anticipated. 
Members of the staff then reviewed the circumstances leading to 
the imposition of the 90-day limitation several years ago and expressed 
the view that an extension of time in the present situation would not be 
likely to invite abuse. 

•f r> 
J kJ^JL 
5/1/70 
- 3 -
In an exchange of views among Board members, Governor Brimmer 
expressed himself as feeling that it would be inappropriate for the 
Board to take an action the specific purpose of which apparently was 
to minimize the risk of loss to a private corporation, especially when 
certain options appeared to be available to the corporation. 
Governor Daane stated that in the present climate his concern 
was over the state of financial markets generally, including the Govern-
ment securities market, and any reasonable action that could be taken 
to prevent the situation from deteriorating further would be justified. 
Governor Maisel said he would support the staff recommendation 
on purely technical grounds. Regulations should be written in terms of 
market concepts, and the proposed amendment would work in that direction. 
Governor Sherrill expressed the view that the definition of a 
"due bill" as a "security" was a basic flaw, and the three-month limita-
tion had been set arbitrarily. Accordingly, he could see no reason to 
uph old that limitation in the face of possible undue market disturbances. 
Governor Robertson stated that he would support the staff recom-
mendation, after considerable thought, on the grounds that he could see 
no justification for applying the 90-day limit to the type of transac-
tion under consideration. 
Question was raised whether in the circumstances an open-end 
amendment would be appropriate, but it was the consensus that it would 
be preferable to set a limit in view of the highly technical nature of 
the problem. 

A/<•./A-' 
5/1/70 
- 4 -
The staff recommendation was then accepted, Governor Brimmer 
dissenting, with the understanding that a press release would be issued 
this afternoon following the close of the market. 
A copy of the press release, as issued, is attached as Item No. 1, 
including the amendments in the form in which they were sent to the Fed-
eral Register. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Item No. 1 
5/1/70 
For immediate release. 
May 1, 1970 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
amended the arbitrage provisions of its Regulations T and U dealing 
with securities credit. Regulation T applies to credit by brokers, 
dealers and members of national securities exchanges while Regulation U 
applies to credit by banks for the purpose of purchasing or carrying 
registered securities and securities on the Board's over-the-counter 
margin list. 
Transactions in a special arbitrage account are exempt from 
margin requirements, which presently are 80 per cent on stocks and CO 
per cent on convertible bonds. One condition for the exemption is that 
the security purchased must be exchangeable or convertible within 90 
days into the security sold in creating the arbitrage. The amendment 
permits a 180-day exchange or conversion period when the security pur-
chased is solely a due bill or other evidence of the right to receive 
the security that is sold, and the security sold is trading as s when-
issued security. 
Attachments 

j 3 5 4 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 220--CREDIT BY BROKERS AND DEALERS 
[Reg. T] 
Arbitrage Credit 
I. Effective immediately paragraph (d) of § 220.4 is amended 
to read as follows: 
§ 220.4 Special Accounts 
* 
* 
-ft 
Vr 
* 
(d) Special arbitrage account. In a special arbitrage account, 
a member of a national securities exchange may effect and finance for any 
customer bona fide arbitrage transactions in securities. For the pur-
pose of this paragraph, the term "arbitrage" means (1) a purchase or 
sale of a security in one market together with an offsetting sale or 
purchase of the same security in n different market at as nearly the 
same time as practicable, for the purpose of taking advantage of a difr 
ference in prices in the two markets, or (2) a purchase of a security 
which is, without restriction other than the payment of money, ex-
changeable or convertible within 90 calendar days following the date of 
its purchase into a second security together with an offsetting sale 
at or about the same time of such second security for the purpose of 
taking advantage of a disparity in the prices of the two securities, 
except that when the security purchased is solely a due bill for, or 
other evidence of the right to receive, only the security that is sold, 

1 ^ 
^ 
J K.i JlJ 
- 2 -
and the security that is sold is trading as a when-issued security, 
such period shall be 180 calendar days. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to add an exception 
permitting arbitrage transactions without regard to margin requirements 
up to 180 days in certain circumstances. 
b. These amendments were adopted by the Board without following 
the procedures prescribed in section 553 of Title 5, United States Code, 
relating to notice, public participation, and deferred effective date, 
The Board found that the procedures of section 553 are unnecessary: 
T h a t^Pe o f arbitrage transaction within the added exception is not of 
the type the Board intended should be restricted by the 90-day provision 
relating to arbitrage transactions when that provision was adopted in 
1961. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 1, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 

1.3 56 
TITLE 12--BAMS AMD BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEi-I 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 221--CREDIT BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR 
CARRYING MARGIN STOCKS 
[Reg. U] 
Arbitrage Credit 
1. Effective immediately paragraph (j) of y 221.2 is 
amended to read as follows: 
5 221.2 Exceptions to General Rule? 
«,f 
Vr 
* 
it 
ii 
(j) Any credit extended to a member of a national securiites 
exchange for the purpose of financing his or his customers' bona fide 
arbitrage transactions in securities. For the purposes of this para-
graph, the term "arbitrage" means (1) a purchase or sale of a security 
in one market together with an offsetting sale or purchase of the 
same security in a different market at as nearly the same time as 
Practicable, for the purpose of taking advantage of a difference in 
Prices in the two markets, or (2) a purchase of a security which is, 
without restriction other than the payment of money, exchangeable or 
convertible within 90 calendar days following the date of its purchase 
into a second security together with an offsetting sale at or about 
the same ti.rne of such second security, for the purpose of taking 
advantage of a disparity in the prices of the two securities, except 
that when the security purchased is solely a due bill for, or other 

1357 
evidence of the right to receive, only the security that is sold, 
and the security that is sold is trading as a when-issued security, 
fiuch period shall be 180 calendar days; and 
* 
* 
* 
>V 
1: 
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to add an exception 
permitting arbitrage transactions without regard to margin requirements 
up to 180 days in certain circumstances. 
b. These amendments were adopted by the Board without following 
the procedures prescribed in section 553 of Title 5, United States Code, 
relating to notice, public participation, and deferred effective date, 
T h e B o a* d found that the procedures of section 553 are unnecessary: 
J-He type of arbitrage transaction within the added exception is not of 
the type the Board intended should be restricted by the 90-day provision 
relating to arbitrage transactions when that provision was adopted in 
1961. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 1, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth At Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 
