MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 27, 1969 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, August 27, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
First Wisconsin Bankshares. There had been distributed drafts 
°f an order and statement reflecting the Board's approval on July 17, 
1969, of the application of First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of Wisconsin State Bank, Green 
Bay, Wisconsin. 

2734 
8/27/69 
-2-
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
are attached under Item No. 1. 
Valley Bancorporation. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated August 21, 1969, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of Valley 
Bancorporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of The New 
American Bank of Oshkosh, Oshkosh, Wisconsin. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order and statement reflecting the decision would be drafted 
for the Board's consideration. 
First at Orlando. There had been distributed a memorandum 
from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated August 15, 1969, 
and other pertinent papers relating to the application of First at 
Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire shares of The Citizens 
State Bank, St. Cloud, Florida. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order and statement reflecting the decision would be drafted 
for the Board's consideration. 
Barnett National Securities Corporation. A memorandum from 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated August 15, 1969, and 
other pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an 
application of Barnett National Securities Corporation, Jacksonville, 

2705 
8/27/69 
-3-
Florida, to acquire shares of Anastasia Bank, St. Augustine, Florida, 
a proposed new bank. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that an order and statement reflecting the decision would be 
drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Memphis Branch building. There had been distributed a memoran-
dum from the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated 
August 18, 1969, relating to the request of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of St. Louis for authority, in connection with the proposed Memphis 
Branch building, to award contracts totaling $6,428,288 for general 
construction, vault doors, and equipment, and to establish a contingency 
allowance of $200,000. The estimated total project cost, including 
architects' fees and the contingency allowance, would be $7,044,157. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of telegram that would grant 
the requested authority. 
Mr. Mcintosh stated that the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
had again reviewed conditions at the Memphis Branch, keeping in mind 
the Board's position that only construction of the highest priority 
was warranted under current economic conditions. By letter dated 
August 7, 1969, President Francis had advised that this review confirmed 
that a critical situation existed at the Memphis Branch. 
Governor Mitchell indicated that the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans concurred. 

2 7 0 6 
8/27/69 
-4-
Unanimous approval was then given to the telegram to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
Houston building program. There had been distributed a memo-
randum dated August 18, 1969, from the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations relating to the request of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Dallas for approval of (1) remodeling the security and lighting 
system at the Houston Branch, and (2) preparation of preliminary 
plans for a new vault and the addition of two floors to the present 
Houston structure. 
The security program was part of a District-wide effort 
being undertaken in response to adverse comments contained in the 
Secret Service survey of Reserve Bank protection facilities. The 
lighting problems stemmed from the type of installation made at the 
time the Houston Branch building was constructed. The system did not 
Perform as anticipated, and subsequent measures taken to overcome the 
difficulties had not been completely successful. It was estimated that 
the two projects would cost approximately $450,000. The Division 
recommended that the Reserve Bank be authorized to proceed with these 
two programs, with the understanding that the details of the security 
a
rrangements would be submitted for review when they became available. 
With respect to the need for a new vault, it was the conclusion 
°f the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations that the case was 
Marginal and that actual construction could be postponed for a year 
°r two without hampering the Bank's ability to meet its operating 

8/27/69 
-5-
commitments. With respect to the two additional floors, the Division 
was of the view that the office area of the existing building was 
adequate for operating purposes and that approval of the proposal 
would hinge on the question whether the benefits derived from provid-
ing facilities for seminars, meetings, and other similar educational 
and banker-oriented services, not now existing in the building, would 
be sufficient to justify an expenditure in the neighborhood of 
$1.3 
million. 
Following comments by Mr. Mcintosh, Governor Mitchell stated 
that he would be inclined to refer the question of the vault space 
and additional floors to the Board's architectural consulting firm. 
He recalled that at the Board meeting on July 17, 1969, the Committee 
on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans had been authorized 
to negotiate with the firm of Keyes, Lethbridge, & Condon for the 
purpose of securing their services as architectural consultants, and 
he hoped that a proposal would be forthcoming in the near future. He 
expected that the architectural consultant would be most effective 
during the early stages of planning and, consequently, he would prefer 
to defer action on the Houston project. 
Governor Brimmer noted that Dallas would eventually need to 
secure the services of a local architect, and he inquired whether 
it 
would be worth while for the Reserve Bank to proceed along that 
line. When the services of the architectural consultant had actually 

2 7 0 8 
8/27/69 
-6-
been obtained, he envisaged that there were likely to be more pressing 
problems with respect to the three new Reserve Bank or branch buildings 
that would be getting under way, with the result that the consultant 
could become a bottleneck so far as Houston was concerned. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that such a situation 
was not likely to arise. The only delay might occur while the 
consultant was in the process of becoming acquainted with the System's 
problems, but that should be completed within an acceptable time 
schedule. 
Following further discussion, the recommendations of the 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations, as modified by Governor 
Mitchell, were approved unanimously. A copy of the letter subsequently 
sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas is attached as Item No. 3. 
i 
Truth in lending. Governor Robertson referred to a forth-
coming meeting of a group to consider the preparation of an educational 
jt i. »v 
film strip on Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, and also to a forthcoming 
meeting of the Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending. He invited 
participation by other Board members in those meetings. 
The meeting then adjourned 
l «. 

2709 
Item No. 1 
8/27/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST WISCONSIN BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
' * * " 
. 
„, 
f
or approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Wisconsin State Bank, Green Bay, Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3))t and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Wisconsin Bankshares 
C°rporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, for the Board's prior approval of 
'he acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Wisconsin State Bank, Green Bay, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
inking for the State of Wisconsin and requested his views and recom-
^ d a t i o n . The Commissioner replied that his office would not 
d l s a
Pprove the application. 

'<1 
-2 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 23, 1969 (34 Federal Register 6810), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for 
its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
a
nd all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order, or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
°*der, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
ky the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 27th day of August,. 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Maisel, Brimmer, Daane, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST WISCONSIN BANKSHARES CORPORATION, MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
WISCONSIN STATE BANK, GREEN BAY, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Wisconsin 
State Bank, Green Bay, Wisconsin ('Bank'
1
). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
require(i by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Wisconsin 
Commissioner of Banking of receipt of the application and requested 
views and recommendation thereon. The Commissioner replied that 
office would not disapprove the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States. 
may the Board approve any other proposed acquisition the effect of 
wl
*lch, in any section of the country, may be substantially to lessen 

competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other 
manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the 
anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly out-
weighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In 
each case the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
a
nd managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding com-
pany and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The io 
largest 
banking organizations in Wisconsin control deposits of almost $3.3 bil-
lion, representing 39.5 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits 
1/ 
the State. 
The 10 organizations include eight of the 11 Wisconsin-
based bank holding companies now in operation or whose formation has 
been approved by the Board. There are also three Minnesota-based bank 
holding 
companies operating banks in Wisconsin with deposits repre-
s
enting 1.3 p e r cent of the total for the State. Applicant, the 
l a
*gest banking organization in the State, controls 13 banks and 
^6.8 per cent of Wisconsin's total deposits. The acquisition of Bank 
v
°uld increase its share of the State's deposits by less than .3 per 
c
ent. 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1968, unless otherwise 
n
°ted. 

2713 
- 3 -
Bank is located in Green Bay, the county seat of Brown County, 
approximately 115 miles north of Milwaukee. Bank's primary service 
a r e a
, as defined by Applicant, is the Green Bay Urbanized Area. There 
a r
e nine banks operating 14 banking offices in this service area. In 
addition, the establishment of two new branch offices in the area has 
recently been authorized. Kellogg Citizens National Bank, Green Bay 
($97 million deposits), and Peoples Bank of Green Bay ($51 million 
deposits) are, respectively, the first and second largest banks in 
the area, and subsidiaries of the fourth and second largest holding 
companies in the State. Combined, these banks hold 65 per cent of the 
commercial bank deposits of 16 banks (23 offices) located in Brown 
County, and are the only banks in the county presently affiliated with 
holding companies. Applicant's acquisition of Bank would increase the 
p e r c
entage of deposits held by holding companies to 75 per cent. West-
S i d
e State Bank ($35 million deposits) is the third largest bank in 
the area. Bank, with $23 million in deposits (10 per cent of the area 
to
tal), i s t h e a r e a « s fourth largest banking organization. Smaller 
competing banks in the area include two each in Green Bay and the 
0f D e p e r G j 
a n <j another in the township of Ashwaubenon. 
The aforedescribed service area of Bank's only office does 
n
°t overlap the areas served by Applicant's subsidiaries, the closest 
S u
hsidiary to Bank being located in Oshkosh, approximately 50 miles 
s
°
u
thwest of Green Bay. Only five of Bank's accounts, totaling 
>000, originate in the areas served by Applicant's banks. The 
. v. 

absence of any significant competition between Applicant's subsidiaries 
and Bank is explained principally by the distances separating them, the 
intervening cities and towns,and the existence of State laws restricting 
branch banking. These factors also support the conclusion that no 
substantial competition is likely to develop in the future. 
As earlier stated, Bank competes with three larger and two 
Waller banks in Green Bay. In the last five years Bank had the smallest 
increase in loans and the next to lowest deposit growth of all Green Bay 
banks. As hereinafter discussed, Bank's prospects under its present 
form and scope of operation are not too favorable. However, as a sub-
sidiary of Applicant it would appear that Bank could significantly 
better its competitive position through employment of more aggressive 
m e
thods of operation and rendition of expanded services. The resulting 
increase in competition is not reasonably foreseen as having any significantly 
adverse competitive effect on the other banks operating in this area. 
On the basis of the foregoing,the Board concludes that 
COr
*3ummation of the proposal would not substantially affect the present 
State-wide concentration of banking deposits nor present levels of such 
concentration in the area served by Bank, nor would it tend to create a 
Monopoly or be in restraint of trade, nor lessen competition, but rather, 
*-hat competition would probably be strengthened by Applicant's acquisition 
o f
 Bank. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Th 
e
 financial conditions of Applicant and its subsidiary banks are considered 
^satisfactory, their managements competent, and their prospects favorable. 

2715 
Bank's financial condition, while considered to be fair, 
evidences a need for strengthening of its capital structure. Bank's 
chief executive officer is qualified and experienced. However, equally 
qualified successor management is lacking - a significant consideration 
in terms of Bank's growth potential. Absent the proposed affiliation, 
Bank's prospects are viewed as only fair. 
Assuming consummation of the proposal, however, Bank's 
Prospects would improve significantly. Applicant proposes to assist 
Bank in providing improved and expanded services, and asserts its 
capabilities and desire to provide Bank with any needed trained per-
sonnel, and to aid in providing capital as required. The record 
indicates that Applicant is capable of satisfying Bank's needs in 
these and other respects. Therefore, considerations under the banking 
factors appear to weigh in favor of approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
City of Green Bay is reported to be the fifth most rapidly growing 
c
ity in the United States, its population having increased from 
52,700 in 1950 to 62,900 in 1960. Its 1968 population was estimated 
to be 86,300. Green Bay, with one of the finest harbors on the 
Great Lakes, is an industrial center producing a number of diversified 
Products, and during the period from 1960 to 1967 retail sales are 
r e
Ported to have increased 38 per cent and employment 37 per cent. 
Numerous economic indicators reflect a relatively rapid economic 
growth in the Green Bay area generating demands for larger bank 

- 6 -
credits and expanded and somewhat more sophisticated banking services. 
A continuing increase in this demand is reasonably foreseen, particularly 
in the light of the proposed construction of a Green Bay extension of 
the University of Wisconsin, stated to be operational in the fall of this 
year with an estimated initial enrollment of 1,500 students. 
Although the major banking needs of the area are presently 
being satisfied, the service demands anticipated by the economic growth 
forecast for the area indicate the need for a significant change in 
Bank's competitive position if it is to contribute to and share in the 
area's growth. Applicant asserts that consummation of this proposal 
w
ould result in improved services to the community served by Bank through 
a
n increase in Bank's lending limit and through Bank's immediate access 
to the computer services of Applicant's subsidiary banks. Applicant 
w
ould also make available to Bank's customers assistance in the area 
o f
 international banking and in trust and estate matters. 
Considerations regarding the convenience and needs of the 
immunities concerned are consistent with and weigh toward approval 
o f
 this application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
Contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
S e
ction 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
tf
ansaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
s h
ould bo approved. 
Angust 27, 1969. 

Item No. 2 
T E L E G R A M 
8/27/69 
LEASED WIRE SERVICE 
^ I 
' I 
. * 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
August 27, 1969 
: 
FRANCIS - ST. LOUIS 
Board approves awarding of appropriate contracts for construction 
of new building for Memphis Branch as described in your letter of 
August 7, 1969, and authorizes expenditure of approximately 
$7,045,000, which figure includes architects' fees of $415,869 
. 
and a contingency allowance of $200,000. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
FORRESTAL 

'StfZ^V* Vo". 
a i i M -
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
• r THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
271.8 
Item No. 3 
8/27/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S F D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 27, 1969. 
Mr. Philip E. Coldwell, President, 
Federal. Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Dear Mr. Coldwell: 
This refers to your April 23 letter and supplemental in-
formation concerning a request for Board approval of (a) remodeling 
of the security and lighting systems at the Houston branch and (b) 
preparation of preliminary plans for a new vault and the addition 
of two floors to the present Houston structure. 
The Board approves your Bank's proceeding with the secu-
rity and lighting programs as outlined in your letter, with the 
understanding that details of the security arrangements will be 
submitted to the Board for review when they become available. With 
regard to item (b) above, the Board feels that it would be desirable 
to postpone planning for the new vault and two additional floors for 
the time being. As you are aware, the Board is in the process of 
retaining a consulting architectural firm and it believes that it 
would be helpful to have the views of that firm on this part of your 
Bank's proposed program before you proceed with the preparation of 
preliminary plans. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
