MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 24, 1970 

332tt> 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, November 24, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland,- Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

3 2 6 7 
11/24/70 
-2-
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Midwest Bancorporation. The Board authorized the issuance of 
an order and statement reflecting its action on November 5, 1970, denying 
the application of Midwest Bancorporation, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, 
to acquire shares of Community State Bank, Kansas City, Missouri. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 1. A copy of 
the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
First Virginia Bankshares. The Board unanimously approved (1) 
the application of First Virginia Bankshares Corporation, Arlington, Vir-
ginia, to acquire shares of New Citizens Bank, Poquoson, Virginia, an 
organizing State bank; (2) the application of New Citizens Bank to merge 
with Citizens Bank of Poquoson, Poquoson, Virginia; and (3) the application 
of New Citizens Bank for membership in the Federal Reserve System. The 
Board also authorized the issuance of orders reflecting approval of the 
holding company and merger applications. Copies of the orders are attached 
as Items 3 and 4, and a copy of the letter approving the membership appli-
cation is attached as Item No. 5. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given to a 
report, for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, on 
the competitive factors involved in the proposed purchase of assets and 
assumption of liabilities of The Citizens and Southern Bank of Chamblee, 
Chamblee, Georgia; The Citizens and Southern South DeKalb Bank, Decatur, 

szm 
11/24/70 
-3-
Georgia; The Citizens and Southern Park National Bank, DeKalb County, 
Georgia; and The Citizens and Southern Bank of Tucker, Tucker, Georgia, 
by The Citizens and Southern Emory Bank, DeKalb County, Georgia. The 
conclusion read as follows: 
A close relationship has existed among The Citizens and 
Southern Bank of Chamblee; The Citizens and Southern South 
DeKalb Bank, Decatur; the Citizens and Southern Park National 
Bank, DeKalb County; The Citizens and Southern Bank of Tucker; 
and The Citizens and Southern Emory Bank, DeKalb County. Thus, 
there is no effective existing competition among proponents. 
There is some potential for development of competition among 
them in the event the close relationships were to terminate. 
Overall, the competitive effects of the proposed transaction 
would be slightly adverse. 
Proposals for State legislation. In a memorandum dated November 23, 
1970, the Legal Division proposed that a reply be made to the annual invi-
tation from the Office of Management and Budget to submit legislative pro-
posals for consideration by State legislatures that would indicate that 
the Board had no proposals to submit for consideration at this time. 
Chairman Burns expressed the view that, while time did not permit 
sufficient study of numerous issues that might merit recommendations, such 
a study should be undertaken in the future. He suggested that the present 
i 
response include suggestions for the lifting or removal of interest rate 
ceilings on State and local Government issues and the limitation, such as 
in New York State, on the rate that could be charged on life insurance 
policy loans. 

3269 
11/24/70 
-4-
Discussion indicated some reluctance to include the suggestion 
regarding life insurance policy loans. Other topics were mentioned, 
although with recognition that time limitations would not permit the 
necessary background work at this stage. Staff drew attention to the 
fact that the request contemplated that suggestions would be accompanied 
by legislative drafts where possible. 
•If 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that a 
revised draft of response would be developed for the Board's consideration. 
Assistance for Penn Central. In a letter dated November 16, 1970, 
Chairman Magnuson of the Senate Committee on Commerce indicated that in 
view of the possiblity that the Penn Central Transportation Company might 
require Governmental assistance to continue in operation, the Committee 
would appreciate receiving the views of the Board on alternative methods 
of supplying such assistance and its opinion as to the preferable method. 
The Committee was particularly interested in the possiblity that the Federal 
Reserve might make, or arrange for, a loan to Penn Central under the pro-
visions of existing law. 
A draft of reply to Chairman Magnuson, distributed with a memoran-
dum from the Office of the Secretary dated November 23, would express the 
view that an extension of Federal Reserve credit under paragraph 3 of section 
13 of the Federal Reserve Act (the only relevant provision of existing law) 
would not be appropriate. The draft letter would support the objectives of 
s- 4011, which would provide Government guarantees for loans to railroads 

' 3270 
11/24/70 
-5-
under certain specified conditions, and would renew an earlier suggestion 
by Chairman Burns that some machinery be established to provide emergency 
financial assistance to basically sound firms experiencing temporary finan-
cial distress when the alternative might be financial dislocation inimical 
to the national interest. 
Discussion centered on the reasons for which it did not seem 
appropriate to use the authority in paragraph 3 of section 13 to provide 
assistance to Penn Central. There was agreement that a firm position 
should be taken in that regard. It was also agreed, however, that language 
should be used that would not prejudice the Board's freedom to act if a 
different situation were at some time presented. 
The letter was then approved unanimously in the form attached as 
Item No. 6. 
Proposed amendment to Regulation Z. The Division of Supervision 
and Regulation, in a memorandum dated November 19, 1970, recommended that 
the Board publish for comment a proposed amendment to Regulation Z, Truth 
< ! 
in Lending, to implement the provisions of Public Law 91-508, approved on 
October 26, 1970, prohibiting the mailing of unsolicited credit cards and 
generally setting a $50 limit on the cardholder's liability for unauthorized 
use of any credit card. 
After agreement upon certain revisions suggested by Governor Brimmer 
for clarification, the Board unanimously approved the publication of the 
1 
• 
.'! 
• 
' 
• 
... i 
proposed amendment for comment. 

11/24/70 
-6-
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff attendance. 
Euro-dollar outflows. In a memorandum dated November 17, 1970, 
Mr. Robert Solomon discussed the problem presented by current and potential 
Euro-dollar outflows. With the decline in domestic short-term interest 
rates to levels below Euro-dollar rates, banks had repaid most of their 
Euro-dollar borrowings in excess of their reserve-free bases for such hold-
ings. So far this year repayments had amounted to approximately $5 billion. 
While no one could be sure, it was not to be ruled out that a significant 
differential in short-term interest rates between the U.S. and Europe would 
persist for some time. With such a prospect, and with the recent suspension 
of interest rate ceilings on certain large certificates of deposit having 
enhanced the ability of banks to obtain funds from that source, the inter-
est of banks in retaining their reserve-free bases of Euro-dollars would 
probably diminish and significant further outflow was possible. 
Mr. Solomon's memorandum commented upon advantages and disadvantages 
that might accrue from permitting such an outflow to occur. The disadvan-
tages, which he found more persuasive, rested principally upon balance of 
payments considerations. 
In brief, the official settlements deficit had 
amounted to $7 billion in the first 9 months of 1970, and if this rate of 
deficit should continue for another 6 months or a year, several unfortunate 
consequences were obvious. 
Mr. Solomon noted that the argument that the U.S. should be trying 
to moderate the impact that its changing policies had on the rest of the 
world was hard to challenge. 

11/24/70 
-7-
A memorandum dated November 20, 1970, from the Division of Inter-
national Finance had also been distributed, in which Mr. Gemmill examined 
a number of proposals for reducing costs of or increasing benefits from 
retention of Euro-dollar borrowings. Another proposal had been presented 
in a letter to Chairman Burns from Mr. Coombs, Senior Vice President of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
In summarizing the considerations discussed in his memorandum, 
Mr. Solomon noted that one possible consequence of a substantial Euro-dollar 
outflow under present circumstances would be a crisis in the international 
monetary system. If the Federal Reserve was not seen to be trying to stem 
H.» 
v 
i 
. . . . 
the outflow, its relations with foreign central banks could deteriorate, 
with adverse effects on their willingness to revalue their currencies if 
it should become evident that that was a desirable course. 
The general discussion first dealt with the fact that an unchecked 
Euro-dollar outflow might jeopardize continuance of the special drawing 
rights arrangements, after which Mr. Solomon responded to Chairman Burns' 
request for comment on the nature of a possible international monetary cri-
sis. In response to a further question, he indicated that among the several 
proposals outlined, the staff considered that the alternative having the 
greatest prospect for success was the establishment of a reduced rate of 
reserve requirements on that part of a bank's demand deposits equal in 
amount to the bank's Euro-dollar borrowings, up to specified limits. 

3273 
11/24/70 
-8-
Discussion brought out that the effect would be to release 
approximately $800 million in reserves, which in the first instance 
would benefit about a dozen large banks. 
There ensued discussion of what further measures would be available 
if the proposed action should prove ineffective, and during the discussion 
Governors Robertson and Mitchell suggested possible alternatives. 
Other comments emphasized the need for further analysis before 
decisions could be reached, including economic analysis of possible 
alternatives, and it was understood that additional documentation would 
be prepared as a basis for further consideration of the subject by the 
Board at an early opportunity. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

32 
Item No. 1 
i 
11/24/70 
i 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
MIDWEST BANCORPORATION, INC., 
1 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of over 
1 
80 per cent of the voting shares of 
» 
Community State Bank, Kansas City, 
1 
Missouri. 
1 
ORDER DENYING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S„C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Midwest Bancorporation, Inc., 
Kansas City, Missouri, a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of over 80 per cent of 
fche voting shares of Community State Bank, Kansas City, Missouri. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Finance of the State of Missouri and requested his views and recom-
mendation. The Commissioner indicated that he would offer no objection 

3275 
ijU 
to approval of the application, although he did express concern about 
the effect on Applicants subsidiary banks of the initial proposal for 
financing the acquisition. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 
1970 (35 Federal Register 14588), 
which provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit com-
ments and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy 
of the application was forwarded to the United States Department of 
Justice for its consideration. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired and all those received have been considered by 
the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
Boardfs Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 24, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A, Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

3276 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
MIDWEST BANCORPORATION, INC,, KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
COMMUNITY STATE BANK, KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI 
STATEMENT 
Midwest Bancorporation, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
of 1956, for prior approval of the acquisition of over 80 per cent 
of the voting shares of Community State Bank, Kansas City, Missouri 
("Bank")• 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority* - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave notice of receipt 
of the application to the Commissioner of Finance of the State of 
Missouri and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
indicated* that he would offer no objection to approval of the application, 
although he did express concern about the effect on Applicant's sub-
sidiary banks of the initial proposal for financing the acquisition of 
Bank. 

- 2 -
3277 
Statutory considerations., - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
° r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction* - Applicant, the 
SGcond smallest of 10 registered bank holding companies in Missouri, 
controls two banks with aggregate deposits of $16.7 million, repre-
senting approximately .2 per cent of commercial bank deposits in the 
S f 
1/ 
cate. 
Both of Applicant's subsidiary banks are located in the Kansas 
City area - Platte Woods Bank ($4.5 million deposits) is 16 miles north-
west of downtown Kansas City, and Laurel Bank ($12,2 million deposits) 
ls 14 miles southeast of downtown Kansas City. Upon acquisition of 
y 
All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, and reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

3278 
Bank ($9 million deposits), Applicant Would rem&ih the second smallest 
bank holding company, controlling .3 per cent of commercial bank deposits 
iri Missouri. 
Community Bank is located in Kansas City, approximately 3 miles 
south of the main downtown district; its service area, which covers about 
15 
square miles, has a population of 200,000, consisting primarily of low 
and middle income families. Of the nine banks located within Bank's 
service area, Community Bank is the seventh largest,'with 7.6 per cent of 
area deposits. No significant existing competition would be eliminated 
or substantial potential competition foreclosed by consummation of the 
proposal. Applicant's subsidiary banks do not compete with Community 
Bank to any significant extent because of the distances separating the 
banks and the presence of competing banks in the intervening areas. Nor 
does it appear that such competition would develop, because of Missouri's 
restrictive branching laws and the unattractiveness of Bank's service 
area for de novo entry. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that con-
summation of the proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly, 
nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States, 
and would not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend 
fco create a monopoly in any section of the country. 

3273 
i 
• 
, 
....... 
J 
Financial and manafteHal resources and future prospects. -
The present financial condition of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and 
Bank is satisfactory; the management of each is capable; and th£ 
prospects of each are favorable. However, because of the proposed 
method of financing the acquisition of Bank, the financial condition 
and prospects of Applicant, the present subsidiaries, and Bank would 
be adversely affected by consummation of the proposed transaction. 
Applicant, which was formed in October 1969, intends to 
finance the cash purchase of Bank's stock through a six-year loan, 
secured by the stock of its two existing subsidiaries and Bank. On 
consummation of the acquisition, approximately one-half of the debt 
would be repaid by extraordinary dividends to be declared by each of 
the three banks. These dividends would reduce the capital level of 
two of the banks to approximately the minimum amount which the State 
Commissioner of Finance considers acceptable. The remaining debt -
equal to 60 per cent of Applicant's net worth - would be repaid out 
°f the earnings of the three banks over a 4-6 year period. 
The Board is of the view that the reduced capital position 
°f the banks and the incurrence of a high level of acquisition debt 
by Applicant, which would hinder its ability to meet emergency capital 
needs of its subsidiary banks should such need arise, weigh strongly 
against approval of the application. Applicant has proposed that if the 
acquisition debt at the end of 1972'exceeds 25 per cent of its equity capital, 

3 2 8 0 
it would take steps to pay off the entire debt by obtaining additional 
equity funds, if the Board so requests. Although this conditional 
proposal may lessen to some extent the permanent adverse effect on 
the financial condition of Applicant, it does not cure the above-
noted problems. 
These considerations, it should be clear, in no way reflect 
adversely on the financial soundness of Applicant, its subsidiaries, 
or Bank at the present time. On the contrary, as earlier indicated, 
their financial conditions are presently sound; the instant proposal, 
however, would jeopardize that soundness. Therefore, the Board, in 
exercising its responsibility under the Act, must assign adverse 
weight to this aspect of the proposal. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that, 
although considerations relating to the present financial and managerial 
resources of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are consistent with 
approval, the effects of Applicant's plan for financing the purchase 
of Bank weigh heavily against approval, since that plan would un-
necessarily weaken the financial conditions of Applicant and each.of the 
hanks involved. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
hanking needs of the residents of Bank's service area appear to be 
adequately served at the present time by the existing institutions, 
and Applicant is proposing no new service that is not already being 
offered by other banks in the area. 

3 2 8 1 
In addition, Applicant's proposal for reducing the capital 
at Bank could limit Bank's ability to effectively serve the area. As 
noted above, Bank is located in a low income area, and it would appear 
that the needs of the area would best be served by a progressive lending 
policy. The reduced capital position contemplated by Applicant's 
proposal would hamper Bank in meeting this need, or unnecessarily 
and unduly increase the risk involved in its doing so. 
• .I-".". : 
These considerations weigh against approval of the application 
on the basis of the financial arrangements contemplated by Applicant. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
facts in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of uhe Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would have adverse effects on the financial condition 
and prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank, and could 
hinder Bank in meeting the needs of the community which it serves. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that consummation of the 
Proposal would not be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be denied. 
November 24, 1970 

''f^nt&y 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N • R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
3 2 8 2 
Item No. 2 
11/24/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
November 24, 1970 
M R MAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
Midwest Bancorporation, Inc. 
9063 East Gregory Boulevard 
Kansas City, Missouri 64133 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
denied the application of Midwest Bancorporation, Inc. for permission 
to acquire over 80 per cent of the voting shares of Community State 
Bank, Kansas City, Missouri. 
Enclosed is the Board's Order, together with the accom-
panying Statement and press release on this action. 
As noted in its Statement, the Board concluded that the 
competitive considerations were consistent with approval of the 
application, but the effects of the proposed method of financing 
the acquisition of Bank weighed against such action. In its con-
sideration of the matter the Board indicated that it would act as 
Promptly as is consistent with its responsibilities under the Act 
should you choose to revise your proposed method of financing the 
acquisiton to eliminate these objections. Additionally, the Board 
noted that your proposal provides for unequal treatment of stockholders. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosure 

3 2 ^ 3 
Item No. 3 
11/24/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
! 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST VIRGINIA BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
Arlington, Virginia, 
for approval of acquisition of voting 
shares of the successor by merger to 
Citizens Bank of Poquoson, Poquoson, 
Virginia. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of First Virginia Bankshares 
Corporation, Arlington, Virginia ("Applicant"), a registered bank 
holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of a new bank into 
^hich would be merged Citizens Bank of Poquoson, Poquoson, Virginia 
("Bank"). The new bank has significance only as a means of 
acquiring all of the shares of the bank to be merged into it. 

- 2 -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Virginia Commissioner 
of Banking and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
reccmmended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 7, 1970 (35 Federal Register 15426), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consid-
eration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
°f the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and manage-
rial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks 
concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, which controls 12 banks with $444 million in 
deposits, is the State's sixth largest banking organization and fourth 
largest bank holding company. 
(Banking data are as of December 31, 
1969, and reflect acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) Upon 
acquisition of Bank, with deposits of $6.2 million, Applicant would 
increase its share of State deposits by only .2 per cent and would 
retain its relative position among the State's banking organizations 
and holding companies. 

3 2 8 5 
-2-
Bank is slightly the smaller of the two banks located within 
the Town of Poquoson and is the ninth largest of the 11 banks located 
in the Newport News-Hampton SMSA, holding 2 per cent of that area's 
deposits. Applicant's nearest existing subsidiaries are located 
14 and 25 miles respectively from Bank and there is no significant 
existing competition between Bank and either of these subsidiaries. 
On May 28, 1970, Applicant received Board approval for the 
acquisition of a new bank to be located in the City of Hampton 
("Hampton Bank"), about 7.5 miles from Poquoson. It is expected 
that the bank will open in early 1971. Bank, one of the two area 
banks offering checking accounts without service charge, derives a 
substantial percentage of its demand deposits from Hampton and the 
adjoining City of Newport News, primarily through its bank-by-mail 
Program. 
(Applicant plans to continue the practice upon consummation 
of acquisition of Bank.) To this extent, consummation of the present 
Proposal would eliminate some potential competition between the two 
organizations. However, in view of the limited nature of this com-
petition, and the fact that Hampton Bank is a de novo entrant into 
its area, the Board affords limited weight to this adverse considera-
tion. 
Moreover, it appears that the primary purpose of the 
acquisition of Bank is to facilitate Applicant's entry into the 
Williamsburg area, in 
which Bank can legally establish branches. 

3 2 s 6 
-2-
Bank apparently lacks the financial and managerial resources as an 
independent institution to branch and become fully competitive in the 
Newport News-Hampton area. On the other hand, under the sponsorship 
°f Applicant, it could become a meaningful competitor in the 
Williamsburg area. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that con-
summation of the proposal x^ould have no significant adverse effect on 
competition in any relevant area. The banking factors as they relate 
to Applicant and its subsidiaries are consistent with approval. The 
hanking factors as they relate to Bank are reasonably satisfactory. 
Since Applicant would provide a remedy for a potential management 
succession problem, these factors lend some weight toward approval 
°f the application. Considerations relating to the convenience and 
aeeds of the communities to be served also lend some weight toward 
approval; although the banking needs of the Poquoson area appear to 
he adequately served, Applicant proposes to improve and expand Bank's 
Present service by instituting trust and data processing services and 
expansion of bank mortgage lending. It is the Board's judgment that 
c°nsummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
Approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be consum-
mated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 

3 2 8 7 
-5* 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
unless such time be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 24, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

3 2 8 8 
Item No. 4 
11/24/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
NEW CITIZENS BANK 
' 
for approval of merger with 
' 
Citizens Bank of Poquoson. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by New 
Citizens Bank, Poquoson, Virginia, a proposed State member bank of 
the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval, of the 
merger of that Bank and Citizens Bank of Poquoson, Poquoson, 
Virginia, under the charter of the former and the name of the 
latter. Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved by the 
Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the record, 
including reports received pursuant to the Act on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger, in the light of the 
factors set forth in said Act, 

3 2 8 9 
- 2 -
It Is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Order of;.this date concerning the acquisition of the succes-
sor by merger to Citizens Bank of Poquoson by First Virginia Bank-
shares Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, that said application be 
and hereby is approved, provided that said merger shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 24 > 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns, and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Maisel 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

3 2 9 0 
sj^cfe;.. 
H l n a 
I I * 
'JC 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 1 HE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
11/24/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 24, 1970 
Board of Directors, 
New Citizens Bank, „ 
Poquoson, Virginia. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of New Citizens Bank, Poquoson, Virginia, 
for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, subject to the 
numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
(1) Such bank at all times-shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and, except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the general character of its business or in the scope of 
the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
(2.) The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and jto its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate powers. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
that New Citizens Bank will-not conduct a banking business with 
the public prior to its merger with Citizens Bank of Poquoson, 
Poquoson, Virginia. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE EY5TEM 
3291 
- 2 -
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with special reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the Regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Board 
of Directors of New Citizens Bank. A certified copy of such 
resolution should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
is limited to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank 
applies to the Board and obtains an.extension of time. 
• 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure 

•O 
• 
• -r >. -'^t-.-rr.-n. • 1 -s , 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
11/24/70 
November 24, 1970 
The Honorable Warren G. Magnuson 
Chairman, Committee on Commerce 
U. S. Senate 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In accordance with my letter of November 20, 1970, I submit herewith 
the views of the Board of Governors with respect to possible Govern-
ment assistance to the Penn Central Transportation Company. 
The Board believes that the economic consequences of a complete shut-
down of Penn Central Railroad should be a matter of j-erious concern 
to the U. S. Government. The economic impact of such a shutdown is 
difficult to estimate in absolute terms. However, in view of the 
importance of Penr. Cir.tral in the transporting of basic raw materials, 
heavy semi-finished ar.d finished produces, ar.u consumer durables 
it 
is evident that a shut'dovr. would have a prompt adverse effecc on pro-
duction and emploj—ent in the area served by the railroad. The impact 
on employment would be magnified in metropolitan areas because of cae 
importance of Penn General in providing short-haul commuter services. 
Finally, a continued shutdown would affect ether areas in a relatively 
short time because of the dependence of other railroads en Penn 
Central tracks and facilities. 
Such a shutdown would be a particularly serious threat to the produc-
tion of electric power. Penn Central transportation of coal seems 
vital to public utilities, especially in the heavily populated 
Eastern metropolitan corridor. Given the already existing shortage 
of fossil fuels, it does not appear feasible co substitute either 
adequate alternative means of transportation or other cvpes of fuel 
i-f coal shipments by rail were suspended. Resulting power shortages 
would probably impinge first on industrial users, with further adverse 
effects on production and employment. 
You state that your Committee is particularly interested in the 
Possibility that the Federal Reserve mi^ht make, or arrange for, 
a loan f:o Penn Central under the provisions of existing lav. 
The only provision oi" existing law under which the Federal Reserve 
Banks might possibly make a loan to Penn Central is paragraph 3 

The Honorable Warren G. Magnuson 
of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 USC Sec. 343). This 
paragraph empowers the Board of Governors, in "unusual and exigent 
circumstances" and by an affirmative vote, of at least five members 
of the Board, to authorize the Federal Reserve Banks tc make certain 
types of direct loans to individuals, partnerships or corporations. 
The purpose of this provision of law, which was enacted in 1932, 
was to permit Federal Reserve Banks to lend to individuals, partner-
ships, or corporations, that were creditworthy but that were unable 
to secure adequate credit accommodations because of unfavorable 
conditions within the financial system. All of the loans under this 
provision were made between 1932 and 1936, totaling 123 in number and 
about $1.5 million in amount. 
Paragraph 3 of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act provides that 
paper discounted by Federal Reserve Banks under that paragraph muse 
be of the "kinds and maturities made eligible for discount for member 
banks under other provisions of this Act." This language means, among 
other things, that the paper may not have a maturity of more than 
90 days at the time of discount. The paragraph further provides that 
the paper shall be "indorsed or otherwise secured to the satisfaction 
of the Federal Reserve Bank," which the Board of Governors has con-
strued to mean that a Federal Reserve Bank should ascertain to its 
satisfaction that the indorsement or the security offered is adequate 
to protect the Federal Reserve Bank against loss. 
In the light of these restrictions in the law and the background as 
to the intent of the law, and based en careful study of available 
information pertaining to the current financial condition, needs and 
prospects of the Penn Central, the Board has concluded that it would 
not be appropriate to invoke paragraph 3, section 13 of the Federal 
Reserve. Act to authorize a Federal Preserve Bank to extend credit to 
Perm Central Transportation Company. 
With respect to other ways in which Federal assistance might be 
provided, the Board supports the objectives of S. 4011, especially 
in its focus on protecting the national interest. The Board believes 
that Federal financial assistance should never be provided to bail 
out poor management or to protect the interests of creditors or 
shareholders. However, in the Penn Central case the Beard believes 
that the national interest is paramount. Further, it appears to us 
that the authority granted to the Secretary of Transportation by 
Sec. 4(a) of S. 4011 is sufficient to insure that proceeds of 
guaranteed loans would be used only for current operating expenses, 
and not to bail out earlier creditors or shareholders. 
The Board also supports the approach of S. 4011 in relying upon 
Federal guarantees of private loans rather than outright advances 
of public funds. Besides its obvious budget savings, this approach 

The Honorable Warren G. Magnuson 
-3-
would have the advantage of assuring that experienced private lending 
officers will administer the loans, under Federal supervision. 
While S. 4011 would provide Federal financial assistance for troubled 
rail carriers, the economic vicissitudes that we have witnessed also 
warrant attention to a broader precautionary measure. The Board 
believes that the Government should give consideration to the feasi-
bility of establishing a standby authority to provide emergency 
financial assistance to any type of company when such assistance 
appears to be the only practical way to prevent the cessation of 
activities which are essential in the national interest or to fore-
stall a failure which could precipitate a national financial crisis. 
This assistance could take the form of Government guarantees of 
private loans, but direction of the program might be delegated to 
an Emergency Loan Guarantee Board composed of top officials of key 
agencies and departments that deal with overall economic and finan-
cial matters, namely, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary 
of Commerce, and the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. This 
board would be authorized to call on any department or agency for 
advice, but would itself make all loan decisions. A small staff 
would be required, allocated as needed from the staff of one of the 
departments represented on the board, and the operation of the 
program could probably be best lodged in the Treasury Department. 
This arrangement seems to us an appropriate mechanism for administering 
a program focused on the national interst. It seems likely that very 
few loans would be eligible for guarantee under such a program. 
Under these circumstances, the Congress could, and should, be informed 
of each loan while the loan was still under consideration. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
