Minutes for 
March 28, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

1 2 G 4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 28, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Branch application (Item No. 1). Consideration was given to 
a memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated March 21, 1968, 
relating to an application by Bank of Idaho, Boise, Idaho, to estab-
lish a branch in Twin Falls. The application had been submitted by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco because it was considered 
marginal and because of protests filed by the three banks presently 
operating offices in Twin Falls. The Examinations Division and the 
Reserve Bank recommended approval. 
Although the Division did not believe that the banking needs 
of Twin Falls were going unserved, it felt that establishment of the 
branch would be in the public interest because it would provide 
another banking alternative. The Division did not believe that the 

3/28/68 
-2-
entrance of Bank of Idaho into Twin Falls would have adverse competi-
tive effects on the two well-established locally-headquartered banks 
or on the second largest bank in the State, which operated a branch 
in Twin Falls. Rather, it appeared that competition would be stimu-
lated. The Division suggested that the Board's letter to the appli-
cant bank contain the following paragraph: "In considering this 
application, it has been determined that your bank's management is 
satisfactory, that the proposed branch will serve better the conve-
nience and needs of the community, and that establishment of the 
branch will not tend to create an undesirable competitive situation. 
The Board urges that consideration be given to all means to strengthen 
your bank's capital position." 
It was the unanimous view of the Board that the application 
should be approved. As to the wording of the letter of approval, 
Governor Robertson suggested that the letter merely note the factors 
that had been given consideration and state that the Board had made 
a favorable determination with respect to the competitive situation. 
He also suggested that the language of that part of the letter dealing 
with the bank's capital position be more forceful. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the reference in the letter 
to the convenience and needs of the community be sharpened to indicate 
that the Board had taken into account not simply the overall volume 
of bank credit being extended in the area but the composition of the 

1ZQG 
3/28/68 
-3-
credit, since the existing banks had argued that the overall volume 
of credit being extended was adequate. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the branch application was 
approved unanimously with the understanding that the letter to the 
applicant bank would take into account the foregoing comments. 
Attached as Item No. 1 is a copy of the letter sent to the 
bank. 
Testimony on S. 2923 and S. 3133. There had been distributed 
a draft of testimony to be presented by Governor Robertson on behalf 
of the Board of Governors before the Subcommittee on Financial Insti-
tutions of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee on April 3, 1968, 
with respect to S. 2923 and S. 3133. One of those bills (S. 3133) 
would extend for two additional years the provisions of Public Law 89-
597, which would otherwise expire September 21, 1968. That statute 
provided the authority for coordinated regulation of the maximum 
interest rates payable by Federally-insured financial institutions. 
It also fixed a 10 per cent statutory ceiling on reserve requirements 
for member banks on time and savings deposits (in place of the former 
6 per cent maximum), and it authorized the Reserve Banks to buy and 
sell obligations of any Federal agency in the open market. The other 
bill (S. 2923) would extend for two years the authority for Federal 
Reserve Banks to purchase up to $5 billion of U.S. obligations direct 
from the Treasury. 

3/28/68 
-4-
The draft testimony would express the belief that it was essen-
tial that Public Law 89-597 be extended, and it would propose that the 
authority be made permanent. The testimony would also recommend, if 
the rate ceiling authority was made permanent, that the exemption for 
foreign official time deposits be allowed to expire on October 15 of 
this year. 
The statement would further recommend that the authority for 
Federal Reserve purchases and sales of agency issues in the open mar-
ket be made permanent. In addition, two minor amendments to S. 3133 
would be proposed. The first would amend the eighth paragraph of 
section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act to permit advances to member 
banks to be secured by any obligation eligible for rediscount or for 
purchase by Federal Reserve Banks. The second amendment would broaden 
the type of collateral authorized for loans by Reserve Banks to indi-
viduals, partnerships, and corporations under the last paragraph of 
section 13 so as to include, in addition to direct U.S. obligations, 
obligations of Federal agencies. The view would be expressed that 
the authority in Public Law 89-597 to raise reserve requirements on 
time deposits should be made permanent. 
As to S. 2923, the recommendation would be made that the bill 
be reported without amendment, even though a forceful case could be 
made for striking the expiration date. 
Discussion of the draft testimony centered principally on the 
portion thereof that indicated that no reason was seen to expect a 

1208 
3/28/68 
-5-
diminution of pressures on the funds position of banks and savings 
institutions any time soon, that it might in fact become necessary to 
lift ceiling rates if the money market continued to tighten, but that 
if such a change did become necessary it would surely be best to con-
trol the extent and nature of the rate increases, and thus to avoid 
the threat of competitive rate escalation. 
Governor Brimmer pointed out that there was the question 
whether the testimony should focus on the probable need to raise the 
maximum rates. In his judgment it would be better to avoid that, but 
he was simply raising the question. 
Governor Maisel remarked that a reason for inclusion of some 
comment was that if it became necessary to raise the maximum rates the 
charge might be made that in the testimony an impression had been 
given that they were not going to be raised. 
Governor Brimmer observed that he did not believe any Board 
member had gone on record to date as favoring an increase in maximum 
rates or as to which rates should be raised. If it became necessary 
to move, he would favor restricting the relaxation to rates on CD's 
of $100,000 and over, and he had placed a specific proposal before 
the Board as to the form that the action might take. 
Governor Robertson noted that he had also placed a proposal 
before the Board for consideration if action became necessary. He 
added that he did not think it would be feasible to cope with that 

rz 
3/28/68 
-6-
problem in the testimony, and Governor Brimmer made clear that he was 
not suggesting it. However, he supposed that questions might be asked 
at the hearing. 
Governor Robertson commented that if questions were asked he 
would propose to respond to them in terms that the Board would do the 
least that was necessary in the circumstances. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that if questions were asked there 
might be some advantage in going as far as possible to give assurance 
that the Board would act, if action became necessary, in a reasonable 
way. 
Governor Sherrill noted that the portion of the draft testi-
mony in question started with the assumption that it might in fact 
become necessary to raise the ceiling rates if market conditions con-
tinued to tighten. That was an accurate statement, but he wondered 
whether it was necessary to make it in the present circumstances. 
\ 
Governor Robertson replied that he would not want to have the Congress 
construe the testimony to mean that under no circumstances would the 
Board ever raise the maximum rates. Governor Sherrill observed that 
when the statement was introduced that such action might become neces-
sary, that seemed equivalent to saying that the Board was on the verge 
°f taking action. 
There followed suggestions, in light of the foregoing comments, 
as to how the testimony might be most appropriately worded, and there 

1213 
3/28/68 
-7-
was eventually general agreement on sentences as follows: "It may 
become necessary to adjust the structure of ceiling rates if finan-
cial markets continue to tighten, in order to make it possible for 
the institutions to compete with the market and attract a reasonable 
share of new savings flows. But if such a change does become necessary--
and I hope it will not--surely it would be best to limit the extent and 
nature of the rate increases, and thus to avoid the threat of competi-
tive rate escalation." 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
testimony would be presented in a final form satisfactory to the Vice 
Chairman. 
Separation of silver and clad coin. On March 27, 1968, the 
Board, after discussing a proposal for the separation of silver and 
clad coin as outlined in letters received from President Hickman, 
Chairman of the Presidents' Conference Committee on Currency and Coin, 
and from Assistant Secretary of the Treasury Wallace, requested Gover-
nor Brimmer to review the matter further with the Treasury. 
At todayfs meeting Governor Brimmer described in some detail 
the discussion that had occurred at a meeting yesterday attended by 
him, by Mr. Wallace, by Miss Adams, Director of the Mint, and by staff 
of the Federal Reserve and the Treasury. He indicated the nature of 
certain preliminary agreements that had been reached, along with the 
questions to which further study was to be given. He stated that he 

m
i 
3/28/68 
-8-
would now confer with President Hickman to confirm the understanding 
that the Federal Reserve would acquire and service at least five AMF 
separating machines. As to other facets of the matter, including the 
question whether smaller separating machines should also be acquired 
by the Reserve Banks, Governor Brimmer said that after additional 
staff study he would present a complete report to the Board containing 
specific recommendations. 
Regulation U. With reference to the previous discussions by 
the Board concerning the objection by the New York Clearing House to 
section 221.3(u) of Regulation U, prohibiting a bank from acting as 
agent for a lender who extends credit in violation of the margin regu-
lations, and in particular to the decision reached by the Board on 
that matter, Governor Robertson read a telegram that had been received 
from Mr. John M. Meyer, Jr., President of Morgan Guaranty Trust Com-
pany, stating why his bank did not believe that a modification of the 
section along the lines on which the Board had decided would be satis-
factory. 
After reading the wire, Governor Robertson went on to say that 
this morning he received a telephone call from President Hayes of the 
New York Reserve Bank, who had been conferring with members of his 
staff and expressed the view that the image of the Federal Reserve 
might be damaged, the banks would have substantial administrative prob-
lems, and the Federal Reserve examiners likewise would encounter diffi-
culties. Governor Robertson said he told President Hayes that he would 

3/28/68 
-9-
bring those views to the Board's attention, but with no assurance that 
the Board would change its position. 
Governor Robertson then inquired of the other members of the 
Board whether there was any disposition to change the Board's decision. 
When the replies were in the negative, Governor Robertson said that he 
would so inform President Hayes. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, and 
Brill then withdrew from the meeting. 
Request for statement. Governor Sherrill reported that the 
White House, in connection with a briefing of Congressional leaders 
that was to be held today, had requested a statement on the financial 
consequences that might result from failure to act on a program includ-
ing a tax increase and reduction of Government expenditures. 
After some discussion, during which it was made clear that the 
requested paper would not be identified as an official Federal Reserve 
document, it was understood that Mr. Brill would prepare a factual 
statement which, after clearance with interested members of the Board, 
would be submitted through Governor Sherrill. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following recommendations contained 
in a memorandum from the Office of the 
Controller dated March 28, 1968: (1) 
that the current $20,000 limitation on 
the stock room inventory of office sup-
plies, paper, and printing materials be 

1213 
3/28/68 
-10-
rescinded; and (2) that no dollar value 
limitation be specified, subject to the 
understanding that the Office of the Con-
troller, in the exercise of its internal 
audit responsibilities, would determine 
whether inventory levels were excessive. 
On March 28, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated : 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to Farmers and Merchants Bank of Central 
2 
California, Lodi, California, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch in the Southgate Shopping 
Center and an investment in bank premises incident 
thereto. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to Wilmington Trust Company, Wilmington, 
3 
Delaware, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish a limited service branch in 
the Goldsborough Building. 
Letter to Wilmington Trust Company, Wilmington, 
4 
Delaware, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish a branch in Brandywine 
Hundred, New Castle County. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to First Holding Company, Inc., Waukesha, 
5 
Wisconsin, granting an extension of time within 
which to become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of shares of First National Bank 
°f Waukesha, Waukesha, Wisconsin, and the First 
National Bank in Wauwatosa, Wauwatosa, Wisconsin. 

ivV-i 
sftK* .f 
1214 
3/28/68 
- u _ 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to Farmers and Merchants Bank of Central 
California, Lodi, California, approving an invest-
ment in bank premises. 
Item No. 
) 
Secretary 
\ vV 

1215 
BOARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
• F T H E 
3/28/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 29, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of Idaho, 
Boise, Idaho. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment by Bank of Idaho, Boise, Idaho, of a 
branch at the intersection of Main Avenue and Second Street East, 
Twin Falls, Idaho, provided the branch is established within one 
year from the date of this letter. 
In approving this application, it has been determined 
that the proposed branch will serve better the convenience and 
needs of the community, particularly through the extension of 
consumer instalment and real estate mortgage credit, and that 
establishment of the branch will not tend to create an undesirable 
competitive situation. 
The Board understands your bank's capital position has 
been a matter of discussion between your President and Vice President 
Jennings of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. The Board 
urges that careful consideration be given to all means to strengthen 
your bank's capital position and that plans in this regard be form-
ulated in the near future. 
Very truly yours, 
» 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1216 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
3/28/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 1, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Farmers and Merchants Bank of 
Central California, 
Lodi, California. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the establishment by Farmers and Merchants Bank of 
Central California, Lodi, California, of a branch in the Southgate 
Shopping Center, approximately 800 feet north of your existing 
Southgate Branch, located in the vicinity of the intersection of 
Florin Road and Franklin Boulevard, Sacramento County, California, 
provided the branch is established within six months from the date 
of this letter. The Acting Director has also approved, pursuant 
to Section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act, an investment in bank 
premises not to exceed $35,000 incident to establishment of this 
branch. 
In considering this branch application, it has been 
determined that the proposed branch will serve the convenience 
and needs of the community and that establishment of the branch 
will not tend to create an undesirable competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA 
1 9 1 0 1 
Item No. 3 
3/28/68 
March 28, 1968 
Mr. L. S. Munson, Jr., President 
Wilmington Trust Company 
Wilmington, Delaware 19899 
Dear Mr. Munson: 
Under date of May 
the Federal Reserve System app! 
limited service brancfe*-bjf your 
on the east side o^West Street 
Wilmington, New OhBtl^Xoun , 
was established vitmn si* ] laths of 
Under 
of Goveimo 
ix months 
nk may e^ta 
ation. 
ard of Governors of 
tablishment of a 
Goldsborough Building 
11th and 12th Streets, 
provided the branch 
foresaid date. 
(ber\2, 1967 you were advised that 
Federal Reserve System had ex-
fovejiroer IT, 1967 the time within 
a limited service branch at the 
^te of March 26, 1968 you have requested another 
jn of time for establishment of the branch. As 
*om a phone conversation with you yesterday your 
quarters right now at the subject location, 
and mayNngi^ need them there, but your bank wishes to keep this 
option open for a while longer in event the space might be required 
temporarily in connection with certain realignments of operating 
departments now in progress. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal Re-
serve System, acting under delegated authority, the Federal Re-
serve Bank of Philadelphia extends for six months from May 17, 1968 
the time within which your bank may establish a limited service 
branch at the subject location. 
Yours sincerely, 
J. K. CoxfbolA 
Joseph R. Campbell 
Vice President 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF 
PHILADELPHIA 
i ^ i y 
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA 
1 9 1 0 1 
Item No. 4 
3/28/68 
March 28, 1968 
Mr. L. S. Munson, Jr., President 
Wilmington Trust Company 
Wilmington, Delaware I9899 
Dear Mr. Munson: 
Under date of Nove?hber>LO, 
of the Federal Reserve System amprWed 
"bank of a branch at 
ConcorovPike. 
Castle County, Delaware, >rovided\the 
within one year>df tjrtf\f o:\said daVe. 
>5 Ahe Board of Governors 
(e establishment "by your 
Brandyvine Hundred, New 
>ranch was established 
UndeV d&fce of No\embHr 2, 19&6 you were advised that 
the Board of GoVeriWs of ttte Federal Reserve System had ex-
tended^#«r six mo^thdvfrom NjAemjler 10, 1966 the time within 
whitm yourS^ank ma\es\^.b^sh a/branch at the subject location. 
fnder date 
1, 1967 you were advised that the 
*d of GoveafliHrs of the Federal Reserve System had extended 
iti\ May lOVLyOB the time within vhich your bank may establish 
a \ra\h at the subject location. 
Indp^ date of March 26, 1968 you have requested an ad-
dition£&kj£**rension and you have stated that "the proposed new 
building has been designed, working drawings are almost complete, 
and the job should be put out for bids within the next week or so, 
We estimate that the branch should be completed and ready for use 
by the end of this year, and hopefully earlier". 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal Re-
serve System, acting under delegated authority, the Federal Re-
serve Bank of Philadelphia extends for six months from May 10, 
1968 the time within which your bank may establish a branch at 
"the subject location. 
Yours sincerely, 
J» X. Caz^fetll 
Joseph R. Campbell 
Vice President 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
1 2 1 9 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60690 
(312) HA 7-2320 
Item No. 5 
3/28/68 
Birch 26, 1966 
First folding Coopany, Inc. 
e/o r i m rational Bank of feufcicha 
Waukasha, Viaacnain 53166 
Dtar Mr* A n v o v t 
Ob Malf of tb« Board of Ocnraxaora, acting undar 
flalagatad authority, this Sank grants an axtsnslon of tlm of thirty 
days frca April 3, 1966, within which First Holding Ccnpany, Inc., 
M y baocoa a 
teak 
i *ai jiany throng tha acquisition of 60 
par cent or noona of the voting shounas of First Dfctlonal hak of 
feukaaha, Wrohacha, Wisconsin, and Tha First Brtlonal lank In tfcuvatoaa, 
Mauwatoaa, Wiaoooaln* 
Vary truly youra, 
Boaa 
Vica Praaldaot 

1208 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OP S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N F R A N C I S C O , C A L I F O R N I A 94iao 
Item N O . 
6 
3/28/68 
March 28, 1968 
Mr. Ole R. Mettler, Praaident, 
Farmers and Merchants Bank 
of Central California, 
Pine and Church 8treets, 
Lodi, California 95240. 
Dear Mr. Mottier: 
On behalf of the board/6f Governor^ of the 
Federal Reserve System, actLng Wider delegated authority, 
this Bank has approved, pursuant to the prt^isions of 
Scction 24A of the Federal Reser\*» Act^idditional 
expenditures of $3PO^30OHn bankink^reaiies by the 
Farmers and MercHants Bank of Central California, Lodi, 
California. 
Thes^ additional expanses, which became 
ne^xTssary due t^ a change in plana during the conatruction 
)f the bank's ne* head offjxie building, increase the bank's 
authorized investoet»t~-4a^winl 
$1,600,000. 
janking premises to a total of 
Thms approval is granted in connection with 
^he request/contained in your letter dated March 2 7 , 
Very truly yours, 
f»l*ned) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
