MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 18, 19 72 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
Astern on Monday, September 18, 1972. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Staff presented a review of economic and financial developments 
f the kind customarily given in preparation for meetings of the Federal 
° P e n Market Committee. Copies of the statistical materials prepared 
r the review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies 
of j., 
individual briefings. 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2 5 1 7 
9/18/72 
-2-
There followed a review by Mr. Cardon of pertinent legislative 
developments, during which he referred to a bill that would authorize 
the establishment of a system governing the creation and operation of 
advisory committees in the Executive Branch of the Government. He 
indicated that the bill had been amended to exempt from its provisions 
Federal Reserve System advisory committees. 
There followed a discussion of the Federal Advisory Council and 
Possible ways of improving the effectivenss of the Board's joint 
meetings with that group. Several members of the Board expressed the 
view that the agenda for the meetings had become so rigid that there 
W a s inadequate time for dialogue between members of the Board and the 
Council. It was suggested that the topics selected for discussion at 
t h e meetings should relate to questions on which the Board was inter-
r e d in having the views of the Council members as bankers rather 
than questions that would be referred by them to economists for prepa-
ration of answers. Also, it was suggested that the number of questions 
should be reduced in order to provide more time for interchange of 
Vie^s. it was understood that the suggestions that had been made would 
b e kept in mind in planning future meetings with the Council. 
Members of the staff who had been present specifically for 
the staff review withdrew from the meeting and the following entered: 

2 5 1 8 
9/18/72 
-3-
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Other appropriate supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved a letter 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York approving the establishment 
o f a Regional Check Processing Center on the premises of the Buffalo 
^anch, together with accompanying increases in the Bank's present 
emPloyment ceiling and in the 1972 budget. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve 
of Kansas City approving expansion of the Omaha Regional Check 
tQcessing Center. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal 
^eserve Bank of Chicago approving the Bank's proposal for a Regional 
Gheck Processing Center on the premises of the Detroit Branch, together 
V i th accompanying increases in the Bank's 1972 budget and in the present 
eniPloyment ceiling. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
As recommended in a memorandum from Governor Daane dated 
SePtember 15, 1972, the Board unanimously approved the assignment of 
Bossy of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to serve as 
°nomic adviser to the Central Bank of Gambia for a period of approximately 

9/18/72 
-4-
one year. A copy of the letter sent to the Reserve Bank pursuant to 
action is attached as Item No. 4. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Request to maintain a savings deposit. Paso Robles District 
Hospital, Paso Robles, California, had requested a formal Board 
ruling that it be permitted to maintain a savings deposit. 
In a memorandum dated September 8, 1972, the Legal Division 
discussed the matter and, on the assumption that the Board would not 
W l sh at this time to amend Regulation D (Reserves of Member Banks) and 
Re§ulation Q (Interest on Deposits) in order to permit all public bodies 
to maintain savings deposits, the Division recommended that the Board 
rule that the Paso Robles Hospital District was not eligible to main-
a savings deposit. 
During discussion support developed for the suggestion that the 
staff undertake a study of those portions of the Board's regulations 
dealing with the eligibility of organizations to maintain savings 
J 
ePosits, with a view toward possible liberalization. 
With regard to the present request, it was agreed that the 
P a s° Robles Hospital not be allowed at this time to maintain a savings 
^Posit, but that it should be made known to the hospital that the 
Bo 
ar<l intended to devote further study to the general question. The 
thereupon unanimously approved the sending of a letter to Paso 
^obles District Hospital in the form attached as Item No. 5. 

9/8/72 
-5-
Regulation J. Mr. Melnicoff reported that a suit was expected 
to be filed in California on September 19, 1972, seeking a restraining 
order preventing implementation of the amendments to Regulation J 
(Collection of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks) that 
W e r e scheduled to become effective on September 21, 1972. Mr. O'Connell, 
the Board's General Counsel, was presently in California to assist the 
Justice Department in representing the Board in this matter. 
Mr. Melnicoff then presented for consideration a proposed 
Modification of the third paragraph of a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Banks dated September 1, 1972, regarding implementation of the amend-
ments to Regulation J, together with a draft letter to the Reserve 
^anks regarding nonmember banks' use of the discount window. 
The Board approved, subject to review by Governor Mitchell, 
a ^vision of the third paragraph in the September 1 letter, with the 
understanding that the revised letter reflecting the change would be 
Sent to the Reserve Banks as a replacement for the earlier letter 
(S-2211). The Board also approved, subject to certain changes, the 
letter to the Reserve Banks regarding use of the discount window. Copies 
°f the letters in the form in which they were sent to the Reserve Banks 
*ater i n th e day are attached as Items 6 and 7. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
nee. 

2521 
9/18/72 
-6-
Director appointment. 
It was agreed to ascertain through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta whether Frederick G. Koenig, Jr., 
President, Alabama By-Products Corporation, Birmingham, Alabama, would 
accept appointment, if tendered, as a director of the Birmingham Branch 
f°r the unexpired portion of the term ending December 31, 1972, with 
the understanding that if it was found that he would accept, the 
aPpointment would be made. 
(It having been ascertained that he would 
accePt, an appointment telegram was sent to Mr. Koenig on September 21, 
^72.) 
Discount rates. The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks 
o f Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas 
h a d voted on September 14, 1972, to establish without change the rates 
° n discounts and advances in their existing schedules. At the same 
time, these Banks requested Board approval of a special rate of 
per cent on advances to nonmember banks under the last paragraph 
o f section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act. This rate would apply only 
to those nonmember banks adversely affected by the implementation of 
t h e amendments to Regulation J. The Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
^ad also established without change its rates on discounts and advances, 
had not requested a special rate for nonmember banks. 
The Board unanimously approved the actions taken by the seven 
anks i n reestablishing their rates and the actions by the six Banks 

9/18/72 
-7-
in establishing a special rate for nonmember banks, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to the respective 
Banks. The Cleveland Bank was informed by telegram dated September 19, 
!972 , that it was understood that the rate reestablished by the Bank 
under the last paragraph of section 13 would not apply to advances to 
Nonmember banks in special situations were the liquidity of such 
banks and their ability to serve the community were impaired by the 
implementation of Regulation J. 

2 5 2 3 
B D A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
9 / 1 8 / 7 2 
H I S ^ I I J ? 5 ? ^ * 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2055T 
its§fe 
AUOHE3S OFFICIAL CORRESPONOENCC 
TO THi: GOARO 
September 19, 1972 
Mr. Alfred llayes, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 
10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
The Board of Governors approves the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York proposal to e s t a b : * * * of 
on the premises of the Buffalo Branch. An m c ^ ^ e ol 
5 positions in the present employment 
c
e
i
l
a
* 
increase of $26,200 in the second hall 19/2 cutset is 
also approved. 
It is expected that an offsetting 
of one position in the new employment ceiling 
be 
accomplished and budgeted within six months of t.ie 
implementation date. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant. Secretary 
i 
f 

•fctstf;. 
2 5 2 4 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
9/18/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
September 19, 1972 
George II. Clay 
Resident 
. 
federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Kansas City, Missouri 
64198 
^ar Mr. Clay 
The Board approves the plan for expansion of the Omaha 
ReSional Check Processing Center (RCPC) area to encompass the six 
^tern-most Iowa counties that were not included in the Des Moines 
KCPc. 
It is understood that the additional $53,000 expenditure 
two employees have been previously budgeted and approved by the 
Board for the"last half of 1972 and that no unbudgeted expenditure 
° r other increase in the employment level will be necessary. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A..Greenspan 
Michael Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

o»/r otr 
' : r'Frrr . . I UJ • 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 3 
9/18/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
September 19, 1972 
Mr. Robert P. Mayo, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Chicago, Illinois 
60690 
°ear Mr. Mayo: 
The Board of Governors approves the Chicago 
Proposal for an RCPC on the premises of the Detroit 
Branch with an increase of $37,300 in the 1972 budget 
and a net increase of two positions in the current 
^ployment ceiling. 
To allow for transitional employment during 
the implementation phases, a temporary increase of 
10 positions Is allowed as requested in the proposal. 
The net increase of 2 will not become effective until 
Six months after the opening date. 
Due to the possibility of an understatement 
volume, it is suggested that a contingency plan be 
developed which would consider delivery times for 
addit ional equipment and hiring of additional employees. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

XM . , 
tfssTr&Wp.*. 
o r o r 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 4 
• 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
9/18/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
'41 H M'-y-C* 
- 
ADDRESS o r n c i A i . 
c a RRESPU N o r NCE 
" 
.* 
TO T H E 
U O A R O 
September 19, 1972 
Mr. William F. Treiber 
First Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 
10045 
Bear Mr. Treiber: 
This refers to your letter of September 8, 1972, 
informing the Board that your Bank has received a request from 
the. International Monetary Fund for the services of George bossy, 
Special Assistant in the Foreign Department, to serve as economic 
adviser to the Central Sank of Gambia. Your letter indicates .hat 
the Reserve Bank is agreeable to granting Mr. Bossy a leave of 
absence without pay for a period of at least one year to permit 
him to perform this assignment. 
After considering the request of the Fund, and in view 
°f your Bank's willingness to make him available, the Board has 
approved the assignment of Mr. Bossy for the purpose indicated. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

2 5 2 7 
BDARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 5 
9/18/72 
ADDRESS arriCIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
September 20, 1972 
p r « L. V . Stigler, Administrator 
£aso Robles District Hospital 
Box 367 
Paso Robles, California 
93446 
Dear Mr. Stigler: 
The Board has considered the request in your letter dated 
J u ne 12, 1972 that the Paso Robles District Hospital be permit tea to 
intain a savings deposit. It is our understanding that the hospital 
i s operated by the Paso Robles Hospital District, which J*8,,15®®11 
S e i z e d under the California "Local Hospital District Law 
(California 
Safety Code, § 32000 et seq.). 
k 
In essence, it appears that the hospital district is 
public 
financed bv assessments on real and personal property within tne 
^ndaries of the district and managed by a publicly-elected board ot 
factors. 
The district is designed to promote the public health and 
Velfare of residents of the district, and rates charged for hospital 
^rvice.s are generally comparable to those of nonprofit hospitals, 
f ar*y, in the area. 
, 
After consideration of all the facts and provisions 
a P * ^ ® " 0 
the views you expressed in correspondence with the 
of San Francisco, it is the Board's judgment that the 
n°t a "corporation, association, or other organization operated primarily 
religious, philanthropic, charitable, educational, fraternal or ouh.r 
S * l a r purposes and not operated for p r o f i t " within the ™n g o f 
se tien 
^ "1(e)(1) of Regulation D and section 217.1(e)(1) of Regulation Q. Con 
^ n t l y , at the present time, the hospital district is not eligible to 
ntain a savings deposit. 
it, 
-fc undertakinc, a study to determine 
However, the Board's si.au is u n a c r c a ^ 
j 
*hether or not it might be appropriate to expand the eligibility for 
d e p o £ i l : s t o Lclude public bodies and others. If the Board 

2 5 2 8 . 
Mr- L. V. Stigler 
- 2 -
includes that amendment of the regulations might be desirable, it is 
contemplated that notice of any such proposals would be published 
Providing an opportunity for the public to express views on the matter. 
Very truly yours, 
"(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
cc: Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 

B O A R D • F G G V E R N D R S 
! 
DK THE 
Item NO. 6 
F E D E R A L R i f . S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9 / 1 8 / 7 2 m , 
fe 
',J,:' 
;>*" 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O . 
C. 
20351 
ftrrr 
ADDRCGD Or TICIAL N U FT N C H P U N D E N c T 
TD THE N.A-KPFJ 
September 18,1972 
Reference is made to the recently announced amendments to the 
•Orel's R C s ui ation J, effective September 21, 1972, pertaining to 
cticn of cash items on the day of presentment. The Board believes 
is of paramount importance that" the System, in particular the Reserve 
be alert to and prepared for problems presented with respect to the 
'^orccment of the amended regulation. 
The Boar 4 bases its Regulation J enforcement policy on the 
that nc bank is required to seua its checks to the Federal Reserve 
A sending hank iff now authorised untie:: the Unite 
Ccs»-
^•xai Coda to send checks directly Ltf the baoks «u vhicb the checks arc 
o v i t iriay ncrKj c{iG checks through collection chapels outside the 
J'^ciai Reserve System—as is the case with non-par banks, The FootirrJ. 
h^^ve, i n its check collection functions, is enjoged in a public .service, 
filiation j merely describes the conditions and the circumstances under 
h
 ich that public service will be performed, A particular bank may or may 
find 
it advantageous to have its checks cleared through the System; out 
r 
does decide to permit its checks tc be cleared in that manner, it 
^ o u a d to abide fcv the rules of the game,-"which includes adherence to 
s 
Provisions oC Regulation J. 
t 
The Board believes that the amendment to Regulation J should 
^forced in s manner consistent with this philosophy of the Federal 
<2^tve check collection function. Accordingly, the Board expects that 
* char.ka will be presented to a bank that refuses to abide by the pro-
Vi!tor,a of amended Regulation J. If it appears that a particular bank 
riot pay its checks in accordance with the previsions of Regula-
n'to 
Js it should be informed that, after the effective date of the 
w / ^ ^ u t s , the Federal Reserve will no longer handle its checks. It 
y be desirable, in order to establish a definite nonconformity with 
Provisions of the Regulation, to continue to present checks to the 
^^itrant bank for a few dnyj. 

2 5 3 0 
•2-
If m i r a t i o n la instituted in ditch the validity of the Board s 
V l a t l c n " 1 called into question, it is reasonably assumed that the 
^ 
v,-ouid be M d e a party to sueh action, in which event the Board 
; 
, 
* ta ail cases in u h i c h U i
s
- 
a party de fooacu 
n ^ i . m . . a t i r. 
bluest the Department or Justice to app^<_r in ci.e a u 
.,D010. 
He believe this proposed representation 
* U t e in a case where the Board and one or more Reserve Banks are jo.nca 
as parties defendant. 
The Board v,ould appreciate, therefore 
Mediate advice of any 
^Icatiooa you night have of potential ligation aimed at tore.taln-U, 
^Pleosntation of the Eolation J auvividnents. 
Very truly yours, • 
/ / ' 
. 
/ 
** 
/ 
/ 
Tynan Smith 
-Secretary of: the Beard 
1,0 
PRESIDENTS CF ALL RESERVE BANKS 

i 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R 3 
OF THE 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
M
2 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
2055*. 
; ov 
! j j H )•,.•:.! I
:
A
O
D
K
i
t
s
r
. 
O F r i c i A L 
c o K R L S; F>O N OC r.' c r. 
,
(
•
,
;
•
• 
TO m e 
O D A K O 
September lo, 1972 
On September 14, 1972, the Board acted to make possible 
the extension of Federal Reserve crcdit to nonrrember coror.ercia. 
W,f.s r o raitip.jte any possible hardships which might temporarily# 
bo pl^c^'on these banks ot their communities by the implementation 
cl^oj-rs in Regulation J, effective September 21. In order to 
ProvH, Vor ictpleu notation of this program, th* Board will permit 
fcopfbfer hcnVr, our^uant to Section 19(c) of the Fedor.a! Reserve 
/.ct. t 0 
,•»«* the m?<J:un or or/mt of: f aotincmber cc^orciai oar.* 
iu 
for or receiving credit fron your iiank, ana pursuant 
Lo sVclion^Ol.S of Regulation A,to use as security for cdvcacec 
fro- voijr Bark aat^ts acquired from nonmember banks. This per-
«iUticr erpjres June 30, 1974. No special authorization is 
Q u i r e d by la* with respect to direct loans to nonmemDcr banks 
under paragraph 13 of Section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
In the event that the amended Regulation J results in a 
^SRificeu' impairment of the liquidity of a nonmember ban,: or 
%>oii-3 its abilitv to serve its community, the Board requests 
cfcat your Bank be prepared to provide credit to the nonmember bank 
°ri r:\jb-;ially the same terms as are applicable to member names 
f°r such time as is necessary to enable the bank to resolve its 
difficulties,, In accordance with the following principles: 
1. O r d i n a r - n o n m e m b e r banks will be expected to 
make reasonable adjustments in their own portfolio 
to cover the adverse imprct, if any, resulting from 
the emended Regulation J, after allowing for 
add If 1 on/* 1 fuo-.ls that are made available from 
earlier'cash l e t m receipts and any relaxations 
in 'state reserve requirements. A net loss or lands 

O f ' O O 
( C J U M 
-2-
in excess of 2 per cent of demand deposits (adjusted 
for balances due from banks and cash items in process 
of collection) is presumed to be a basis for further 
consideration. 
A "significant Impairment of liquidity" is generally 
construed to mean a situation in which, because of 
a loss of funds due to Regulation J, a bank cannot 
maintain sufficient primary reserves to allow 
efficient day-to-day or week-to-week operations without 
disposing of assets which would (a) result in a signi-
ficant 'loss to the bank, or (b) result in a sudoen reduc-
tion of loans, particularly for local business and 
consumer needs, or (c) result in a state reserve 
requirement deficiency. 
"Impairment of a bank's ability to serve its community" 
is construed to mean a situation in which, because or 
a loss of funds due to Regulation J, a bank cannot 
maintain its current level of loans to meet legitimate 
credit needs o£ customers within its community, taking 
their seat*oriel needs and any near Lena growth into 
account. 
Credit iT.ay be extended directly to qualifying banks, 
at the Reserve Banks' option, under paragraph 13 of 
Section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act or indirectly 
through member banks. The Board will approve a rate 
on direct extensions no higher than the rate applicable 
to member banks under paragraph 8 of Section 13. The 
rate paid bv the nonmeiuber on indirect extensions 
should be no higher than the rate paid by the member 
bank plus 1/4 per cent or less to reflect the member 
bank's administration costs and assumption of ns/. 
ori the loan. 
Rownember banks utilizing this privilege of borrowing 
avp to be subjected to the same administrative review 
as borrowing member banks. In particular, the Reserve 
Bank should require such reports from the nonmetwer 
bank as n e c e s ^ y to assure itself that the oank is 
in sound condition and that Hie funds made available at 
the discount window are actually being used to meet 
the nonmember's adjustment needs and are net being 
channeled to other banks. Except in unusual circum-
stances, no bank shall be a net seller of Federal 

2533 
-3-
funds or Increase its holdings of investment securities 
while utilizing this privilege of borrowing,_ nor shall 
any bank substitute Federal Reserve credit tor credit 
which it customarily obtains elcew'nere. 
6. 
Ao a general rule, the length of time and amounts a 
nonmember ban!: may be accommodated (through repeated 
loan renewals) should be no greater than that permitted 
for waivers of penalties under the schedules set forth 
for member bank reserve requirement deficiencies in 
connection with Regulation J. The lending procedures 
to be followed by the Reserve Banks with reapccc to 
maturity of notes, should not be more liberal than 
that accorded member banks in ordinary circumstances. 
Whether a loan to a nonmember is made directly or through a 
^ffiber bark 
the Reserve Hank is the controlling administrator 
^ 
the time the nonmember applies for assistance until the need 
accommodation has passed. Credit extended through member banks 
should ba by mutual agreement among the Reserve Bank, the member 
^nk fitV] 
nonmember„ 
„ 
The Bo* rd expects th«t, <.* in ail- ar*dit s ^ r a * the Federal 
serve Banks will act uniformly in carrying out tola program. ,t. 
13 vital, therefore, that the Board be kept closely inforoeo o. 
I R e g u l a t i o n J lending activity through the Division <>« Federal 
Reeerve Bank Operations. At an early date other oetails of thi-
^ogtam and means of reporting on it will be discussed with lending 
offleers of the Reserve Banks. 
Very-truly yours, 
t 0 THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE B / K S AND VICE I'RESI DENTS 
X.M CHARGE OF BRANCHES 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
