MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 20, 1972 

720 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, March 20, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
a t 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan IJ 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 27 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
The staff presented a review of domestic and international 
developments of the kind customarily given in preparation for meetings 
0f the Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of the statistical materials 
s p a r e d for today's review have been placed in the Board's files, along 
copies of the individual briefings. 
Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

?22 
3/20/72 
-3-
Congressional testimony. The Board discussed a draft of 
testimony to be given by Governor Robertson before the Subcommittee 
<i Qift I ; 
Consumer Affairs of the House Banking and Currency Committee on 
Wednesday, March 22, on the Truth in Lending Act and Regulation Z. 
There was general agreement on the tone and content; however, there 
were several suggestions for editorial revisions. 
It was understood that the statement would be reviewed in light 
o f the comments made during today1s discussion and that it would be 
Presented in a final form satisfactory to Governor Robertson. (Note: 
I . 
A copy of the statement, as presented, has been placed in the Board1s 
files.) 
Regulations D and J. At several meetings, most recently on 
March 16, 1972, the Board had considered proposed changes in Regulation 
Reserves of Member Banks, and Regulation J, Collection of Checks and 
°ther Items by Federal Reserve Banks. In a memorandum dated March 17, 
Mr. Holland summarized those discussions„ 
It had been tentatively 
r _ t 
, 
.
.
. 
agreed to publish for comment proposals for simultaneous revisions in 
t h e regulations. The changes would involve (1) a restructuring of 
Certain reserve requirements based on the size of banks as measured by 
n e t demand deposits, and (2) a requirement that all banks pay for checks 
Resented to them by a Federal Reserve Bank in funds available to the 

4 
3/20/72 
-4-
Reserve Bank on the day of presentation. It also had been tentatively 
agreed that an information program aimed primarily at commercial banks 
Would be launched at the time of publication of the proposals for 
comment. In a memorandum dated March 17 the Division of Federal Reserve 
Ba^k Operations calculated the effect on reserves of the following 
reserve percentages related to net demand deposits, which the Board had 
c°ntemplated using for purposes of public reaction: 8 per cent on 
dePosits up to $2 million, 10 per cent on deposits from $2 to $10 million, 
13 Per cent on deposits from $10 to $400 million, and 17.5 per cent on 
dePosits over $400 million. Draft press releases, including a statement 
emPhasizing the complementary nature of the proposed changes, had been 
distributed reflecting the tentative agreements. 
Discussion at today's meeting included questions regarding the 
structuring of the proposed reserve requirements to achieve an equitable 
result that would not affect monetary policy and would cause a minimum of 
e°mplaints. In response to comments by several members of the Board 
tegarding their uncertainty as to what formula they might eventually 
ttunk desirable, it was emphasized that the incorporation of any parti-
Cular structure in the invitation for comments would not in any way bind 
t h e Board., The comments received and additional analysis could easily 
P°int to the desirability of a different pattern from that suggested for 
PUrPoses of obtaining public reactions. After agreement upon editorial 

k i • „ i 
3/20/72 
-5-
changes in the draft statement and related documents, further discus-
c 
iifj 
ut 
Gcfusra 
<>i 
it 
*foui-y 
Jo 
sion dealt with procedural questions regarding the manner and timing 
release. 
• 'S^erf ? • •., ....... . 
• .. . i, . - o 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
the statement and related documents would be revised and reviewed by 
:.<.:;/.; SC(lUi/w» 
• 
: •' 
than CiiO 
interested members of the Board. 
(Attached under Item No. 2 are copies 
; ..• 
. . 
. • . 
. 
• .•• • • 
• •• 
o f the statement as subsequently issued, press releases describing 
each of the proposals, and the proposed amendments to Regulations D 
^Ucjtvilav. 
... 
• . 
,?< .. >.• 
; . : .: •• . • 
a n d J. Attached under Item No. 3 is a list of questions and answers 
•Uj 
" 
Supplementing the Board's formal announcements of the proposals.) 
: 
oi 
'itm 
•'... 
• • •' 
; . 
American General Insurance Company. On February 22, 1972, 
/V i 
. 
, 
. 
t'le Board considered a proposal of American General Insurance Company, 
(x- 
^ 
. 
i
. 
Houston, Texas, a registered bank holding company, to divest itself 
shares of Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., also of Houston, in order 
V-' :•!. . . 
. . 
, >_ 
. _ . 
. ; : 
. '. 
• 
, ...... 
to remove itself from the restrictions of the Bank Holding Company 
ct» 
At that meeting it was agreed that American General's shares of 
Commerce Bancshares must either be made irrevocably nonvoting 
- r divested within two years. 
a 4. 
In a memorandum dated March 17, 1972, the Legal Division 
summarized an alternative proposal submitted by American General. The 
i ban,; hi>idic.tj v.-.i-.:»v u.vi 
. i J : . u.i 
ZU 
Pr°posal involved an exchange of voting stock of Texas Commerce 
Iiancshares for an equal number of shares of nonvoting stock, which 
w°uld be nonvoting only while held by American General. However, at 

?22 
3/20/72 
-725-
such time as American General disposed of the shares, it would do so 
only at a public offering underwritten by investment bankers with a 
registration statement cleared by the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
African General would require as a condition of the sale that no pur-
chaser could acquire, either directly or indirectly, more than two per 
cent of the then outstanding common stock of Texas Commerce Bancshares. 
Discussion indicated that a majority of the Board favored 
acceptance of the proposal if American General would divest itself of 
interest in Texas Commerce Bancshares within 10 years of the 
Passage of the Bank Holding Company Act amendments of 1970, that is, 
by 
January 1, 1981. Governors Robertson and Brimmer disagreed because 
of ( 1 ) 
the possibility that American General could control Texas 
Commerce for 10 years, and (2) the precedential impact of.approving 
a shift to nonvoting stock to avoid holding company status. 
The Board deferred consideration of the applications of 
^^rican General Insurance Company and Texas Commerce Bancshares to 
acquire shares of the successor by merger to MacGregor Park National 
Sank of Houston, Houston, Texas, and shares of two banks in Beaumont, 
Texas, pending resolution of the question of American General's status 
8i a bank holding company, and the staff was asked to confer with 
Aiho 
nerican General about divestiture within 10 years. 

728 
3/20/72 
-7-
United Missouri Bancshares. By order dated January 6, 1972, 
fche Board denied the application of United Missouri Bancshares, Inc., 
Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of Bank of Jacomo, Blue 
Springs, Missouri. The applicant subsequently requested that the 
Board reconsider its action. The Legal Division recommended approval 
°f the request on grounds that the applicant had presented new rele-
vant facts that warranted reconsideration. The Division of Super-
vision and Regulation took the opposite view and recommended denial 
°f the request. The Board had considered the request on March 16 and 
asked for additional information on the premium the applicant pro-
Posed to pay shareholders of Bank of Jacomo. In a memorandum dated 
^arch 17 the Banking Markets Section provided this information. 
Discussion at today's meeting indicated that Chairman Burns 
and Governors Daane and Sheehan felt that public relations aspects 
m:LSht justify reconsideration and that new information had been 
Presented. However, a majority of the Board favored denial of the 
request. 
The request was thereupon denied, Chairman Burns and Governors 
ftaane and Sheehan dissenting. The Board authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
Competitive factor reports. In a memorandum dated March 14, 
1 9 7 2, Mr. Leavitt recommended that the Board adopt new procedures for 

727 
3/20/72 
-8-
Processing competitive factor reports. Under the new procedure the 
memoranda prepared by Reserve Bank Research Departments would be 
bought before the Board after review by the Banking Markets Section 
with the Section's recommendation. The Banking Markets Section would 
prepare a separate memorandum only if a precedent or policy issue was 
involved, or if there was disagreement with the Research Department. 
The Board unanimously approved the recommendation. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
728 
Item No. 1 
3/20/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 20, 1972 
Board of Directors 
fFirst-Citizens Bank 
and Trust Company 
Greencastle, Indiana 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
action 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to ?40U,UUU 
in subordinated capital notes by First-Citizens Bank and Trust 
Company, Greencastle, Indiana, in the form submitted to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago. Approval is granted with the understanding 
that the sale of these capital debentures will be consummated within 
six-months from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

l i f e 
Po 
r use in morning papers 
A«esday, March 28, 1972 
Item No. 2 
3/20/72 
March 27, 1972 
BOARD STATEMENT 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
Proposed two changes in its regulations designed to make reserve require-
ments c m e™ber banks and Federal Reserve check collection procedures 
more quitable and more efficient. The proposals are intended to be 
neutral wJ-th respect to monetary policy. 
The proposals would strengthen current efforts fostered by 
the FGc] 
oral Reserve and commercial banks to modernize the nation's check 
C o U e c n 
t l o a system. The Board proposed: 
1. To restructure reserve requirements applicable to 
net demand deposits of Federal Reserve member banks 
by instituting a system of requirements based on 
the amount of such deposits, regardless of the bank's 
location. 
2. To require all banks served by the Federal Reserve 
check collection system—again, regardless of loca-
tion—to pay for checks drawn upon them, in 
immediately available funds, the same day the 
Federal Reserve presents the checks for payment. 
In announcing its proposals, which are being published for public 
nt 
O assist the Board in appraising them, the Board said: 
The proposals would facilitate the development of a more efficient 
less 
c°stly check collection system, and at the same time would increase 
y among banks and enhance their ability to render better financial 
Co 
6nd 
e1utt 

730 
- 2 -
:sGrvice to the public. These proposed changes would involve putting all 
bar*s, city and country, member and non-member, upon the same payment 
basis as regards Federal Reserve check collection and giving member banks 
x W equal size equal reserve requirements. 
The Board said that in many cases banks receiving earlier 
|:c*edit under the new rules for checks due to them would be able to give 
th£ir customers' accounts earlier availability of funds. 
In considering these proposals, particularly the proposed change 
i n the check collection procedure, two things should be kept in mind: 
First the proposed new check collection procedures would 
eliminate approximately $2 billion in "float" arising out 
of the present practice which involves country banks pay-
ing for checks presented by the Federal Reserve in funds 
that are not available until the next business day after 
presentment of the checks. 
Second, the proposed revision of the check collection 
schedules is an integral step in the movement being 
fostered by the Federal Reserve, in cooperation with the 
commercial banking system, to increase the efficiency of 
the payments system in the face of the rapidly rising 
volume of checks. 
The present system results in some individuals, businesses and 
;'banks having to wait longer than others to receive credit for funds 
J^Sing transferred to them by check. This is not an efficient and equitable 
b a s is for an improved payments system moving in the direction of the trans-
®bof funds by electronic means. 
By itself, the proposed change making all banks liable to 
Mediate effective payment for their checks upon presentment would reduce 
t h e reserves available to the banking system as the base of their lending 

731 
- 2 -
activity. Consequently, the Board has linked this proposal to another 
desirable reform, changing the structure of reserve requirements for 
member banks from a geographical basis to one placing equal reserve 
requirements upon banks of equal size, regardless of location. 
These proposals — the restructuring of reserve requirements and 
imProvements 
in the check collection procedures--would, if implemented 
as Proposed, result initially in a net release of reserves to the bank-
in& system, but it is intended that Federal Reserve open market operations 
i 
v°uld be adapted as needed, when the proposals are put into effect, to 
• 
nQutralize the effects on monetary policy. 
MVJ jj 
. 
-
Effects of these actions on the reserve positions of individual 
b*nks w i U 
vary and there may be some transitional imbalances. The 
Boar<l expects that discount officers at the Reserve Banks will be respon-
8 i V e to requests of any member banks temporarily in need of credit to 
ticie them over a period of adjustment to the new check collection basis. 
* 1 S 
The changes being proposed by the Board are significant not 
in their direct effects, but also as a means to the larger end of 
9 ^ore efficiently functioning banking system, able to provide the public 
vith better and more economical services. 
The Board's proposals are described separately in attached news 
r*leases and Federal Register documents. Comment 
should be submitted 
It'' ' 
• 
Board by May 15. 

For use in morning papers 
Tuesday, March 28, 1972 
March 27, 1972 
RESERVE REQUIREMENTS 
(Regulation D) 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today proposed 
a Restructuring of reserve requirements applicable to the net demand deposits 
of 
member commercial banks. Comments on the proposal should be submitted to 
the Board by May 15. 
The proposed revision would modernize the system of reserve 
teciuirements in the light of banking patterns that have evolved over the 
a s t 25 years. Under the plan, reserve requirements on net demand deposits 
^0lUd be based on the amount of such deposits held by a member bank without 
tegard to its location in any particular city. No change is planned in the 
^Plication of reserves on time and savings deposits, commercial paper issued 
ky bank affiliates, or Euro-dollar borrowings. 
The proposal to restructure reserve requirements was made 
siniul taneously with another proposal to amend the Board's Regulation J 
Elating to the check collection process. Both proposals would be made 
°£fective at a date to be determined later. The proposal affecting check 
C°llection procedures is described in a separate news release. 

The restructuring pLan is intended to produce a more consistent 
equitable system for computing reserves and would apply the following 
l 0 s to all member banks: 
Amount of Net Demand Deposits 
Reserve Percentages Applicable 
First $2 million or less 
8 per cent 
Over $2 million to $10 million 
10 per cent 
Over $10 million to $400 million 
13 per cent 
Over $400 million 
17-1/2 per cent 
At present, member banks are divided into two classes for the 
^UrPose of computing reserve requirements on demand deposits. The ratios 
£ f\v» 
reserve city banks—typically the larger banks in the larger cities — 
ate currently 17 per cent on the first $5 million of demand deposits and 
per cent on demand deposits exceeding $5 million. The reserve ratios 
f Ov-a H other member banks—often called "country banks"—are currently 
! I : 
12 
"1/2 per cent and 13 per cent respectively. 
The proposed ratios would result in a net reduction of required 
y>. 
Serves totaling about $2.9 billion if no other action were taken by the 
°ard« 
However, the Board said that if the proposal is adopted, this 
Uction in required reserves would be timed to coincide approximately 
1 the absorption of reserves that would result from the companion 
J-on--also proposed today — t o require all banks to pay in immediately 
l i a b l e funds for checks drawn on them on the same day such checks are 
Pto 
Sented for payment by the Federal Reserve. This latter action would 
ten, ce available reserves by approximately $2 billion. Other improvements 

-3-
734 
the check collection process, such as the faster movement of checks 
evWeen Federal Reserve districts, the establishment of Regional Check 
cessing Centers, and the greater use of the Federal Reserve communica-
t:*-Ons system for the wire transfer of funds, will also reduce the avail-
ab'i • 
^ty of reserves as the improvements are implemented. 
Consequently, 
overall effect of check collection improvements on reserve availability 
should be considerably greater than $2 billion with the greatest share 
emjning from the change in Regulation J proposed today. 
These proposals — the restructuring of reserve requirements and 
^Pfovements in check collection procedures--would, if implemented as pro-
v e d , result initially in a net release of reserves to the banking system, 
nough the effects of these actions on the reserve position of individual 
will vary. It is intended, however, that Federal Reserve open market 
Nations would be adapted as needed, when the proposals are put into 
°ct> to neutralize the effects on monetary policy. 
Each bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System is required 
to K 
^eep reserves equal to a prescribed percentage of its deposits. Reserves 
be held by its Federal Reserve Bank or as cash in its vault. For example, 
if 
a bank receives a demand deposit of $100 and is required to hold a 13 per 
u reserve, it must add $13 to its reserves and is free to lend or invest 
the remaining $87. 
An integral part of the overall restructuring plan is a change in 
the , 
aesignation of "reserve city banks." Under the plan, a bank would become 

*
m
m 
' * 
;v : ' 
• 
. 
-4- 
735 
3 reserve city bank automatically whenever the average of its net demand 
ds 
P°sits for the reserve period rose above $400 million. 
Under existing law, the Board has authority to set reserve 
^irements against demand deposits between 7 and 14 per cent for "country 
^nks" a n d between 10 and 22 per cent for reserve city banks. 
The Board normally does not offer proposed changes in reserve 
firements for public comment. 
It is doing so in this case because of . 
• | 
r 
- 
. 
ttlG basic structural nature of the plan. The proposal would take the form 
Of an amendment to the Board's Regulation D, which governs the reserve 
^irements applicable to member banks. 
i 
-0-

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 204] 
[Reg. D] 
RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
;. vUtl Z j] r : 
Reserve Requirements 
The Board of Governors proposes to adopt a system of 
reserve requirements against the demand deposits of all member banks 
based on the amount of such deposits held by a member bank. 
The purpose of the proposal is to adopt a more equitable 
Astern of reserve requirements. Under it, reserve percentages would 
based on a member bank's deposits without regard to the location 
o f the bank. 
The proposal is not intended to signal any change in 
Monetary policy. The net anticipated effect of the proposal, if 
ad°Pted, would be an overall reduction in reserve requirements. The 
effect of the resulting increase in funds available for use by mem-
ber banks would be substantially offset by adoption of the Board's 
Proposed amendment to Regulation J, also announced today. It is 
tended that Federal Reserve open market operations would be adapted 
a s needed, when the proposals are put into effect, to neutralize the 
effects on monetary policy. 
An integral part of the proposal is a redefinition of the 
term "reserve city". Such redefinition is essential to eliminate 
inequities in the present system of reserve requirements under 

737 
- 2 -
which several large "country" banks are required to maintain less 
reserves than competitor reserve city banks with comparable size and 
characteristics. 
Under the proposal, a city would become a reserve city 
automatically as the net demand deposits of a member bank with its head 
office located in that city rise above $400 million. Unless a Federal 
Reserve office is located in that city, it would cease to be a reserve 
city if no member bank headquartered in the city has average net demand 
deposits of that amount. The amount of reserves that: a bank having 
deposits of $400 million or less would not be affected by the bank being 
located in a city that is classified as a reserve city. Permission to 
carry reduced reserves would be extended to all banks located in a 
reserve city having deposits of $400 million or less. 
Normally the Board does not offer proposed changes in reserve 
requirement percentages for public comment. 
(See § 262.2(e) of the Board's 
Rules of Procedure.) However, because of the basic structural nature 
this proposal, the Board believes that comment by the public can 
be helpful. Accordingly, to aid in the consideration by the Board of 
this matter, interested persons are invited to submit relevant data, 
views, or arguments. Any such material should be submitted in writing 
^ the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received not later than May 15, 1972. 
such material will be made available for inspection and copying upon 
request, except as provided in § 261.6(a) of the Board's Rules Regard-
ing Availability of Information. 

738 
- 2 -
To implement its proposal, the Board proposes to amend 
Regulation D (12 CFR 204) in the following respects: 
1. Section 204.51 through § 204.57 would be revoked. 
2, Section 204.2(a)(2) and (3) would be amended to read 
as follows: 
§ 204.2 Computation of reserves. 
& * -k 
(2) A member bank in a reserve city is deemed to have 
a character of business similar to banks outside of reserve cities 
whenever it has average net demand deposit balances of $400 million 
0 r less for the second computation period preceding the current reserve 
Maintenance period. The Board grants permission to any such bank or 
banks to maintain for the current period the reserve balances that are 
in effect for member banks not located in reserve cities. Such per-
mission and any other permission granted by the Board to maintain 
reduced reserves is automatically suspended for the current reserve 
Maintenance period with respect to any member bank in a reserve city 
that 
has average net demand deposit balances of more than $400 million 
the second computation period preceding the current reserve main-
tenance period. Any such bank shall maintain for the current period 
the reserve balances in effect for banks located in reserve cities. 
(3) For the purposes of this part, each city having a Federal 
Reserve office is a reserve city. In addition, any city, town, village 
°r other community, whether or not incorporated, is a reserve city for 
a Reserve computation period if it contains a head office of any member 

- 4 -
733 
bank that had average daily net demand deposit balances of more than 
$400 million for the second computation period preceding the current 
reserve maintenance period. 
3. Section 204.5(a)(1)(iii) and (2) (iii) would be amended 
to read as follows: 
§ 204.5 Reserve requirements. 
(a) Reserve percentages. Pursuant to the provisions of 
section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act and § 204.2(a) and subject to 
Paragraph (c) of this section, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System hereby prescribes the following reserve balances that 
t 
each member bank of the Federal Reserve System is required to main-
tain on deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank of its district: 
(1) If not in a reserve city— 
•k -k -k 
(iii) (a) 8 per cent of its net demand deposits if its 
aggregate net demand deposits are $2 million or less, (b) $160,000 plus 
per cent of its net demand deposits in excess of $2 million if 
its aggregate net demand deposits are in excess of $2 million but less 
than $10 million, or (c) $960,000 plus 13 per cent of its net demand 
deposits in excess of $10 million. 
(2) If in a reserve city (except as to any bank located in 
s^ch a city that is permitted by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, pursuant to § 204.2(a)(2), to maintain the reserves 
specified in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph)— 
* * * 

(iii) $51,660,000 plus 17-1/2 per cent of its net demand 
deposits in excess of $400 million. 
(12 U.S.C. 248(i) and 461.) 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 20, 1972. 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 

For use in morning papers, 
Tuesday, March 28, 1972. 
March 27, 1972 
CHECK COLLECTION 
(Regulation J) 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
today proposed a technical change in its regulations governing the 
Payment for checks cleared through the Federal Reserve System, 
Henceforth, all banks would be required to pay in immediately avail-
able funds for checks drawn on them. The payment would be due on the 
same day the checks were presented for payment. 
This change would make universal an already widespread 
Practice of prompt settlement for checks presented through the 
F e d e r a l 
R e s e r v e clearing system. The great bulk of the dollar value 
°f check transactions is made through banks that are now, and have 
been for some years, on an immediate payment basis. 
In terms of its effects on bank customers, the proposed 
ehange in check collection procedures should enable more depositors to 
receive earlier availability of funds being transferred to them by 
check. Because banks, under the new procedures, would be credited 
Earlier for some checks, a person or business depositing such checks 
eould find it possible to make earlier use of the funds. 
The Board said that in many cases banks receiving 
earlier credit under the new rules for checks due to them would be 
able to give their customers' accounts earlier availability of funds. 

742 
The proposal would amend the Board's Regulation J, 
governing collection of checks on behalf of the public by the Federal 
Reserve. The affected checks would be those that are drawn on banks 
located outside cities with Federal Reserve offices and collected 
through the Federal Reserve System,, Such checks are estimated to be 
about 15 per cent of the dollar volume of all check transactions at 
Present. Thus, approximately 85 per cent of the dollar volume of 
check transactions would be unaffected by the proposed change. 
The proposal to amend Regulation J v/as made simulta-
neously with another proposal to restructure the reserve requirements 
Federal Reserve member banks, relating reserve requirements appli-
cable to demand deposits to the size of those deposits. Both proposals 
Would become effective at a date to be determined later. The proposal 
affecting reserve requirements is described in a separate news release. 
Interested parties are invited to submit comment on 
either or both of the proposals to the Secretary of the Board not later 
than Hay 15. The Board will appraise its proposals in the light of 
Comment received0 
The proposed change in Federal Reserve check collection 
Procedures would: 
--Put all banks on an equal footing as regards payments 
f°r checks drawn on them. 
--Hake it possible, in certain cases, for individuals 
ar«l businesses, and others receiving payments by checks, to use amounts 
due them earlier than at present. 

--Facilitate efforts by the Federal Reserve, such as 
the establishment of Regional Check Processing Centers, to increase 
the speed and efficiency, and hold down the cost, of check processing 
and collection. Any small savings per check are important as an 
average of 100 million checks are written per business day. This 
volume is expected to at least double by the end of the decade. 
--Drastically reduce--by approximately $2 billion 
daily average—the more than $3 billion daily average Federal Reserve 
float. Such float is, in effect, an advance to some banks for checks 
for which the Federal Reserve has not yet received payment. About 
$2 billion of float would be eliminated by requiring all banks to 
make payment in immediately available funds for their checks on the 
day of presentmento 
Other improvements in the check collection process, 
such as the faster movement of checks between Federal Reserve districts, 
the establishment of Regional Check Processing Centers, and the greater 
use of wire transfers, will reduce Federal Reserve float further as 
these improvements are implemented. Consequently, the overall effect 
of check collection improvements on the amount of float in the form 
of uncollected checks should be considerably greater than $2 billion. 
The difference in check settlement practices arose in 
Past years due to differences in proximity of commercial banks to city 
clearing facilities. Host banks outside of such cities in effect have 
Paid for their checks on the day after checks were presented to them 
for payment. 

-4-
744 
The proposal to put all banks on an immediate settle-
ment basis has been made possible by the fact that in recent years 
modern accounting and communications systems for the transfer of 
funds have made it entirely feasible for all banks to pay for their 
checks immediately upon presentment. 
Under the new procedures, banks would be permitted to 
pay for their checks in any form satisfactory to a Federal Reserve 
bank, so long as the funds are available before the close of business 
on the day the checks are presented for payment. 
The Federal Reserve will facilitate such same-day pay-
ment by presenting checks to banks for payment as early in the day as 
practicable. 
The effect of the proposed change on depositors arises 
from the fact that writing a check merely authorizes the checking 
account of the writer to be charged for the amount of the check. The 
transaction is not c o m p l e t e d until funds have actually been trans-
ferred from the writer's account to the depositor's account. 
When the check writer and the depositor have accounts 
in different banks, the depositor may not actually be able to use the 
proceeds of the check he deposits until his bank has received the 
funds from the other bank. Of course his bank may advance funds to 
him, anticipating payment later. If it does not do so, he may have 
to wait several days to receive funds while the check is being 
processed and cleared, and until payment is actually received. 

745 
Thus, amendment of Regulation J to require all banks 
to pay for checks presented to them by the Federal Reserve in 
immediately available funds on the day of presentment can accelerate 
completion of check transactions, because the sooner the check is 
collected, the sooner funds will be available. 

746 
, 
i 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1 
[12 CFR Part 210] 
[Reg. J] 
A 
COLLECTION OF CHECKS AND OTHER ITEMS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Payment of Cash Items Upon Presentment 
The Board of Governors proposes to amend its Regulation J 
to require banks—member and nonmember—to pay cash items presented by 
a Federal Reserve Bank on the day of presentment in funds available to 
the Reserve Bank on that day. The Board anticipates that payment will 
he by debit to an account on the books of a Reserve Bank. 
The proposal is designed to provide an arrangement for imme-
diate payment of checks presented by Federal Reserve offices and to 
Promote earlier availability of funds to depositors. At present, com-
I 
wercial banks in zones of immediate payment in and around cities with 
1 
a Federal Reserve office, a clearing house, or in areas served by 
Regional Check Processing Centers are paying checks on the day of 
•if 
Presentment, while other banks make actual payment on the day follow-
ing receipt of the checks. 
The Reserve Banks follow the practice of presenting 
checks to paying banks early in the day, often before the opening 
of business. Until the mid-1960's many banks outside Federal Reserve 
' 
' 
! 
cities paid for these checks by drawing and dispatching a draft on 
the day of receipt of the checks. Remittance drafts were usually not 
received and collected until the following day, resulting in a defer-
< 
roent of payment. 

In recent years the use of modern accounting and communica-
tions systems has led to payment of checks on the day of presentment. 
Roughly 80 per cent of the total amount of payments by paying banks 
on checks presented by Reserve Banks is through direct charges to 
reserve accounts. Now it is feasiole to make universal the practice 
of paying in immediately available funds on the day of presentment. 
In addition to being a major transitional step toward a 
more fully automated payments mechanism, the Board's proposal has 
three immediate goals: 
First, requiring payment on the day of presentment will 
eliminate the longstanding inequities that operate to the disadvantage 
of banks located in Federal Reserve office cities or in cities served 
by clearing houses. Until now, banks located outside of these cities 
have had an additional day to invest funds owed to the collecting bank. 
Second, checks drawn on country banks located in the same 
Federal Reserve territory as depositing banks will be collected a day 
earlier. Federal Reserve Banks will amend their operating circulars 
to provide that such amounts will also be credited to depositing banks 
a day earlier. The Board expects that, in many cases, the depositing 
member bank will make the credit received from its Reserve Bank avail-
able to its depositor at an earlier time than under present practice. 
Finally, for checks drawn on country banks located in other 
Federal Reserve territories, a major component of Federal Reserve 
float will be eliminated. Federal Reserve float is the equivalent of 

- 3 -
7 
a n interest free advance, 'it arises when the collecting bank is given 
^edit on checks for which the Federal Reserve Bank has not received 
Payment. Adoption of the Board's proposal would eliminate approximately 
6 0 per cent ($2 billion) of Federal Reserve float. 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, 
interested persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or 
arguments. Any such material should be submitted in writing to the 
Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, 
C. 20551, to be received not later than May 15, 1972. Such material 
*ill be made available for inspection and copying upon request, except 
as provided in § 261.6(a) of the Board's Rules Regarding Availability 
Information. 
To implement its proposal, the Board is considering amending 
Regulation J as follows: 
1. Section 210.9(a) would be amended to read: 
S 210.9 Remittance and payment. 
(a) (1) C.-ish item. A paying bank becomes accountable for 
the amount of each cash item received by it from or through a Federal 
Reserve Bank at the close of the paying bank's banking day on which 
4/ 
u 
n 
the cash item was so received 
if it retains such item after the close 
such banking day, unless, prior to such time, it pays or remits for 
the item as herein provided. Payment cr remittance therefor shall be 
effected on such day of receipt by: 
£ / T c a s h item received by a paying bank shall be deemed to h a v e been 
received by the bank on its next banking day if the item is received 
under one of the following circumstances: 
(1) on a day other than a 
inking day for it, or (2) on a banking day for it but (a after its 
tegular banking hours, or (b) after a "cut-off hour" established by it 
accordance with applicable State law, or (c) during afternoon ol-
dening periods when it is open for limited functions only. 

- A -
(i) debit to an account on the books of a Federal Reserve 
Bank; or 
(ii) payment in cash; or 
(iii) in the discretion of the Federal Reserve Bank, any 
°ther form of payment or remittance: 
provided, That the proceeds of any such payment or remittance in any 
form herein stated shall be available to the Federal Reserve Bank not 
later than the close of the banking day for such Federal Reserve Bank 
on the day on which such item was so received by the paying bank. If 
the banking day on which an item is received by a paying bank is not 
a banking day for the Federal Reserve Bank from which the item was 
received, any payment or remittance made hereunder shall be effected 
on the banking day of both such Federal Reserve Bank and such paying 
bank next following the day of receipt of such item. 
(2) Noncash item. A Federal Reserve Bank may require the 
Paying bank or collecting bank to which it has presented, sent, or 
forwarded any noncash item pursuant to § 210.7 to pay or remit for 
such item in cash, but is authorized, in its discretion, to permit 
such paying bank or collecting bank to authorize or cause payment or 
Remittance therefor to be made by a debit to an account on the books 
°f such Federal Reserve Dank or to pay or remit therefor in any of the 
following which is in a form acceptable to such Federal Reserve Bank: 
Bank draft, transfer of funds or bank credit, or anv other form of pay-
ment or remittance authorized by applicable State law. 

(3) Nonbank payor. A Federal Reserve Bank may require 
the nonbank payor to which it has presented any cash item or noncash 
item pursuant to § 210.7 to pay therefor in cash, but is authorized, 
in its discretion, to permit such nonbank payor to pay therefor in any 
of the following which is in a form acceptable to such Federal Reserve 
Bank: Cashier's check, certified check, or other bank draft or obligation. 
2. Section 210.12(a) would read: 
§ 210.12 Return of cash items. 
(a) A paying bank that receives a cash item from or through 
a Federal Reserve Bank, otherwise than for immediate payment over 
the counter, and that pays or remits for such item as provided in 
§ 210.9(a) of this part shall have the right to recover any payment 
or remittance so made if, before it has finally paid the item, it 
returns the item before midnight of its banking day next following 
the banking day of receipt or takes such other action to recover such 
payment or remittance within such time and by such means as may be 
provided by applicable State law: Provided, That the foregoing pro-
visions shall not extend, nor shall the time herein provided for 
return be extended by, the time for return of unpaid items fixed by 
the rules and practices of any clearing house through which the item 
was presented or fixed by the provisions of any special collection 
agreement pursuant to which it was presented. 
(12 U.S.C. 248(i) and (o) and 342.) 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 20, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 3 
3/20/72 
For use in morning papers 
March 27, 1972 
Tuesday, March 28, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
issued the attached questions and answers relating to proposed changes 
in the check clearing process and the structure of reserve requirements 
These questions and answers are intended to supplement the Board's 
formal announcements of these matters, also issued today. 

•fcro 
March 27, 1972 
c 
CHECK COLLECTION 
REGULATION J 
1. What is the legal responsibility of the Federal Reserve System for 
check collection? 
Congress has charged the Federal Reserve System with respon-
sibility for providing a nationwide mechanism for the transfer 
of funds and collection of checks. 
(See Federal Reserve Act, 
section 13, paragraph 1, and section 16, paragraph 14.) 
2. What does the proposed amendment to Regulation J do? 
Regulation J establishes the rules, including the time 
schedule for payment and the availability of credits with 
respect to checks and other cash items, under which the 
Federal Reserve Banks collect checks deposited with one 
commercial bank and payable at another such bank. . 
Under present arrangements, some banks pay for checks in 
immediately available funds on the day they are presented 
for payment by the Federal Reserve, while payments from 
other banks are received a day or two days later. The 
proposal would require all payor banks to pay in immediately 
available funds for all checks and cash items presented to 
them by the Federal Reserve Bank. The Federal Reserve Bank 
would thus be able to speed up the availability of some 
credits to the depositing bank. 

What is the reason for amending Regulation J? 
To accelerate the settlement of transactions effected by 
check and thus reduce Federal Reserve float and commercial 
bank float as well. 
Will there be a public benefit? 
Yes. The funds that are received by Reserve Banks on the 
days of presentment will be made available to depositing 
banks, and thus, in many cases, can be passed on to their 
individual, business and other depositors, on that day." 
Would this change affect all payments? 
No. Many banks are now meeting this requirement by paying 
in immediately available funds through participation in 
clearing houses and in regional check clearing arrangements 
operated by the Federal Reserve Banks in various parts of 
the nation. About 85 per cent of the dollar value of checks 
presented for payment are handled on this basis. Banks not 
participating in an arrangement culminating in overnight pre-
sentment and immediate payment usually make payment for their 
checks in funds not available until the day following present-
» 
ment. Since the checks usually are charged to the accounts 
of depositors on the day of receipt, these banks have temporary 
use of funds for which the Federal Reserve has not yet received 
payment. 
What is meant by "immediately available funds"? 
These are funds that may be used by the collecting bank on 
the day the checks are presented to the payor bank for payment. 

754 
-3-
What forms of payment.will constitute immediately available funds? 
--The most convenient form of immediately available payment 
is a pre-authorized charge to the account of a member bank 
on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank. 
--In the case of nonmember banks, this would require an agree-
ment between a nonmember bank, a correspondent member bank, 
and the Federal Reserve Bank if the nonmember bank elects to 
make immediately available payment for its checks in this way. 
This agreement would authorize a Reserve Bank to charge, on the 
day of presentment, the account of a designated correspondent 
member bank for checks presented to a nonmember bank. 
--Payment can be made in other forms acceptable to a Reserve 
Bank that will result in the Reserve Bank receiving immediately 
available funds. 
Does the proposed change in Regulation J affect both member and 
nonmember banks? 
Regulation J affects all banks that either send checks to a 
Federal Reserve Bank for collection, or that receive checks 
from a Federal Reserve Bank for payment. 
Will the proposed revision result in faster presentment of checks 
by the Federal Reserve? 
No. The proposal relates to the way in which checks are paid 
for after they are presented for payment. Other operational 
changes now in progress, such as overnight processing and 

755 
-3-
clearing of checks in Regional Check Processing Centers, 
will result in faster presentment, but this is not part 
of the Regulation J proposal. 
Will member banks that have difficulty in adjusting to the new check 
collection procedures be assisted by the Federal Reserve? 
Yes. Although the Board is simultaneously proposing 
changes in reserve requirements that, together with other 
actions, are aimed at neutralizing the monetary effect of 
the proposed change in Regulation J, it is realized that 
effects on particular banks will vary. 
Consequently, 
Federal Reserve discount officers will be responsive to 
requests for assistance by member banks to tide them 
over the period of adjustment to the new procedures. 
Does the proposal affect the right of a bank to return unpaid checks, 
or the time available for doing so? 
No. A bank that makes conditional payment for checks 
by the close of business upon the day of presentment in 
immediately available funds would continue to have until 
midnight of the business day following the day of present-
ment to return items. 
What happens when checks being presented for payment are delayed in 
transit? 
No bank would be required to pay for its checks prior to 
receipt. It is the practice of the Federal Reserve not 
to charge a bank for checks that are not delivered for 

?56 
-5-
payment at the scheduled time. Accounting adjustments 
will be made in special circumstances. 
13. Do the amendments to Regulation J being proposed affect the handling 
of noncash items? 
No. 
RESERVE REQUIREMENTS 
REGULATION D 
1. Why is the Board proposing to restructure reserve requirements 
applicable to net demand deposits? 
The present structure of reserve requirements has resulted 
in inequities among member banks. The criteria presently 
used for designating reserve cities and reserve city banks 
are related basically to the location of banks and the 
nature of their business. It has also been difficult to 
apply in practice the criteria for granting reduced reserves 
to small and medium sized banks in reserve cities. There 
are banks of similar size in different localities that 
conduct similar types of business but which have different 
reserve requirements. This is unfair to the banks that 
have the higher reserve requirements. The proposal would 
eliminate these inequities because reserve requirements on 
demand deposits would be based on the amount of such de-
posits without regard to the location of a bank. 

757 
-3-
What is a reserve city and what relationship does it have to reserve 
requirements? 
The Federal Reserve Act gives the Board authority to 
classify cities as reserve cities or to end that clas-
sification. Banks located in reserve cities are called 
reserve city banks and are required generally to carry 
a higher percentage of reserves on demand deposits than 
banks located elsewhere--the so-called "country banks." 
There are presently 46 reserve cities. 
The Board has authority to set reserve requirements on 
demand deposits between 10 and 22 per cent for reserve 
city banks and between 7 and 14 per cent for "country 
banks." The Board also may permit small and medium 
sized banks located in reserve cities to carry the same 
reserves as "country banks" because they engage in a 
type of business similar to banks located outside reserve 
cities. 
How would the proposal affect the designation of a reserve city bank? 
A bank would become a reserve city bank automatically 
whenever its net demand deposits rose above $400 million. 
How would member banks be affected by the proposed restructuring in 
reserve requirements? 
The following tables would apply: 

758 
-7-
Present 
Proposed 
requirement 
requirement 
For banks presently designated 
as reserve city banks 
First $2 million in net demand deposits 
17 
8 
$2 million to $5 million 
17 
10 
$5 million to $10 million 
17-1/2 
10 
$10 million to $400 million 
17-1/2 
13 
Over $400 million 
17-1/2 
17-1/2 
For banks presently designated as 
country banks and banks in reserve 
cities that have permission to 
carry reduced reserves 
First $2 million in net demand deposits 
$2 million to $5 million 
$5 million to $10 million 
$10 million to $400 million 
Over $400 million 
12-1/2 
8 
12-1/2 
10 
13 
10 
13 
13 
13 
17-1/2 
-0-

759 
Item No. 4 
3/20/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
UNITED MISSOURI BANCSHARES 
Order Denying Request for Reconsideration 
United Missouri Bancshares, Kansas City, Missouri, has 
requested reconsideration of the Order of the Board of Governors 
^ted January 6, 1972, whereby the Board denied the application of 
^nited Missouri Bancshares, for prior approval for the acquisition 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Bank of Jacomo, Blue 
SPrings, Missouri, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Co*Pany Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)). 
Pursuant to § 262.3(f)(6) of the Board's Rules, Applicant 
^quests reconsideration of its original proposal. The Board finds 
t^at the request for reconsideration does not present substantially 
facts or issues which would would appear appropriate in the public 
Merest for the Board to consider. Accordingly, the Board concludes 
the request for reconsideration is hereby denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ March 20, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
for this actionr.<»vcniuiH RobertsQn, Mitchell, Mais el, and 
at\d m e r* 
Voting against this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane 
Sheehan. 
