Minutes for October 4, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

3604 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, October 4, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Eaton, Open Market Secretariat Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Mrs. Winkler, Secretary, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Axilrod, Gramley, Williams, Wernick, 
Eckert, Keir, Baker, Burns, Ettin, Fry, 
Kelty, and Kichline and Miss Stockwell of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Ghiardi, Hersey, 
Bradshaw, Gekker, Gemmill, Pizer, and Stem 
of the Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Today's review consisted of reports by 
Mr. Baker on the Government securities market, by Mr. Eckert on recent 
and prospective developments in the area of bank credit, by Mr. Ettin 
1J Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

o b a 5 
10/4/68 
-2-
on the corporate and municipal bond markets, and by Mr. Stem on the 
foreign exchange and gold markets. Copies of the documents distrib-
uted for the purpose of today's review have been placed in the Board's 
files. 
During the course of the review, inquiry was made about the 
status of the work on a new demand deposit ownership survey. It was 
stated that the project was under active consideration by an ad hoc 
System staff committee, and Board members expressed the hope that the 
study would be expedited. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Kenyon, and Forrestal. Messrs. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board, 
and Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative Services, entered 
the room. 
Marble contract (Item No. 1). In a memorandum dated October 2, 
1968 (copy attached as Item No. 1), Mr. Shepardson recommended that the 
Board award the contract for the exterior marble work on the new annex 
building to the Georgia Marble Setting Company of Atlanta, Georgia, 
and that the Secretary be authorized to sign the contract on behalf 
of the Board. 
Governor Sherrill having expressed his concurrence, the recom-
mendation was approved unanimously. 
It was not contemplated that any 
announcement of the awarding of the contract would be made at this 
time. If, however, it developed that an announcement would be desir-
able, it was understood that Governor Sherrill and Mr. Shepardson would 

f a / » 
o o u o 
10/4/68 
-3-
have in mind, in formulating the statement, that expenditures under 
the contract would be minimal during the remainder of the current year. 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Several members of the staff who had attended the earlier part 
of this meeting then returned to the room accompanied by the following: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Goodfellow, Review Examiner, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant to the Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Mertz, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Lynch, Attorney, Legal Division 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Fed-
eral Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and San 
Francisco on October 3, 1968, of the rates on discounts and advances 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following letters were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the members of the Board. Copies are attached under the respec-
tive item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking 
2 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
permission to acquire preferred shares of 
Banco Lar Brasileiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 

O'O'-- : 4 
10/4/68 
-4-
Item No. 
Letter to American Overseas Banking Corporation, 
3 
New York, New York, transmitting a final permit 
to commence business as a corporation organized 
under the provisions of section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act. 
i 
i 
Letter to the Organization Committee of The 
4 
State Bank of Hudson, Hudson, Wisconsin, approv-
ing the application made on behalf of the bank 
for membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Governor Brimmer commented on problems involved in determining 
a ceiling for American Overseas Banking Corporation under the foreign 
credit restraint program. He outlined the position taken by the staff 
in discussions with representatives of the corporation and said he was 
prepared to support the staff. He felt, however, that Board considera-
tion might be required before the matter was resolved. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
posed merger of Security Bank 6c Trust Company of Bozeman, Bozeman, 
Montana, with Security Building, Incorporated, Bozeman, Montana, was 
.approved unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation, the conclusion 
reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Security Bank 
& Trust Company of Bozeman and Security Building, Incorpo-
rated, Bozeman, would have no adverse competitive effects. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Sec 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
O O ' 
. ?L> 
°>-the 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
10/4/68 
ffice 
C o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
Date 
October 2, i968. 
Board Members 
R^hjart; Marble Contract 
; 
. 
Chas. N. Shepardson 
As the Board knows, bids for the exterior marble work 
on the new building Were received and publicly opened on Wednesday, 
September 25, 1968. 
The Architects have reviewed and analyzed the two bids 
received and have examined the samples of marble submitted with 
the bids.* As indicated in the attached letter from Mr. Ward, 
they recommend that the contract be awarded to the Georgia Marble 
Setting Company, of Atlanta, Georgia, at the bid price of $1,739,839 
plus a unit storage cost of $50 per day for delayed delivery of fabri-
cated items at owner's request. 
The Legal Division has examined the bids and finds them 
technically in order. 
On the basis of the above information, I recommend, with 
Governor Sherrill's concurrence, that the Board award the contract 
to the Georgia Marble Setting Company and that the Secretary be 
authorized to sign the same on behalf of the Board. 
* Marble samples are available for inspection if the Board wishes. 
Attachment 

« > » f~ <1 
o o y r i 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m No 
2 
D F T H E 
10/4/68* 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D T H E 
B O A R D 
October 4, 1968. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking 
Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of August 29, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("CMOBC"), to purchase and hold up to 51 per,cent of 
the preferred shares of Banco Lar Brasileiro ("Banco Lar"), Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil, provided the total cost of the ordinary voting and 
preferred shares of Banco Lar held directly or indirectly by CMOBC 
does not exceed $4,000,000. 
The foregoing consent is given subject to the same condi-
tions contained in the Board's earlier letters granting consent for 
CMOBC, directly or indirectly, to acquire shares of Banco Lar. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation, The Chase Manhattan Bank (National 
Association), and Chase International Investment Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD D F GCDVERN• RS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
10/4/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D f 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 4, 1968. 
American Overseas Banking Corporation, 
63 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has received the certificate of 
the Acting President and three directors of American Overseas 
Banking Corporation, certifying the information required by the 
Board's letter of April 10, 1968, as prerequisite to issuance of 
a final permit to commence business. 
The Board approves the amendments, as submitted with 
the certification, to Articles Fourth, Fifth, Seventh, Tenth, and 
Eleventh of your Articles of Association. 
There is enclosed a final permit of the Board of Gover-
nors granting to American Overseas Banking Corporation authority 
to commence business as a corporation organized under the pro-
visions of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. Please ad-
vi se the Board of Governors, through the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York, when the Corporation commences business. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Enclosure. 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3GI1 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
October 4, 1968. 
Permit to Begin Business 
WHEREAS, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on the tenth day of April, Nineteen Hundred and Sixty-Eight, 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
of AMERICAN OVERSEAS BANKING CORPORATION, in accordance with the 
terms of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
WHEREAS, by satisfactory evidence presented to the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, it appears that 
AMERICAN OVERSEAS BANKING CORPORATION has complied with all of the 
provisions of the statutes of the United States required to be 
complied with before a corporation shall be authorized to commence 
business as a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act; 
NOW, THEREFORE, it is hereby certified that AMERICAN 
OVERSEAS BANKING CORPORATION is authorized to commence business as 
a corporation organized and operating under the provisions of 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act and the regulations of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued in 
accordance therewith. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and 
caused the seal of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System to be affixed on the day and year first above written. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
10/4/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 4, 1968 
Organization Committeej 
The State Bank of Hudson, 
Hudson, Wisconsin. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application made on behalf of The State Bank of 
Hudson, Hudson, Wisconsin, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Minneapolis, effective if and when the bank opens for business 
under appropriate State authorization, subject to the numbered 
conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to member-
ship. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank 
shall have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of 
not less than $200,000, and other capital funds of 
not less than $200,000. Moreover, if the bank invests 
in bank premises, directly or indirectly, an amount 
exceeding $150,000, the proposed capital funds of 
$400,000 will be increased by an amount equal to the 
excess. 

Organization Committee 
- 2 -
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions 
in the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the Regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions .of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to Commence 
Business has been issued. A certified copy of such resolution, 
together with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition 
numbered 3, should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis. Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment 
for an appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept 
the deposit of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within i^hich admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to six months from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies 
to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is 
advised that all of the requirements have been complied with and the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the 
Reserve Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank 
will.be glad to assist you in establishing your relationships with 
the Federal Reserve System and at any time to discuss with repre-
sentatives of your bank means for making the services of the System 
most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 
