ui 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 12, 1968 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, December 12, 1968. The Board met in the 
Special Library at 3:30 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 
Discount rate. As matters stood, the directors of three 
Federal Reserve Banks (Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas) had acted, 
subject to the approval of the Board of Governors, to establish a 
rate of 5-1/2 per cent (rather than the existing 5-1/4 per cent) on 
advances and discounts to member banks under sections 13 and 13a of 
the Federal Reserve Act, while the directors of another Bank 
(St. Louis) had established a rate of 5-3/4 per cent. The Board 
also had before it no-change wires from the Cleveland and Kansas 
City Reserve Banks. 
At the beginning of this meeting Chairman Martin advised the 
Board that he had notified the President, and also certain Adminis-
tration officials, of the likelihood of discount rate action in the 

12/12/68 
- 2 -
near future. He gathered that the President probably would prefer 
not to have such action taken at this time, but at least he had been 
alerted. 
The Chairman also reported that Mr. Hayes, President of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, had expressed himself as anxious 
that the Bank have an opportunity to participate if action was to be 
taken on the discount rate. That would require calling a special 
meeting of the Bank's directors if action was imminent. 
Chairman Martin then turned to Mr. Brill, who expressed the 
view that something should be done to cause members of the business 
community to reevaluate their plans in terms of whether actions 
currently being contemplated would prove to be profitable. In his 
judgment, announcement of a 1/4 percentage point increase in the 
discount rate, standing by itself, would not have the desired effect. 
In fact, such action, which had already been largely discounted, 
might be greeted with some derision in the press. However, the 
alternative of moving the discount rate up by 1/2 percentage point 
would be likely to have a general impact on short-term interest rates 
that caused him some concern. 
Another alternative, which Mr. Brill discussed next, would be 
to increase the discount rate by 1/4 point as a technical adjustment 
and at the same time to announce a further move, in the form of an 
increase in member bank reserve requirements, that would have an 

43 
12/12/68 
-3-
impact in the area that flow-of-funds figures suggested was an 
important source of funds to meet credit demands from the business 
sector. The large city banks apparently had been meeting such 
demands partly through Euro-dollar borrowings, partly through 
borrowing from the Federal Reserve, and partly through borrowing 
funds from reserve city banks located outside the money centers and 
from country banks. The largest growth of deposits this year had 
been at such banks, and the funds flowing into them were being 
shifted to the money centers by means of interbank borrowing. In 
the circumstances, Mr. Brill thought that a 1/2 percentage point 
increase in the reserve requirement applicable to time deposits 
other than savings deposits might be advantageous. The adjustment 
could be made effective in January at a time when the System would 
be absorbing reserves, with the result that the System would not 
have to sell as many bills as otherwise and there would be a greater 
impact on longer-term rates. 
In reply to a question, Mr. Brill said that if such a move 
were made applicable to time deposits in excess of $5 million at all 
member banks, it would absorb about $315 million of reserves. Elim-
ination of the $5 million feature would absorb an additional $80 
million of reserves. 
In reply to another question, Mr. Brill said that a reserve 
requirement increase of 1/2 percentage point applied to demand deposits 

4303 
12/12/68 
-4-
in excess of $5 million would absorb about $540 million of reserves. 
As he had pointed out, however, application of the increase to time 
deposits would amount to hitting the area where the gains in deposits 
had been largest, that is, in time and savings deposits at "other 
reserve city" and country banks. 
While initial comments indicated that some Board members 
found a combination move such as outlined by Mr. Brill attractive, 
leaving aside for the moment the question of how a reserve require-
ment increase should best be structured, one member (Governor Maisel) 
expressed the view that it would be better if an announcement effect 
were avoided. A 1/4 point discount rate increase, which was the 
indicated technical adjustment at this time, seemed to him to 
represent the appropriate course of action, and he noted that a con-
tinuation of the existing interest rate ceilings would exert a con-
straining influence. 
There followed a discussion of the probable extent of runoff 
of certificates of deposit, after which Mr. Axilrod made a statement 
in which he supported the taking of action at least as potent as that 
proposed by Mr. Brill. He was impressed by the strength of the demand 
situation throughout the country and judged that a psychological 
problem was strongly involved at this juncture. Accordingly, he con-
cluded that an effort to achieve an announcement effect was warranted, 

A 'I 
x i u 
12/12/68 
-5-
even if actions taken were reversed in whole or in part after a 
period of time. 
In response to questions, Mr. Reynolds indicated that he 
concurred generally in the Brill-Axilrod analysis. He expressed the 
opinion that the Board should be guided primarily by its judgment as 
to what action was appropriate to the domestic situation rather than 
to go too far in attempting to avoid exerting additional pressure on 
the pound sterling. 
Governor Robertson observed that if, as it appeared, the dom-
estic situation involved a psychological problem as much as anything 
else, a 1/4 point discount rate increase probably would accomplish 
little. Therefore, it should be accompanied by a reserve requirement 
increase, assuming that the international situation was not of over-
riding importance. Just how a reserve requirement change should be 
structured could be debated, but the suggested timing of the effect-
ive date seemed appropriate because the move would coincide with the 
normal absorption of reserves through open market operations in the 
early part of the year. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the opinion that the best move 
on reserve requirements would be to make the increase applicable to 
demand deposits, which among other things would avoid affecting the 
competitive balance between banks and savings and loan associations. 

4305 
12/12/68 
- 6 -
There followed some discussion of the possibility of adjust-
ing the existing interest rate ceilings, but no sentiment was ex-
pressed in favor of such a move at this time. There was also some 
discussion of the probable nature of the decision on open market 
policy that would be made at the forthcoming meeting of the Federal 
Open Market Committee, scheduled for Tuesday, December 17. 
Chairman Martin, after expressing the view that a good case 
could be made for a 1/4 point discount rate move and some other 
policy action, turned to the question of timing of action on the 
rate and suggested that President Hayes, as well as other Reserve 
Bank Presidents, should be alerted if it was the disposition of the 
Board to move rather promptly, so that they would have an opportunity 
to convene meetings of their directors if they so desired. 
Reasons that might be given for and against deferring action 
until after the Open Market Committee meeting on Tuesday were then 
advanced, and questions were raised regarding the extent to which 
information on Board thinking should be furnished to Reserve Bank 
Presidents, either now or at the Committee meeting. 
A telephone call was then placed to President Hayes, and 
Chairman Martin informed him of the Reserve Bank actions that were 
currently before the Board for consideration. The Chairman 
indicated that a 1/4 point increase in the discount rate appeared 
more likely to be approved than a 1/2 point increase, but that that 

'lS O S 
12/12/68 
-7-
was not certain; neither could he guarantee that the Board would 
decide to defer action until after the Open Market Committee meeting, 
although that seemed probable. The Chairman further indicated to 
Mr. Hayes that the Board might perhaps decide to take some action in 
addition to action on the discount rate. Since the Chairman was 
planning to leave on vacation shortly, he urged that Mr. Hayes keep 
in touch with Vice Chairman Robertson, particularly as to his 
thoughts on the best timing of discount rate action after conferring 
with the Manager of the System Open Market Account. 
After the telephone conversation had been concluded, an 
agreement was reached that the Board's Secretary should get in touch 
with the Presidents of the other Reserve Banks and give them informa-
tion substantially similar to the advice that the Chairman had given 
to President Hayes. It was agreed, however, that the information 
should relate only to the discount rate matter, leaving the Board to 
consider further what, if anything, should be said at the Committee 
meeting with regard to the possibility of action on reserve require-
ments . 
As the foregoing discussion suggested, the consensus that 
emerged favored postponing action on the discount rate until after 
the Committee meeting, primarily because that would provide a greater 
opportunity for all elements of the System to join in the action and 
also because it would permit additional debate within the Board on 

4307 
12/12/68 
- 8 -
the reserve requirement question, including debate in the light of 
whatever transpired at the meeting of the Open Market Committee. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
vV 
