MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 3, 1972 

833 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, April 3, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
M r . Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
: i -
 ; • f 
• r.:- 
i • r ' 
u • 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Those who had attended the meeting specifically for the economic 
review withdrew from the room. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on March 22; by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Kansas City, and Dallas on March 23; and by the Federal Reserve Banks 
1/ 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

834 
4/3/72 
-2-
of New York and San Francisco on March 30, 1972, of the rates on dis-
counts and advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, 
with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those 
Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Valley 
Bancorporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of Bank of Casco, 
Casco, Wisconsin, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 1. 
As recommended in a memorandum from the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations dated March 17, 1972, the Board unanimously 
approved an increase of 50 positions in the present employment ceiling 
and an increase of $323,000 in the budget of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago for implementation and operation of an expanded immediate 
payment check clearing arrangement. A copy of the letter sent to the 
Bank is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the appointment of Ralph C. 
Bryant, Director, Division of International Finance, as a member of 
the Board's Editorial Committee. 
Today's consent calendar called for consideration of the 
following matters, which were deferred for exploration of questions 
that were raised: 
applications by Southern Bankshares, Inc., Richmond, 
Virginia, to acquire the successors by merger to Bank of Powhatan, 

835 
4/3/72 
-3-
Powhatan, Virginia, and Bank of Goochland, Goochland, Virginia; 
an application by First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, 
Texas, to acquire the successor by reorganization to Gulfgate State 
Bank of Houston; and a memorandum from the Legal Division regarding 
special counsel fees in connection with the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston's new building. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
FOMC policy record. The Board considered a memorandum from 
Mr. Holland dated March 30, 1972, attaching a draft press release for 
use in the event it was decided to release the policy record for the 
meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee held on February 15 
concurrently with the record of the meeting of January 11, 1972. 
It 
was noted that the decision to release the records simultaneously 
involved the joint decision of the Board and the FOMC. The Board 
suggested certain areas in the policy statements and press release 
that needed revision by the staff and (1) tentatively approved the 
simultaneous release of the documents and (2) authorized the staff 
to send the revised press release to other members of the FOMC for 
comments. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/3/72 
VALLEY BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Valley Bancorporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), to acquire 80 per cent or more of 
the voting shares of Bank of Casco, Casco, Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
°f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the eighth largest banking organization in 
Wisconsin, controls eleven banks with aggregate deposits of approxi-
mately $148 million, representing 1.4 per cent of the total commercial 
bank deposits in the State.-^ 
Upon acquisition of Bank ($7.1 million 
in deposits), Applicant's position in relation to the other banking 
organizations in the State would remain unchanged and Applicant's 
share of deposits in the State would be increased by only 0*1 percent-
age point. 
Bank's sole office is located in the village of Casco, in 
Kewaunee County, where it competes with six other banks in a market 
1/ 
All banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding com-
pany formations and acquisitions approved through February 29, 1972. 

approximated by the northern three-fourths of Kewaunee County and the 
southern six miles of Door County, Bank ranks fourth in deposit size 
among the banks competing in this market, holding 14,4 per cent of 
total deposits in that market. Applicant's closest subsidiary, 
Badger State Bank, located in Denmark, Brown County, is approximately 
road miles southwest of Bank. There is no existing competition 
between Bank and this subsidiary or any of Applicant's other subsidi-
aries. Moreover, in view of the low population density of the area 
and Wisconsin's restrictive branch banking statutes, the possibility of 
such competition arising in the future appears remote. On the basis of 
the record before it, the Board concludes that consummation of the 
Proposed acquisition would not have a significantly adverse effect on 
competition in any relevant area. Nor is consummation likely to have 
a n y significant adverse effects on Bank's competitors. 
There is no evidence that significant banking needs of the 
community are going unserved; however, consummation of this acquisition 
w°uld allow Bank to improve the quality and expand the number of 
services Bank currently offers to the community. Affiliation with 
Applicant would increase the lending capability of Bank through 
Participation arrangements with Applicant's present subsidiary banks, 
and enable Bank to initiate trust services as well as to improve and 
e*pand its consumer lending capabilities. Considerations relating to 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served lend some 
W e i g h t toward approval. 

83S 
- 3 -
Considerations relating to financial and managerial resources 
and prospects as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiaries and Bank, 
are regarded as satisfactory, except that Bank has not provided for 
adequate successor management. Applicant's capabilities for finding 
competent and experienced officers for Bank as needed lend some weight 
in favor of approval. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of 
the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- April 3, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
2/ 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns and Governors 
Maisel and Sheehan. 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
839 
Item No. 2 
4/3/72 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
April 3, 1972 
M r . Robert P. Mayo, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Chicago, Illinois 
60690 
Dear M r . Mayo: 
The Board of Governors interposes no 
objections to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
plan for extending the Chicago immediate payment 
area and approves an increase of 50 positions in 
the present employment ceiling of 2,652 and an 
estimated increase of $323,000 in the 1972 budget 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Yours very truly, 
(Signed) Michael A . Greenspan 
Michael A . Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
