MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 6, 1969 

29 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, January 6, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller and Mr. Mertz of the Legal Division 
Mr. Cleaver of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Donovan, and Maguire of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Foreign banking matter. A letter to Morgan Guaranty Interna-
tional Finance Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent to its 
Proposed acquisition of additional shares of Banco Brasileiro de 
Desenvolvimento S.A. FINASA, Sao Paulo, Brazil, was approved unanimously. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 

30 
1/6/69 
-2-
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Main Street National Bank, 
Richmond, Virginia, with First & Merchants National Bank, also of Richmond, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency 
The conclusion stated that consummation of the proposed merger (which was 
merely a transaction to facilitate the acquisition of First & Merchants 
National Bank by First & Merchants Corporation, Richmond, Virginia, a newly 
formed holding company) would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
consolidation of The Cadillac State Bank, Cadillac, Michigan, with The 
Kalkaska State Bank, Kalkaska, Michigan, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The conclusion 
read as follows: 
In view of the close relationship which has existed 
between The Cadillac State Bank and The Kalkaska State 
Bank since 1964, there is little effective competition 
between them. However, consummation of the transaction 
would eliminate some potential for competition in the 
event the close relationship should be terminated. Overall, 
the effect of the proposal on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of First Citizens 
National Bank, Balmont, Mississippi, by First Citizens National Bank, 
Tupelo, Mississippi, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion stated that the transaction 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 

lit 
1/6/69 
_3_ 
First at Orlando. The Board authorized issuance of an order 
and statement reflecting its approval on December 3, 1968, of the 
application of First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire 
shares of Central Brevard National Bank at Cocoa, Cocoa, Florida. Copies 
of the documents are attached under Item No. 2. 
Northland Bancshares. Northland Bancshares, Inc., Bridgeton, 
Missouri, a one-bank holding company by virtue of its ownership of 
shares of Northland Bank, Jennings, Missouri, had applied for approval 
of action to become a registered bank holding company by acquiring shares 
of Mark Twain State Bank, Bridgeton, Missouri, and South County Bank, 
South County (P.O. St. Louis), Missouri. Approval was recommended. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order and statement reflecting the decision would be drafted for 
the Board's consideration and with the further understanding that in the 
statement and in the letter of transmittal reference would be made to 
the reliance placed on stated plans of the applicant to eliminate corpo-
rate debt and to strengthen the capital accounts of the subsidiary banks 
where appropriate. 
Bank Protection Act. Governor Robertson noted that there was 
being made available to the Board members under date of January 4, 1969, 
a new draft of regulation to be issued by the Board pursuant to the Bank 
Protection Act of 1968. The new draft had been prepared in an effort to 
achieve uniformity, if possible, in the regulations to be issued by the 
respective Federal supervisory agencies. There had been a meeting with 

32 
1/6/69 
-4-
representatives of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board over the weekend, 
and the Board's staff was meeting today with representatives of the 
Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
In explaining the new draft, Governor Robertson said that for 
the most part it adopted almost verbatim the language of the draft regu-
lation prepared by the Comptroller and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. One major difference would be the inclusion of a paragraph 
stating that bank security officers should consider the appropriateness 
of installing, maintaining, and operating security devices at least 
equivalent to the minimum standards described in an appendix to the 
regulation. Also, the proposed Board regulation would require each 
State member bank, not later than July 15, 1969,and on such other 
occasions as the Board might specify, to file with its Federal Reserve 
Bank a report on Form P-l for each of its offices in order to provide 
a current inventory of security devices. 
Whether the Comptroller and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpo-
ration would agree with the new draft, Governor Robertson did not know, 
but he was inclined to think they might. 
He had been in touch with 
Assistant Attorney General Vinson and the latter had expressed the view 
that the originally proposed regulation of the Comptroller and the FDIC 
did not comply with the spirit of the statute. A copy of the new draft 
of Board regulation had been sent to Mr. Vinson, and the views of the 
Justice Department were to be made available later today. 

33 
1/6/69 
- 5-
Governor Robertson then pointed out that if the regulations 
of the respective supervisory agencies were not to be issued shortly 
it would be necessary, according to the statute, to return to the 
Congress and request an extension of time, a procedure that he felt 
would be unfortunate. Therefore, he hoped that a reasonable degree of 
uniformity could be achieved through consultation with the other agencies 
today and that the Board would be in a position to act tomorrow. 
Governor Maisel noted that he had distributed a revision, 
employing somewhat more generalized language, for the paragraph to which 
Governor Robertson had referred in which bank security officers would be 
requested to consider the appropriateness of installing, maintaining, 
and operating security devices equivalent to the minimum standards 
described in the pertinent appendix. Governor Robertson indicated that 
he had no difficulty with the language suggested by Governor Maisel and 
that he would have it made available to the other agencies. 
In further discussion, some Board members reiterated earlier 
comments regarding the importance they attached to obtaining uniformity 
in the regulations to be issued by the respective agencies and expressed 
their willingness to go along with the new draft of Board regulation. 
Governor Brimmer, however, stated that he would go along with the new 
draft only on the basis that apparently it was the best that could be 
achieved by way of compromise and that hopefully it could be strengthened 
over the course of time. He would not be willing to support anything less 

34 
1/6/69 
_6_ 
strong than the new draft, and in particular he felt it was important 
that the P-l form be retained in the degree of completeness with which 
it had been designed. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
1/6/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CQRRE5PQNOENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 8, 1969 
Morgan Guaranty International Finance Corporation, 
wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
of Dec h I r \ a c c o r d a n c e w i t h the request contained in your letter 
Cornnrf*- 
' 1 9 6 8' t h G B ° a r d o f Governors grants consent for your 
Banco Br!°n ? P u ^ s e and hold an additional 2,250,000 shares of 
anco Brasileiro de Desenvolvimento S.A. FINASA, Sao Paulo, Brazil, 
within f 
approximately $600,000, provided the shares are acquired 
o n e y e ar from the date of this letter. 
the in,,* - T h e f o r eS° i nS consent is given with the understanding that 
e s t a b U e h ' r n t / ° W u G i^ S aPP r o v e d w i l 1 b e 
within the guidelines 
as thev a iU 
f ° r e i g n C r e d i t r e s t r a ^ n t effort now in effect 
your r L ! 
L 
t h e f o r e i 8 n Ending and investment activities of 
Morgan 
11 l ™I M ° r g a n G u a r a n t y T r u s t Company of New York, and 
si e at?r 
uy International Banking Corporation, and that due con-
eration is being given to the priorities contained therein 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 2 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
1/6/69 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, 
Orlando, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of Central 
Brevard National Bank at Cocoa, Cocoa1, 
Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First at Orlando Corporation, 
Orlando, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Central Brevard 
National Bank at Cocoa, Cocoa, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The Acting 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 14, 1968 (33 Federal Register 13049), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
of this Order unless such time shall be extended by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 6th day of January, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, and 
Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Brimmer. 
'Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

• 
38 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, ORLANDO, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
OF CENTRAL BREVARD NATIONAL BANK AT COCOA, 
COCOA, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of 30 per cent or more of the voting shares of Central 
Brevard National Bank at Cocoa, Cocoa, Florida ("Cocoa Bank"). 
Applicant controls six banks with aggregate total 
deposits of approximately $256 million-^. Cocoa Bank, located in 
Brevard County, has total deposits of approximately $22 million. 
The application shows that management of Applicant's lead bank (First 
National Bank at Orlando) was instrumental in the formation of 
Cocoa Bank in 1957 and that over 50 per cent of the stock of Applicant 
and of Cocoa Bank are held by common shareholders. 
1/ Banking data are as of June 30, 1968, unless otherwise noted, and 
refer to insured commercial banks. 
a i. 

1 
3 9 
-2-
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority, - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the 
application was given to the Comptroller of the Currency, and his 
views and recommendation were requested. The Acting Comptroller 
recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Scction 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result 
in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or 
conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business 
of banking in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve 
a proposed acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the 
country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to 
create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint 
of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects 
of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public 
interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the 
t, < <• • - in-
convenience and needs of the community to be served. In each case the 
i 
=t 
' I.- " 
Board is required to take into consideration the financial and 
managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. 
•• 
. 
CompetitIve jef fect of_ the proposed^ transaction. - The 10 
largest banking organizations in Florida control approximately 
O C 
per cent of total bank deposits in the State. Applicant, the 

mmm 
40 
-3-
fifth largest organization, controls 2.6 per cent of such deposits. 
The acquisition of Cocoa Bank's $22 million of deposits would 
increase Applicant's control of deposits to 2.8 per cent. 
Cocoa Bank is the third largest of 17 banks in Brevard 
County and controls 10.4 per cent of total deposits in the county. 
None of Applicant's present subsidiaries is located in that county. 
The subsidiary closest to Cocoa Bank is 48 miles away. 
In its primary service area-/ Cocoa Bank is the second 
largest of four banks and controls 29.4 per cent of the total deposits 
in the area. The largest bank in the area is a subsidiary of Barnett 
National Securities Corporation which controls 43.3 per cent of the 
deposits in the area. Two independent banks control, respectively, 
20.5 and 6.8 per cent of such deposits. 
The data presented reflect that Applicant's acquisition 
of Cocoa Bank would not have a significant impact upon the degree 
of concentration of banking resources in the State or within Brevard 
County. Consummation of the proposal would not cause existing 
banking alternatives in the relevant service area to be reduced in 
number nor cause an increase in the concentration of deposits already 
existing i n the banking organizations in such area. On the record 
mor tu a r e a f r 0 m w h l c h APP!icant estimates that Cocoa Bank derives 
e than 30 per cent of deposits of individuals, partnerships, and 
corporations and over 75 per cent of the Bank's commercial, mortgage 
and consumer loans. 

before the Board, it is concluded that the proposed affiliation 
would not result in a monopoly nor be in furtherance of any 
combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any relevant area. 
Considering next the probable effect of consummation of 
Applicant's proposal on existing or potential competition, the Board 
finds that these considerations present no bar to approval of the 
application. The record showj that the management of Cocoa Bank has 
relied heavily upon First National Bank at Orlando for personnel, 
loan participations, and daily advice and counsel in the operation 
of Cocoa Bank. Because of the interlocking stockholder interests 
and the distances intervening between Cocoa Bank and each of 
Applicant's present subsidiaries, there is no effective competition 
between Cocoa Bank and Applicant's group and none seems likely to 
develop. Consummation of the proposal herein would not have any 
significant effect upon Cocoa Bank's competitive position in its 
primary service area. There appears to be no reasonable likelihood 
that the acquisition would preclude future competition in any 
relevant area. 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed 
transaction would not substantially lessen competition, tend to 
create a monopoly, nor in any other manner restrain trade in any 
relevant section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Cocoa Bank are in satisfactory 

42 
-3-
financial condition, have capable management, and favorable prospects. 
The banking factors are consistent with approval of the application. 
ggnmxie.rice qpcj needs of the, community JLngfllgflA. - Applicant 
states that no changes in the services offered by Cocoa Bank are 
Planned, if the acquisition is approved. The evidence relating to 
the convenience and needs of the area is consistent with approval 
°f the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
January 6, 1969. 
