MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 25, 1971 

2175 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, August 25, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 2:15 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Gardner, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
BIS membership. On June 30, 1971, the Board discussed the 
questions whether (1) the Federal Reserve should establish representation 
on the Board of Directors of the Bank for International Settlements, and 
(2) 
whether it should invest in shares of the Bank. Today the Board 
Averted to the first of those questions. Documentation provided for the 
June discussion had now been supplemented by a memorandum of August 23 in 
which Messrs. Bryant and Pizer of the Division of International Finance 
summarized the advantages and disadvantages of BIS membership. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that it would not be appro-
priate for the Federal Reserve to become a member of the BIS without 
'getting Congressional consent. He felt that the best avenue for giving 

2176 
8/25/71 
-2-
the Federal Reserve an appropriate influence in international economic 
affairs was not the BIS, which was an instrument for central bankers. 
Other international agencies were available as channels, and probably 
would be more fruitful in the long run. 
Governor Daane spoke in favor of membership; he believed that 
the Federal Reserve could play a leading role in making the BIS a worth 
while and constructive body. The Bank was becoming more than a European 
institution, and membership would enable the Board to exert an important 
influence in shaping its concept and future. He saw usefulness but no 
harm in membership. 
Governor Maisel advocated that the Federal Reserve take no part 
in international monetary problems, which should be left to the State and 
Treasury Departments. If those Departments sought participation by the 
Federal Reserve, it should be provided at arms' length. In his view, at 
times in the last ten years when Federal Reserve actions had been shaped 
m 
international conditions, part of the burden of negotiations had been 
taken off the Treasury, which he did not think should have happened. He 
thought that if the State and Treasury Departments had to act without the 
Federal Reserve, they would be more aware of the costs involved for the 
domestic economy. 
Governor Brimmer said that in principle he was in favor of BIS 
membership and thought an influence could thereby be exerted. However, 
he had reservations, one of which related to problems that might arise 

2177 
8/25/71 
-3-
if the BIS became a world central bank and formed policy for the world. 
There were possible technical difficulties, too, such as the participation 
°f both central bankers and finance ministers. If the Federal Reserve 
should undertake membership, it would be well to have a clear understanding 
°f how the voice was to be shared with the Treasury. Possibly a better 
alternative for the near term would be to devote the Federal Reserve's 
energies to helping to strengthen the International Monetary Fund. 
Governor Sherrill thought that the Federal Reserve would have to 
eXpand its role in the economic decision-making process to take into 
account more planning and more input in general economic policies on both 
the fiscal and monetary sides. In his view, the Federal Reserve should 
have the maximum possible voice in international monetary affairs. In 
the long term,the International Monetary Fund would be the major channel, 
b u t it would take many years for it to assume that role. In the short 
term, the BIS seemed to present the best route, and he would like to see 
e Federal Reserve assume membership promptly. However, it should be 
accomplished through Congressional action. 
Mr. Holland reported that Governor Robertson continued to feel 
a t it would be unwise to join the BIS. To do so would affiliate the 
ral Reserve with the whole range of BIS actions, even though it might 
n°t be in accord with some of them. A greater influence might be brought 
bear from outside the formal structure of the Bank, as at present, rather 
th n through just one voice at the table as in the case of membership. 

2173 
8/25/71 
-4-
Moreover, Governor Robertson believed that the responsibilities of member-
ship would be a drain on the Board's resources. 
Chairman Burns observed that there had been some evolution in the 
BIS, and the present question, in view of the recent upheaval in interna-
tional relationships, was whether this might not be an especially important 
time for the Federal Reserve to become more actively associated with the 
uoard oi uovg.nio'cu ox Khs 
l.ies<as.-vc LOIU 
Bank. He thought a good a priori case could be made for membership in terms 
of convenience to United States interests. However, such a decision should 
rest only on a strong majority within the Board, and present views showed 
substantial divergence. He suggested that the Board return to the subject 
from time to time. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
