Minutes for February 7, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of minutes 
commencing on the page and dealing with the subject referred to 
below: 
Page 1 
Amendment to Regulation K, Corporations 
Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing 
under the Federal Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the meet-
ing, your initials will indicate approvaJ^of the minutes. If you 
were not present, your initials will indicate only that you have 
seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, February 7, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 1/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle and Sanders, Senior Attorneys, 
Legal Division 
Foreign equity investments; amendment to Regulation K (Items 1 
and 2). At the meeting on January 2, 1968, and on subsequent occa-
sions, question had been raised as to what action, if any, the Board 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

2/7/68 
-2-
should take in the area of foreign equity investments by U.S. banks 
and their subsidiaries in light of the overall effort to reduce the 
deficit in the U.S. balance of payments, as outlined in the President1 
message of January 1, 1968, and defined in Executive Order 11387. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated February 6, 
1968, from Governor Robertson recommending, for reasons stated, that 
(1) every foreign equity investment by a bank (including its foreign 
branches) or by an Edge or agreement corporation be considered a 
credit subject to the ceilings established under the guidelines of 
the foreign credit restraint program; (2) in general, a bank (includ-
ing its foreign branches), an Edge or agreement corporation, or any 
subsidiary of such a corporation not be permitted to make equity 
investments in any corporation, banking or other, of any developed 
country of continental Western Europe; (3) establishment of branches 
be approved irrespective of location, unless the investment required 
would cause the bank to exceed its foreign credit restraint program 
ceiling; and (4) the following equity investments be acted upon by the 
Board without regard to the foregoing policies: (a) investments pro-
posed in applications received by Reserve Banks before January 1, 1968 
(b) investments arising out of binding commitments entered into in 
good faith before January 1, 1968; (c) investments arising out of a 
substantial expenditure of money in development of the investment 
before January 1, 1968, that would be lost if the proposed investment 
was denied. 

2/7/68 
-3-
Governor Robertson also recommended an amendment to Regula-
tion K (Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing under 
the Federal Reserve Act) that would eliminate the provision granting 
general consent, to (1) acquisition of shares incidental to an exten-
sion of credit, (2) acquisition of less than 25 per cent of the shares 
of a foreign bank, and (3) acquisition of shares at a cost of less 
than $200,000 if such investment was likely to further the development 
of U.S. foreign commerce. Such an amendment would enable the Board to 
consider each application on its merits, and would leave the door open 
to approval of a new investment even in Western Europe if the surround-
ing circumstances justified such investment. The action would place 
the Board in a relationship with banks parallel to that of the Commerce 
Department in respect to nonfinancial enterprises; each agency would 
have the power to control all foreign equity investments by institu-
tions under its jurisdiction. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of amendment that would 
be published in the Federal Register and a draft of press release. 
Comments by members of the Board on the proposal were generally 
favorable. However, Governor Mitchell expressed some doubt as to 
whether the volume of investments in the $200,000 and under category 
would be sufficient to warrant amendment of Regulation K to require 
specific consent for such investments. Governor Robertson said that 
he foresaw only a temporary suspension of the general consent provi-
sions, and it seemed to him that the best procedure was to place 

2/7/68 
-4-
everyone on exactly the same basis at this juncture. The proposed 
action would be consistent with the basic principles of the new bal-
ance of payments program by focusing on capital outflows to Western 
Europe; at the same time it would give the Board leeway to make excep 
tions where extenuating circumstances warranted. 
There ensued a discussion of the extent to which funds 
presently invested in Western Europe might be reinvested under the 
terms of the program being administered by the Department of Commerce 
following which Governor Mitchell stated that he did not feel too 
strongly on the question he had raised and that he would not press 
the point. He did feel rather strongly, however, that over the years 
a course of action had been followed that discriminated against banks 
not having branches in Europe. Therefore, he concurred in the pro-
posed policy that would permit the establishment of branches irrespec 
tive of location where the investment was within the foreign credit 
restraint program ceiling. 
Governor Robertson again commented that he felt adoption of 
the proposals contained in his memorandum, including the amendment to 
Regulation K, would place the Board in a much better position to deal 
equitably with all institutions under its jurisdiction. While some 
prospective investments might not be large in amount, the Board would 
be in a better general posture. 

2/7/68 
-5-
Governor Maisel stated that the draft of press release did not 
appear to him to spell out the actual policy of the Board. It was not 
clear from the press release whether the Board was proposing to move 
forward on an ad hoc basis or had made a basic policy decision. 
Governor Brimmer agreed that the press release should be 
expanded to reflect the substance of the Board's policy, as expressed 
more clearly in Governor Robertson's memorandum, with which he fully 
agreed. 
Governor Robertson noted that pending applications received 
prior to January 1, 1968, would be brought before the Board for con-
sideration in the near future, so that reference to them in the Board's 
public statement would appear to serve little purpose. It was under-
stood, in this connection, that the members of the Board would be 
furnished a list of such applications. 
Following further discussion, during which additional sugges-
tions were made relating to points that should be clarified in the 
press release, unanimous approval was given to the proposed amendment 
to Regulation K, effective immediately, and to the issuance of the 
press statement. 
The press release, as issued on February 8, 1968, is attached 
as Item No. 1. Attached as Item No. 2 is a copy of the amendment to 
Regulation K in the form in which it was transmitted to the Federal 
Register. 

5 0 7 
2/7/68 
-6-
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to the Bureau of Engraving and 
3 
Printing interposing no objection to the 
inclusion of specimen Federal Reserve 
notes among specimens of United States 
currency included in reciprocal exchanges 
between the United States Treasury and 
friendly foreign nations. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
4 
San Francisco interposing no objection 
to the acquisition of property adjoining 
the Los Angeles Branch building. 
In connection with Item No. 4, Governor Brimmer expressed some 
reservations about expansion of the Los Angeles Branch at its present 
site, noting that the area appeared to be deteriorating. The staff 
indicated that the problem would be reviewed when plans for a proposed 
addition were brought before the Board for consideration. 
Act of September 21, 1966 (Item No. 5). There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated February 6, 1968, from Mr. Hackley relating 
to a request from the Bureau of the Budget for the views of the Board 
on a Treasury draft bill that would make permanent the Act of Septem-
ber 21, 1966 (Public Law 89-597), which granted new or broadened 
authority to the financial regulatory agencies in connection with 

507 
2/7/68 
-7-
maximum interest and dividend rates, and to the Federal Reserve with 
respect to reserve requirements and open market operations in agency 
issues. 
Attached to the memorandum was a proposed letter to the Bureau 
of the Budget that would state that the Board strongly favored enact-
ment of the proposed legislation but would suggest: (1) elimination 
of section 1 of Public Law 89-597, which provided that the financial 
regulatory agencies in implementing their powers under the law "shall 
take action to bring about the reduction of interest rates to the 
maximum extent feasible in the light of prevailing money market and 
general economic conditions"; (2) elimination of the present temporary 
statutory exemption of foreign official time deposits from interest 
rate limitations on the ground that that legislation would no longer 
be necessary if Public Law 89-597 was made permanent; and (3) an 
amendment to section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act that would make 
it clear that any obligations, including Federal agency obligations, 
eligible for purchase by Federal Reserve Banks would also be eligible 
as collateral for advances by the Reserve Banks to member banks. 
In oral comments, Mr. Hackley stated that he would now urge 
that the Board omit any reference to the elimination of section 1 in 
submitting its views on the proposed legislation. As worded, the 
so-called "sense of Congress" provision did not constitute a flat 
mandate to bring about a reduction in interest rates; rather, it 

507 
2/7/68 
-8-
called for such reductions only to the extent feasible in the light of 
prevailing conditions. In addition, the provision was originally 
introduced in an effort to gain support for legislation that was then 
being proposed by the Board, as opposed to legislation favored by 
others, and to recommend its repeal might jeopardize the chances of 
obtaining permanent legislation. Mr. Hackley said he had discussed 
this point with Mr. Cardon, who felt that a recommendation to elimi-
nate section 1 would be both unwise and unnecessary. 
Chairman Martin recalled that at Congressional hearings he 
had repeatedly expressed himself in favor of as low interest rates as 
possible without producing inflation, and Mr. Hackley observed that 
the language of the section appeared to be generally consistent with 
what the Chairman had been saying. 
Governor Brimmer noted that when the question of extending the 
Act of September 21, 1966, was discussed last year he had spoken in 
favor of recommending the elimination of section 1 of the Act. At 
that time he had thought its retention would create pressure on the 
Board to reduce interest rate ceilings. However, since that time the 
Board had gone through several interest and dividend crediting periods, 
and it could now feel somewhat stronger in resisting pressures to 
manipulate the rate ceilings. He now believed that section 1, if 
retained, would do no great harm. 

507 
2/7/68 
-9-
Governor Robertson expressed the view that as long as section 1 
was included in the statute the position of the Board was vulnerable. 
The language could be used by those who would like to prevent the Board 
from raising maximum rates or force it into moving them down. His pref-
erence would be to have the section repealed. However, it was possible 
that the practical advantages of not seeking to have the provision 
repealed might outweigh the dangers he foresaw. 
At this point Governor Maisel indicated that he would go along 
with Mr. Hackley's revised recommendation; he then withdrew from the 
meeting to keep an out-of-town engagement. 
Chairman Martin observed that, as he had indicated to the 
Board before, he did not think the legislation was basically sound. At 
the time it was introduced, it related to a specific situation. It rep-
resented a series of compromises, attempting to deal by statute with 
matters that in his judgment could not be handled satisfactorily in 
that manner. 
Governor Robertson noted that the legislation gave the Board 
authority to put the rate ceilings on a standby basis, which was a 
power the Board had sought, and Mr. Hackley added that the legislation 
also gave the Board more flexibility in the establishment of such ceil-
ings. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the Congressional 
intent was actually somewhat different. The intent, as he understood 

2/7/68 
-10-
it, was not one of giving the Board more freedom; to the contrary, the 
legislation was passed in an environment that suggested a mandate to 
push interest rates down selectively. 
Mr. Hexter expressed agreement with Mr. Hackley's position 
that as a matter of law there was no doubt but that Congress had given 
the Board authority under this legislation to move the rate ceilings 
in either direction. 
Governor Brimmer then raised the question of the extent to 
which it would be possible, within the limits of existing legislation, 
to remove the distinction between reserve city and country banks for 
purposes of fixing reserve requirements. 
It was noted that, upon recommendation of the Board, a bill 
to establish a graduated system of reserve requirements for all insured 
banks had been introduced in the Congress, and there followed a gen-
eral discussion of the extent to which a graduated reserve plan could 
be implemented under the present law, in the course of which Mr. 
Hackley pointed out that it would still be necessary to make a dis-
tinction between reserve city and other member banks. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the transmittal of a 
letter to the Bureau of the Budget in the form attached as Item No. 5. 
New Communities Act of 1968 (Item No. 6). Mr. Hexter said 
that a request had been received from the Bureau of the Budget for the 
Board's views on a draft bill submitted by the Department of Housing 

2/7/68 
-11-
and Urban Development entitled "New Communities Act of 1968." There 
was a degree of urgency attached to the request since the proposal 
would probably be included in a program to be presented by the Presi-
dent to the Congress next week. 
After summarizing the main thrust of the legislation, Mr. 
Hexter expressed the view that the draft bill was not one on which it 
would be necessary for the Board to comment, and he noted that a com-
plete analysis would require more time than was available. He recom-
mended that the Board advise the Budget Bureau that it had no comments 
to offer. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the transmittal of such 
a letter to the Bureau. A copy of the letter subsequently sent is 
attached as Item No. 6. 
Savings bond luncheon. The Board authorized payment of the 
cost of a luncheon at the Federal Reserve Building on March 13, 1968, 
for the Executive Committee of the Savings Bonds State Chairmen and 
the ABA Savings Bonds Regional Vice Chairmen, arrangements for such a 
luncheon having been requested by the Savings Bonds Division of the 
Treasury Department. 
Officer salary structures (Item No. 7). Governor Mitchell, 
Chairman of the Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans, recalled that action to implement the Leonard survey 
of community salaries comparable to officer positions in the Federal 

S : 13 
2/7/68 
-12-
Reserve Banks had been deferred last year, with the expectation that 
such steps would be taken this year in time to accommodate Reserve 
Bank salary recommendations for the year 1969. Some changes in offi-
cer structures appeared to be warranted, and there were related prob-
lems that deserved consideration. He had been considering what 
approach might be best to obtain the benefit of different viewpoints 
with respect to some of the more complex issues, and it had occurred 
to him that it would be helpful to obtain the reaction of the Presi-
dents to the range of issues raised. Moreover, the Presidents should 
benefit from an exchange of ideas among themselves. Accordingly, he 
suggested that the Chairman of the Conference of Presidents be asked 
to make the subject a topic of discussion at the March meeting of the 
Conference. 
Governor Brimmer agreed with the approach outlined by Governor 
Mitchell and suggested that several of the key issues to which the 
Presidents might address themselves be specified. 
Unanimous approval was then given to communicating with the 
Chairman of the Presidents' Conference along the lines suggested. A 
copy of the letter subsequently sent is attached as Item No. 7. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: On January 18, 1968, 
the Board considered an application by 
First Pennsylvania Overseas Finance 
Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
to invest an additional amount in the 
capital stock of a wholly-owned subsid-
iary, First Pennsylvania Overseas Devel-
opment Company, Ltd., Nassau, Bahamas. 

2/7/68 
-13-
Applicant stated that the injection of the 
additional capital would be accomplished by 
a transfer of outstanding foreign loans, 
and it was suggested that the letter of 
approval of the application not be sent to 
the applicant until an interpretation had 
been transmitted to the Federal Reserve 
Banks regarding the effect of a transfer 
of loans on ceilings established under the 
foreign credit restraint program. An inter-
pretation was subsequently sent to the Re-
serve Banks to the effect that if a loan 
was sold to a resident of a foreign coun-
try prior to maturity, the ceiling should 
be reduced on the original maturity date. 
Attached as Item No. 8 is a copy of the 
letter sent to First Pennsylvania Overseas 
Finance Corporation on January 25, 1968. 
Secretary's Notes: On February 6, 1968, 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf of 
the Board the following items: 
Letter to Mr. George L. Stevens, East Riverdale, Maryland, con-
firming arrangements for him to provide a 24-hour course in reading 
improvement for members of the Board's staff as an activity of the 
Board's Employee Training and Development Program, a fee of $45 to 
be paid for each participant in the course. 
Requests for permission to 
engage in outside activities 
Frederick C. Whetzel, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, to work as a theater usher on a part-time basis. 
Clarence W. Woods, Chart Machine Operator (Trainee), Division of 
Data Processing, to work as a taxi driver on a part-time basis. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Data Processing dated February 1, 
1968, recommending the establishment of a position of Experimental 
Designer in the Economic Graphics Section. 

5:15 
2/7/68 
-14-
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Helen M. McCarthy as Secretary, Office of the Secretary, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $5,937, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
John A. McRae as Research Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,734, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increase 
Penny L. Lawrence, Clerk, Division of International Finance, 
from $4,108 to $4,466 per annum, effective February 11, 1968. 
Transfers 
Ruth E. Foster, from the position of Statistical Assistant in the 
Division of Research and Statistics to the position of Data Control 
Assistant in the Division of Data Processing, with an increase in basic 
annual salary from $5,937 to $6,342, effective upon assuming her new 
duties. 
Penelope Johnson, from the position of Statistical Assistant in 
the Division of Research and Statistics to the position of Research 
Assistant in the Division of International Finance, with an increase 
in basic annual salary from $6,342 to $6,959, effective upon assuming 
her new duties. 
On February 7, 1968, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letter, a copy of which is attached under 
the item number indicated: 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
approving the appointment of Paul E. Gipson as 
assistant examiner. 
9 

tr -t r* 
0-4.0 
Item No. 1 
2/7/68 
For immediate release. 
February 8, 1968. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
today announced that in view of the purposes of Presidential Executive 
Order 11387 of January 1, 1968, "Governing Certain Capital Transfer 
Abroad," the Board is amending, effective immediately, its Regulation K, 
"Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing Under the Federal 
Reserve Act," the so-called "Edge Act" and "Agreement" corporations, to 
require the Board's specific approval before such a corporation may 
make any equity investment in a foreign business. 
Formerly, the following investments by such corporations 
could have been made without application to the Board: (1) acquisition 
of shares incidental to an extension of credit, (2) acquisition of less 
than 25 per cent of the shares of a foreign bank, and (3) acquisition 
of shares at a cost of less than $200,000 if such investment was likely 
to further the development of United States foreign commerce. 
Under the new rule, all such investments, as in the case of 
other equity investments by banks or such corporations, are subject to 
the specific approval of the Board. The Board's approval will also be 
necessary for such a corporation or a bank to continue to hold shares 
of a subsidiary that makes any equity investment. 
In taking this action the Board indicated that the new pro-
visions are intended to be of temporary duration, and that each request 

for its approval will be considered in the light of the purposes and 
aims of the Government's Balance of Payments Program. In general, the 
Board will consider on its merits any application to make an equity 
investment elsewhere than in developed countries of continental 
Western Europe, provided that it is assured that the investment can be 
made within the ceiling established for the applicant under the 
Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program administered by the Board, 
and that the priorities established in that program are being followed. 
Equity investments in developed countries of continental 
Western Europe will not, while the new provisions remain in effect, be 
approved by the Board, unless circumstances clcarly demonstrate that 
the transaction will not be detrimental to the United States balance of 
payments. 
All equity investments abroad by banks or Edge or Agreement 
corporations will, of course, continue to be considered as an extension 
of credit to foreigners for purposes of the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Program. 
A copy of the amendment to Regulation K as it was forwarded 
for publication in the Federal Register is attached. 
-0-
Attachment. 

t*-*8 
O 
old 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 2 
2/7/68 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 211 - CORPORATIONS ENGAGED IN FOREIGN BANKING 
AND FINANCING UNDER THE FEDERAL RESERVE ACT. 
Foreign Equity Investments 
1. Effective immediately, § 211.8 is amended to read as follows: 
5 2 1 1- 8 
Investments in shares of other corporations. 
Specific consent. Prior specific consent of the Board is 
required with respect to the acquisition of any shares by a Corporation, 
except as provided in the ninth paragraph of section 25(a) of the Act 
(relating to purchases of stock to prevent loss on debts previously con-
tracted). 
(b) Conditions. 
(1) Shares of stock in a corporation shall be 
disposed of as promptly as practicable if (i) such corporation should engage 
in the business of underwriting, selling, or distributing securities in 
the United States or (ii) the Corporation is advised by the Board that their 
holding is inappropriate under section 25(a) of the Act or this part. 
(2) In computing the amount which may be invested in the shares 
of any corporation under section 25(a) of the Act, there shall be included 
any s u ch investments in other corporations controlled by such corporation. 
Unless otherwise specified, "shares" in this section include any rights 
to acquire shares, except that prior Board consent is not required for the 
acquisition and exercise of stock rights in lieu of dividends which are 

declared on shares already held by a Corporation and which do not result 
in an increase in percentage ownership of the corporation. 
(c) Reports. A Corporation shall inform the Board through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of its district within thirty days after the close of 
each quarter with respect to any acquisition or disposition of shares 
during that quarter, including the following information concerning any 
corporation whose shares it acquired for the first time (unless previously 
furnished): 
(1) Recent balance sheet and income statement, (2) brief 
descriptions of the corporation's business (including full information 
concerning any such business transacted in the United States), the shares 
acquired, and any related credit transaction, (3) lists of directors and 
principal officers (with address and principal business affiliation of 
each) and of all shareholders (known to the issuing corporation) holding 
10 per cent or more of any class of the corporation's shares (and the 
amount held by each), and (4) information concerning the rights and 
Privileges of the various classes of shares outstanding. 
*
*
*
*
* 
2a. This amendment is issued pursuant to the authority granted 
to the Board of Governors by section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
(12 U.S.C. 615) to prescribe rules and regulations governing equity invest 
ments by corporations chartered under the provisions of such section. The 
change is to require such a corporation to obtain the Board's specific 
approval before making any equity investment in a foreign business. 
Formerly, certain investments could be made without specific approval by 
the Board. 

b. There was no notice and public participation with respect 
to this amendment, nor is the effective date deferred. 
In view of the 
purposes of Presidential Executive Order 11387 of January 1, 1968, 
"Governing Certain Capital Transfers Abroad", the Board found that such 
actions would result in delays that would be contrary to the public interest. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 7th day of February 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
I
t
e
m 
N
o - 
3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2 / 7 / 6 8 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE HOARD 
February 8, 1968 
Mr. James A. Conlon, Director, 
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, 
U. S. Treasury Department, 
Washington, D. C. 20226. 
Dear Mr. Conlon: 
Reference is made to your letter of January 19, 1968, 
concerning the proposal to exchange specimen copies of paper 
currency with friendly nations. 
It is noted that the specimens would be like those 
prepared for regular use of the United States Secret Service, 
which are printed on distinctive paper, specially numbered, and 
overprinted on both sides as "Specimen," and that the proposal 
has been approved by the Deputy Treasurer of the United States 
and by the Director of the United States Secret Service. 
The Board of Governors has no objection to the inclusion 
of*specimens of Federal Reserve notes with the specimens of other 
United States currency in reciprocal exchanges proposed between 
the United States Treasury and friendly foreign nations. It is 
understood that the proposal involves the furnishing of a specimen 
of each denomination of currency that is being currently produced 
and that all such specimens distributed would be recorded in the 
accountability structure of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing. 
Submission to the Board of Governors of regular reports 
of distribution of the specimens as suggested in your letter will 
not be necessary. However, the Board may find it desirable to 
request such reports from time to time as they may be needed. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

• i'W t 
T E L E G R A M 
Item No. 4 
LEASED WIRE SERVICE 
r^ 
j - j j 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
February 7, 1968 
Swan - San Francisco 
Board will interpose no objection to your acquisition of property 
adjoining Los Angeles building site, as described in your letter 
of January 24, 1968, and authorizes its purchase at a price of 
$115,000. 
(Signed) Robert G. Holland 
HOLLAND 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 5 
2/7/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
f^Htsf: 
February 7, 1968 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. G. 20503 
This is in response to Mr. Frey's memorandum of February 5, 
1968, requesting the Board's views regarding a draft bill that would 
make permanent the provisions of the Act of September 21, 1966. That 
Act, among other things, temporarily (1) gave the Board of Governors 
more flexible authority to regulate interest rates paid on deposits 
by member banks of the Federal Reserve System and the reserve require-
ments applicable to member banks, and (2) authorized the Federal Reserve 
Banks to conduct open market operations in obligations of agencies of 
the United States. The Act gave similar temporary flexible authority 
to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation with respect to regulation 
of interest rates paid on deposits in insured non-member banks and to 
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board with respect to rates of interest or 
dividends paid by members of the Home Loan Bank System. 
The Board strongly favors the enactment of the proposed 
legislation. However, the Board recommends that two changes be in-
corporated in the draft bill. 
First, the flexible authority of the Board of Governors and 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation under the proposed legis-
lation to prescribe different maximum rates of interest, or to refrain 
from prescribing any maximum rate, for different classes of deposits, 
makes unnecessary the present statutory exemption of certain foreign 
official time deposits from interest rate limitations. Accordingly, 
it is recommended that the temporary statutory exemptions now contained 
in the last sentence of section 19(j) of the Federal Reserve Act and 
the last sentence of section 1828(g) of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Act be repealed. 
Attention: Mr. Jefferson Burrus 
Dear Mr. Rommel 

Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
-2-
Secorid, the Board recommends that the first sentence of 
the eighth paragraph of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act, which 
authorizes Federal Reserve Banks to make advances to member banks on 
the security of "such notes, drafts, bills of exchange, or bankers1 
acceptances as are eligible for rediscount or for purchase by Federal 
reserve banks under the provisions" of the Federal Reserve Act, be 
amended to make clear that such advances may be secured by any obliga-
tions eligible for rediscount or for purchase by the Reserve Banks 
under the Federal Reserve Act, including direct obligations of, or 
obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, any 
agency of the United States, which the Act of September 21, 1966, 
authorized the Federal Reserve Banks to buy and sell in the open mar-
ket. As a matter of policy, the Board believes that any obligations 
that are eligible for purchase by the Reserve Banks should likewise 
be eligible as collateral for advances by such Banks to their member 
banks. 
Enclosed is a suggested draft of a revision of the proposed 
legislation that would implement these recommendations. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Enclosure 
Robert G. Holland, 
Secretary. 

«rr*>fr 
D R A F T 
AN ACT 
To make permanent the authority for more flexible 
regulation of maximum rates of interest or dividends, 
reserve requirements, open market operations in agency 
issues, and for other purposes. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That section 7 
of the Act of September 21, 1966 (80 Stat. 823), as amended by the 
Act of September 21, 1967 (81 Stat. 226), is hereby repealed. 
SEC. 2. (a) Section 19(j) of the Federal Reserve Act 
(12 U.S.C. 371b) is amended by striking the last sentence thereof. 
« ;' > 
1 ' 5. 
r. 
• 
>;
; « 
(b) Section 18(g) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1828(g)) is amended by striking the last sentence thereof. 
SEC. 3. The first sentence of the eighth paragraph of 
section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 347), 
is amended by changing the words "such notes, drafts, bills of ex-
change, or bankers1 acceptances" to read "such obligations". 

\ j f i ~ o 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 6 
2/7/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 7, 1968 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request of February 6, 1968, 
for the Board's views on a Department of Housing and Urban Develop 
ment draft of legislation entitled "New Communities Act of 1968". 
proposal is to encourage the development of certain new communities 
by facilitating the enlistment of private capital in their develop-
ment. Such a proposal would not affect the performance by the Board 
of its responsibilities, and, accordingly, the Board has no comments 
to offer for your consideration with respect to the draft legislation. 
The Board understands that the major purpose of this 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 7 
2/7/68 
S H E R M A N J. M A I 5 E L 
M E M B E R 
OF 
T H E 
B O A R O 
February 16, 1968. 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents, 
Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
Dear Eliot: 
In the past year, the problem of salary ranges for officers 
at the Federal Reserve Banks was raised in discussions between indi-
vidual presidents and the Board's Committee on Organization, Compensa-
tion, and Building Plans. In addition, it has been discussed by the 
Conference of Chairmen and was the subject of the Leonard survey of 
comparable community salaries. 
There seems to be general agreement that a more complete anal-
ysis of this problem would be useful at this time, looking forward to 
changes in these structures to be agreed upon and implemented for the 
year starting January 1, 1969. 
As a background for possible policy recommendations, the Com-
mittee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans believes it 
would be helpful and desirable if the individual members of the Confer-
ence of Presidents consider matters related to this problem with their 
chairmen and boards of directors. The Presidents' Conference might also 
want to consider whether it would be helpful to have a general exchange 
of views on certain essentially similar problems. 
Some of the specific questions which have arisen include: 
1. 
In the light of the Leonard survey and other available informa-
tion, what salary ranges appear logical for each Federal Re-
serve Bank? 
•mamj 
'.ffee^V 
BOARD • F GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5Y5TEM 
WAS HIN GTD N 
2. 
What should the relationship be between the level of community 
salaries and those of the Federal Reserve Banks? 

Mr. Eliot J. Swan 
- 2 -
5 2 S 
February 16, 1968 
2. a. Are there levels where some compaction is necessary 
because of the public basis of the Federal Reserve? 
b. If the public basis has implications for the payments 
to presidents and vice presidents, how far down should 
such compaction exist? 
c. Should the salary structure attempt to move from the 
community scale to one fixed by the salaries of the 
president and first vice president in a regular manner? 
3. Should there be any necessary relationship between function and 
number and rank of officials? 
a. If so, should there be any relationship of number and 
rank of officers to size of Federal Reserve Bank? 
b. Is some uniformity of titles in the System desirable? 
c. How many official positions are desirable or appropri-
ate? Is there some criteria that could be used to 
determine number? 
4. Below the level of president and first vice president 
a. How many strata should there be? 
b. Should a senior vice president strata be included? 
If so, what should its size and function be? 
5. Officer training: 
a. Rotation policy. 
b. Regularly available officer opportunities for younger 
staff, 
6. Professional-type officers such as: economists; examiners; 
lawyers; and other. 
a. Should there be a special title, unique treatment with 
respect to supervisory functions, salary advancement? 

, -Vv' 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan 
-3- 
February 16, 1968 
The Committee expects to be taking steps to implement the 
Leonard survey in ample time to accommodate forward planning on your 1969 
salary recommendations. We would like a reaction from the Conference on 
the practicability of some prior discussion of the range of issues raised 
above in order to give us and the Board a better perspective and under-
standing to consider structural changes we expect will be placed before 
the Board in any event. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Sherman J. Maisel 
Sherman J. Maisel, 
for the 
Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans. 

o o u 
'•f^RE^. 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
2/7/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 25, 1968 
First Pennsylvania Overseas Finance Corporation, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of December 1, 1967, 
requesting the Board's consent to an amendment of the Articles of 
Association of your Corporation to increase the capital stock to 
$3,750,000, consisting of 375,000 shares with a par value of 
$10.00 each. The Board of Governors approves the amendment to 
Article SEVENTH of your Articles of Association. Please advise 
the Board of Governors when the capital increase has been effected. 
It is noted that your present capital structure will be 
increased by the sale of 100,000 additional shares to The First 
Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company for $1,000,000. 
As requested in your letter, the Board of Governors also 
grants consent for First Pennsylvania Overseas Finance Corporation 
to purchase and hold an additional 102,041 shares of First 
Pennsylvania Overseas Development Company, Ltd., Nassau, Bahamas, 
at a cost of approximately US$1,000,000, provided such shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. In this 
connection, the Board also approves the purchase and holding of 
such shares in excess of 50 per cent of your Corporation's capital 
and surplus. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will not increase the total 
of the foreign loans and investments of your Corporation and The 
First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, and that due 

First Pennsylvania Overseas 
Finance Corporation 
-2-
consideration is being given to the ceilings and the priorities in 
the guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint 
effort now in effect. It should be noted in this connection that 
if the foreign assets transferred to the First Pennsylvania Overseas 
Development Company, Ltd. take the form of term credits to any 
developed countries of continental Western Europe, the combined 
ceiling of your Corporation and its parent bank under those guide-
lines should be reduced by the amount of any amortizations that 
would have been received on such credits if they had continued to 
be held by you or your parent bank until maturity; such reductions 
in the ceiling would occur pari passu with the scheduled maturities. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
2/7/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 8, 1968 
Mr. Leland M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of February 2, 1968, the Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the appointment of Paul E. Gipson as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. Please advise the 
effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
