Minutes for 
October 30, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed tr> include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

3813 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, October 30, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Dahl, Egertson, and Lyon, Assistant 
Directors, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Heller and Messrs. Doyle, Heyde, Lynch, and 
Noble of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Gemmill and Grimwood of the Division of 
International Finance 
Messrs. Goodfellow and Ponczka of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 

3814 
10/30/68 
-2-
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been 
made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the item 
numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Continental Illinois National Bank 
1 
and Trust Company of Chicago, Chicago, 
Illinois, granting permission to establish a 
branch in Amsterdam, The Netherlands. 
Letter to United California Bank International, 
2 
New York, New York, granting consent to purchase 
additional shares of Commercial Credit Bank, 
Athens, Greece. 
Letter to First National City Bank, New York, 
3 
New York, granting consent to purchase shares 
of First National City Bank (Channel Islands) 
Limited, a commercial bank to be formed in the 
State of Jersey, Channel Islands, United Kingdom. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller 
of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North 
Carolina, into Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, N. A., also of Winston-
Salem, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. 
The conclusion stated that consummation of the proposed merger would 
have no adverse competitive effects. 
Application of Colonial Bank and Trust Company (Items 4 and 5). 
There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on October 22, 1968, of the application of The 

3815 
10/30/68 
-3-
Colonial Bank and Trust Company, Waterbury, Connecticut, to merge 
Litchfield County National Bank, New Milford, Connecticut. 
After a discussion during which there was agreement with a 
suggestion by Governor Maisel for a change in the statement, the 
issuance of the documents was authorized. Copies of the documents, 
in the form in which they were issued, are attached as Items 4 and 5. 
Application of First Virginia Bankshares Corporation (Items 
6 and 7• There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement 
reflecting the Board's approval on October 9, 1968, of the application 
of First Virginia Bankshares Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, to 
acquire 51 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Planters Bank 
of Bridgewater, Bridgewater, Virginia. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
of the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are attached 
as Items 6 and 7. 
Application of American Bankshares Corporation (Items 8-10). 
There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on September 26, 1968, of the application of 
American Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to become a 
bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
of the voting shares of Hampton State Bank, also of Milwaukee. 
(Applicant presently owned a majority of the shares of American City 
Bank & Trust Company, Milwaukee.) 

3816 
10/30/68 
-4-
The issuance of the documents was authorized. Copies of the 
documents, in the form in which they were issued, are attached as 
Items 8 and 9. It had been understood at the meeting on September 26 
that the applicant would be notified that the Board would not view with 
favor any proposal for further expansion of the holding company system 
while the applicant was carrying a heavy debt position. A letter to 
the applicant in the form attached as Item No. 10 was sent pursuant to 
that understanding. 
Citizens and Southern Community Development Corporation. The 
Board had discussed previously, most recently on October 17, 1968, 
the acquisition by The Citizens and Southern National Bank of Georgia, 
Savannah, Georgia, a registered bank holding company, of the stock of 
Citizens and Southern Community Development Corporation, a new corpo-
ration organized to engage in the second mortgage loan business, real 
estate development, and other activities in connection with urban 
rehabilitation. 
In July 1968, Citizens and Southern National Bank requested 
the Board to rule that its investment (of $1 million) in and activi-
ties in connection with the development corporation were permissible 
under various statutes, including the Bank Holding Company Act. 
That 
Act prohibits bank holding companies from acquiring direct or indirect 
ownership or control of any voting stock of a nonbanking company, with 
certain exceptions. Section 5136 of the Revised Statutes prohibits, 

3817 
10/30/68 
-5-
also with exceptions, purchases of corporate stock by national banks, 
but also authorizes the exercise of "such incidental powers as shall 
be necessary to carry on the business of banking." 
In a memorandum of October 1 the Legal Division (Mr. Hexter 
and Mrs. Heller) expressed the view that the exemptions in sec-
tions 4(c)(1)(C) and 4(c)(5) of the Bank Holding Company Act did not 
appear to be applicable to the acquisition in question, but that the 
exemption in section 4(c)(8) might be available. 
(The availability 
of the latter exemption would have to be determined on the basis of 
a hearing.) 
Pursuant to request during the October 17 discussion, there 
had subsequently been distributed a revised draft, prepared by Mr. 
O'Connell, of the previously submitted draft letter reflecting gener-
ally the position taken by the Legal Division. There had also been 
distributed a memorandum dated October 23 from Mr. Shay. 
In essence, Mr. Shay's memorandum suggested that a favorable 
finding under section 4(c)(5), relating to shares of the kinds and 
amounts eligible for investment by national banks under section 5136 
of the Revised Statutes, might rest upon the following considerations: 
j, ... • ' i .. 
(a) The intended equality of treatment of national banks 
and State member banks evident from the incorporation 
by Congress into section 4(c)(5) of the standard appli-
cable to national banks under section 5136 of the 
Revised Statutes; 
(b) The fact that the Comptroller of the Currency had per-
mitted such an undertaking for national banks within 
the limitations of his Interpretation 7480 (which allows 

3818 
-6-
contributions by national banks, not in excess of 2 per 
cent of the bank's capital and surplus, to local agen-
cies and groups for community development); 
The "incidental powers" authority in section 5136 and, 
possibly, the principle of the "charitable contribution" 
authority in the eighth paragraph of that section; and 
Even aside from recourse to the point in (b), the 
Citizens and Southern transaction would not constitute 
a "purchase" for the purpose of section 5136 and, there-
fore, in view particularly of the "incidental powers" 
provision of that section, would be an eligible trans-
action within the section 4(c)(5) exception. 
While Mr. Shay considered court challenge of such a position 
unlikely, he was inclined to believe that the position would be sus-
tained if challenged. His memorandum noted that the basic philosophy 
of equal treatment was in accord with the approach the Board had taken 
I 
in its August 1968 interpretation regarding operations subsidiaries. 
To the extent that the Board had previously taken a view contrary to 
the Comptroller's relative to permissible stock purchases, there no 
longer existed as to activities of the kinds covered by the August 
interpretation any substantial inequality between what a national 
bank not a member of a holding company group might do and what a 
member bank that was a member of a holding company group, or a hold-
ing company itself, might do. 
Mr. Hexter commented on the linking of the rationale set forth 
by Mr. Shay to the basic approach of the Board's ruling regarding 
operations subsidiaries and said he did not believe it was within the 
powers of a national bank, either in its own corporate capacity or 
10/30/68 
(c) 
(d) 

3813 
10/30/68 
-7-
through a subsidiary, to engage in activities such as proposed for 
Citizens and Southern Community Development Corporation, including 
the purchase of land and construction and sale of buildings thereon. 
However, if the Board came to the conclusion that such activities were 
within the authority of national banks, then under the August interpre-
tation it was also permissible for a national bank to conduct such 
activities through a subsidiary. 
The other main theme of the suggested rationale, Mr. Hexter 
continued, was that the Comptroller had issued an interpretation under 
which the activities here proposed would be permitted, and that in the 
interest of equal treatment the Board would be justified in following 
the Comptroller's view. However, in regard to certain other matters 
the Board had been unwilling to adopt for State member banks the posi-
tion the Comptroller had taken with respect to national banks. If 
the Board felt, either in general or in this particular case, that the 
principle of following the Comptroller's interpretations was justified, 
then the Board could tell Citizens and Southern that the proposed activ-
ities were permissible for a bank holding company. However, in his 
judgment and that of other members of the Legal Division, sec-
tion 4(c)(5) could not properly be considered applicable to the situa-
tion, although the proposed activities might be permissible under 
section 4(c)(8). 
Mr. O'Connell commented on the changes that had been made in 
the draft letter to avoid definitely foreclosing access to the exemption 

10/30/68 
-8-
in section 4(c)(5). In its present form, the letter would not preclude 
following the reasoning that, if the proposed activities of the devel-
opment corporation were within the powers of the national bank, they 
could also be exercised through a wholly-owned subsidiary, or that the 
principle of equality of treatment of national banks and State member 
banks would justify following the position the Comptroller had taken. 
However, either of those courses would represent an exercise of the 
Board's judgment, and in the judgment of the Legal Division the exemp-
tion in section 4(c)(5) was not available. Although as a practical 
operating matter it would be expedient to follow the Comptroller's 
ruling, he did not consider that course consistent with the Board's 
responsibility under the statute. This did not mean, however, that 
in the independent exercise of its responsibilities under the Bank 
Holding Company Act the Board could not arrive at a position like 
that of the Comptroller. 
Mr. Shay remarked that if his memorandum had seemed to advocate 
slavish adherence to the Comptroller's position, he had not so intended. 
However, when one agency took a position, there should be a fair pre-
sumption that it was well reasoned. The alternatives suggested in his 
memorandum departed from a very literal reading of the statute, but 
he believed they were within the realm of exercise of discretion. 
Mr. Solomon said that after weighing the pros and cons he 
found himself in agreement with the views Mr. Shay had expressed. He 

10/30/68 
-9-
thought it was important to consider the relationship between the view 
expressed by one agency and the responsibility of another agency with 
respect to a similar statute. If the Comptroller took a position, it 
was reasonable to presume that position to be correct; the burden of 
proof should be on the other agency. Moreover, he thought the pre-
sumption in favor of the Comptroller's position was supportable. 
There was always a question as to how literally a statute should be 
read, and an agency had a responsibility to look not only at the words 
of a statute but also at the underlying purpose. 
Mr. Solomon noted, as had Mr. Shay, that the word "purchase" 
had been construed by courts to mean different things in different 
circumstances. It seemed to him that here it was possible to say that 
the acquisition of stock of the development corporation was not a 
"purchase" because it did not fall within the purpose of the statutory 
prohibition against purchase of corporate stock. The purpose of 
Citizens and Southern was to set up an organization to assist in com-
munity development, and it so happened that a piece of paper called 
stock came back to the bank. 
Mr. Hackley said he felt strongly that the Board had its own 
responsibility for interpretation of the Bank Holding Company Act and 
should not slavishly follow a Comptroller's ruling. However, it was 
a fact that section 4(c)(5) exempted shares eligible for investment 
by a national bank, and the supervisor of national banks had said that 

'X&l*?*? 
10/30/68 
-10-
the shares here in question were eligible. Unless a court overturned 
that ruling, Mr. Hackley thought it was reasonable to presume that 
the ruling was correct. He noted also that even if the Board held a 
hearing under section 4(c)(8) and concluded that the activities of the 
development corporation, perhaps after modification or curtailment, 
would fall within the scope of that section, the Board might still be 
faced with a question whether the transaction would violate section 5136. 
Chairman Martin commented that at the last discussion the alter-
natives had not been as fully developed as they now were. As a non-
lawyer, he could make a case for approving the proposed transaction 
under section 4(c)(5). The proposal should be looked at in terms of 
the public interest, and he thought everyone was in favor of the objec-
tive of aiding community rehabilitation. If there was no doubt on 
legal grounds, there would be no question which way to go. But in 
view of doubt within the legal staff, he believed the decision should 
be made basically in terms of the public interest. 
Governor Daane inquired whether the staff believed a legal 
challenge was likely if the Board held section 4(c)(5) to be applicable, 
and Mr. Hexter responded that the likelihood of a challenge seemed 
remote. However, the majority of the Board's legal advisers held the 
view that a section 4(c)(5) approval would be a departure from the law. 
The courts, he noted, had held that the Board had a duty independent 
from, though coordinate with, the Comptroller in interpreting the law. 

3823 
10/30/68 
-11-
Mr. O'Cormell then commented on a meeting that had been held 
with representatives of Citizens and Southern, during which the latter 
had appeared unwilling to commit themselves that if the scope of activ-
ities initially assigned to the development corporation were permitted 
there would be no effort to expand them. Mr. O'Connell was somewhat 
concerned that if the Board approved the present proposal it might be 
difficult to draw a line. 
Governor Mitchell note'd that apparently there would be no 
objection to participation by Citizens and Southern through contribu-
tion to a community development organization established by a number 
of local banks. The fact that it was the only organizer set this 
case apart, not only in terms of a literal reading of the law but also 
its spirit. 
Governor Maisel remarked that the line of reasoning suggested 
by Mr. Shay had been advanced in the past and he had thought it proper: 
on points regarding which the Comptroller had ruled, the Board should 
be very cautious about taking a contrary position. If the Board took 
the negative view in this case, many national banks owned by holding 
companies would in effect have been given divergent rulings by the 
Board and the Comptroller. He believed that as a matter of principle 
such a situation should be avoided. Simply as a matter of good 
regulatory procedure, the Board ought to give presumption to the 
validity of a ruling by the Comptroller in the absence of strong rea-
sons. 

3824 
10/30/68 
-12-
On the question of the significance of the stock certificate 
received by the bank in this case, Mr. Hexter expressed the view that 
if a proposal represented a genuine contribution to a nonprofit organi-
zation for the public good, the Board probably could disregard the 
fact that a stock certificate entered into the transaction. 
Here, 
however, questions were raised regarding a possible profit motive in 
a venture undertaken exclusively by one bank. 
Governor Brimmer noted' that the question of appropriate ways 
for banks to participate in urban renewal was being raised in a number 
of cities. He suggested that a hearing be held at an early date 
regarding the proposal by Citizens and Southern, and that such hearing 
be used as a vehicle for exploring the more general question of the 
avenues open for bank participation. 
In further discussion Chairman Martin again observed that he 
had originally favored pursuing the matter under section 4(c)(5) but 
had deferred to the Legal Division. Now it was clearer to him that 
a decision should be made under that section. He thought the Board 
should give weight to the position taken by the Comptroller. 
Although 
there was a risk that approval under section 4(c)(5) might lead to 
requests for expansion of activities with a consequent problem of 
where to draw the line, he thought the Board should avoid seeming to 
challenge another agency unless it was absolutely certain as to what 
the law required. 

o r~)* > r 
10/30/68 
-13-
Governor Brimmer inquired whether a hearing under section 4(c)(8) 
would confine the Board to a decision under that section, and Mr. Hexter 
responded that it should be possible at such a hearing to include views 
on the interpretation of other provisions of the law. 
Governor Robertson observed that although everyone would like to 
facilitate urban rehabilitation, the avenues should be opened in such 
a way as not to create problems greater than the benefits. He saw 
merit in the idea that a hearing might be held without reference to 
any section of law, with general participation, followed promptly by 
a hearing under section 4(c)(8) regarding the Citizens and Southern 
proposal. 
Governor Maisel reiterated his distaste for conflicting regu-
lations. Where the Comptroller had a responsibility, the Board should 
respect his decisions unless he was clearly in error. This, of course, 
was different from saying that the Board should automatically follow 
the Comptroller. 
Governor Daane expressed a preference for pursuing the route 
of section 4(c)(5), not on the basis of endorsing the Comptroller's 
ruling per se, but of the Board's exercising judgment in its own 
right. He could see some disadvantage in holding a hearing and then 
coming back to section 4(c)(5) after all. 
Governor Sherrill said he also favored investigating further 
the applicability of section 4(c)(5). He was somewhat confused as to 

vi.C^U 
10/30/68 
-14-
the extent to which the Board, in making decisions, should consider 
itself bound by the opinion of its Legal Division. When there was a 
division of views within the research staff, for example, the Board 
was left free to exercise a judgment among alternatives. When legal 
opinions were involved, however, it was not clear whether the Board 
was as free to choose a minority opinion as a proper exercise of its 
decision-making process. 
There ensued a discussion during which it was suggested that 
legal questions were usually less closely related to policy-making 
than economic questions and that principals normally should presume 
the validity of a staff legal opinion on matters of interpretation 
of the law. However, several members of the Board commented in terms 
that the responsibility for decision-making at policy level could not 
be disregarded, especially when there were divergent opinions within 
the staff. 
Governor Brimmer emphasized that many parties, including banks, 
were looking for guidance in their efforts to help solve the urban 
crisis. If the plan devised by Citizens and Southern was held not to 
be legally permissible, other banks might become more reluctant to 
participate in efforts in their own communities. Yet there might be 
alternative routes that would be acceptable. Therefore he reiterated 
his suggestion that a hearing be held promptly to explore the general 
question. 

10/30/68 
-15-
Chairman Martin agreed that it would be desirable to obtain 
information. On the other hand, despite the evident merit of commu-
nity rehabilitation efforts, he doubted that it would be appropriate 
for the Board to set out to prescribe in what different ways the objec-
tive could best be reached. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that if it could be shown 
that a development corporation was one in which the community was 
involved there should be no particular problem in bank participation. 
However, when such a corporation was the exclusive interest of one 
bank, and when the corporation possessed broad powers, he thought 
questions of policy as well as law were involved. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
further consideration would be given to the matter an an early date. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

O f") o o 
u u w O 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R 5 
Item No. 1 
• F T H E 
1 0 / 3 0 / 6 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
§1 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
.^OfGOj^'. 
'•f^LRE^V 
» 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R D 
October 30, 1968. 
Continental Illinois National Bank. 
and Trust Company of Chicago, 
231 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Com-
pany of Chicago, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Fed-
eral Res erve Act, to establish a branch in Amsterdam, The Netherlands, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of 
such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before November 1, 1969, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
vances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations, maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that any investment required will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as 
they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
bank, Continental Bank International and Continental International 
Finance Corporation, and that due consideration is being given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
10/30/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 30, 1968. 
United California Bank 
International, 
140 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
August 15, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corpora-
tion to purchase and hold an additional 4,000 shares of the common 
stock of the Commercial Credit Bank, Athens, Greece, at a cost of ap-
proximately $226,800, provided the shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as 
they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
Corporation and United California Bank, and that due consideration is 
being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

i v 
of^ow/.. 
^LRt^V 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
10/30/68 
A D D R E S S 
n r F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 30, 1968. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 14, 1968, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act and Regulation M , for First National City Bank 
("FNCB") to purchase and hold all of the shares of First National 
City Bank (Channel Islands) Limited ("CIL"), a commercial bank to 
be formed in the State of Jersey, Channel Islands, United Kingdom, 
at a cost of approximately $1,200,000, provided such shares are ac-
quired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of CIL by FNCB is granted subject to the condition that 
FNCB shall not hold any shares of stock of CIL if CIL at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible to a national 
bank or to a foreign branch of a national bank under the provisions 
of Regulation M. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the guide-
lines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activi-
ties of FNCB, International Banking Corporation, First National City 
Overseas Investment Corporation, and First National City Bank (Inter-
national), and that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 20 
10/30/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C* 
In the Matter of the Application of
 1 
THE COLONIAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY ' 
for approval of merger with 
Litchfield County National Bank
 
1 
i 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF B^NKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U,S.C. 1828(c)), an application by The Colonial 
Bank and Trust Company, Waterbury, Connecticut, a State member bank of 
the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the 
. 
v! 
merger into that bank of Litchfield County National Bank, New Milford, 
Connecticut, under the charter and title of The Colonial Bank and 
Trust Company. As an incident to the merger, the six offices of 
Litchfield County National Bank would become branches of the resulting 
bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, 
has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 

3832 
-2-
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed merger, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 30th day of Octcber, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Robertson. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
_—__——————— 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

3 8 - 3 3 
Item No. 22 
10/30/68 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY THE COLONIAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
LITCHFIELD COUNTY NATIONAL BANK 
STATEMENT 
• 
. 
' 
The Colonial Bank and Trust Company, Waterbury, Connecticut 
("Colonial"), with total deposits of $165 million, has applied 
Pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's 
Prior approval of the merger of that bank with Litchfield County 
National Bank, New Milford, Connecticut ("Litchfield Bank"), which 
y 
has total deposits of $20 million. 
The banks would merge under the 
charter and name of Colonial, which is a member of the Federal Reserve 
System. As an incident to the merger, the six offices of Litchfield 
' 
• v 
v. y 
. ^ •ejsft • ^..-i. 
" 
, 
Bank would become branches of Colonial, increasing the number of its 
2/ 
offices to 22. 
petition. - Colonial operates 16 offices in Waterbury, 
^hich has a population of about 108,000, and surrounding communities. 
Waterbury is located in the northern part of New Haven County, a 
heavily industrialized area. Litchfield Bank maintains its head office 
and two branches in New Milford (population 11,600), which is located. 
1/ Figures are as of December 30, 1967. 
y , Colonial has received approval for the establishment of three 
^ranches that have not yet been opened. 

3834 
-2-
28 miles west of Waterbury. Litchfield Bank also maintains three 
branches in communities surrounding New MJilford, an area consisting 
mainly of small farms and woodland. 
Litchfield Bank operates the only commercial banking offices 
in the communities in which its offices are located. Competition for 
some or all of those offices is provided by four banks, ranging in 
deposit size from $4 to $53 million, and two of the larger banks in 
the State with headquarters at Bridgeport. In addition, banks located 
in Danbury, 15 miles south of New Milford, compete in varying degrees 
for the deposits of New Milford area residents employed in Danbury. 
It appears unlikely that the merger would have significant conse-
quences for any of the competing banks. 
The closest offices of Colonial and Litchfield Bank are 
approximately 11 miles apart over an indirect route. East-west travel 
on the roads connecting the separate areas of Colonial and Litchfield 
Bank is time-consuming and difficult. Very few residents of the New 
Milford area are employed in Waterbury, but a substantial number are 
employed in Danbury. The two banks derive only a small number of 
deposit and loan accounts from one another's service area. 
Accordingly, little existing competition between Colonial 
and Litchfield Bank would be eliminated by consummation of the merger. 
Connecticut law permits State-wide branching with the exception that 
branches of commercial banks may not be established in communities in 

which the home office of another commercial bank is located. Thus, it 
is legally permissible for Colonial to establish branches in the area 
served by Litchfield Bank. However, the communities in that area, 
aside from New Milford, have small populations with no sizable growth 
anticipated in the foreseeable future. The removal of home office 
protection from New Milford, therefore, appears likely to increase 
competition in that area; two large banks have applied for permission 
to establish branches in New Milford contingent upon approval of this 
merger. 
Although no commercial bank other than Litchfield Bank has 
offices in New Milford, the New Milford Savings Bank (deposits of 
$48 million) operates offices there and maintains its home office on 
the same premises as Litchfield Bank. Two trustees of the Savings 
Bank, a mutual savings bank, are directors of Litchfield Bank, in 
which the Savings Bank holds a minority stock interest. 
Consummation 
of the merger should increase the intensity of competition between 
the successor of Litchfield Bank and the Savings Bank for time 
deposits and mortgage loans. 
The net effect of the merger on competitipn would be 
favorable. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors with respect to each of the banks are reasonably 
satisfactory, as they would be with respect to the resulting bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - The merger would 
affect banking convenience and needs only in the area presently served 

-4-
by Litchfield Bank. Residents of two of the four communities served 
by Litchfield Bank do not have convenient access to a full range of 
banking services. The merger would bring to those residents expanded 
trust services, an increased lending limit, and a wider variety of 
credit and deposit instruments. In addition, through the removal of 
home office protection in New Milford, residents there will eventually 
have convenient access to the services of more than one commercial bank. 
Summary and conclusion: - The proposed transaction would 
have a favorable overall effect on banking competition and would 
benefit the banking convenience and needs of the area presently served 
by Litchfield Bank. 
Accordingly, the application is approved. 
October 30, 1963. 

3837 
UNITED STATES 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF 
WASHINGTON, 
Item No. 10 
10/30/68 
OF AMERICA 
THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
D„ C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
i 
FIRST VIRGINIA BANKSHARES CORPORATION,
 
1 
Arlington, Virginia, 
' 
t 
for approval of acquisition of 51 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of
 
1 
The Planters Bank of Bridgewater,
 
1 
Bridgewater, Virginia,
 
1 
t 
„ _ _ 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Virginia Bankshares 
Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 51 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of The Planters Bank of Bridgewater, 
Bridgewater, Virginia. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Virginia Commissioner of Banking of receipt of the application 

3338 
-2-
and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner offered 
no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 27, 1968 (33 Federal Register 10768), provid-
ing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application was forwarded 
to the Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing 
comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
0 r
 (b) later than three months after the date of this Order unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 30th day of October, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

3839 
Item No. 7 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
10/30/68 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY FIRST VIRGINIA BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE PLANTERS BANK OF BRIDGEWATER 
STATEMENT 
First Virginia Barikshares Corporation, Arlington, Virginia 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.SoC. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of 51 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Planters 
Bank of Bridgewater, Bridgewater, Virginia ("Bank"). Applicant pres-
ently controls 14 banks which hold total deposits of $379 million."^ 
Bank has total deposits of $8.1 million. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Virginia 
Commissioner of Banking of receipt of the application and requested 
his views and recommendation thereon. The Commissioner offered no 
objection to approval of the application. 
i/ Banking data are as of December 30, 1967, unless otherwise noted. 
The total deposit figures include the deposits of Monticello National 
Bank, Charlottesville, Virginia, the acquisition of which by Applicant 
W a a
 approved by the Board on May 23, 1968, but has not yet been 
consummated. 

3840 
Statutory considerations, - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States., Nor may the Board approve any other pro-
posed acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, 
may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a 
monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the pro-
posed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the 
probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs 
of the community to be served. In each case, the Board is required to 
take into consideration the financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in Virginia, including five bank holding compa-
nies, control about 64 per cent of the total deposits held by all 
commercial banks in the State. Applicant, the fifth largest banking 
organization and the third largest bank holding company in the State, 
controls about 6.2 per cent of such deposits. Applicant's proposed 
acquisition of Bank, which holds but .1 per cent of total deposits in 
the State, would have no significant effect on State-wide concentration. 

3841 
-4-
Bank's main office is located in Bridgewater in the southern 
part of Rockingham County. Bank has one branch office at Dayton, about 
three miles northeast of Bridgewater 0 
Seven other banks operate offices 
in Rockingham County, including six offices of the first, second, and 
seventh largest banking organizations in the State, Bank is the fifth 
largest commercial bank in the County and holds about 6.4 per cent of 
total County deposits. 
Applicant's closest subsidiary to Bank is First Security Bank, 
Verona ($7.5 million deposits), located in Augusta County 15 miles south 
of Bridgewater. Two branches of Rockingham County's largest bank are 
located between Bridgewater and Verona. As a result of these factors, 
together with the fact that Bridgewater and Verona are located on 
separate north-south highways, no significant competition exists be-
tween Bank and First Security Bank. The potential for future competition 
between the two banks is likewise limited by these considerations and by 
legal restrictions which prevent either bank from branching into the 
county in which the other is located. 
The proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly or be 
in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any relevant area. Approval of the appli-
cation and consummation of the proposal would not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
the country. 

-2-
o i *r 
O O ' i f C 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is 
reasonably satisfactory, and the prospects of each appear favorable. 
Applicant's management is regarded as experienced and competent, as 
is that of its subsidiary banks, 
While Bank has experienced a modest but steady deposit growth 
during the past 10 years, its record of earnings has been poor and 
capital structure is less than satisfactory. Bank's management, while 
competent, has been reluctant to initiate programs necessary to improve 
earnings, and, as a result, Bank's future earnings prospects are regarded 
as poor. Affiliation with Applicant, on the other hand, should consider-
ably improve the financial condition and prospects of Bank. Applicant 
can also more easily supply Bank with experienced management on an 
operational level. 
The foregoing considerations under this factor support approval 
of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Consum-
mation of the proposed transaction would have no effect on customers of 
Applicant's present subsidiaries. Nor does it appear that any major 
banking service in the area served by Bank is not being provided by the 
banks located in and near that area. However, Applicant has indicated 
that it intends to make Bank a more convenient alternative source for a 
Complete line of banking services by considering the establishment of 
®ore convenient banking hours, the improvement of lending servies, and 
offering of trust services through cooperative programs with Applicant's 
other subsidiaries. 

Considerations under this factor lend additional weight toward 
approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusions - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in ' 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
October 30, 1968. 

Item No. 33 
10/30/68 
'UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C. . 
i 
v 
In the Matter of the Application of 
AMERICAN BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
' 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
' 
for 
approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the 
' 
Gcquisition of 80 per cent or more of
 
1 
the voting shares of the Hampton State 
' 
Bank, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by American Bankshares Corporation, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 
Per cent or more of the voting shares of Hampton State Bank, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin. Applicant currently owns over 99 per cent of the voting shares 
American City Bank & Trust Company,*Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(t») of the Act, the Board gave written 
n
°tice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking for 

3845 
- 2 -
the State of Wisconsin and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the Federal 
Register on June 14, 1968 (33 Federal Register 8755), providing an opportu-
nity for interested persons to submit comments and views with respect to 
the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the United States 
Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing comments and 
views has expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such time shall be 
extended by the Board, or jy the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D . C., this 30th day of October, 1968 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
• •»? •>. • 
_ ,' ,< . ,.• »'... 
..... 
.,„ 
• 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
* • 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
• J . t. , 
(SEAL) 

3846 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 9 
10/30/68 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
AMERICAN BANKSHARES CORPORATION, MILWAUKEE, 
WISCONSIN, FOR APPROVAL OF ACTION TO BECOME A 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY THROUGH THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
OF THE HAMPTON STATE BANK, MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
American Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), 
has applied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 ("the Act"), for prior approval of action to 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
m
ore of the voting shares of the Hampton State Bank, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
("Hampton Bank"), a nonmember insured bank. 
Applicant became a one-bank holding company in 1964 when it 
Squired substantially all of the shares of The City Bank & Trust Company, 
Milwaukee, which bank merged in 1965 with American State Bank, Milwaukee, result-
ing in Applicant's present ownership of over 99 per cent of the shares of 
American City Bank & Trust Company ("American Bank"), a State member bank. 
American Bank, located in the downtown business district of Milwaukee, 
°Perates a single office, which had total deposits of approximately 
$109 million at December 31, 1 9 6 7 . H a m p t o n Bank, with total deposits of 
about $9 million, operates a single office, which is located about 7-1/2 miles 
Northwest of American Bank in a section of the city described as a suburban 
A/ Banking data are of this date unless otherwise noted, and refer to 
insured commercial banks. 

- 2 -
334 
area. Applicant states that Hampton Bank is situated iti a shopping center 
at the crossroads of two of the major streets of the area, the application 
shows that officers of American Bank assisted in the formation bii Hantpton 
Bank, that the two banks have directors in common,and that 132 shareholders 
hold a majority of the shares of common stock of Applicant and also own 
close to 72 per cent of Hampton Bank's common stock. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by 
section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was given 
to the Commissioner of Banking for the State of Wisconsin, and his views 
and recommendation were requested. He recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
Monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part 
the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition the 
e f
£ect of \7hich, in any section of the country, may be substantially to 
lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other 
banner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the 
a n
ticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed 
the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In each case the 
^°ard is required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
Resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks 
c
oncerned, and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 

3818 
- 37 -
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in the State, of which six are holding companies, 
control deposits of approximately $3 billion or 39 per cent of total 
bank deposits in the State. Applicant, the fifth largest organization, 
controls 1.4 per cent of total bank deposits in the State. The acquisi-
tion of Hampton Bank's $9 million of deposits would increase Applicant's 
control of deposits to 1.5 per cent and the resulting holding company 
would become the fourth largest banking organization in Wisconsin. 
The Milwaukee Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area ("SMSA") 
includes the counties of Milwaukee, Ozaukee, Waukesha, and Washington. 
The four registered holding companies headquartered in the SMSA now control 
per cent of total deposits in that area. American Bank and Hampton Bank 
together control less than 4 per cent of the deposits in the SMSA. 
In Milwaukee County, Applicant controls 4 per cent of total 
deposits. That percentage would be increased to 4.4 per cent, if the 
Proposal herein is consummated; and Applicant would control 2 of the 62 
offices in the county. 
According to Applicant, the primary service areas£/ c f the two 
banks are contiguous (in part) but do not overlap. In its primary service 
a
*ea, Hampton Bank is the second smallest of four banks and controls 9 
Per cent of aggregate total deposits of the four banks. The smallest bank 
a member of a bank holding company system. In addition, Milwaukee's 
i/ The area from which Applicant estimates that Bank derives more than 
per cent of deposits of individuals, partnerships, and corporations 
("IPC deposits"); with respect to American Bank, it.is the area from which 
^ per cent of the bank's IPC deposits are estimated to be derived. 

3343 
- 38 -
largest bank has two branch offices in the area. In its primary service 
area, American Bank ranks fourth with 5 per cent of deposits. 
Twenty-three 
offices of 16 banks operate in this area. 
The data presented reflect that Applicant's acquisition of Hampton 
Bank would not have a significant impact upon the degree of concentration 
of banking resources in the State, the SMSA, or Milwaukee County. Consumma-
tion of the proposal would not cause the banking alternatives in the 
relevant service areas to be reduced in number nor cause an increase in the 
concentration of deposits already existing in the banking organizations 
in those areas. On the record before the Board, it is concluded that the 
Proposed affiliation would not result in a monopoly nor be in furtherance 
°f any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize 
the busineas of banking in any relevant area. 
Considering next the probable effect of consummation of Applicant's 
Proposal on existing or potential competition, the Board finds that these 
considerations present no bar to approval of the application. According 
to Applicant, Hampton Bank derives 4 per cent of its IPC deposits and 15 
P
e
r cent of its loans from the primary service area of American Bank. These 
Percentages represent an insignificant portion of the latter's business. 
Applicant shows that American Bank obtains 4 per cent of its IPC deposits 
and 4 per cent of its loans from the primary service area of Hampton Bank. 
These amounts represent 49 per cent and 48 per cent, respectively, of the 
deposits and loans of Hampton Bank. However, the significance of these 
figures is considerably lessened by the facts that (1) the banks are closely 
^filiated through interlocking directorates and stockholder interests; 

3850 
* 5 i 
(2) the mariagettieht of American Bank, which is shown to be a large downtown 
bank emphasizing commercial services, assisted in the formation of Hampton 
Bank which is described as specializing in neighborhood retail services in 
a suburban location; and (3) each of the primary service areas involved has 
a substantial number of alternative banking offices. On the record before 
the Board, it is concluded that there is no meaningful present competition 
between the two banks involved in this application; and it appears unlikely 
that any significant future competition between them would be foreclosed by 
the proposed acquisition. 
With respect to the competitive force of Applicant in relation 
to the other banks in the areas involved, the facts of record show that 
each of the banks in the proposed holding company faces strong competition 
in the areas served. As indicated earlier, American Bank competes with 
k 
• 
. , 
• 
, 
, 
,, 
22 banking offices in its primary service area. The three largest, the 
smallest of which is more than twice the size of American Bank, are the 
lead banks in three large bank holding company systems. American Bank holds 
about 5 per cent of the total deposits in the area. It appears that 
consummation of the proposal herein would not strengthen American Bank's 
competitive ability to an extent that would adversely affect other 
Milwaukee banks. An examination of the facts presented with respect to 
Hampton Bank's competitors indicates that consummation of the proposal 
herein may effect some strengthening of the competitive ability of Hampton 
Bank but is not likely to impair the competitive vigor 6f existing 
institutions serving the area, particularly in the light of the fact that 
Hampton Bank is next to the smallest of the six banking offices in its 

- 6 -
3851 
primary service area, and the smallest is a subsidiary of a holding company 
system. The evidence before the Board indicates that there is no reason-
able likelihood that the acquisition herein would preclude future com-
petition in any relevant area. 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed transaction 
would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, nor 
in any other manner restrain trade in any relevant section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant is dependent on the financial con-
dition of its subsidiary banks. Applicant has taken steps recently to 
strengthen American Bank's capital accounts and is in the process of 
carrying out a program for the reduction of Applicant's outstanding debt 
obligation and for improvement of its net worth. No new debt is to be 
created in respect to the proposal herein. 
The board of directors of American Bank is identical to Applicant's 
and the five principal officers of Applicant are all officers of American 
Bank. Management of Applicant and its present subsidiary is deemed 
satisfactory; and their prospects are reasonably favorable. 
Hampton Bank's financial resources, management, and future prospects 
appear to be fair. Inasmuch as the proposed holding company would be able 
to strengthen Hampton Bank's asset condition and management and would be able 
to supply capital to Hampton Bank, as needed, more easily than Hampton Bank 
could do without the proposed acquisition, it is concluded that the banking 
factors weigh somewhat in favor of approval of the application. 

O G O i ' w 
- 41 -
Copvenience and needs of the community involved. - Applicant 
states that no changes in the services offered by American Bank are 
expected, if the holding company is formed. However,Hampton Bank expects 
to offer several services not now provided by it, including trust services, 
data processing services for customers, bond purchases and sales, assistance 
in foreign transactions, financial counseling, safekeeping, letter of credit 
information, and bulk currency and coin handling. In addition, Applicant 
states that certain specialized management talents will be made available 
to Hampton Bank. Although no banking needs in the area appear to be unserved, 
Applicant's assistance to Hampton Bank would enable it to provide a broader 
range of services and make such services more immediately available to the 
local community so that Hampton Bank could become a stronger and more 
aggressive competitor, to the benefit of the community. While such 
assistance could probably be provided under the present affiliation between 
the banks, a more permanent association would insure the continued availability 
of the assistance described. 
The Board concludes that the evidence relating to the convenience 
and needs of the area is consistent with and weighs somewhat in favor of 
approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth 
in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application should 
be approved. 
October 30, 1968 

£ 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
oOiii-
Item No. 10 
10/30/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 30, 1968. 
AIR MAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
American Bankshares Corporation, 
740 North Plankinton Avenue,-
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
53203 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the application of American Bankshares Corporation, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, for permission to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Hampton State Bank, Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The Board's Order, 
accompanying Statement, and press release are enclosed. 
In connection with the provisions of the Board's Order 
relating to the time within which the acquisition herein approved 
is to be consummated, advice of the fact of consummation should be 
given in writing to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
In approving the application, the Board has taken into 
consideration your assurances that measures are being taken with 
respect to the improvement of the debt position of the holding 
company. In this connection, you are advised that the Board would 
not be inclined to view with favor any proposal for the further 
expansion of the holding company system until such time as said debt 
has been substantially reduced or eliminated. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Fortestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosures 
