FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
August 27, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
6k 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

2209 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, August 27, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Acting Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Irvine, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance J./ 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mrs. Hobbs, Administrative Assistant, Office of the 
Executive Director 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
The staff presented the regular weekly economic and financial 
review. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review 
and of the individual briefings have been placed in the Board's files. 
At the conclusion of the review, staff members who were present 
for that purpose left the room, and the meeting continued with limited 
staff attendance. 
JV 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

8/27/71 
-2-
Interest rate survey. As recommended in a memorandum from 
Mr. Partee dated August 26, 1971, the Board approved unanimously a 
survey designed to provide information regarding interest rates charged 
on loans by a selected group of 300 member banks before and after the 
beginning of the 90-day freeze on wages and prices announced by the 
President on August 15. It was understood that data would be requested 
for the weeks ending August 14 and August 28 and that certain changes 
would be made in the format of the questionnaire. 
In order that the Reserve Banks would be fully informed with 
respect to the details of the survey, the staff was asked to send 
complete information regarding it to the Reserve Banks today and to 
arrange a follow-up conference call with representatives of the Reserve 
Bank research departments on August 30. 
Attached as Item No. 1 is a copy of the letter from Chairman 
Burns that transmitted the questionnaire to member banks on August 30, 
1971. 
Stock market developments. Mr. Treadway of the Capital Markets 
Section reviewed recent stock market and margin credit developments as 
presented in a memorandum dated August 26, 1971. A copy of the memoran-
dum has been placed in the Board's files. 
Foreign Credit Restraint Program. At yesterday's meeting 
the Board considered a memorandum proposed to be sent to the Treasury 
Department regarding the need to reevaluate the Voluntary Foreign 

2211 
8/27/71 
-3-
Credit Restraint Program. The Board asked that the staff revise the 
memorandum in light of comments made during the discussion and draft 
a letter to accompany the memorandum. 
A revised memorandum dated August 26, 1971, and a draft letter 
to Mr. Volcker, Under Secretary of the Treasury for Monetary Affairs, 
had now been distributed. At today's meeting a draft letter proposed 
by Governor Maisel was also brought before the Board. 
Governor Brimmer reported that he had discussed the staff's 
draft letter with both Chairman Burns and Governor Daane, and he 
summarized their comments. 
After consideration of the draft letters, the Board authorized 
the sending of a letter to the Secretary of the Treasury from the Secre-
tary of the Board that would take into account the comments and sugges-
tions made by the various Board members. A copy of the letter in the 
form transmitted is attached as Item No. 2. 
It was also agreed that after certain changes had been made 
in the staff memorandum it would be transmitted to the Under Secretary 
for Monetary Affairs with an accompanying letter from Governor Brimmer. 
Copies of the letter and memorandum as transmitted are attached under 
Item No. 3. 
Gold loan. Governor Brimmer reported that prior to the 
announcement of the temporary suspension of the convertibility of the 
United States dollar into gold on August 15, 1971, the Union of Burma 

2 2 1 " " 
f-
8/27/71 
-4-
had arranged for the sale of $20.8 million in gold to the Treasury. 
Although the Treasury was willing to purchase the gold as arranged, 
Burma now proposed to borrow against the gold at the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York rather than sell it to the Treasury. 
The New York Reserve Bank proposed to advise the Peoples Bank 
of the Union of Burma that the loan could not be accommodated at this 
time since its purpose was not within the guidelines established for 
gold loans and also there was some question about making such a loan 
in view of the August 15 announcement regarding gold. 
A draft cable to the Peoples Bank of the Union of Burma from 
the New York Reserve Bank denying the loan had been distributed at 
today's meeting, and the Bank had asked for the Board's views. 
There 
was agreement that the request should be denied; however, the Board 
suggested a number of changes in the proposed cable that were designed 
mainly to remove any implication that the Federal Reserve might be 
suspending all gold loans at this time. 
It was understood that 
Mr. Irvine would inform the New York Bank by telephone of these changes. 
Memoranda from the Division of International Finance dated August 27, 
1971, describing the circumstances relating to the loan request, as 
well as the current economic situation in Burma, have been placed in 
the Board's files. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

2212 
Item No. 1 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
8/27/71 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. E055I 
August 25} 1971 
The economic measures announced on August 15 by the President 
represent a strong commitment to the goal of noninflationary 
economic growth. The Federal Reserve fully supports this 
objective, 
As you doubtless know, there has been some discussion as to whether 
interest rates should also be subjected to limitations paralleling 
those applicable to wages and prices. We at the Federal Reserve 
have taken the position that such a sweeping limitation is unnecessary. 
Market interest rates have been declining recently and our banks can 
be expected to conduct their affairs voluntarily in the spirit of 
the President's program. 
It is important, however, that the Board have accurate, up-to«date 
information concerning the rates which in fact are being charged 
on various types of loans. With this objective in mind, we are 
asking a selected group of banks to cooperate, by completing the 
i>rief forms I am enclosing. The forms should be returned as soon 
as feasible to the Secretary of the Board. 
I may request this information of you from time to time in the months 
ahead. 
In that event, forms will be mailed at the time of such 
future requests. 
Sincerely 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

b o a r d 
o f 
g o v e r n o r s 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON. •. C. 2D55I 
Item No. 2 
8/27/71 
August 27, 1971 
The Honorable John B. Connally 
Secretary of the Treasury 
Treasury Building, Room 3330 
Washington, D.C. 
20220 
Dear Mr. Secretary: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System wishes 
to request that the Treasury Department give serious consideration to 
the feasibility of applying the Interest Equalization Tax (IET) to short 
term foreign credits of banks and nonbank financial institutions, as a 
substitute for the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint program (VFCR) 
administered by the Federal Reserve. 
As you know, the Board has felt there is a serious danger 
that the VFCR, started as a temporary expedient, is becoming imbedded 
in the international monetary system. 
This would seem an excellent 
time for the Government to consider abolishing the VFCR. A review of 
alternatives to the present operational approach of the VFCR is called 
for as a result of recent Congressional action exempting export credits 
from the program. 
Furthermore, a review would also be appropriate as 
one element in an appraisal of the future role of restraints on capital 
outflows. 
Substitution of the IET for the VFCR would place the restraint 
program firmly on a market-oriented basis, and it would eliminate the 
inequities of the VFCR which have been apparent since its inception. 
Extension of the IET to bank credits would put in place a technique 
of restraint; that could be relaxed as the position of the U.S. balance 
of payments permitted, looking toward the day when controls on capital 
outflows could be substantially lessened, and hopefully eliminated 
completely. 
Very truly yours, 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

o'oVcofe-. 
2 2 1 5 
BOARD o r GOVERNORS 
I tem No0 3 
\ 
o F T H E 
R / 9 7 / 7 1 
. 
F E D E R A ! R F R F R V r q v q r r M 
o/z///1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
V/A&IIINGTQN, D. E. 
ANCFJEV7 F. BRIMMER 
MEMflEFI OF THE BOARD 
^ f ^ ' l ^ 5 ^ 
August 27, 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
lion. Paul A. Voleker 
Under Secretary for Monetary Affairs 
Room 3312 
Department of the Treasury 
Washington, D. C. 
20220 
Dear Paul: 
As you may already know, the Board has addressed a letter to 
Secretary Connally requesting that the Treasury Department give serious 
consideration to the feasibility of substituting the IET for the VFCR.' 
(I have enclosed a copy of the Board's letter for your information). 
As the Board Member with delegated authority for the admini-
stration of the VFCR program, I am writing to share with you my 
thoughts regarding restraints on foreign lending by U.S. banks" and 
nembank financial institutions. 
As you know, a review of alternatives to the present opera-
tional approach of the VFCR is called for as a result of recent 
Congressional action exempting export credits from the program. 
I 
have continually favored replacing the VFCR with a market oriented 
program, and I would urge that careful consideration be given at the 
present time to the possibility of applying the IET to short-term 
foreign credits extended by banks and nembank financial institutions. 
Simultaneously the VFCR should be abolished. 
I enclose a memorandum that provides an indication of the 
thinking of our staff on the feasibility of applying the IET to short-
term foreign credits. 
This analysis is based upon provisions of the 
present statute. 
Some.of the problems noted in the memorandum could 
be met in different ways, and perhaps more successfully, if the IET 
Act were to be amended. .Moreover, while the memorandum deals only 
with the application of-the IET to institutions presently covered by 
the VFCR, it would be necessary, I recognize, to examine the desir-
ability of applying the tax to other categories of lenders and 
investors as well. 

2216 
Mr. Paul A. Volcker 
-2-
I hope that you can designate someone on your staff to 
work v;ith our staff in analyzing the effects of substituting the 
IET for the VFCR and in developing a concrete proposal. 
Sincerely yours, 
s'\ 
r 
Enclosures 

2217 
coi^itorT.AL (no. 
August 26, 1971 
To: Board of Governors 
From: Division of International. Finance 
Object: Need to re-evaluate the status of the VFCR. 
The status of the VFCR must be re-evaluted in the light of: 
1) The President's action of August 15; 
2) The Export Expansion Finance Act of 1971, exempting 
export credits; and 
3) The persistent inequities, which are inherent in 
any program whose main features are historical 
bases and absolute ceilings. 
It would be hiphly desirable to achieve elimination of ceilings 
on foreign lending by "banks and nonbank financial institutions as an 
integral element of the revised international payments system and 
new exchange rate structure that will result from the President s 
program. 
But elimination of all restraints on capital outflow may not 
be practical; hence, the Division recommends that the Interest Equali-
zation Tax (YET) be extended to short-term credits by banks and non-
bank financial institutions, and that the IKT substitute for the VFCR. 
The President has power to extend the IET to short-term credits under 
the Interest Equalisation Tax Extension Act of 1971. 
This memorandum sets forth some special considerations that 
would be involved in applying the IET to short-term capital, and 
outlines possible features of an expanded IET. 
Early review of the 
feasibility of an extension of the IET is required as a practical 
matter, since the Board in any event has to make modifications in 
the VFCR within 3 months as a result of the Export Expansion Finance 
Act of 1971. 

22±y} 
-2- 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Rationale. 
The rationale for substituting the IET for the 
VFCR, as it applies to short-term foreign claims by banks and nonbank 
financial institutions, is that a long-term control measure should 
be market-oriented in character in order to avoid the inequities 
inherent in historical bases. The IET could in principle be used 
to control capital flows resulting from either cyclical differences 
in interest rates or structural differences in rate levels. 
Speculative flows would be made more costly, but would not likely 
be curtailed substantially. 
< 
Special considerations in 
cj^ital. 
The objectives of applying the IET to short-term capital 
flows arc much more likely to be achieved if the tax is made relatively 
simple. 
In particular, if the tax involves complex procedures and 
record keeping by U.S. banks, it would be likely to involve some inter-
ference with financing of foreign trade, and possibly even discourage 
some banks from export financing; moreover, a costly compliance 
procedure would likely disadvantage small banks that have little or 
no specialized talent to allocate to such tasks. More generally, 
application of the tax to every short-term claim or deposit by those 
institutions covered would involve a very substantial administrative 
burden. 
It would be appropriate to exempt working balances (see below), 
Application of the IET to short-term capital may require that 
the rate of tax be adjusted more frequently than has been done t:o 
date, since international differentials in short-term interest rates 
way exceed those on long-term rates. The need for frequent adjust-
ment of IET tax rates will depend in part upon the degree of exchange 
rate flexibility that may emerge under a revised international monetary 
system: with wider exchange rate margins, there is greater scope for 
the incentive for covered arbitrage short-term capital flows to be 
eliminated through movements of forward exchange rates (within the 
margins). 
Characteristics of an expanded J.ET. 
(a) Coverage. 
The IET 
could be applied to specifically enumerated short-term instruments 
(maturities of less than 1 year) as well as to acquisitions o.C stocks 
and all debt obligations with maturities of 1 year or more. 
Short-
ten., instruments that could be subject to the tax would be: 
loans, 
acceptance credits, advances, overdrafts, commercial paper, obliga-
tions of foreign governments, time and demand deposits and CD's. 
The tax would be levied quarterly on all acquisitions of these 
instruments that occurred during the quarter, according to a rate 
structure discussed below. 
The tax would substitute for VFCR restraints on acquisitions 
of short-term instruments by banks and nonbank financial institutions, 
and would probably be as effective as the VFCR except with respect 
to those credit flows that are not interest-sensitive. 
i'* 
u 

I 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
2210 
Even allowing for some exemptions for short-term working 
balances, it would appear that restraint of short-term capital flows 
through the IET could be as effective as would be feasible now under 
the VFCR with the export exemption recently enacted by Congress. 
(b) Uajtjes. The ICT Extension Act of 1971 specifies that the 
rate of tax applicable to short-term instruments cannot excecd the 
rate applicable to instruments with maturities of 1 year. 
At present 
that latter'rate is 0.79 per cent of the face value of the instrument 
-- equivalent to 3. 3.6 per cent per annum on a 90-day instrument --
but the President has authority to establish a rate of tax on the 
face value of (.Vie instrument as high as 1.58 per cent. 
The tax on 
long-term instruments is levied as a flat rate -- e.g.> a front-end 
load. The tax on short-term instruments could either be levied in 
this manner, or according to a sliding scale -- e.g., 0,1. per cent 
per month.for each month of maturity of the credit up to 8 months, 
and 0.8 per cent on maturities of 8 months to 1 year. 
A flat rate of tax would curb outflows for very short 
maturities more than would a sliding rate scale, and in view of the 
uncertainties in the transition period, it might be advisable to 
adopt a flat rate initially. 
The tax rate selected would depend 
both upon projected interest-rate differentials at the time of 
introduction of the new exchange rate structure, and upon' the extent 
to which that new structure included wider margins around parities 
which would permit movements of forward exchange rates to offset 
uncovered interest rate differentials. 
Present Eurodollar rates are 
not. a satisfactory guide to possible future differentials; as of 
mid-June, it appeared that the differential between the net costs of 
borrowing in the United States and in the Eurodollar market was on 
the order of 1 to 1-1/4 per cent per annum. 
A differential of this 
sixe would be eliminated by a flat rate of tax at the present rate 
of 0.79 for all bank credits of maturities of 8 months or less; 
a tax rate of 1 to 1-1/4 per cent would have been required to 
eliminate the differential on bank credits of maturities close to 
1 year, and on short-term investments (e.g., U.S. CD's versus 
Eurodollar deposits). 
One disadvantage of a flat rate of tax is that it creates 
incentives for borrowers and investors to lengthen the maturities of 
the instruments (loans or deposits) in order to reduce the per annum 
equivalent cost of the tax. 
For that reason, it would be advisable 
to establish a sliding scale of tax rates as soon as feasible, 
(c) Exemptions. 
Exemptions for export credits and credits 
to LDC's are"required by statute. 
It would be advisable to estab-
lish exemptions for working balances of banks and for nonbank 
iinancial institutions. 

2220 
i 
- 4 - 
Cm)-1 DENT IAL (FR ) 
O ) Export credits. The IET exemption for export credits 
does not present any problems additional to those already confronting 
us because of Congressional action exempting export credits from the 
VFCR. One problem that will in any case require additional study is 
the scope that direct investors will have to obtain financing from 
U.S. banks for exports to their foreign affiliates; previously banks 
have been restrained in such financing by the VFCR, and direct 
investors have financed the transactions themselves, making any 
necessary adjustments under the OFDX program in the process, 
(2) Credits to LDC*s. 
Short-term credits to LDC's 
consist mainly of loans to banks in those countries and acceptance 
credits, and the exemption of credits to LDC's runs the risk of a 
pass-through of funds to developed countries via banks in the LDC's. 
This problem may turn out to be of modest proportions. 
If it proves to be serious, the best approach may be to limit the IET t 
exemption for LDC's to credits to nonbank borrowers, This procedure 
would increase the cost to those LDC borrowers who were unable to 
borrow directly.from U.S. banks, and might tend to inhibit the expan-
sion of acceptance financing in LDC trade. 
(At present roughly 2/3 
of total U.S. bank el'aims on LDC's, consist of claims on banks in 
those countries.) In this event, governments of LDC's might well 
undertake to establish controls to ensure that pass-throughs did 
not occur. 
(3) Working balances. Seme allowance for tax-exempt 
Working balances*'would probably be necessary if the tax were not to 
interfere with normal trade financing -- including the financing of 
U.S. exports. 
An exemption for non-interest bearing deposits held 
by U.S. banks in foreign banks could provide some scope for tax-free 
working balances, but it is likely that banks also hold some working 
balances abroad in interest-earning accounts. 
"Jit therefore might be appropriate to allow a bank to 
exempt from tax a specified percentage of the total of foreign short-
term taxable assets acquired in each calendar quarter. 
Insofar as 
the percentage.allowance for working balances was based solely on 
acquisitions^ foreign assets subject to tax, it would operate as 
an effective reduction in the rate of tax. 
(d) Special problems. Special problems under the IET arise 
in c o n n e c t i o n "with foreign'branches of U.S. banks (arising from the 
fact that branches are"U.S. persons under the IET.) Extension of 
credit by a U.S. bank to a foreign branch would thus not subject the 
louder to the IET (which applies only to acquisitions of claims on 
foreign persons). 
Foreign branches would themselves be potentially 
liable to the IET on their foreign credits, but to subject them to the 
tax on all foreign credits would effectively put them out of business. 

2221 
-2- 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
One possible approach would be to exempt foreign assets of foreign 
branches!/ from the IET on condition that the U.S. parent not establish 
net claims on its foreign branch, in excess of a specified amount 
(that might represent working balances), and that reports on the 
daily average net position, of the parent vis-a-vis the branch be 
filed with the Federal. Reserve. 
(This information is now being 
maintained on. a daily basis in connection with the Board s Eurodollar 
reserve requirements, and the reporting burden would thus be negligible.) 
Branches would have a sufficiently strong interest in avoiding applica-
tion of the IET to their foreign claims to make such a system workable. 
U.S. banks' investments in foreign branches are now made 
within the scope of the VFCR ceilings. 
If the VFCR should be replaced 
by the IET, direct investments by banks could be incorporated into 
the OFDI program. 
Another problem arises in the case of borrowings in the U.S. 
money market by U.S. agencies and branches of foreign banks. 
Since 
these agencies' and branches are not U.S. persons, their credits to 
foreigners would not be subject to the IET. 
But it would be feasible 
to apply the IET to their borrowings from U.S. banks. 
If all their 
business consisted of making foreign loans, this approach would appear 
Giirple and logical. 
But some of the New York agencies have tradi-
tionally engaged in a substantial US.money parket business (loans to 
government securities dealers, etc.) and for those agencies it would 
b- unfair to apply a tax to their borrowings to finance such activities. 
a"possible approach might be to permit an agency or branch of a U.S. 
bank to elect whether to have its foreign assets or its U.S. domestic 
liabilities subject to the IET. 
Concluding comments. 
Substitution of the IET for the VFCR 
would i n ^ c 7 7 ™S ~ e T p e 7 i m a n t a t i o n with tax rates, and also possibly 
with the specification of the types of credits that qualify for 
exemption - notably export credits and credits to LLC s. 
Relaxation of capital, controls could be accomplished as 
effectively under the IET as with the VFCR. 
Establishment of a 
1 
of tax rates, rather than a flat rate, for short-term 
c 
1 Z i A represent some relaxation. 
Beyond that, gradua 
reduc-
tions in rates for both short- and long-term assets could be made 
as conditions permitted. 
Should a temporary tightening of controls 
be required at some subsequent time, the reversal of flows could 
1 - 1 1 
«ffr>ri ivplv through an increase in JLc-i 
nrobablv bo accomplished more cliecLivej.y 
u i i l u u ^ u « 
rate's on short-teL capital (which would increase the costs to borrowers) 
than through a reduction of quantitative cej.lings. 
1/ 
The Act: provides that the President may classify debt obligations 
according to category of obligor and obligee. 

222 o 
-2-
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
The nature and degree of restraint imposed on banks and 
nonbank financial institutions would require continual assessment 
in the light o£ the broaoer structure of controls that might be 
applied to other types of lenders and investors. 
