MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 15, 1969 

Ij ' . • 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, August 15, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 1/ 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Katz, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 2/ 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard of the Office of the Secretary 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared for the purpose of the 
review have been placed in the Board's files. 
All members of the research divisions who had been present 
except Messrs. Partee and Keir of the Division of Research and 
Statistics and Mr. Pizer of the Division of International Finance 
then withdrew and the following entered: 
HI 
b 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
2/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 
Sea 
;t 

8/15/69 
-2- 25 SI 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Miss Ormsby of the Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle and Lynch of the Legal Division 
Mr. Lawrence of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Goodfellow and Sanford of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wood of the Division of Personnel Administration 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on August 11 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and 
Dallas on August 14, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Nassau branch. A letter to First National Bank in Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas, granting its application for permission to establish 
a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, was approved, Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer dissenting. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Bankers International. Bankers International Corporation, 
New York, New York, had applied for permission to acquire, directly 
or indirectly through its wholly-owned Delaware subsidiary, all of 
the outstanding shares of Rodo Investment Trust Ltd., London, England, 
not already held by Bankers or its subsidiaries. 

8/15/69 
-3-
571 
Bankers International had also made a supplementary applica-
tion for waiver of certain of the requirements of the Board's standard 
conditions pertaining to the acquisition of subsidiaries. However, 
it hoped to announce today a tender offer for Rodo's outstanding 
shares and therefore had asked that the application to acquire such 
shares be considered on its own merits, with the understanding that 
any consent granted at this time would contain the standard conditions 
and that its further request, which appeared to raise some broad 
policy questions, would be considered separately in the near future. 
In a memorandum of August 12, 1969, the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the basic application. 
The Legal Division, however, believed that there might be certain 
issues involved of sufficient import to warrant deferral of action on 
the application pending further study. 
After discussion, Governor Robertson suggested that the 
Board act on the application subject to reconsideration at its next 
meeting if by this afternoon the Legal Division, after studying the 
matter at greater length, concluded that such further consideration 
was justified. 
The application was then approved unanimously, subject to 
the understanding as to procedure specified by Governor Robertson. 
(Note: With the agreement of the Legal Division, the 
letter to Bankers International that had been approved conditionally 
by the Board was transmitted to Bankers International later in the day. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 2.) 

2572 
8/15/69 
-4- 25 SI 
Reports on competitive factors. With Governor Sherrill 
dissenting, a report on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of Bank 
of Tacoma, Tacoma, Washington, by Seattle-First National Bank, 
Seattle, Washington, was approved for transmittal to the Comptroller 
of the Currency, the conclusion reading as follows: 
There would appear to be some competition existing 
between Bank of Tacoma and the Puyallup and Sumner 
branches of Seattle-First National Bank. Consummation 
of the proposed transaction would increase the already 
high level of concentration in the State of Washington 
where Seattle-First National Bank and the second largest 
bank in the State hold 52 per cent of the total commercial 
bank deposits in the State. The overall competitive 
effect of the proposal would be adverse. 
In dissenting, Governor Sherrill noted that because of the 
branch banking laws of the State of Washington, Seattle-First National 
Bank was precluded from establishing a branch in Tacoma. In his view 
the competitive situation in Tacoma would be improved by the presence 
of Seattle-First National Bank in that locality. Therefore, despite 
the high level of banking concentration in the State of Washington and 
the evidence that some competition existed between Seattle-First 
National Bank and Bank of Tacoma, he felt that the overall competitive 
effect of the proposed transaction should be cited as only slightly 
adverse. 
Two other members (Chairman Martin and Governor Mitchell) 
indicated that they tended to agree with Governor Sherrill, but that 
they did not feel strongly enough on the matter to have a dissent recorded, 
PT 

8/15/69 
-5- 25 SI 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Peoples National Bank of Manassas, Manassas, Virginia, 
with Manassas Bank, N. A., Manassas, Virginia, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion 
stating that consummation of the proposed merger (which was merely a 
transaction to facilitate the acquisition of The Peoples National Bank 
of Manassas by United Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Richmond, 
Virginia, should such acquisition be approved by the Board) would have 
no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Peoples Bank of Cheraw, Cheraw, South Carolina, Lake Banking 
Company, Lake View, South Carolina, and Bank of Great Falls, Great 
Falls, South Carolina, into Citizens Bank of South Carolina, Dillon, 
South Carolina, was approved for transmittal to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, the conclusions being expressed as follows: 
Primarily because of their size and the distance 
between them, there is virtually no competition among 
the three banks proposing to merge with Citizens Bank 
of South Carolina, Dillon. 
Citizens Bank-Cheraw Bank 
There is virtually no competition between Citizens 
Bank of South Carolina, Dillon, and Peoples Bank of 
Cheraw, and potential for increased competition between 
them is limited. The proposed merger would have no 
adverse competitive effects. 
Citizens Bank-Lake View Bank 
Because of the nearness of offices of Citizens Bank 
of South Carolina, Dillon, to the office of Lake View 
Bank and the lack of alternative banking offices in the 
intervening areas, there appears to be some existing 

8/15/69 
-6- 25 SI 
competition between the two banks. Both banks are 
located in Dillon County and consummation of the proposed 
merger would result in the reduction of banking alterna-
tives in the county from four to three. The overall 
effect of the proposed merger on competition would be 
adverse. 
Citizens Bank-Great Falls Bank 
Primarily because of the limited accessibility 
between the Lancaster branches of Citizens Bank of 
South Carolina, Dillon, and Bank of Great Falls there 
is limited competition between the two banks. However, 
since Great Falls is served by the one banking institu-
tion, there exists some potential for competition 
between the two institutions through de novo branching. 
The competitive effect of the proposed merger would be 
slightly adverse. 
In the case of the proposed merger involving the bank in 
Lake View, Governor Mitchell believed that the competitive effect 
should be cited as only slightly adverse because in his view the 
bank was too small to represent an effective banking operation. 
Use of credit cards by examiners. After consideration 
(jointly with the Legal Division) of an inquiry that had been received 
from a Federal Reserve Bank, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
proposed in a memorandum of August 8, 1969, advising all Federal 
Reserve Banks that it would be permissible for bank examiners and 
assistant bank examiners to use credit cards issued by insured non-
member banks, not affiliated with any member bank or registered bank 
holding company, that were franchised to issue credit cards by a 
member bank or by a service corporation that was a subsidiary of a 
member bank, because under such an arrangement the card holder would 
become indebted only to a nonmember bank. 

2575 
8/15/69 
-7- 25 SI 
The letter was approved unanimously; a copy is attached 
as Item No. 3. 
In further discussion, however, Governor Brimmer raised 
the question whether the terms of the letter might not be unduly 
restrictive. He pointed out, for example, that if a nonmember bank 
with a credit card outstanding should be acquired by a bank holding 
company an examiner or assistant examiner of a Reserve Bank would 
not be allowed to continue to use the card. 
After observing that interpretation of a criminal statute 
was involved, Mr. Leavitt went on to say that he was sending to 
• 
, . 
. 
- 
. 
> 
• 
•> 
< t 
X,-
Governor Robertson a memorandum discussing the broader question 
relating to borrowing by examiners from banks they were technically 
authorized to examine but in actual practice they did not examine, 
with the suggestion that Governor Robertson might want to take up 
the matter with the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank 
Regulation. 
Governor Robertson recalled that questions of this kind had 
come up within the Committee in the past and that on such occasions 
the Comptroller of the Currency had considered it important, as a 
matter of principle, to avoid any possibility of borrowing by an 
examiner from a bank that might be subject to examination by the 
examiner. However, after receipt of Mr. Leavitt's memorandum, he 
(Governor Robertson) would be willing to consider taking the matter 
up again with the Committee. 
M* 
# h 

25 SI 
8/15/69 
-8-
Proposed increase in swap line. Chairman Martin brought 
up for informal discussion a request from the National Bank of Belgium 
for an increase from $300 million to $500 million in its reciprocal 
currency (swap) arrangement with the Federal Reserve System. Compliance 
with the request, which reflected current pressures on the Belgian 
franc, particularly in the wake of devaluation of the French franc, 
was favored by the Special Manager of the System Open Market Account, 
the President of the New York Reserve Bank, and the Treasury. 
Some members of the Board expressed reservations, in principle, 
about making ad hoc adjustments in individual swap lines, it being 
their thought that periodic readjustment of the swap lines generally 
might be a more desirable practice. However, in the light of reports 
on the Belgian situation and comments on the possible effect of 
Belgian decisions in relation to the position of the U.S. dollar, 
all members indicated that as members of the Federal Open Market 
Committee they would be prepared to approve the proposed increase 
in the swap line with the National Bank of Belgium. 
Currency and coin exhibits. Pursuant to the understanding 
at the meeting on August 1, 1969, Mr. Farrell had submitted under date 
of August 5, 1969, a draft of letter to the Federal Reserve Banks 
that would express views on certain policy questions that had been 
raised with respect to Federal Reserve Bank currency and coin exhibits. 
Several such questions had come to the fore as a result of the Treasury's 
letter of July 7, 1969, asking that silver dollars in the possession 
of the Reserve Banks be returned to the Treasury. 

8/15/69 
-9- 25 SI 
The letter was approved unanimously; a copy is attached as 
Item No. 4. 
Federal Advisory Council. A letter to the Assistant Secretary 
of the Federal Advisory Council suggesting topics for discussion at 
the forthcoming meeting of the Council was approved unanimously. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
Borrowing by member banks in emergency situations. In a 
memorandum of August 11, 1969, Mr. Leavitt discussed problems encountered 
by Texas Bank & Trust Company, Dallas, Texas, that appeared likely 
to make it necessary for the member bank to seek assistance at the 
discount window of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas on an emergency 
basis. In the same memorandum Mr. Leavitt also discussed developments 
in regard to the situation of Bank of Lansing, Lansing, Michigan, 
one of the so-called Parsons Group banks. 
As identified by Mr. Leavitt, the basic policy question 
had to do with the System's attitude if Reserve Banks should be 
confronted with the necessity of lending substantial amounts of 
money over relatively long periods of time to bail out banks from 
past indiscretions. He recommended that the Board grant to the 
staff authority to inform the Federal Reserve Banks that when conditions 
demanded it would be appropriate to extend credit continuously in 
large amounts to member banks, with such assistance conditioned upon 
acceptance of "guidelines" designed to place the borrowing bank in 
a generally acceptable condition as soon as practicable. A major 

8/15/69 
-10- 25 SI 
concern, he suggested, would probably be with the restoration of 
reasonable liquidity by realignment of assets to a position in keeping 
with the bank's normal liabilities. 
It was the consensus that a Board letter to the Federal 
Reserve Banks reflecting in general the point of view expressed by 
Mr. Leavitt would be appropriate. There were a number of suggestions 
as to how such a letter should best be phrased, and there developed 
to be general agreement that reliance should be placed primarily upon 
a statement that appeared in the July 1968 report of the System 
Committee on the Reappraisal of the Discount Mechanism relating to 
borrowing by a member bank in an emergency situation. 
Board members also suggested that in cases where credit 
was extended in an emergency situation the Federal Reserve Banks 
should be encouraged to participate actively with the primary super-
visors in the development of a timely solution of the problems of 
the banks concerned. There was agreement that language to such 
effect should be incorporated in the letter to the Reserve Banks 
along with an indication that when emergency lending situations arose 
the Board should be kept advised of the underlying circumstances, with 
supplemental reports in critical cases. 
Unanimous approval then was given to the sending to the 
Federal Reserve Banks of a letter in the form attached as Item No. 6. 
Amendment to Regulation J. In April of this year the 
Board had published for comment proposed amendments to Regulation J, 
Collection of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks, 
that would: 

8/15/69 
-11- 25 SI 
1. Permit any paying bank to return an unpaid 
cash item directly to the bank that sent the item to 
the Federal Reserve Bank for collection if the sending 
bank was also the first bank in which the item had been 
deposited, and require the sending bank to honor a draft 
drawn upon it by the paying bank in reimbursement for 
the earlier conditional payment of the item by the paying 
bank; and 
2. Provide a procedure under which a Reserve Bank 
that is sued in connection with a cash item collected 
by it may recover from the sending bank expenses of such 
litigation and the amount of any adverse judgment by 
charging the account of the sending bank, provided the 
Reserve Bank has previously tendered defense of the suit 
to the sending bank and the tender has not been accepted. 
In a memorandum of August 7, 1969, Mr. Hackley summarized 
the comments received. In light of those comments, including an 
indication of a change in attitude on the part of the American 
Bankers Association, he recommended that no action be taken by the 
Board at this time with respect to the proposed amendment regarding 
direct return of unpaid items. He also recommended, however, that 
the proposed amendment with respect to tenders of defense in litiga-
tion be adopted by the Board. 
After discussion indicated that the members of the Board 
supported Mr. Hackley's recommendations, the second of the proposed 
amendments to Regulation J was approved unanimously effective 
October 1, 1969. No action was taken with respect to the other 
proposed amendment, and it was understood that the desirability of 
such an amendment would be considered further by appropriate parties 
within the System. 

8/15/69 
-12-
25 SI 
A copy of the notice that was published in the Federal 
Register in reflection of the Board's decisions is attached as 
Item No. 7, and a copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve 
Banks is attached as Item No. 8. 
Discount window administration. At its meeting on June 23, 
1969, the Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks 
had approved and submitted to the Board for consideration the following 
recommendations of the Subcommittee on Discounts and Credits: 
1. (a) That, effective at an agreed upon date 
(September 1, 1969, suggested), all Reserve Banks 
accrue interest on advances and collect such 
interest at the time of repayment instead of 
computing and charging interest on a discount 
basis at the time of the advance and that the 
rates of interest be established in accordance 
with existing practice applicable to rates on 
discounts. 
(b) Although not part of the assignment to the 
Ad Hoc Subcommittee of Counsel, a recommendation 
included in the Steering Committee's Fundamental 
Reappraisal of the Discount Mechanism "that all 
discount rate changes be made immediately applicable 
to outstanding loans" should be adopted as an 
integral part of l.(a) and the Subcommittee on 
Discounts and Credits so recommends. 
2. That all Reserve Banks forego use of formal 
application forms in connection with advances to 
member banks. (A uniform date would be preferable 
but not necessary for this action.) 
3. That all Reserve Banks replace their existing form 
of promissory note by a continuing agreement (for 
example, a form of general pledge and collection 
agreement) that does not require execution at the 
time of each advance, except Reserve Banks may obtain 
notes for emergency advances to a member bank in a 
precarious condition. 

8/15/69 
-13- 
2 5 S I 
4. That all Reserve Banks continue the existing 
practice of not accepting custody receipts 
representing collateral held in the Trust 
Department of the borrowing member bank. 
In a memorandum dated July 15, 1969, Mr. Hackley commented 
on the several proposals and outlined steps that it would appear 
appropriate for the Board to take if it agreed with the recommendations 
of the Conference. One of the steps indicated was the issuance of a 
statement that with respect to Reserve Bank advances made on and after 
a specified date interest would be accrued and collected at the time 
of repayment, instead of being computed on a discount basis, and that 
any changes in discount rates would be applicable immediately to 
outstanding advances. The statement would also advise that considera-
tion was being given to the adoption of a procedure under which an 
application form would not ordinarily be required in connection with 
each advance and that the Board was publishing for comment a proposed 
amendment to Regulation A, Advances and Discounts by Federal Reserve 
Banks, that would eliminate language implying a need for application 
forms in all cases. Mr. Hackley pointed out that such an amendment 
would not be necessary if the proposed complete revision of Regulation A 
now under consideration should be adopted. He also noted that it 
seemed important to emphasize, in connection with any action the 
Board might take, that all of the changes were of a procedural or 
technical nature and that they should not be regarded as suggesting 
any change in discount policy or in other System monetary policies. 

8/15/69 
-14-
p i-{JO 
After discussion, Board members concluded that it would be 
inadvisable to take any action at this time except to concur in the 
recommendation that the Reserve Banks continue the practice of not 
accepting custody receipts representing collateral held in the trust 
department of a borrowing member bank. The conclusion reflected a 
view that it would not be desirable to issue any statement in the 
present circumstances, or to propose an amendment of Regulation A, 
because of possible misunderstandings even though a disclaimer of the 
kind mentioned by Mr. Hackley was included in the public release. 
Further, it was noted that the Ad Hoc Subcommittee of Counsel had not 
yet undertaken the drafting of a form of continuing agreement that 
might replace the execution of a member bank note at the time of each 
advance. When a form of continuing agreement had been drafted and 
approved by the Reserve Banks, it was indicated that the Board would 
then be prepared to consider further the proposal for the use of 
such an agreement as well as the proposal for the elimination of 
application forms. 
It was understood that a letter reflecting the Board's 
position on the recommendations submitted by the Presidents' 
Conference would be prepared and sent to the Reserve Banks. (Note: 
Attached as Item No. 9 is a copy of the letter subsequently sent 
to the Reserve Banks.) 
Health insurance. At its meeting on June 23, 1969, the 
Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks had approved 
and referred to the Board for consideration certain recommendations 

2583 
8/15/69 
-15-
I 
of the Subcommittee on Personnel relating to the health insurance 
programs of the Reserve Banks. The recommendations resulted from 
study by the Subcommittee of proposals contained in the Report on 
Employee Benefit Plans submitted by the consulting firm of Arthur 
Stedry Hansen under date of January 8, 1968, and reflected partial 
agreement with the consulting firm's proposals. One recommendation 
contemplated the adoption of a statement of guidelines for health 
insurance coverage, to be used by each Reserve Bank in effecting 
health insurance coverage through local insurance carriers. 
In a memorandum of August 13, 1969, the Division of Personnel 
Administration discussed the recommendations of the Subcommittee on 
Personnel and expressed agreement with them except in one respect. 
After preliminary consideration of the proposals, Governor 
Maisel was requested to study them in detail, especially in the 
light of certain questions that had been raised, with the understanding 
that the Board would consider them again after Governor Maisel's 
review had been completed. 
Audit of Board's books and accounts. Unanimous approval 
was given to a letter to Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery, Washington, 
D. C., requesting that the firm undertake, as promptly after 
January 1, 1970, as convenient, an audit of the books and accounts 
of the Board of Governors for the year 1969. A copy of the letter 
is attached as Item No. 10. 
Memorial to Senator Owen. Correspondence had been distributed 
relating to a request for participation by the Board in the establishment 

8/15/69 
-16- 25 SI 
of a memorial to the late Senator Robert L. Owen. At the suggestion 
of Chairman Martin, the matter was held over since it was understood 
that there might be developments such as to resolve the question. 
Amendments to Regulations D and Q. On July 24, 1969, the 
Board had amended Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, and 
Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, to narrow the scope of a member 
bank's liabilities under repurchase agreements (those involving 
sales of instruments with an agreement for subsequent repurchase) 
that were exempt from the provisions of those regulations. Specifically, 
beginning August 28, 1969, every bank liability on a repurchase agree-
ment entered into on or after July 25, 1969, with a person other than a 
bank would become a deposit liability subject to the terms of 
Regulations D and Q if it involved (1) any assets other than direct 
obligations of the United States or its agencies (including obliga-
tions fully guaranteed by them) or (2) a part interest in any obliga-
tion or obligations (including U.S. Government obligations). 
As brought out in a memorandum from the Office of the 
Secretary (Mr. Holland) dated August 14, 1969, the denial of exemption 
111 
• • j 
- 
; 
from reserve requirements and interest rate ceilings of the liability 
arising under any repurchase agreement executed by a member bank 
on a part interest in any U.S. Government or agency obligation had 
created a practical market problem in that it prevented the use of 
repurchase agreements in any amount other than the particular denomina-
tions of such securities freely available to the bank. The difficulty 

8/15/69 
-17-
11 
could be met by going through denominational exchange procedures, 
but their use involved time, inconvenience, and cost to the member 
bank, and also cost to the Government since the Treasury reimbursed 
the Federal Reserve Banks as fiscal agents for such activities. 
Furthermore, some banks, by virtue of their location, would not 
be able to obtain prompt denominational exchange service. 
The regulatory language in question had been designed to 
guard against banks selling participations in their holdings of 
U.S. Government or agency securities as a substitute for the issuance 
of certificates of deposit. In Mr. Holland's judgment, however, a 
relaxation of the present language of the regulations would not carry 
with it a serious hazard to monetary or regulatory policy, especially 
in view of the relatively small volume of unpledged Government and 
agency securities owned by aggressive banks. Also, the total cost 
(operating plus interest cost) of small-size repurchase agreements 
on such free securities would probably not make them very attractive. 
Governor Brimmer, before leaving the meeting to keep another 
engagement, commented that he had expressed to the staff his reserva-
tions about amending the regulations along the lines suggested in 
Mr. Holland's memorandum. Although he would not object formally if 
the other members of the Board decided to move in that direction, he 
hoped that it would be possible to avoid such action, particularly since 
it would come so soon after the July 24 action. If only a few member 
banks were involved, it occurred to him that some arrangement 

8/15/69 
-18- 25 SI 
2586 
possibly could be worked out through the Reserve Banks, and he wanted 
to avoid opening up any loophole of consequence. 
In further discussion, all except one of the remaining 
members indicated that they were persuaded to the view that in all 
the circumstances, particularly the fact that the regulatory language 
could be circumvented by denominational exchange procedures, the 
retention of the regulatory language might be regarded as principally 
a harrassment. They pointed out that if the language of the regulations 
should be relaxed along the lines suggested the volume of repurchase 
agreements executed on part interests in Treasury or agency obligations 
probably would not be large because of the relatively small amount of 
unpledged obligations available to banks and that the forcing of 
denominational exchanges would seem to run counter to the movement, 
supported by the Federal Reserve, toward book entry procedures. They 
preferred elimination of the parenthetical clause "(other than a part 
interest in such obligations)" to the substitution of "(other than a 
pro rata interest in a pool of such obligations)." 
Governor Robertson argued that the banks that had raised 
the question were in reality asking the Board to open up a loophole 
through the use of which they could more easily continue to obtain 
funds at rates higher than those provided under the Regulation Q 
ceilings. In his opinion, relaxation of the regulatory language 
would amount to backing away from a plan that had been designed 
specifically to close loopholes. Since the regulatory language 

Otr c 
8/15/69 
-19-
could be circumvented through denominational exchanges, it admittedly 
amounted simply to a nuisance, but in his judgment that was a "good" 
nuisance since it provided a disincentive. To widen the gap through 
further amendment of the regulations would, as he saw it, run counter 
to public policy as announced in the action previously taken by the 
Board. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, amendment of Regulations D 
and Q to remove the parenthetical expression in question was approved, 
with Governor Robertson dissenting, effective immediately. A copy 
of the notice published in the Federal Register with regard to the 
amendments is attached as Item No. 11. 
After consideration of the type of press statement that 
might appropriately be issued, the Board authorized a press release 
in the form attached as Item No. 12. 
Civil Rights Commission. After referring to a hearing 
held by the U.S. Civil Rights Commission last December in which 
practices of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas had come into question, 
Governor Sherrill reported that a follow-up hearing had been held 
earlier this week. According to Mr. O'Connell, who had worked with 
the Reserve Bank at Governor Sherrill's request in preparing for the 
hearing, the Bank's presentation, which stressed accomplishments 

m
m 
2588 
8/15/69 
-20- 25 SI 
sirice last December and a more positive program of equal employment 
opportunity, appeared to have been received favorably. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

2589 
Item No. 1 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
8/15/69 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C 0 R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
AUG 15 1969 
First National Bank in Dallas, 
P. 0. Box 6031, 
Dallas, Texas. 75222 
Gentlemen: 
The F.oard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to First National Bank in Dallas, Dallas, 
Texas, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to 
operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of 
such Section and Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States or for obtaining deposits that x;cula otherwise be 
placed in the United States. It is also understood that there is 
to be no contact with the local public at the branch. In view of 
the unusual character of this operation, the foregoing permission 
is granted subject to continuing special observation and review 
by the Board and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified. 
The foregoing permission is also granted on the condition that 
adequate information covering the branch's operations will be 
maintained at your head office and will be available to the Board 
and its accredited representatives. The Board should be promptly 
notified of any modification in the branch's methods of operation. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before September 1, 1970, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Nassau. 

First National Bank in Dallas 
-2-
2590 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits 
payable only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the 
States of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt 
from any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 
and Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not subject 
to the reserve requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose 
of these exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United States 
banks to compete abroad with foreign banks. In these circumstances, 
it has long been and continues to be the policy of the Federal 
Reserve System to discourage deposits by United States residents 
at foreign branches of United States banks unless such deposits 
have been placed to serve a definite, necessary purpose in connection 
with foreign or international transactions outside the United States. 
As you are aware, with respev.t to the establishment of 
foreign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form 
of allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as 
foreign assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of the Boardrs concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
with the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investments 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restra int effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank and First 
Dallas International Banking Corporation, and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein". 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) EJi^etb L Ca/Riicaat} 
* 
_ 
i 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
o r THE 
8/15/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
AUG 15 1969 
Bankers International Corporation, 
16 Wall Street, 
New York, New York0 
10015 
Gentlemen; 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of August 8, 1969, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("BIC") to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly 
through your wholly-owned Delaware subsidiary ("DS") authorized in 
the Board's letter of March 10, 1969, all of the outstanding shares 
not now held by BIC or its subsidiaries of Rodo Investment Trust 
Ltd. ("Rodo"), London, England, at a cost of approximately $4,963,145, 
provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. In this connection, approval is also granted for the 
direct or indirect purchase and holding of shares cf Redo by your 
Corporation in excess of the applicable limitations set forth in 
the provisions of Section 25(a) [12 U.S.C. 615(c)] of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Rodo by BIC or DS is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That BIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in Rodo if Rodo at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
. and hold stock, or if Rodo establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in England or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to BIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Rodo as it may require from time 
to time; 

Bankers International Corporation -2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Rodo 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the sane manner as if Rodo were a corporation 
organized under Section .25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 
(4) That BIC shall not carry on its books, directly or 
indirectly, the shares of Rodo at a net amount in 
excess of its proportionate share of the book capital 
accounts of Rodo, after giving effect to the elimina-
tion of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by Rodo in England in the 
currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of Rodo and its subsidiaries. 
Should BIC acquire the stock of Rodo under the foregoing 
consent, the Board also approves the subsequent sale of such stock 
to DS. 
The Board has noted that your letters of June 30 and July 21, 
1969, included requests for permissions under and waivers from certain 
of the standard conditions for subsidiaries which are set forth above. 
However, in response to your letter of August 8, 1969, the foregoing 
consent has been considered and granted without any consideration of 
those additional requests (including any underwriting or dealing in 
stocks of companies doing business in the United States), and, there-
fore, is not to be taken as indicative of the Board?s attitude or 
possible position on those questions. You will be informed of the 
Board's decision on your additional requests in due course. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
Corporation, Bankers Trust Company, and Bankers Company of New York, 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. Furthermore, it is understood that any investment by DS under 

25<>3 
Bankers International Corporation 
-3-
vV^f1-'^:-. 
the foregoing consent will be governed by the principles set forth 
in Governor Brimmer's letter of January 3, 1969, to Mr. Alfred 
Brittain III, President of Bankers Trust Company. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. K en yon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 3 
8/15/69 
S-2099 
A D D R E S S 
O F F 1 C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
August 20, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
For the reasons stated in F.R.L.S. 240.02, examiners and 
assistant examiners are prohibited from using the credit cards, 
or similar borrowing plans, of any member State bank or national 
bank, or of any insured nonmember bank that is an affiliate of 
either a member State bank or a registered bank holding company. 
The Board has concluded that it would be permissible for 
examiners and assistant examiners to use bank credit cards issued 
by nonmember banks, not affiliated with any member bank or reg-
istered bank holding company, that are franchised to issue credit 
cards by a member bank or by a service corporation that is a 
subsidiary of a member bank. Under such an arrangement, a card 
holder would become indebted cnly to a nonmember bank or banks. 
Very truly yours, 
/ / 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

• B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
8/15/69 
S-2098 
OF 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
f?4LRESf: 
A D D R E S S 
D K F I C I A L 
C Q R P f . 5 P D N O E N C C 
T O 
T H E 
B l ^ A R D 
August 15, 1909. 
Dear Sir 
The letter dated July 7, 1969, which Fiscal Assistant Secretary 
Carlock sent to you and the other Presidents asking that silver dollars 
in the possession of the Reserve Banks, or subsequently received by them, 
be returned to the Treasury, has raised certain policy questions with 
regard to Federal Reserve Bank currency and coin exhibits. 
In the light of these questions, the Board feels it desirable 
to set forth the following views: 
1. There is no objection to the maintenance of currency 
and coin exhibits by the Reserve Banks, or to their retaining 
individual silver dollars or other pieces of coin and currency 
for actual use in such exhibits. 
2. Duplicate pieces of currency and coin which are in 
excess of exhibit needs should not be held for "trading" 
purposes, but instead should be returned to the Treasury. 
3. There is no objection to the Reserve Banks' using 
the currency and coin received in the ordinary course of 
business to fill out their exhibits, or to their purchas-
ing individual items from dealers or others for this purpose. 
4. It is inappropriate for the Reserve Banks to bid 
on miscellaneous collections of currency and coin offered 
for sale by executors of estates or others, and also in-
appropriate for them to trade or sell currency and coin to 
collectors and dealers. 
A copy of this letter is being sent to the President of each 
Reserve Bank; appropriate advice should be furnished to branches, if any. 
Very truly yours 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ATT, FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS. 

Rt^ . 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
C ~ 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 5 
8/15/69 
25 l* 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D H R E S P O N O E N C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 15, 1969. 
;) 
i I . . 
i. ; 
.' 
Mr. William J. Korsvik, 
Assistant Secretary, 
Federal Advisory Council, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Bill: 
The Board of Governors suggests the topics shown on the 
attached list for discussion at the meeting of the Federal Advisory 
Council on September 15, 1969, and the joint meeting of the Board 
and the Council on September 16. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Attachment. 

2 5 9 7 
p 
B. 
Suggested topics for Discussion at Meeting of 
Hotterel Advisory Council on September 15-16, 1969 
1. Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the general economic outlook 
for the fall and winter months end what ia their impression 
of the present state of general inflationary expectations? 
What are the Council's impressions regarding business plans 
for capital, expenditures and inventory investment? To what 
extent is such planning being influenced by (1) the avail-
ability and cost of tvoney, (2) current and prospective 
profits, and (3) uncertainties about the level of future 
product demand? 
In view of the general decline in n?w construction activity 
over recent months, does the Council believe that planning 
activity for future building has also been cut back? If so, 
what kinds of construction seem to be most affected? 
Do Council members have any evidence of difficulties for 
State or local governments caused by the scarcity of 
financing for ouch bodies? Are spending programs being 
held up and, if so, how significant are these delays? 
Banking developments. 
C. 
D. 
A. Uhat is the Council's assessment of the probable strength 
of business loan demand in the poriod ahead? To what 
extent do expected loan trends reflect bank efforts to 
ration funds as distinct from changes in customers' demands? 
B. What arc the Council's reactions to the Board's new 
regulations affecting loan PJP's, Federal funds, and Euro-
dollars? Is credit availability being influenced, and if 
so, to what extent? 
C. IIow does the Council view the rapid further prowth this 
year in the coraaercial paper market? Does the development 
.of this market mean 3 permanent loss of some bank loan 
customers and, if so, how important is this quantitatively? 
To what extent is commercial paper issued by one-bank hold-
ing companies or their subsidiaries being distributed on a 
retail basis by their bank affiliates? How does the Council 
view this development? 

2598 
-2-
D. With bank liquidity et historically low levels, how much 
difficulty are banks having in meeting pledging requirements 
for various types of deposits and borrowings? 
3. Regulatory matters. 
A. The Board would be interested in any comments the Council 
might have at this stage regarding the Truth in Lending 
regulation. 
B. Do Council members detect any growing restiver.ess on the 
part of bank3 concerning their membership in the Federal 
Reserve System? If so, what seem to be the main reasons 
for such bank dissatisfaction? 
* 
C. The Board would appreciate having any views the Council 
might have regarding the administration of the discount 
window under current circumstances. 
P. The Board would be interested in the views of council 
members concerning the adaiini stra ticn of Regulation Q, 
both under conditions of very restrictive monetary 
policy and also in circumstances where market interest 
rates might decline to end through levels thst vould 
make funds readily available through the issue of lsrge-
denomination CD's. 
4. Balance of payments. 
What are the Council's views on the effect of the marginal 
reserve requirement against Euro-dollars iu restraining the 
inflow and tempering a future outflow of funds? 
5. What are the Council's views on monetary and credit policy 
under current circumstances? 

.''of gov/. 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2.0551 
^599 
It era No. 6 
3/15/69 
S-2101 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 22j 1S63. 
Dear bir: 
of possi 
banks, 
been hab 
Reserve 
(perhaps 
funds as 
could le. 
amounts 
The Board has been informed recently of a number of cases 
bly severe liquidity problems that could arise at some member 
Such cases could be aggravated for particular banks that have 
itually heavy borrowers from sources other than the Federal 
and now find the availability of such funds sharply curtailed 
because of doubts on the part of their former suppliers of 
to the ability of the bank to repay). Such developments 
ad to requests for Feder?l Reserve credit in relatively large 
fcr extended periods. 
In the interest of a reasonably uniform and effective ap-
proach to these situations, the Board believes such cases should be 
dealt with along the lines of the following statement appearing on 
pages 17-1G of the July 126G Report of a System Committee on the 
"Reappraisal of the Federal Reserve Discount Mechanism": 
"Any member bank borrowing in an emergency 
situation will be under extensive administrative 
review. This review will include a program of 
coordination with the relevant supervisory and 
chartering authorities and will ordinarily take 
the form of counseling and such other direction 
as is needed to work out of the situation. Ad-
ministrative discipline may have to be applied in 
the case of an emergency caused by mismanagement or 
dishonesty (at least until the offending management 
is removed), but Federal Reserve efforts in an 
emergency situation would normally be geared to 
less drastic means of helping the member bank to 
reestablish a viable position. This will, in cost 
cases, require credit for longer than would be 
permissible, under the ordinary administration of 
temporary credit provision, but this will be ex-
pected and regarded as appropriate." 

2 6 0 0 
-2-
Thc foregoing applies only, of course, to emergency 
situations, '-'he Board believes thac when and if ouch emergency 
loans are granted, the Reserve Bank should participate actively 
with the primary supervisor in the development of a program for 
the timely solution of the bank's problems. I.'hen other means 
of obtaining requisite information are not regarded as adequate, 
the Reserve Bank should feel free in its discretion to send 
personnel into such a member bank to obtain die information 
needed to keep the System currently informed of the bank's 
progress. 
Uhi'.e it is realized that a situation of this kind 
may not always: be identifiable in the very early stages of a 
member bank's borrowing, the Board would appreciate being in-
formed, when the facts are known, of the underlying circumstances 
and any comments your Bank may care to make. In critical cases, 
timely supplemental reports would be of interest to the Board in 
addition to the regular quarterly reports of discount window 
activity. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS 0? ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS. 
•nilnfcained on l*!v:». hooki oC ~uah 

2601 
Item No. 7 
8/15/69 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. J] 
PART 210--COLLECTION OF CHECKS AND OTHER 
ITEMS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Recovery by Reserve. Banks of Certain Litigation Expenses 
1. Effective October 1, 1969, § 210.5 is amended by adding 
a paragraph (c) as follows: 
(c) Whenever any action or proceeding is brought in any court 
against a Federal Reserve Bank which has collected an item, based upon 
the alleged failure of the sender of such item to have the authority to 
make the warranty and the agreement referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this section, or upon any action taken by such Federal Reserve 3ank 
within the scope of its authority for the purpose of collecting such 
item, or upon any warranty or agreement with respect thereto made by 
such Federal Reserve Bank consistently with paragraph (b) of § 210.6 of 
this part, such Federal Reserve Bank may, upon the entry of a final 
judgment or decree in such action or proceeding, recover from the 
sender in the manner provided herein the amount of attorneys1 fees and 
other expenses of litigation actually incurred, and, in addition, any 
amount required to be paid by such Federal Reserve Bank under such 
judgment or decree, together with interest thereon. Such recovery may 
be effected by charging the amount thereof to any account of the sender 
maintained on the books of such Federal Reserve Bank (or if the sender 

2G 
-2-
is another Federal Reserve Bank, by entering a charge therefor against 
such other Federal Reserve Bank through the Interdistrict Settlement 
fund), provided only (1; that such Federal Reserve Bank shall have 
wade seasonable demand on the sender in writing to assume the defense 
of the action or proceeding, and (2) that the sender shall not have 
made any other provision acceptable to such Federal Reserve Bank for 
the payment of such amount. A Federal Reserve Bank against which any 
such charge has been entered through the Interdistrict Settlement Fund 
may recover from its sender, in any case herein provided, as if the 
action or proceeding against the Federal Reserve Bank which entered 
the charge had been brought against it. The failure of any Federal 
Reserve Bank to avail itself of the remedy provided by this paragraph 
shall not prejudice the enforcement by it in any other manner of the 
indemnity agreement referred to in paragraph (b) of this section. 
2a. The purpose of the amendment is to provide a procedure 
under which a Federal Reserve Bank that is sued in connection with a 
cash item collected by it may recover from the sending bank expenses 
such litigation and the amount of any adverse judgment by charging 
the account of the sending bank if the Reserve Bank has tendered 
defense of the suit to the sending bank and such tender has not been 
accepted. 
b. On April 22, 1969, notice of proposed rule making 
regarding a sender's agreement (§ 210.5) and return of cash items 
(§ 210.12) was published in the Federal Register (34 F.R. 6739). 

After consideration of all relevant material, including communications 
from interested persons, the Board of Governors has adopted § 210«5(c), 
as set forth above, and has deferred action on the proposed amendments 
to § 210.5(a) and to § 210.12. 
Adopted August 15, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Kenneth A, Kenyon 
jCfci c 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2604 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 8 
8/15/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 20, 1969 
°ear Sir: 
The Board of Governors has approved an amendment to section 
210.5 of its Regulation J relating to tenders of defense in litigation 
involving the Reserve Banks, to become effective October 1, 1969, in 
the form°in which such amendment was set forth in paragraph 2 of the 
attachment to the Board's letter of April 14, 1969. Enclosed is a 
copy of the amendment in the form in which it will be published in the 
Federal Register. It will be appreciated if you will have the amend-
ment printed in the usual slip-sheet form and distributed within your 
District. 
The Board has deferred action on the proposed amendments to 
Regulation J set forth in paragraphs 1 and 3 of the attachment to the 
Board's letter of April 14, 1969, regarding a procedure for the direct 
Return of unpaid items. No action was taken with respect to this matte: 
in view of the number of letters received by the Board from banks oppos-
ing the adoption of this proposal and particularly in view of the fact 
that the American Bankers Association, at the instance of which this 
Proposal was considered by the System, has now indicated objections to 
the proposal. It is understood that the desirability of such an amend-
ment to Regulation J will be given further consideration by the Subcom-
mittee on Collections and the Subcommittee on Commercial Law. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
' / 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
t-'." 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
B O A R D C F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 9 
8/15/69 
August 19, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board has considered the recommendations approved by the 
Conference of Presidents at its meeting on June 23, 1969--
(1)(a) That all Reserve Banks accrue interest on ad-
vances and collect such interest at the time of repayment 
Instead of computing and charging interest on a discount 
basis and that the rates of interest be established in 
accordance with existing practice applicable to discount 
rates, and (b) that all discount rate changes be made im-
mediately applicable to outstanding loans; 
(2) That all Reserve Banks forego use of formal appli-
cation forms in connection with advances to member banks; 
(3) That all Reserve Banks replace their existing form 
of promissory note by a continuing agreement that would not 
require execution at the time of each advance, except that 
the Reserve Banks would be free to obtain a promissory note 
for an emergency advance to a bank in a precarious condition; 
and 
(4) That all Reserve Banks continue the existing 
practice of not accepting custody receipts representing 
collateral held in the trust department of a borrowing 
member bank. 
The Board concurs in recommendation (4) that the existing 
practice of not accepting custody receipts as collateral for advances 
be continued. 
With respect to recommendations (1)(a) and (l)(b), the Board 
has concluded that it would not be desirable to take action at this par-
ticular time because of possible misunderstandings a3 to the import of 
such changes. 

ia j 
It is understood that the Ad Hoc Subcommittee of Counsel has 
been requested to undertake the drafting of an appropriate form of con-
tinuing agreement that might replace the execution of a member bank note 
at the time of each advance; and the Board believes that this project 
should be pursued. When Such a form of continuing agreement has been 
drafted and approved by the Reserve Banks, the Board will be prepared 
to consider further the proposal for the use of such an agreement in 
lieu of the execution of promissory note3, as well as the proposal for 
the elimination of application forms. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
2G-06 
2-
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

2607 
BDARD OF 
G D V E R N D R 5 
Or" 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
• . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 10 
8/15/69 
A O D R C I 9 
O r r t C I A L 
C Q R R C S P Q N O C N C K 
T O T H C 
B O A R D 
August 15, 196 9. 
Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery 
1100 Connecticut Avenue, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 20036 
Gentlemen: 
It is requested that your firm undertake, as promptly 
after January 1, 1970 as is convenient, an audit of the books 
and accounts of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System for the year 1969. 
No restrictions have been or will be placed by the 
Board upon your firm as to the scope of the audit or the manner 
in which it is to be conducted, and you will make the audit as 
extensive and in such manner as appears co you to be desirable 
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Com-
pensation will be on the basis of the fee customarily charged 
by your firm for audit work of this type. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary 
1 
o. 

Item No. 11 
8/15/69 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Regs. D, Qj 
PART 204—RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
PART 217 —INTEREST CN DEPOSITS 
Repurchase Agreements on Part Interests in Government 
and Agency Obligations 
1, Effective immediately, § 204.1(f) and § 217.1(f) are amended 
by striking in clause (2) thereof "(other than a part interest in such 
obligations)". 
2a. The purpose of the amendment is to eliminate the require-
ment that a member bank must transfer its entire interest in a particular 
obligation in order for a borrowing by it through a "sale" under repur-
chase agreement of direct obligations of, or obligations that are fully 
guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the United States or any 
agency thereof to be classified as a nondeposit borrowing. 
b. The amendment, which constitutes a minor relaxation of a 
recent amendment (published in the Federal Register of July 30, 1969, 
34 F.R. 12430) narrowing the scope of permissible nondeposit bank lia-
bilities on repurchase agreements, was adopted by the Board without 
following the procedures of section 553 of Title 5, United States Code, 
relating to notice, public participation, and deferred effective dates. 
Requiring a bank to transfer its entire interest in a Government or 
agency obligation In order for its liability to be classified as a non-
deposit borrowing can be avoided by the denominational exchange procedures 

vj 
nn-? 
*** j t >, i 
, 
2609 
«• 
s-i { 
is* 
.: c 
; ••r.s'.-Vii 
;•• 
» w » . * ' 
- 2 -
available with respect to such obligations. In the circumstances, the 
Board found that the time, inconvenience, and cost to both member banks 
and the Government that would be involved if the recent amendment became 
fully effective as earlier adopted would be contrary to the public interest. 
Adopted August 15, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
.i'.i I : , 
' • V * 4* vi i. 
(SEAL) 
i,. .• 
'V •>' X 
I.. 
\ O 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
A.; . ui 'i l,.; / !. 
.c • 
t : 

Item No. 12 
8/15/69 
For immediate release. 
August 15, 1969. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
issued a clarifying amendment to recently adopted regulatory provisions 
narrowing the exemptions under Regulation D (member bank reserves) and 
Regulation Q (interest on deposits) that are available to banks using 
repurchase agreements. The clarification will permit banks to continue 
to execute repurchase agreements on a part interest in Treasury or Federal 
agency obligations that are eligible for purchase by Reserve Banks, and 
to classify their liability thereon as a nondeposit borrowing. 
As issued by the Board on July 24, amendments to Regulations D 
and Q granted exemptions therefrom for repurchase agreements involving 
Tr easury or Federal agency obligations "other than a part interest in such 
obligations." The clarifying amendment deletes the phrase "other than a 
Part interest in such obligations." 
A repurchase agreement involves the sale of market instruments 
with an agreement to buy them back at a later date. 
The clarifying amendment constitutes a minor adaptation of the 
Provisions adopted during July and eliminates the requirement that a member 
bank must transfer its entire interest in a particular Treasury or Federal 
agency issue under this type transaction for the exemption to apply. 
-0-
