MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 22, 1972 

2579 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, September 22, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Regulation J. Mr. O'Connell reported on the latest developments 
with respect to the complaint for declaratory judgment and injunctive 
relief filed in the United States District Court for the District of 
Columbia on September 18, 1972, by the Independent Bankers Association 
of America and the Western Independent Bankers, in connection with 
implementation of amendments to the Board's Regulation J. Mr. Melnicoff 
indicated that interested parties might be in touch with individual 
members of the Board in an effort to work out a compromise settlement. 
If this should occur, it was agreed that such parties would be referred 
to the Board's General Counsel. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2580 
9/22/72 
-2-
Economic and financial review. The regular weekly economic 
and financial review was presented. Copies of the individual briefings 
have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the relevant 
statistical materials. 
Legislative review. Mr. Cardon reviewed matters of interest 
to the Board presently being considered by the Congress. 
International Monetary Fund-World Bank. Mr. Robert Solomon 
reported on matters relating to the annual meetings of the International 
Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Devel-
opment to be held in Washington during the week of September 24. It 
was noted that the Board would be entertaining the central bank 
representatives on September 27. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room 
at 2:45 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 

2581 
9/22/72 
-3-
Regional Check Processing Centers. On September 20, 1972, 
the Board announced that, because of the issuance of a court order 
temporarily restraining the implementation of amendments to Regulation J, 
Collection of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks, which 
had been scheduled to go into effect on September 21, the Board would 
likewise defer implementation of amendments to Regulation D, Reserves 
of Member Banks, that had been scheduled to become effective beginning 
on that date. The Regulation D amendments would have released reserves 
to offset the decreased availability of funds that would stem from the 
Regulation J changes. A number of banks had now objected to voluntary 
membership in the Regional Check Processing Centers, on the ground that 
they were not receiving the reserve reduction they had anticipated. 
After discussion at today's meeting, it was agreed that every 
effort would be made to maintain the existing RCPC membership and that 
it should be pointed out that any banks indicating a desire to withdraw 
would lose the benefits conferred by membership in the RCPC's. It was 
also agreed to send a telegram to this effect to the Reserve Banks; 
a copy is attached as Item No. 1. Attached as Item No. 2 is a copy 
of a statement issued by the Board on September 25. 
The Chairman indicated that, to the extent possible, problems 
associated with the current difficulty regarding implementation of 
the changes in Regulations D and J should be delegated to the Payments 

2 * 5 8 2 
9/22/72 
-4-
Mechanism Committee, consisting of Governor Mitchell, Chairman, and 
Governors Sheehan and Bucher. It was agreed that any matters that the 
Committee felt it could not handle would be brought to the attention 
of the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M 
9/22/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S OF T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
September 22, 1972 
Residents, all Federal Reserve Banks and 
Vice Presidents in Charge of Branches 
^anks and branches) Further in regard to RCPC operations. 
Principle 
immediate funds payment on presentment as well as all the other principles 
^bodied in the guidelines for RCPC's should remain inviolable for RCPC 
Membership and benefits. Defecting banks who wish to withdraw voluntary 
freements should be urged to continue and await outcome of court action. 
Reserve Banks most concerned with this problem are those with recently 
°r soon to be activated RCPC's. 
A 
»r 
(signed) MELNICOFF 
MELNICOFF 

Item No. 2 
9/22/72 
For immediate release 
September 25, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
today issued the attached statement relating to its amendments to 
Regulations I) and J which provide, respectively, for a restructuring 
of reserve requirements and new check collection procedures. 

2585 
STATEMENT OF THE BOARD CF GOVERNORS 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
RELATING TO AMENDMENTS TO REGULATIONS D AND J 
Last Tuesday, the U.S. District Court for the District of 
Columbia granted a temporary restraining order which had the effect 
of preventing the Federal Reserve System from implementing amendments 
to Regulation J. The order, which also caused the Board to stay the 
accompanying reductions in member bank reserve requirements, has 
created uncertainty, particularly in areas where Regional Check Pro-
cessing Centor0 (RCPCs) were getting under way. The Board regrets that 
despite a long period of discussion and analysis of the changes, and the 
Presentation and consideration of many alternatives, this last~inimite 
fiction was taken. Last week, thousands of banks had to revise planned 
portfolio adjustments, loan extensions and demand deposit accounting 
arrangements made in the expectation that the D and J proposals would go 
into effect according to schedule. 
The Board is particularly concerned over any delay in the 
scheduled switch-over to Regional Check Processing Centers for overnight 
clearance of checks. Over the last two years, many hundreds of banks 
have been participating voluntarily in these regional centers, accepting 
the responsibility for Immediate payment. They have demonstrated the 
usefulness and viability of this concept. Payment for checks on pre-
sentation in immediately available funds is a procedure now followed fox 
85 per cent of the dollar volume, cf the nation's transactions and, the 
Board believes, will ultimately be universal. The Board urges all banks 
who panned to participate in an RCPC to go forward with their plans, 

2588 
The Board of Governors has stated repeatedly that it is 
committed to a better payments system and a more rational and equit-
able. reserve structure. The present delay in our efforts to achieve 
a system that will place all banks on a more equal footing, while pro-
viding better service to the public and lower cost of operation is 
unfortunate, but the Board is taking every step available to it to 
achieve an early resolution of the issues now in litigation. The Board 
believes that the overwhelming majority of bankers support—and the public 
•interest requires—its continuing efforts to achieve payment and reserve 
^oqurl reman t reform * 
- 0 -
