MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 2, 1971 

1691 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Friday, July 2, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mrs. Koester, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual 
briefings. 
•. • .. 
had 
di;icu:i4-~d HZ 
•' 
uveed t;; ^ 
nt j ? a * 
Mr. Rippey then briefed the Board on pertinent legislative 
matters presently being considered by the Congress. 
;..•>! 
•'! I.: Cribu iV.d CO zh aO<'fv< f---ir,i COp'.-^ • • -r^uo \ -aa • 
In connection with this report, the Board authorized the sending 
j.-.z ru.ij •;;!). K')t t , ffc<;i Mr. Hoi!, a fid co C^v : 'uar Sha.e cA' a/iiU 
of a letter from Vice Chairman Robertson to Chairman Sparkman of the 
>*,': iMcacuCiv-.-s OUcctur 
-irA ^ian^d r.-mers1; ;i ^^.noirariUu-v
Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs regarding pend-
ca?>„-d .inly 1\ VJ?l, .from Covar.ior lih/tkzlii zo 
i^ard oa the subject 
ing legislation relating to emergency loan guarantees. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also attended. 

±169 
7/2/71 
-2-
The establishment without change by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston on June 28, 1971, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of New 
York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and San Francisco on July 1, 1971, of 
the rates on advances and discounts in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board proceeded, with limited staff attendance, to discuss 
actions taken or contemplated by the Manager of the System Open Market 
Account in the light of the current economic policy directive adopted 
by the Federal Open Market Committee at its meeting held on June 29, 
1971. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Holland then withdrew from 
the meeting. 
The Board returned to consideration of the proposed staff 
reorganization that had been discussed at the two preceding meetings. 
Prior to this meeting, and pursuant to those previous discussions, 
there had been distributed to the Board members copies of a memorandum 
dated June 30, 1971, from Mr. Holland to Governor Sherrill entitled 
"Appointment of Executive Director and related matters"; a memorandum 
dated July 1, 1971, from Governor Sherrill to the Board on the subject 
"Suggested Reorganization of the Office of the Secretary"; and a draft 
staff organization chart as of August 15, 1971. 

1693 
7/2/71 
-3-
Copies of the two memoranda and the organization chart have 
been placed in the confidential files of the Secretary's Office. 
Included in the memoranda were recommendations as follows: 
1. That the Board create within its staff an Office 
of Executive Director, effective August 15, 1971, and that 
Robert C. Holland be appointed as Executive Director. 
2. That the following positions be assigned to the 
Office of Executive Director: 
Deputy Executive Director 
Defense Planning Coordinator (Gordon B. Grimwood) 
Director of Equal Employment Opportunity 
(William W. Layton) 
Planning staff: 
Assistant to the Executive Director 
(Paul M. Metzger) 
Technical Assistant (Sandra Koester) 
Administrative Assistant (Joan M. Hobbs) 
Secretaries (4) 
With the exception of the Deputy Executive Director, all 
of the foregoing personnel would be transferred from the 
existing staff of the Office of the Secretary. 
3. That it be understood that the Executive Director 
would have responsibility for overseeing the ongoing work 
of the staff members who had been designated by the Board 
as Program Directors, to the extent that their time was 
allocated to functioning as such: 
Program Director for Banking Structure 
(Brenton C. Leavitt) 
Program Director for Contingency Planning 
(Gordon B. Grimwood) 
Program Director for Management Systems 
(Harry J. Halley) 
Director of Equal Employment Opportunity 
(William W. Layton) 

7/2/71 
-4-
4. That Tynan Smith, presently Assistant Director, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation, be appointed 
Secretary of the Board, with annual salary at the rate 
of $36,000, effective August 15, 1971. 
5. That initially, at least, all budget positions 
now existing in the Office of the Secretary, with the 
exception of those that would be transferred to the Office 
of Executive Director, continue to be assigned to the 
Office of the Secretary. 
6. That the staff be instructed to formulate and 
submit to Governor Sherrill for review and approval pro-
rated budgets for the Office of Executive Director and 
the Office of the Secretary for the period August 15-
December 31, 1971, subject to the understanding that the 
two budgets, on a combined basis, would not contemplate 
expenditures significantly in excess of those that would 
have been contemplated for the Office of the Secretary, 
except as allowance was made for the position of Deputy 
Executive Director and for the overlap in service by 
Mr. Smith and Mr. Kenyon. 
Discussion developed general agreement with the outline of the 
.id 1 Ci'i rvrd , 
proposed reorganization program, with two exceptions. 
Board members 
favored the new office of chief of staff exercising only planning and 
coordinating authority over the specialized staff of the Board Members' 
Offices, rather than the direct supervision suggested in Governor 
Sherrill's memorandum. 
In addition, views differed as to the most 
desirable title for the proposed chief of staff, with two members 
favoring "Staff Director", one member favoring "Director of Planning 
and Coordination", one member favoring "Managing Director", and one 
favoring "Executive Director." It was concluded that the best course 
was to leave the question of proper title open for resolution at a 

1695 
7/2/71 
-5-
full meeting of the Board. In the interim, a check was to be made of 
the titles and content of similar positions in other agencies. 
Thereupon the Board approved the staff reorganization plan as 
outlined in Mr. Holland's and Governor Sherrill's memoranda, with the 
agreed-upon modifications noted above, and including agreement in 
principle to consider favorably an anticipated forthcoming recommenda-
tion from Governor Sherrill to appoint David C. Melnicoff, currently 
First Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, as 
deputy chief of staff. 
(A revised staff organization chart dated July 2, 1971, 
depicting the approved reorganization plan as of August 15, 1971, 
has been placed in the Secretary's confidential files.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

±696 
/i^fJS^'. 
B O A R D OF D O V E R N O R 5 
,T 
. 
/i^^yl^xO,. 
Item No„ 1 
or the 
, y 
Tk\ 
FEDERAL R E 5 E R V E 5Y5TEM 
7/2/71 
w * 
^wrrrrrrm^: 
WASHINGTON, •. C. 20551 
. 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
*. -ml re.^ . • 
July 2, 1971 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking, 
Housing and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In the absence of Chairman Burns, I am writing to reply to 
your letter of July 1 regarding additional hearings on S. 2202, a bill 
to authorize emergency loan guarantees to major business enterprises. 
In substance, S. 2202 conforms closely to S. 2016, the bill 
the Board submitted to Congress, which you and Senator Tower were kind 
enough to introduce. 
Both bills would establish an Emergency Loan 
Guarantee Board with authority to issue up to $2 billion in guarantees 
The administrative arrangements are the same, except that S. 2202 
includes specific provisions relating to conditions to be imposed to 
protect the financial interests of the Government. 
Under S. 2016, the 
Emergency Loan Guarantee Board would have implied authority to impose 
such conditions, but there are advantages in including specific guide-
lines on this subject in the legislation. 
S. 2202 includes provisions limiting maturity of guaranteed 
loans to five years, with renewal up to five years permissible. 
These 
provisions seem reasonable. 
The eligibility criteria in S. 2202 are essentially the same 
as in S. 2016, including the basic test of whether the loan is needed 
to avoid the possibility of serious and adverse effects on the economy. 
While we note differences in language between S. 2202 and S. 2016 
relating to eligibility we do not regard them as substantial. 
Perhaps the main difference between the two bills is in the 
sections dealing with notice to Congress (section 9 of S. 2016 and 
section 12 of S. 2202). As Chairman Burns testified, the Board be-
lieves that Congress should have an opportunity to review proposed 

169 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
guarantees "to the fullest extent consistent with the need for prompt 
action." As he recognized in answering questions on this point, any 
procedure you decide upon will involve a compromise between two con-
flicting considerations. 
Congress is best able to decide how to recon-
cile the need for adequate time for its review of guarantee proposals 
with the need to make sure that action can be taken as promptly as nec-
essary in all circumstances. 
After discussing S. 2202 with other members of the Board, 
I am authorized to say that the Board would favor its enactment. 
Inasmuch as Chairman Burns will be out of the city on the 
three days you mentioned in your letter, and I know of nothing that 
the Board can add to the testimony already presented on this legislation, 
I would hope that this letter will meet the needs of your Committee 
and a further appearance will not be necessary. 
Sincerely, 
(signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
