PR 609 
(Rev. 
3 / 7 0 ) 
Minutes for 
July 21, 1970 
• '•'J.-*-. 
• 
•• - - • 
.... ';.-'.• ..!. 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
t- 
, 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

£186 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, July 21, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 
2:10 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mrs . Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Testimony by Chairman Burns. The members of the Board had been 
furnished a draft of a statement on economic and financial conditions 
to be presented by Chairman Burns before the Joint Economic Committee 
on July 23, 1970. 
A number of suggestions were made relating generally to tone 
and emphasis. 
(These included suggestions reported on behalf of Gover-
nor Brimmer by the Secretary.) Certain statistical series used were 
discussed, including their consistency with other indices released to 
the public and the prominence given changes in particular economic 

2187 
7/21/70 
-2-
indicators. A number of refinements were agreed upon in language 
describing the state of the economy and expectations for the near 
future. Among other passages that elicited special comment were 
those relating to the possible need for emergency credit and the 
course of the U. S. balance of payments. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
the statement would be reviewed in the light of the views expressed 
and presented in a final form satisfactory to the Chairman. 
(Note: 
A copy of the statement, in the form in which it was presented, has 
been placed in the Board's files.) 
Bank of Lansing. Mr. O'Connell referred to the action taken 
by the Board on June 30, 1970, authorizing the institution of cease-
and-desist proceedings against the Bank of Lansing, Lansing, Michigan. 
He reported that the directors of the bank had agreed to the filing 
of a consent and that the necessary documents had been executed on 
behalf of the bank. The process would now be completed by the affix-
ing of required signatures on behalf of the Board. 
The affixing of the required signatures on behalf of the Board 
was noted without objection. 
(Note: The executed documents have been 
Placed in the Board's files.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
