Minutes for 
February 1 j
J
M 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minuces of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Ma isel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
M y 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes. 

550 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, February 19, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 3:30 p.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Ml 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Smith, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finanee 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Marinaccio and Noble and Mrs. Duerson of 
the Legal Division 
Mr. Lawrence of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. McClellan of the Office of the Controller 

t r c M 
2/19/70 
-2-
Reports on competitive factors. 
A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The First National Bank of 
Mooresville, Mooresville, North Carolina, into First National Bank of 
Lincolnton, Lincolnton, North Carolina, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. 
The conclusion read 
as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of First National Bank 
of Lincolnton and The First National Bank of Mooresville would 
eliminate virtually no present or potential competition. 
The 
proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Bank of Simpsonville, Simpsonville, Kentucky, into Citizens 
Bank, Shelbyville, Kentucky, was approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion stating 
that consummation of the proposed merger would have no adverse competi-
tive effects. 
Application of First National Corporation. 
There had been 
distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's 
approval on January 28, 1970, of the application of First National Corpo-
ration, Appleton, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of Freedom State Bank, 
Freedom, Wisconsin. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 1 and 2. 
Application of Society Corporation. 
There had been distributed 
drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's approval on 

Oi.^ Aw 
2/19/70 
-3-
January 22, 1970, of the application of Society Corporation, Cleveland, 
Ohio, to acquire shares of The Xenia National Bank, Xenia, Ohio. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 3 and 4. 
Bank merger and holding company applications. 
A staff task force 
established for the purpose of studying the processing of bank merger 
and holding company applications had noted in a memorandum dated December 9, 
1969, that the following alternative organizational arrangements might 
be considered: 
(1) retention of the organizational status quo; (2) con-
solidation of merger and holding company case work and analysis in an 
existing division; (3) formation of a new division; (4) appointment of 
a program director; or (5) establishment of a program management committee. 
The task force favored the last of these alternatives, at least as an 
interim measure, and recommended the establishment of a program manage-
ment committee composed of one offical (and an alternate) from each of 
three divisions: 
Supervision and Regulation, Legal, and Research and 
Statistics. 
The committee would be responsible for the orderly scheduling 
of holding company and merger case work at the Board and for the coordina-
tion of efforts on specific cases. 
In addition, it would have overall 
responsibility for planning and evaluating the entire banking structure 
program, including the development of principles and guidelines. 
In addition, to meet expanded responsibilities contemplated as 
a result of the probable enactment of one-bank holding company legislation, 

553 
2/19/70 
-10-
the task force suggested consideration of the following broad functional 
approaches to staff organization: 
(a) increases in staff, (b) centraliza-
tion of direction, (c) delegation of authority, preferably to the Board's 
staff, to act on certain cases in accordance with specified guidelines, 
and (d) selectivity in staff assignments. 
The task force also suggested that the Reserve Banks be requested 
to take such steps as would be necessary to assure the efficient organiza-
tion of adequate resources to meet existing and future demands. 
In a cover memorandum dated December 9, 1969, Governor Sherrill 
endorsed the recommendation that a program management committee be appointed 
and agreed that delegation of authority was called for, particularly in 
view of the expected increase in workload. 
At today's meeting Governor Sherrill, after reiterating his 
endorsement of the recommendation of the task force, asked Mr. Holland 
to review the issues. 
Mr. Holland summarized the possible alternatives discussed in the 
memorandum and stated that it was the majority view of staff who had 
worked on the matter that, at least for the time being, the establishment 
°f a program management committee would be the most appropriate step 
toward accomplishing the desired objectives. 
Then, after experience had 
been gained, the Board and staff could reevaluate the arrangement. 
Chairman Burns then called for the views of representatives of 
the three divisions principally concerned. 
Messrs. Solomon and Leavitt 

554 
2/19/70 
-10-
emphasized the need for greater centralization in order to assure the 
constant flow of applications through the various stages. 
M r . Hexter 
expressed the view that perhaps no significant gain would be achieved 
by changing from the present arrangements; in any event, he and 
M r . 0
1 C o n n e l l , who had been a member of the task force, would not be 
inclined to centralize beyond the committee concept. 
Messrs. Partee 
and Shull spoke against any arrangement so centralized as to separate 
economists from the Research Division and fold them into another organiza-
tional structure. 
However, the recommendation of the task force appeared 
acceptable to them. 
Several questions then were raised regarding procedures presently 
followed in the handling of holding company and merger applications, both 
at the Board and at the Reserve Banks, and the probable effect on those 
procedures of the proposed arrangement. 
The staff views having been presented, it was understood that 
the matter would be considered further by the Board in executive session. 
Delegation of authority. 
In a memorandum dated February 18, 
1970, Governor Sherrill recommended that the Board adopt the following 
measures as part of an effort to expedite the handling of matters coming 
before the Board: 
(1) 
Delegate to the Director of the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation authority to approve those competitive 
factor reports on which there was unanimous agreement within 
the staffs of the appropriate Reserve Bank and the Board that 
the merger in question would have no adverse competitive effect. 

2/19/70 
-6-
(2) 
Give advance approval to the reestablishraent by 
Reserve Banks of rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules, until such time as a change in rates 
was recommended by a Reserve Bank or the Board advised the 
Secretary that the advance approval had been terminated. 
(3) 
Delegate to the Secretary of the Federal Open 
Market Committee (or in his absence the Deputy Secretary) 
authority to approve, subject to certain guidelines, Com-
mittee policy record entries for inclusion in the Board's 
Annual Report and for release to the press. 
Governor Sherrill also recommended that he be charged with 
responsibility of developing a program for the periodic reporting by 
each delegee on the performance of his delegated functions. 
During discussion of the recommendation relating to delegation 
of authority to transmit certain competitive factor reports, alternative 
approaches were considered, including a suggestion by Governor Maisel 
that such items should be handled under an arrangement whereby they 
would be brought to the attention of the Board by way of a "consent 
calendar," which could be acted on promptly unless any member of the 
Board raised a question. 
However, other members of the Board pointed 
out that under such a procedure Board members would not be relieved of 
the necessity to read and familiarize themselves with the individual items. 
There was then a suggestion, supported by a majority of the Board, that 
Governor Sherrill's recommendation be amended so as to require distribu-
tion to the Board members of proposed reports, with a period of, say, 
three days allowed after which the report would be sent under delegated 
authority if no question was raised. 

o 5 G 
2/19/70 
-7-
Governor Sherrill's recommendation, as amended, was approved, 
Governor Brimmer dissenting. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that 
the Board should exercise extreme caution to avoid an appearance that 
it was not concerned about, and duly attentive to, its responsibilities 
in the bank supervisory field. 
It seemed to him that the principle of 
delegation was appropriate in connection with Board internal affairs 
and certain intra-System relationships. 
However, when it came to delega-
tions in an area such as bank supervision, where relationships with 
outside parties, including other Government agencies, were involved, he 
would not want to create an impression that the Board was abdicating its 
responsibilities. 
Further, in the process of delegation, Board members 
were likely to lose personal expertise on current issues. 
With regard to the recommendation for advance approval of the 
reestablishment by Reserve Banks of existing discount rates under certain 
circumstances, it was pointed out that no substantial saving of time or 
effort would be achieved, and it was decided to continue the current 
procedure. 
The third proposal, relating to the processing of Federal Open 
Market Committee policy record entries, as detailed in a memorandum from 
M r . Broida dated February 16, 1970, was approved unanimously. 
Governor Sherrill was authorized to develop a program for effec-
tive surveillance of the exercise of all delegated functions. 
Philadelphia salaries. 
Unanimous approval was given to recommended 
salaries for officers, including new officers and those being promoted 

557 
2/19/70 
-10-
or given merit increases, at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
as set forth in a memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administra-
tion dated February 17, 1970. A copy of the letter subsequently sent 
to the Philadelphia Reserve Bank is attached as Item No. 5. 
Home Loan Bank obligations. 
Mr. Holland reported that Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board officials had contacted him to report that their 
agency intended to announce an increase in minimum denominations of Home 
Loan Bank obligations from $5,000 to $10,000 and to ask if the Board of 
Governors would have any objection to such an action. 
Board members 
indicated they felt this was clearly a matter for the Home Loan Bank 
Board to decide and directed Mr. Holland to reply that the Board of Governors 
would not want to interpose any objection to such action. 
(Secretary's 
Note: 
The indicated reply was promptly conveyed to the appropriate Home 
Loan Bank Board officials.) 
Chairman Burns then called the Board into executive session, and 
all members of the staff except M r . Holland withdrew. 
The Chairman reopened consideration of Governor Sherrill's memo-
randum of December 9, 1969, regarding a program for dealing with bank 
merger and holding company applications. 
In the ensuing discussion there 
was general agreement that greater centralization of direction was called 
for to achieve needed improvement in Federal Reserve performance in this 
area. 
Among the alternative organizational proposals to serve this pur-
Pose, a program management committee was viewed unfavorably by the Board 

2/19/70 
-9-
\.7\ -
members, but considerable sympathy was expressed for the establishment 
of a program director. 
The view was also expressed that progress in the 
handling of merger and holding company cases could best be made by vesting 
overall responsibility therefor in a member of the Board. After further 
discussion the Board voted to vest general responsibility for the handling 
of bank merger and holding company applications in Governor Sherrill, 
with the understanding that he would select the personnel and the precise 
organizational form to function under him in the processing of cases. 
Chairman Burns then raised for consideration the proposed delega-
tion of administrative responsibilities of the Board that had been distrib-
uted under cover of Mr. Holland's memorandum of February 19, 1970. 
Mr. Hackley rejoined the meeting for the discussion of this item. 
The 
Chairman noted that he had discussed this subject with Board members on 
several occasions since he had assumed office. 
The proposal before the 
Board today involved a delegation action by the Board itself, but he wished 
the Board members to know that he reserved judgment as to the desirability 
of requesting Presidential action under the Reorganization Act to vest 
administrative authority in the Chairman at some later date. 
Views differed somewhat among the Board members as to the need 
for and desirability of such a delegation action at this time, but no 
E j e c t i o n was expressed to the general principle of Board delegation of 
its administrative responsibilities to the Chairman. 
In discussion it 
W a s made clear that the administrative authority to be delegated did not 

559 
2/19/70 
-10-
include areas covered by outstanding Board rules, regulations, or state-
ments of policy such as travel, equal employment opportunity, and standards 
of conduct, nor did it extend to such matters as approval of travel plans 
of individual Governors. 
Two changes were suggested in the language of the proposed delega-
tion to clarify its meaning, namely, substitution of the word "responsi-
bilities" for "functions" wherever the latter was used, and the addition 
of a sentence in Section 2 , "Limitations," stating that the delegation 
i ' 
did not extend to the powers vested in the Board to exercise supervision 
over the Federal Reserve Banks. 
With these revisions, the Board voted 
unanimously to approve the draft delegation of its administrative 
responsibilities to the Chairman. 
A copy of the delegation is attached 
as Item No. 6. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Subsequent to the meeting Chairman Burns, acting under the Board's 
delegation of administrative responsibilities to him, redelegated to 
Governor Sherrill the latter's present responsibilities for the Board's 
internal administrative affairs, subject to periodic consultation with 
the Chairman. 
He also reaffirmed, until further notice, all other out-
standing delegations and assignments relating to the Board's administrative 
duties and responsibilities. 

560 
Item No. 1 
2/19/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST NATIONAL CORPORATION, 
Appleton, Wisconsin, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 
Per c^nt or more of the voting shares 
of Freedom State Bank, Freedom, 
Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK SHARES BY 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
• 
• 
' 
. i i 
' 
. 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
<1 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
| 
• . y 
. ; - _ .. . , .... ... 
, . 
• , 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First National 
Corporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
^ore of the voting shares of Freedom State Bank, Freedom, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking for 
the State of Wisconsin and requested his views and recommendation. The 
t 

5 6 1 
Commissioner indicated that he had no objection to approval of the 
application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 13, 1969 (34 Federal Register 18203), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application w as 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this20th day of February 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrlll. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
Chairman Burns was not a member of the Board on the date 
of the Board's decision. 
v 
n v 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

o b / g 
BOARD OF doVEibioks 
Item No. 2 
2/19/70 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST NATIONAL CORPORATION, APPLETON, WISCONSIN, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
FREEDOM STATE BANK, FREEDOM, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
First National Corporation, Appleton, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U,S.C, 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Freedom State Bank, Freedom, 
Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of receipt of 
the application to the Commissioner of Banking for the State of Wisconsin, 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner indicated 
that he had no objection to approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part 
°f the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, the 

5 « 3 
effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially to 
lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any 
other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds 
that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are 
clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into 
consideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 10 
largest banking organizations in Wisconsin, all of which are bank 
holding companies, control aggregate deposits of $3.3 billion, an 
amount equal to 39.1 per cent of the deposits held by all banks in the 
State.I' 
Applicant controls four banks with total deposits of $94.8 
million. Bank has deposits of $2 million which represent less than 
•1 per cent of the State's total deposits. Upon acquisition of Bank, 
Applicant would be the eighth largest banking organization in the State, 
controlling 1.1 per cent of State deposits. 
Bank's only office is located in Freedom, in the southeastern 
S ection of Outagamie County, Wisconsin. It serves an area with a 
A/ Banking data are as of June 30, 1969, unless otherwise noted, and 
t eflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the 
Board to date. 

5 S 4 
population of 4,500 which includes the town and the surrounding area 
within a five-mile radius. There are no banking competitors within 
Bank's service area. However, three banks located eight miles south 
compete with Bank; two of these have deposits of $6 million each, and 
the third has deposits of $12 million. Bank is considerably smaller, 
based on its total deposits, than any of the competing banks, and ranks 
third among the four banks in its rate of deposit and loan growth over 
the last five years. It appears that affiliation with Applicant would 
strengthen Bank's ability to compete with the area banks without undue 
adverse effects on any of the competing banks. 
Applicant's closest subsidiaries to Bank are The First National 
Bank of Seymour, located 11 miles north of Freedom, and the First 
National Bank of Appleton, located 16 miles southwest of Bank. There 
is no significant competition between Bank and any of Applicant's present 
subsidiaries, and because of Bank's size, its geographical location, and 
branching restrictions under Wisconsin law, no substantial degree of 
future competition appears likely to develop between them. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f the present proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance 
°f any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize the business of 
banking in any part of the United States, and would not restrain trade, 
substantially lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly in any 
S ection of the country. 

rrj'tz 
o b o 
Financial and managerial re sour 
prospects. -
The financial condition, management, and prospects of Applicant and 
its subsidiary banks are regarded as generally satisfactory. 
The financial condition of Bank is satisfactory, as is its 
Present management. However, no provision has been made by Bank for 
management succession, and its only full-time executive officer is past 
the usual retirement age. Applicant's proposal would provide a means 
of resolving Bank's management problem, thereby enhancing its prospects. 
The Board concludes that considerations under the banking 
factors, as they concern Applicant, are consistent with approval of the 
application, and, as they pertain to Bank, lend weight in favor of such 
action. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Consummation 
°f the proposal would have no significant effect on customers served by 
Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
The village of Freedom has a population of 325 and is situated 
29 
* miles southwest of Green Bay, and approximately 16 miles northeast 
°f Appleton. The town and surrounding area are agriculturally oriented, 
and dairy farming is the principal industry. A few supporting retail 
and service establishments in Freedom also contribute to the economy 
°f the community. 
It appears that all major banking needs of the area are being 
S erved at the present time. However, Applicant proposes to improve present 

566 
-5-
banking convenience by enabling Bank tb offer full trust services, estate 
Planning, and computer services. Applicant will also serve as
;a source 
for well-trained personnel, and its plans for greater etfapkasis on 
business development should benefit the local area. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
communities served by Bank provide some weight in favor of approval of 
the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
February 20, 1970. 

567 
Item No. 3 
2/19/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
SOCIETY CORPORATION,
 
1 
Cleveland, Ohio, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of up to 
' 
100 per cent of the voting shares
 
1 
(less directors' qualifying shares) 
' 
o f The Xenia National Bank, Xenia,
 
1 
Ohio. 
» 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF DANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C, 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Society 
Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, a registered bank holding company, 
f°r the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of up to 100 per 
C e n t (less directors
1 qualifying shares) of the voting shares of 
^ e Xenia National Bank, Xenia, Ohio. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
^ e Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
c°mptroller recommended approval of the application. 

568 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 15, 1969 (34 Federal Register 18339), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 20th day of February 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Martin and Governor Sherrill. 
Chairman Burns was not a member of the Board on the date of 
t h e Board's decision. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

5 G 9 
Item No. 4 
2/19/70 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
SOCIETY CORPORATION, CLEVELAND OHIO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE XENIA NATIONAL BANK, XENIA, OHIO 
STATEMENT 
Society Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio ("Applicant") a 
registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of up to 
100 per cent (less directors' qualifying shares) of the voting shares 
The Xenia National Bank, Xenia, Ohio ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of receipt of 
cr*e application to the Comptroller of the Currency, and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of the 
Application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
Monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
P
art of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

-2-
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communi-
ties 
to be served. In each case the Board is required to take into 
consideration the financial and managerial resources and future pros-
pects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant 
Is the second largest holding company and the fifth largest banking 
organization in Ohio. Its five subsidiary banks hold aggregate 
1/ 
deposits of $831 million, 
which represent 4.2 per cent of deposits 
held by all Ohio banks. The six registered bank holding companies 
and the 10 largest banking organizations in Ohio, hold, respectively, 
per cent and 44.3 per cent of such deposits. Upon consummation 
the proposed transaction, Applicant will hold 4.3 per cent of the 
deposits held by all Ohio banks. It is reasonably concluded, there-
fore, that Applicant's acquisition of Bank will increase the concen-
tration of State banking resources by only an insignificant amount. 
y 
All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, refer to insured 
commercial banks, and include all holding company applications 
aPproved by the Board. 

571 
-5-
Bank, with deposits of approximately $20 million, maintains 
its head office and one branch in Xenia, Greene County, Ohio. Bank, 
the second largest of six banks located in the County, holds 22.5 per 
cent of all Greene County bank deposits. Applicant's closest subsidiary to 
Bank is The Springfield Bank (deposits $70 million), located in 
Springfi eld, Clark County, Ohio, which is contiguous to Greene County. 
s P U n g f i eld Bank and Bank are separated by a distance of 19 miles, 
however, and alternative banking services are available in the inter-
vening area. Neither bank draws a significant amount of business from 
the area served by the other. All other subsidiaries of Applicant are 
located at least 130 miles from Bank. The Board 
concludes, therefore, 
that there is no substantial existing competition between Bank and 
Present subsidiaries of Applicant that will be eliminated by con-
summation of the proposed transaction. In view of the Ohio law 
restricting the establishment of de novo branches across county lines, 
it appears that consummation of the proposal will not reduce potential 
competition to any significant extent. 
This is Applicant's initial entry into Greene County. The 
dumber of banking alternatives in Greene County will not be reduced 
a s a result of the proposed transaction; nor does it appear that the 
Proposed acquisition will have any undue adverse competitive effect 
the remaining Greene County banks, four of which are reasonably 
comparable in size to Bank. 

r- t-j.y 
-4-
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consum-
mation of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly 
nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any area, and would not 
substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, nor 
restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant's financial condition, together with that of its subsidiary 
banks, is considered to be generally satisfactory. Applicant's 
management and prospects, together with those if its subsidiaries, 
are regarded as favorable. Bank is well-managed, its financial con-
dition is satisfactory, and its prospects are regarded as favorable. 
Considerations under the banking factors, therefore, are 
regarded as consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of the proposed transaction would not affect customers 
located within the areas served by Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
There are a number of banking services that are not 
Presently being offered to residents of Greene County by banks 
located therein, including services relating to trusts, international 
banking, 
data processing and investment advice. Applicant states 
that it intends to make these additional services available to 

573 
-5-
Greene County residents through Bank. Also, the increased lending 
capacity Applicant intends to make available to customers in the area, 
through participation loans between Bank and other subsidiaries of 
Applicant, should reasonably result in benefits to Greene County 
borrowers. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
factors, therefore, weigh somewhat in favor of approval of the appli-
cation. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest, and that 
the application should be approved. 
February 20, 1970. 

BOARD • F GOVERNORS 
Item No. 5 
• F T H E 
2/19/70 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 26, 1970 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. David P. Eastburn, 
Senior Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear Mr. Eastburn: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to certain officers of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Philadelphia for the period March 1 through December 31, 
1970, as set forth in the enclosed schedule. 
The rates 
listed are those fixed by your Board of Directors, on 
February 19, 1970, as advised by you by telephone on that 
da te. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
1 
Name 
James V. Vergari 
Joseph R. Campbell 
Hugh Barrie 
L. C. Murdoch 
G. William Metz 
Norman G. Dash 
Warren J. Gustus 
William A. James 
Joseph M . Case 
Edward A . Aff 
James P. Giacobello 
Mark H . Willes 
William F. Staats 
Thomas K. Desch 
Kenneth M . Snader 
D. Russell Connor 
H. Chairnoff 
R . W . Epps 
E. G . Boehne 
Hiliary H. Holloway 
S. M . Ondeck 
J. R . Joyce 
M . Klass 
Annua 1 
Title 
Salary 
Sr. Vice President and 
$37,500 
General Counsel 
Senior Vice President 
32,000 
Vice President 
30,000 
Vice President 
29,000 
Vice President and 
28,000 
General Auditor 
Vice President 
25,200 
Economic Adviser 
25,200 
Vice President 
25,000 
Vice President 
24,700 
Vice President 
24,100 
Assistant Vice President 
24,100 
Director of Research 
24,000 
Secretary 
23,500 
Chief Examining Officer 
23,500 
Assistant Vice President 
23,500 
Assistant Vice President 
20,000 
Research Officer and 
19,800 
Economis t 
Research Officer and 
19,000 
Economist 
Research Officer and 
19,000 
Economis t 
Assistant Counsel 
19,000 
Examining Officer 
18,000 
Assistant Vice President 
17,000 
Regulations Officer 
17,000 

v) f * 
Item No. 6 
2/19/70 
February 19, 1970. 
Delegation of Administrative Responsibilities 
of the Board of Governors 
1. 
Delegation of responsibilities. 
- In furtherance of the 
provision of law that the "chairman of the Board, subject to its super-
vision, shall be its active executive officer", and subject to the limita 
tions contained in paragraph 2 hereof, the Board of Governors delegates 
to the Chairman of the Board the administrative responsibilities of the 
Board, including the following: 
(a) The appointment, supervision, and removal of 
personnel employed under the Board; 
(b) 
The distribution of business among such person-
nel and among administrative units of the Board; 
(c) The direction of personnel who perform, or who 
supervise the performance of, any function of the Board, 
but in such manner as to afford reasonable access by each 
member of the Board to the services of such personnel; 
(d) 
The overall internal management, functioning, 
and organization of the Board, including the formulation 
and implementation of plans and policies to increase the 
effectiveness of the performance of the Board's functions 
under the law and the initiation of means of correcting 
or preventing avoidable delays in the performance of 
such functions; and 

-2-
(e) 
The allocation, use, and expenditure of funds 
of the Board. 
2. 
Limitations. 
(a) 
In carrying out the responsibilities hereby 
delegated, the Chairman shall be governed by general 
policies determined by the Board, by the budget adopted 
by the Board, and by such regulatory decisions, findings, 
and determinations as may be made by the Board pursuant 
to law. 
(b) 
The appointment or removal by the Chairman of 
officers of the Board shall be subject to the Board's 
approval. 
(c) 
This delegation shall not apply to personnel 
employed regularly and full time in the immediate offices 
of members of the Board other than the Chairman. 
(d) 
This delegation shall not extend to the powers 
vested in the Board to exercise supervision over the 
Federal Reserve Banks. 
3. 
Redelegations. 
- The Chairman may from time to time, as 
he 
may deem appropriate, redelegate to any member, officer, employee, 
or administrative unit of the Board any responsibilities hereby delegated 
to the Chairman. 
