Minutes for 
M ay 25> !967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
b e maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
T f 
•Li you were not present, your initials will indicate 
°nly that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

20 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, May 25, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
-i 
* 
:-0i 
Uuii; 
">.. 
Urj.. 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Forrestal, Porter, Sanders, and Via of 
the Legal Division 
Messrs. Keir and Kichline of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
m°Usly after consideration of background information that had been made 
l i a b l e to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under the 
tgg n pective item numbers indicated. 

20J 
5/25/67 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
1 
Corporation regarding the application of 
^ e Bippus State Bank, Bippus, Indiana, 
continuation of deposit insurance after 
withdrawal from membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
2 
aPproving the payment of salaries to Jerry 
Wilson as Planning Officer and to Theodore E. 
Spreng as Data Processing Officer at the 
rates fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. 
With respect to Item No. 2, Governor Brimmer noted that the 
Memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administration indicated 
that the titles selected for Messrs. Wilson and Spreng reflected a 
trend in recent years in both banking and business of using official 
titles that were descriptive of duties performed. He was inclined to 
the view that the traditional titles had a meaning that gave the posi-
tions status in the banking community. Mr. Johnson described practices 
reportedly followed in the Dallas area that made it seem probable that 
the title "Assistant Cashier" would carry less prestige than the desig-
• l* a ? * 
nations 
selected for Messrs. Wilson and Spreng, and Governor Brimmer 
Said he would not press the point. 
Security measures (Item No. 3). At the meeting on May 19, 1967, 
; o : 
*"he Board considered a draft of reply to the request of the Bureau of 
^e Budget for the views of the Board on a draft bill proposed by the 
'"M'i' . 
department of Justice "To provide security measures for financial 

2095 
5/25/67 
-3-
institutions." At the request of the Board, a revised draft of reply 
was prepared and had now been distributed. 
After a discussion during which there was agreement upon cer-
tain changes in wording, the letter was approved unanimously in the 
form attached as Item No. 3. 
Revenue bond underwriting. On April 17, 1967, the Board dis-
Cussed a request by Chairman Sparkman of the Senate Banking and Cur-
rency Committee for the Board's views on S. 1306, a bill that would 
8ive member banks limited underwriting powers with respect to revenue 
bonds, and a request by Chairman Proxmire of the Committee's Subcom-
mittee on Financial Institutions that the Board undertake an investi-
gation of the annual amount of savings, if any, that might accrue to 
State and local governments as a result of enactment of S. 1306. Sen-
ator Proxmire had addressed a similar request to the Comptroller of 
th 
e Currency and had suggested that the respective staffs might coop-
ate in the study. Submission of conclusions by July 1, 1967, was 
guested, 
with the expectation that hearings would then be scheduled 
n S. 1306. Senator Proxmire was informed that the study would be 
Undertaken, a letter was sent to Chairman Sparkman stating that the 
^°ard assumed there would be no objection if its response on S. 1306 
Vas 
Postponed until after completion of the study, and Governor Daane 
requested to work with the staff on the structure of the study. 

2096 
5/25/67 
-4-
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated May 24, 
1967, in which Governor Daane endorsed a staff proposal, described in 
an attached memorandum, that the requisite data for the study be col-
lected directly from underwriters. The staff memorandum explained 
that much of the information needed on smaller municipal bond issues 
W a s not readily available from published sources. Moreover, since 
assembly of the necessary details even on large issues would be diffi-
Cult to complete within the July 1 deadline from the scattered published 
sources in which they appeared, it was most expeditious to collect the 
•i 
needed data on issues of all sizes directly from underwriters, 307 of 
whom would be involved. 
A study of the same question by the Federal Reserve in 1963 
covered only A-rated bonds of $2 million or more offered for com-
petitive bidding in the first half of 1963. The study now planned 
^uld have the same focus but would be more comprehensive. The issues 
Elected for study included all general obligation and revenue bond 
issues of $600,000 or more, rated Aa, A, or Baa, negotiated as well as 
competitive, and sold in the first six months of 1964, 1965, and 1966. 
Th 
e proposed sample would encompass some 2,000 individual issues. 
The memorandum noted that, while the comparisons of rate spreads 
^etWeen general obligations and revenue bonds should prove illuminating, 
th 
ey 
Would not provide a complete answer to Chairman Proxmire's basic 
Nation. namely, how many dollars in annual interest cost might be 

210 
5/25/67 
-5-
saved for State and local government borrowers if commercial banks were 
allowed to underwrite municipal revenue issues. That estimate must 
still be based in large measure on judgment. 
Attached to the memorandum were materials the staff proposed 
to send to the underwriters, consisting of (1) a draft of joint letter 
from Chairman Martin and the Comptroller of the Currency requesting the 
cooperation of the managing underwriters in supplying the requisite 
data; (2) a copy of Chairman Proxmire's letter requesting that the 
study be made; and (3) a table listing the particular issues on which 
data were needed, with a set of instructions. 
At the beginning of today's discussion Governor Daane said that, 
while the planned study would not resolve the basic question that had 
been asked, he concurred with the staff view that it appeared to be the 
best way to produce at least an approximate answer. He noted also that 
of the several underwriters who would be called upon to supply infor-
mation on numerous issues, at least one had already indicated willing-
ness to do so. It did not appear that the reporting burden would 
Resent insurmountable problems. 
Mr. Keir added that the staff had checked the plans for the 
O 4. 
, 
udy with the Subcommittee on Statistics of the Investment Bankers 
As 
s°ciation's Committee on Revenue Bonds. The view had been expressed 
b a t the underwriters would be willing to cooperate and that all respon-
s would be able to furnish the information within the two-week period 

o b 
5/25/67 
-6-
allowed. The Investment Bankers Association had volunteered to send 
letters urging that the underwriters comply with the request. 
Governor Maisel noted that the proposed reports did not call 
for information on unrated term bonds, frequently used to finance 
Projects such as turnpikes, bridges, and dams. He believed such bonds 
in the aggregate represented a fairly large volume of issues that would 
not be reached by the proposed study. 
Mr. Partee expressed the view that unrated bonds of the type 
Mentioned did not represent as large a volume as Governor Maisel had 
Su8gested. Further, if the coverage were extended into the area of 
Ur*rated bonds, the staff would have to assign ratings. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that the proposed study would 
Provide as much information as could reasonably be obtained. He 
doubted whether significant additional information would be produced 
ky including unrated bonds. 
Further discussion brought out that there were probably few 
*arge issues among the unrated bonds and that if the cut-off point were 
droppe(i t o $100,000 or $200,000, several thousand additional issues 
w°uld probably be added to the sample. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the opinion that a substantial bias 
isted in the proposed procedure and questioned the staff regarding 
feasibility of obtaining a sample of smaller issues. However, after 
1ous problems that would be encountered were described, he agreed 

/ ^ I • 
5/25/67 
-7-
that as long as the study made it clear that this segment of the market 
was not covered, and that it was not believed significant information 
would be obtained if it were covered, it might be appropriate to 
exclude the smaller issues. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he had the impression that the 
Proposed study would not be responsive to Chairman Proxmire's request. 
There had been two points to the request: first, that the information 
be made available by July 1; second, that the study be more comprehen-
Slve than the 1963 study and remedy some of its defects. Governor 
Brimmer asked the staff to what extent the study would meet the latter 
Point. 
Mr. Partee replied that the proposed study would cover three 
6-month periods compared with one 6-month period in the 1963 study; 
bonds with Aa, A, or Baa ratings, negotiated as well as competitive, 
w°uld be covered, compared with coverage of only A-rated competitive 
b°nds in 1963; and the dollar cut-off was being dropped to $600,000 
$2 mill ion in 1963. Although the present proposal might not be 
c°mpletely responsive, it seemed to achieve as much as reasonably 
c°uld be expected. 
In response to an inquiry by Governor Daane, Mr. Cardon said 
supposed that Chairman Proxmire, if asked, might prefer a more 
elau 
borate study, with extension of the July 1 deadline. It seemed to 
however, that the Board should make the decision whether a project 

2100 
5/25/67 
-8-
of larger scope would be worth while in terms of the investment of 
staff resources and value of additional information obtained. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that a larger project would 
not be worth while; although a few more facts might be developed, they 
would not have a value in proportion to the additional effort. 
Governor Brimmer remarked that it seemed necessary to set 
Priorities on meeting the deadline as compared with providing a more 
comprehensive study. If the latter were within reasonable reach, he 
would be inclined to ask Chairman Proxmire whether the deadline should 
be postponed. However, the tenor of comments had indicated it was 
unlikely that the larger study would be worth the time and effort 
invested in it. He gathered that the staff was in favor of doing what 
could be done by the deadline. 
Mr. Partee commented that it seemed probable that the proposed 
study would show a greater spread between costs of issuing general 
°bligations and revenue bonds than the 1963 study. The data collected 
Would then have to be analyzed to try to determine what would happen 
to that differential if commercial banks were permitted by statute to 
underwrite revenue bonds. 
After further discussion of small bond issues and the types of 
Proj 
Gets for which they were used, Governor Daane again expressed the 
view that if the study reached down to small issues, little, if any-
^hingj 0f significance would be disclosed that would justify the 
exPenditure of time and effort. 

Jt tjL 
5/25/67 
-9-
Governor Mitchell stated that in such event Chairman Proxmire 
should be informed that the proposed study went as far as seemed worth 
while. Governor Brimmer expressed agreement, although he noted that 
the question of a more elaborate study should not be evaluated only in 
Ught of Chairman Proxmire's request. The Board had deferred arriving 
a t its own position in regard to the advisability of legislation to 
Permit commercial banks to underwrite revenue bonds until the results 
°f the study were available. 
Governor Daane expressed doubt that detailed data regarding 
small bond issues would be helpful to the Board for that purpose. 
Governor Maisel then suggested that the proposed study plan be 
aPproved, but that the staff study the area below $600,000 to see how 
much bias the exclusion of such issues might be introducing, with the 
thought that if necessary further consideration could be given to the 
matter. 
The study plan was then approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that the additional exploration suggested by Governor Maisel 
w°uld be made. There was also agreement with a suggestion by Governor 
^aane that before the proposed letters were sent to the underwriters, 
th 
n e Trading Desk 
at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York be made aware 
the type of study that was being undertaken. 
Messrs. Johnson, Keir, Kichline, and Via then withdrew from 
the meeting. 

2102 
5/25/67 
-10-
Request for trust department examination papers (Item No. 4). 
At the meeting on March 8, 1967, the Board discussed a request from 
Chairman Patman of the House Banking and Currency Committee for a 
sample of work papers relating to recent examinations of trust depart-
ments, the sample to consist of five sets of papers and reports of 
State member banks in each Federal Reserve district, chosen from speci-
fied deposit categories. Similar requests had been made of the other 
Federal bank supervisory agencies. The Board was unwilling to supply 
sets of papers selected in the manner specified because individual 
banks would thereby be identified. However, the Board agreed to fur-
ni-sh to representatives of Mr. Patman sets of papers relating to 
laminations of two State member banks in different districts, with 
identification deleted. The previous request had now been reinstated. 
In the circumstances, Governor Robertson requested the view of 
the Board regarding a plan that, if concurred in by the other Federal 
bank supervisory agencies, might be proposed to representatives of 
to 
r* Patman. The plan called for each agency to supply work papers and 
rePorts on the examinations of trust departments of five banks of dif-
c 
erent sizes selected at random. The lack of geographic identification 
w°nld avoid disclosure of the particular banks concerned, and the 
e*tremely burdensome task of deleting all identification from the 
paPers would be reduced. 

2103 
5/25/67 
-11-
In response to questions, Governor Robertson and Mr. Leavitt 
described the magnitude of the task that would be involved in supplying 
the amount of information called for by Mr. Patman's request, as illus-
trated by the manpower that had gone into preparing the sets of papers 
already supplied. 
Governor Robertson then asked whether the Board was in favor 
°f offering Mr. Patman's representatives the compromise proposal or 
whether the Board would prefer merely to indicate that the terms of 
the request precluded compliance. 
After discussion it was the consensus that the proposal Gover-
n°r Robertson had outlined should be offered. 
A copy of a letter subsequently sent to Chairman Patman over 
^ice Chairman Robertson's signature is attached as Item No. 4. 
Ceiling rates. Governor Brimmer referred to the meeting of 
the members of the Board on May 22, 1967, with Chairman Home of the 
federal Home Loan Bank Board, Chairman Randall of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, and others with regard to maximum rates permitted 
to he paid by banks and savings and loan associations on time deposits 
atld share accounts. He noted that Chairman Home had expressed at the 
meeting a desire for some indication of the Board's views by the end 
this week. Mr. Home had noted that any adjustments by the Home 
Bank Board effective July 1, 1967, should be announced by the 
first of June. 

210 
5/25/67 
-12-
Chairman Martin raised the question whether members of the 
Board were inclined to feel that any action under Regulation Q, Pay-
ment of Interest on Deposits, should be taken at this juncture, and 
the responses were in the negative. 
Governor Robertson suggested that the reply to Chairman Home 
be in terms that the Board of Governors did not propose to take any 
action this week or next week. Governor Maisel suggested advising 
Chairman Home that the Board proposed to wait at least until after 
the first of July. 
Governor Robertson then was requested to advise Chairman Home 
the Board's position by telephone. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson 
so advised Chairman Home later in the 
day. 
Operations subsidiaries. In July 1966 the Board reaffirmed its 
Previous position that the provision of section 5136 of the Revised 
Statutes prohibiting the purchase by banks of corporate shares for 
their own account also prevented separate incorporation of particular 
banking functions. 
(Comptroller of the Currency Saxon had issued a 
ruling to the opposite effect.) However, the Board directed the staff 
to study the problems that would be involved if member bank acquisition 
operations subsidiaries was authorized by Congress and to submit a 
slative proposal for Board consideration. In a distributed memo-
randum dated March 3, 1967, the Legal Division reported views expressed 

2 1 0 
5/25/67 
-13-
by the Reserve Banks in response to the Board's invitation for comments, 
and recommended approaches to be taken in regard to a number of ques-
tions bearing upon the structure of a possible statutory provision and 
its accompanying regulatory authority. Attached to the memorandum was 
a draft bill. The Board discussed the matter briefly at its meeting 
on March 13, 1967, but deferred more extended discussion because of 
time limitations. 
Comments at today's meeting related mostly to the locus of 
regulatory authority; the draft bill called for joint regulation by the 
Comptroller of the Currency and the Board of Governors. 
Governor Robertson stated that he thought there was need for 
legislation in order to remove inequities as between national and 
State member banks. However, he considered it inadvisable to recom-
mend that regulations be prescribed jointly, for one man could then 
Preclude the issuance of regulations even if the Board were unanimously 
in favor of them. The same would be true if the Congress were to place 
t^e regulatory authority in the Comptroller alone. 
Governor Mitchell also stated that he did not believe joint 
authority was practicable. 
Governor Daane said the provision for joint promulgation of 
regulati ons did not give him so much cause for concern. Normally there 
W a s good cooperation between the Board and the Comptroller, and there 
Were areas, he pointed out, in which the Board meshed its actions with 
th 
lQse of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 

2106 
5/25/67 
-14-
In response to a question from Chairman Martin, Governor 
Mitchell said that generally he believed the position embodied in the 
Comptroller's ruling had merit, although he would omit some of the 
activities mentioned by the Comptroller as being appropriate for opera-
tions subsidiaries. 
(The Comptroller's ruling had held that national 
banks may establish, and purchase the stock of, subsidiary corporations 
that would "issue credit cards, service mortgages, lease property, 
°ffer travel services, or operate a credit bureau.") The intent of 
the draft legislation was to increase the flexibility of banks in the 
Performance of their functions, an objective that he favored. 
Governor Daane said he too was in favor of flexibility, but he 
^id not see that joint regulation would gainsay that principle. He 
Would be disinclined to get into a jurisdictional dispute at this junc-
ture. 
Governor Robertson remarked that there were indications that 
present Comptroller of the Currency did not believe legislation was 
needed. 
Mr. Hexter noted that if the proposal called for giving regula-
tory authority to the Comptroller, that might improve the prospects for 
SuPPort of the legislation. 
Governor Maisel brought out that State member banks are subject 
to the same regulations with respect to investment securities as pre-
Scribed by the Comptroller for national banks. Thus, there was prece-
(Jg 
n t for a regulation of the Comptroller to apply to State member banks. 

210 
5/25/67 
-15-
Chairman Martin then asked if there was agreement within the 
Board on the need for legislation, and no views to the contrary were 
expressed by members of the Board. However, Governor Mitchell said 
that while he was in agreement with the general purpose of the proposed 
legislation, some of the specific points would require careful consid-
eration. The discussion so far had been principally in generalities. 
Governor Brimmer said that he shared Governor Robertson's stand 
against joint regulatory authority by the Board and the Comptroller. 
He believed the placement of responsibility should be clear. 
Mr. Shay pointed out that under the provisions of the draft 
kill subsidiary corporations allowed under present statutes--Edge and 
a§reement corporations and directly-owned foreign bank subsidiaries--
w°uld be exempt from the regulations to be issued regarding operations 
8ubsidiaries. In recent years the Treasury had several times taken a 
P°sition in favor of legislation that would transfer to the Comptroller 
tbe authority with respect to foreign operations of U.S. banks. If the 
°ard now suggested placing with the Comptroller the proposed authority 
Vlth respect to operations subsidiaries as applied to State member 
bar*s as well as to national banks, the Treasury position might be 
fortified. 
Governor Robertson commented that if the thought was merely to 
Place with the Comptroller the authority with respect to operations 
Subsidiaries of national banks, a statute such as here proposed would 
n°t be necessary. The kind of statute then needed would be one removing 

2108 
5/25/67 
-16-
the prohibition in section 5136 against acquisition of corporate stock 
by State member banks, as far as operations subsidiaries were concerned. 
State member banks then would be able to operate such subsidiaries to 
the extent permitted by State law. However, the objective of the draft 
slation was to place national banks and State member banks on an 
equal basis, from the standpoint of Federal law, with respect to opera-
tions subsidiaries, with some limitations on the types of situations 
that would be permitted. The extent to which banks could own opera-
tions subsidiaries would then be prescribed by regulations; therefore, 
the regulatory authority should be vested in the agency that had a 
responsibility with respect to both national and State member banks. 
Mr. Hackley then reviewed the circumstances under which the 
Board had directed the staff to analyze the problem and draft possible 
*-egislation. He also commented on a recent discussion of the question 
ky the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. In essence, the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation had regarded itself as basically 
removed from the question because nonmember insured banks would not be 
affected. The Comptroller of the Currency had been disposed to believe 
legislation was not necessary in terms of national banks. As Mr. 
Hexter had noted, the Comptroller might support the legislative pro-
p0sal more readily if it called for vesting the regulatory authority 
i n him, and precedent for such a proposal could be found in the appli-
°ability to State member banks of the Comptroller's Investment Securities 

2109 
5/25/67 
-17-
Regulation. Mr. Hackley was not inclined to feel that such a proposal 
by 
the Board would be followed by renewal of an effort to have the 
Board's control over foreign operations of U.S. banks transferred to 
the Comptroller; that seemed to him a somewhat different matter. 
Chairman Martin then asked if the Board was disposed to work 
°ut details of the proposed legislation so that it could be submitted 
to Congress. 
Governor Daane stated that he was averse to a proposal that would 
give authority over State member banks to the Comptroller. 
Governor Brimmer said he shared Governor Daane's view. He 
regarded operations subsidiaries as likely to become an increasingly 
important channel of bank activity, and placement with the Comptroller 
regulatory authority with respect to investments in such subsidiaries 
might result in the Comptroller's acquiring supervision over a consid-
erable portion of the business of State member banks. 
Chairman Martin inquired if the members of the Board could agree 
that the regulatory authority should be placed in one agency. 
Governor Daane indicated that he would be willing to share the 
authority with the Comptroller, and Governor Sherrill said his choice 
w°uld be to see the power split, with consultation between the Board 
and the Comptroller but not with joint promulgation of regulations. He 
^id not feel that that would necessarily lead to a "race of laxity." 
father, if one agency devised the most satisfactory method of adminis-
tration, the other would be inclined to come into line. 

2 1 1 0 
5/25/67 
-18-
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that if the authority was 
to be placed in one agency, that agency should be the Board. His next 
choice would be to split the authority, with the Comptroller acting 
with respect to national banks and the Board with respect to State mem-
ber banks, but without a requirement of joint action. 
Governor Mitchell observed that the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland had suggested an approach in which the subject would be gov-
erned solely by statute. The staff apparently regarded such an arrange-
ment as unworkable, but he thought it had merit; to the extent that 
sPecifics could be written into the law, regulation would not be 
required. 
Mr. Hexter commented that the staff believed such an approach 
would involve many complex questions. If the Board wished the staff to 
Prepare a legislative proposal along those lines, a great deal of fur-
ther study would be necessary. 
Chairman Martin then observed that in light of the divergence 
views that had been expressed, perhaps it would be well to defer 
consideration of the subject for the time being. 
Governor Mitchell concurred, indicating that he needed more 
time for study. He suggested that it might be helpful if the staff 
could break down the general issue into several compartments in order 
to facilitate discussion. 
At the suggestion of Chairman Martin, the matter was then 

2111 
5/25/67 
-19-
Th e meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Administrative Services dated 
^ y 19j 1967, recommending the purchase of four model 813 Xerox machines 
at a cost of $12,000 (rather than the two previously contemplated) and 
requesting approval of the resulting overexpenditure of $6,000 in the 
Pertinent account of the 1967 budget of that Division. 
Memorandum from the Division of Data Processing dated May 19, 
1967, recommending the establishment of an additional secretarial posi-
tion in that Division. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
•^SRointments 
Thomas C. Brown, Jr., as Summer Assistant, Division of Research 
and Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,776, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Clifford E. Reid as Summer Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,331, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Robert J. Stonebraker as Summer Assistant, Division of Research 
and Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,507, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Alice V. Hall as Operations Analyst, Division of Bank Operations, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $9,221, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Ida Genoeffa Pronio as Stenographer, Division of Personnel Admin-
istration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,269, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Elizabeth P. Hodges as Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administra-
tive Services, with annual salary at the rate of $1,927 (4-hour day), 
effective the date of entrance upon duty. 

2112 
5/25/67 
-20-
Appointments 
(continued) 
Eva Mae Vines 
as Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative 
Services, with annual salary at the rate of $1,927 (4-hour day), effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
John Will 
iams as Mail Clerk, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,191, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Doris L. Rieman as Statistical Clerk, Division of Data Processing, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,936, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Glenita Lottie Williams as Summer Assistant, Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,776, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases 
Rexanne E. Byard, Statistical Clerk, Division of Data Processing, 
from $4,269 to $4,776 per annum, effective June 4, 1967. 
James L. Ellis, Computer Operator (Trainee), Division of Data 
Processing, from $5,096 to $5,507 per annum, with a change in title 
to Computer Operator, effective June 4, 1967. 
fermission to engage in outside activity 
Gerald Graham Bush, Messenger, Division of Administrative Ser-
vioes, to work for a local hotel on a part-time basis. 

2113 
^iRtS^.-
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
5/25/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 25, 1967 
The Honorable K. A. Randall, Chairman, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 
20429 
Dear Mr. Randall: 
Reference is made to your letter of May 17, 
1967, concerning the application of The Bippus State 
Bank, Bippus, Indiana, for continuance of deposit 
insurance after withdrawal from membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. 
There have been no corrective programs urged 
upon the bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been 
fully consummated, and there are no programs that the 
Board would advise be incorporated as conditions of 
admitting the bank to membership in the Corporation as a 
nonmember of the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2114 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• r T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
5/25/67 
- • m m -
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 25, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
•, * i ; ; • 
Mr. Watrous H. Irons, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 75222 
I; 
Dear Mr. Irons: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment of 
salaries to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
listed below for the period June 1 through December 31, 1967, 
at the following rates fixed by your Board of Directors, as 
reported in your letter of May 11, 1967: 
T. ; 
<S> f t* 
Name 
Jerry Wilson 
Theodore E. Spreng 
Title 
Annual 
Salary 
Planning Officer 
$13,000 
Data Processing Officer 13,000 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
'Ks 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

2115 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
5/25/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 25, 1967 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request for the views of the 
Board on a draft bill proposed by the Department of Justice "To 
Provide security measures for financial institutions." 
The bill would require the three Federal bank supervisory 
a8encies and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to "promulgate rules 
requiring banks and savings and loan associations to install and 
Maintain security devices and procedures for protection against 
robberies, burglaries, and larcenies, including alarm and automatic 
camera systems." The Board would be required to promulgate such rules 
the Federal Reserve Banks and for State member banks of the Federal 
Reserve System. Failure to comply with the rules would subject the 
offender to a civil penalty of up to $100 per day for each violation. 
Obviously, the objective of affording more effective pro-
jection for banks and savings and loan associations against robberies, 
burglaries, and larcenies is desirable. However, the Board believes 
that the approach embodied in the bill does not constitute a practicable 
met.hod for achieving that objective. 
It appears to the Board that the question, what security 
measures are appropriate for a bank, is related to such factors as the 
incidence of crime in the community where the bank is situated, the 
ank's location within that community, and the physical characteristics 
°f the bank's quarters. 
The Board regularly makes recommendations to each State 
Member bank respecting its security program and encourages such banks 

Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
-2-
to take all reasonable steps to maintain adequate security measures. 
The Board also reviews the security measures employed by each Federal 
Reserve Bank. It is the Board's judgment, however, that the problem 
of prescribing security devices and procedures, as contemplated by 
the bi]l, does not lend itself to the formulation of uniform standards 
that would be both workable and equitable. Accordingly, the Eoard 
recommends against submission of the proposed legislation to Congress. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
!k>u 
2 3 2. 

2 1 1 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 G I 
Item No. 4 
5/25/67 
OFFICE; O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
. June 5, 1967 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
House Banking and Currency Committee, 
2328 Rayburn Building, 
Washington, D. C. 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In Chairman Martin!s letter of March 14, 1967, replying 
to your.letter of January 24, 1967, he informed you the Board was 
forwarding as samples the examination work papers and reports for 
the most recent examinations of two trust departments. 
Arrangements 
for providing the samples had been worked out by members of the 
staff of the House Committee on Banking and Currency and the three 
Federal bank supervisory agencies. 
These samples were in connection 
with your request for five sets of work papers and examination 
reports, stratified as to size, from each of the twelve Federal 
Reserve Districts. 
Subsequent to forwarding the samples staff members again 
met on several occasions. The purposes of the meetings were to 
clarify the request and to attempt to devise a program whereby the 
Federal bank supervisory agencies could provide the Committee with 
information, retain confidentiality of bank identity, and permit 
completion of examination schedules. 
The original request by the 
Committee would have placed so great a burden on the various examining 
staffs that to comply would almost certainly have made it impossible 
to examine all trust departments. 
The Board feels it can make available to the Committee one 
sample for each of the five size categories mentioned in your letter 
°f January 24, 1967, without disrupting appreciably the examination 
schedule. 
In order to keep the identity of the banks confidential 
the reports are selected at random from banks located throughout the 
United States. The plan to provide the five sets of data was discussed 
with members of your staff and members of the staffs of the Comptroller 
°f the Currency, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and Board. 
It 
is understood the other Federal bank supervisory agencies plan to 
Provide the same number of sets of work papers. 

2118 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
- 2 -
The Board hopes that providing these work papers and 
reports will satisfy the. needs of the Committee and permit it to 
reach a conclusion wilh respect to the examination of banks' trust 
departments. The first set of work papers plus the current and 
next most recent examination report should be available within a 
reasonable time. 
Sincerely, 
