FR 609 
Minutes for 
February 7, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
. * 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

, 486 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, February 7, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
M r . Martin, Chairman 
M r . Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
M r . Maisel 
M r . Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
M r . Holland, Secretary 
M r . Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mrs. Winkler of the Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Williams, 
Eckert, Keir, Shull, Weiner, Baker, Burns, 
Ettin, Fry, Kelty, and Kichline of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Ghiardi, Norwood, Gemmill, Altmann, 
Bryant, Gekker, and Stem, and Mrs. Junz of 
the Division of International Finance 
Money market review. 
Today's review included reports by Mr. 
Kelty on the Government securities market, by Mr. Fry on bank credit 
developments, and by Mr. Stem on the foreign exchange and gold markets. 
Copies of the several charts and tables distributed for the purpose 
of today's review have been placed in the Board's files. 

2/7/69 
-2-
After general discussion based on the staff presentation, 
members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Brill, Partee, 
and Shull withdrew and the following entered: 
Messrs. Hexter, O'Connell, Shay, and Sanders of 
the Legal Division 
M r . Egertson of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Discount rates. 
The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, 
Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco 
on February 6, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Bank of Lansing (Item No. 1). 
Consideration was given to a 
memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
February 4, 1969, relating to applications to establish three branche 
by Bank of Lansing, Lansing, Michigan, one of a chain of banks con-
trolled by partnerships headed by Donald H. Parsons and associates, 
the largest bank in the chain being Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit 
Michigan. 
The Board previously had denied the three branch applications 
due to the bank's unsatisfactory capital position. 
Since then the 
bank had formulated plans to increase its capital structure substan-
tially and had resubmitted the applications. 
In view of the bank's 

431 
2/7/69 
-3-
program to increase its capital funds, the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago and the Division of Supervision and Regulation now recommended 
approval. 
In response to questions concerning the bank's condition, M r . 
Egertson said that the bank's asset condition was satisfactory and with 
the large increase in capital funds the Division could see no basis 
for denial of the branch applications. 
The bank's management was 
regarded as generally satisfactory, although there were reservations 
about the Parsons Group, with which the bank was linked. 
M r . O'Connell added that President Scanlon and Vice President 
Morrison of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had expressed little 
or no reservations about recommending approval in light of the improve-
ment in the bank's capital position. 
In fact, M r . Scanlon thought 
that denial, if challenged in court, might be represented as an attempt 
to coerce Bank of the Commonwealth at the expense of affiliated banks, 
and M r . Scanlon did not think that would be desirable. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the Board should be 
on guard against the possibility that approval of the branch applica-
tions would be construed as a vote of confidence in the Parsons Group 
banks. 
M r . O'Connell agreed that there probably would be an effort 
to place that construction upon it. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the branch applications 
were approved unanimously. 
Attached as Item No. 1 is a copy of the 
letter sent to the applicant bank. 

. 489 
2/7/69 
-4-
Report on competitive factors. 
A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Tower National Bank, 
Indianapolis, Indiana, with The Indiana National Bank of Indianapolis, 
Indianapolis, Indiana, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion stating that consummation 
of the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
First Pennsylvania matter (Item No. 2). 
There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum from the Legal Division dated February 4 , 1969, 
relating to a billboard advertisement by The First Pennsylvania Bank-
ing and Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to which attention 
had been called originally by a savings and loan executive. 
The advertisement was consistent with the primary principle in 
the statement of policy on advertising for funds set forth in the 
Board's letter of December 16, 1966, in that it displayed the annual 
rate of simple interest with equal prominence to the average percentage 
return if funds were held to maturity. 
However, the Legal Division 
had urged Senior Vice President Campbell of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Philadelphia to discuss the matter with First Pennsylvania with a 
view toward persuading the bank to include in its advertisement the 
length of time funds must remain on deposit to achieve the advertised 
average percentage return. 
M r . Campbell did so, but First Pennsylvania 
replied that the advertisement already included such a statement. 
M r . 
Campbell noted, though, that the legend was barely visible. 

2/7/69 
-5-
The Legal Division agreed with M r . Campbell that First Pennsyl-
vania's advertisement was inconsistent with the spirit of the Board's 
1966 letter. 
However, since the letter was a "statement of policy," 
the Board must rely on moral suasion to enforce its terms. 
Accordingly, 
it would appear that the Board could only give its support to M r . 
Campbell in his attempt to persuade First Pennsylvania to change its 
advertisement. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to 
M r . Campbell designed for that purpose. 
Inquiry was made about the possibility of taking the matter up 
directly with First Pennsylvania rather than through the Reserve Bank. 
However, Chairman Martin noted that this was an item in which the 
Reserve Bank had become involved and the Board should be careful not 
to intervene without good reason. 
It was suggested by Governor Maisel 
that the sending of the proposed letter to M r . Campbell might be 
supplemented by a telephone call to him in terms that would strengthen 
his position. 
Governor Brimmer inquired, in this connection, as to the 
status of plans to implement the statutory authority for the issuance 
of regulations on advertising by banks and savings and loan associa-
tions. 
Once such regulations were issued, the enforcement in specific 
cases could be left to the Reserve Banks. 
M r . Cardon commented that Senator Proxmire apparently had been 
informed that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation was holding up 

431 
2/7/69 
-6-
the issuance of uniform regulations. 
As matters stood, the Home Loan 
Bank Board and the Federal Reserve were ready to go ahead, but the 
Corporation was not. 
Senator Proxmire had recently written the heads 
of the three agencies concerned pointing out that last year the 
agencies were given authority to issue regulations and inquiring about 
the status of the matter. 
M r . Sanders recalled that the Board had considered the subject 
shortly before the end of last year, at which time Governor Robertson 
indicated that the FDIC was unwilling to go along with regulations on 
which the other agencies had agreed. 
The Board, taking into considera-
tion the forthcoming interest-crediting period, decided to wait until 
January before proceeding further. 
M r . Holland commented that he had talked with Governor 
Robertson about a week ago. 
Governor Robertson indicated that there 
had been some further interagency contact since December, but that the 
FDIC was still unwilling to go along with the regulations as drafted. 
Governor Daane suggested waiting until Governor Robertson 
returned for a report on the matter, and there was agreement with this 
suggestion. 
Governor Maisel pointed out that if the regulations were 
not issued soon the banks would be preparing their advertising material 
for the next interest-crediting period. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the letter to the Federal 

492 
2/7/69 
-7-
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia was approved unanimously. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 2. 

403 
. • ' Of cow 
. M L Rt^>, 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 1 
2/7/69 
A D D R E S S OFFICIAL C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E B O A R D 
February 7, 1969 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of Lansing, 
Lansing, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
has approved the applications of Bank of Lansing, Lansing, 
Michigan, for permission to establish branches (1) at 223-231 
North Clippert Street, Lansing, Michigan; (2) in the vicinity 
of the intersection of Okemos Road and East Grand River Avenue, 
Meridian Township, Ingham County, Michigan; and (3) in the 
5100 block of West Saginaw Street, Delta Township, Eaton County, 
Michigan, provided the branches are established within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
The Board's approval action herein has been taken 
with the understanding that the capital position of your bank 
has recently been strengthened through the sale of $3 million 
in capital debentures, and that a proposal to issue $5 million 
in preferred stock is to be voted on at a stockholders' meeting 
to be held February 19, 1969. It is noted that Lansing Equity 
Company, which controls about 85 per cent of Bank of Lansing 
stock, has indicated it will vote for the proposed sale of 
preferred stock. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

..•ijsjsfc. 
'•f^LRE^V 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• r THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20«I1 
Item No. 2 
2/7/69 
A D D R C I I orriCIAL C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E B O A R D 
February 7, 1969 
M r . Joseph R. Campbell, Senior Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
925 Chestnut Street, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear M r . Campbell: 
This is in response to your letter of January 
1969, 
enclosing copies of your correspondence with The First Pennsylvania 
Banking and Trust Company and a card reproduction of a billboard 
advertisement by that bank. 
The enclosures indicate that the bank uses a billboard 
advertisement (with overall dimensions of 21 feet 7 inches by 9 feet 
7 inches) having the following text in 16 inch letters: 
"ONLY ONE 
BANK IN TOWN PAYS 7.45% ON 5% SAVINGS CERTIFICATES". The name "FIRST 
PENNSYLVANIA BANK" appears in 15 inch letters. However, in 1-1/4 inch 
letters (which are barely legible on the card reproduction) are the 
words "When held to 15-year maturity, our 57«, Growth Certificates earn 
an annual average of 7.45%. The First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust 
Company, Member F.D.I.C." 
It is the Board's view that such an advertisement is 
inconsistent with the interagency statement of policy on financial 
institution advertising for funds (F.R.L.S. K 2200.03; letter from 
Governor Robertson of December 16, 1966, to all member State banks). 
At a minimum, the maturity requirement to earn 7.45 per cent should 
appear in type sufficiently large to be readily visible to those to 
whom the advertisement is directed. 
The Board does not believe that 1-1/4 inch letters on a 
billboard advertisement of large size are readily visible, par-
ticularly if such advertisements are placed in locations removed 
from ground level. Your letter of January 16, 1969, to the bank 
indicates that you share this view. 

mm 
.ii'" 
I ® &Q9 
495 
Mr. Joseph R. Campbell 
- 2 -
We appreciate your efforts in this regard, and we encourage 
you to continue your attempts to persuade the bank to modify its 
advertising by bringing it within the spirit as well as the letter of 
the 1966 statement of policy. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
"VI 
. • \ i ' . 
! . . 
.-u; co 
. . lo 
v c." : / • .1. \ 
- i'i ' r?..: r . ;jt •' 
t ' i , !.' 
. '•>: 
" • •
 : ' 
• 
•• • • 
' 
• 
. 
*< , ' . : . - • • . .
 
: 
. 
. 
- • : 
I • : " . 
j): • 
: 
. i».. .-.! si •
:
• 
' . / i.. <;„." 
' • ' ••: 
. . . 
.s '/.'. i. ' 
... 
' • i 
. ; t 
i I : 
'Vine:.' 
. v,jcn 
"o . r..rn:>r oUfrcU'} »..t 
. • 
r- " 
: r aa 
! 
>'•' i 
• • . v • ' » 
, .< , 5 1 I 
