Minutes for 
A P r i l 1 4' 1 9 6 7 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

1437 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, April 14, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Gramley, 
Eckert, Ettin, Fry, Keir, and Kelty, and 
Mrs. Peskin of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Katz, Reynolds, Wood, 
Bryant, Gemmill, Pizer, and Ruckdeschel of 
the Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Kelty reported on Treasury financing 
matters and on developments in the money market, and Mr. Fry commented 
or* bank credit developments. Mr. Ruckdeschel reported on the London 
gold market, the strength of sterling, and interest rate developments 

1488 
4/14/67 
-2-
abroad. Copies of the tables and charts distributed in connection with 
the review have been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, Bakke, 
Brill, Holland, Solomon, Molony, Fauver, Sammons, and Leavitt and Miss 
Eaton then withdrew from the meeting. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on April 10, 1967, and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Kansas City, 
and Dallas on April 13, 1967, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following items, copies of which are 
attached to these minutes under the respective numbers indicated, were 
approved unanimously after consideration of background material that 
had been made available to the Board: 
Item No. 
Letter to Bank of America National Trust and 
Savings Association, San Francisco, California, 
approving the establishment of two additional 
branches in Chile, one in the outskirts of 
Valparaiso and one in the suburbs of Santiago, 
and acknowledging notice of its intent to estab-
lish another branch in Santiago. 
Letter to Marine Midland International Corpora-
tion, New York, New York, approving amendments 
to its Articles of Association. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1439 
4/14/67 
-3-
Secretary's Note: A letter was sent today 
over Chairman Martin's signature to Chair-
man Patman of the House Committee on Bank-
ing and Currency in reply to his request of 
March 22, 1967, for a report on H.R. 7347, 
relating to loans to executive officers by 
member banks and loans by Federal credit 
unions to certain of their officials. The 
letter noted that the first section of the 
bill was identical to the draft bill sub-
mitted by the Board on March 1, 1967, that 
the reasons for recommending favorable con-
sideration were set forth in a letter to 
Chairman Patman of the same date, that the 
provisions of the bill relating to Federal 
credit unions did not relate to the Board's 
area of responsibility, and that the Board 
had no comments with respect to that section. 

1 4 4 0 
*AL 
RES^'* 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
4/14/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 14, 1967. 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letters of March 24 and 28, 1967, 
referring to various letters of the Board of Governors which granted 
consent to your bank to establish four branches in Chile, to be 
located in Santiago, Valparaiso, Vina del Mar, and Melipilla, Chile, 
by means of the acquisition of the net assets and liabilities of 
Banco Italiano, S.A., Santiago, Chile. Your letters indicate that 
six branches of your bank were opened for business in Chile on 
March 20, 1967. 
You state that two additional offices, one located in the 
outskirts of Valparaiso and one in the suburbs of Santiago, were con-
sidered as agencies and therefore not counted as branches when informa-
tion was submitted to the Board of Governors concerning the acquisition 
of Banco Italiano. 
In the circumstances, and pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M, the Board of 
Governors grants permission for the establishment of the two additional 
branches in Chile. 
You have also advised the Board that, in acquiring Banco 
Italiano, you have taken over a license for an additional branch to 
be located in Santiago. Unless the branch is actually established 
and opened for business on or before May 1, 1968, it will be deemed 
that plans for its establishment have been abandoned, in which event 
authority to establish the branch under the notice furnished in your 
letter of March 28, 1967, will automatically terminate. 

HOARD 
• F G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL 
RESERVE 
SYSTEM 
1441 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association 
-2-
Please inform the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for busi-
ness, furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Santiago. 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of 
foreign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form 
of allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as 
foreign assets for purposes of the voluntary foreign credit restraint 
effort. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1442 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
4/14/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
• F T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 14, 1967 
Marine Midland International Corporation 
120 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of March 24, 
1967, enclosing a Consent signed under date of March 20, 
1967, on behalf of Marine Midland Corporation, Buffalo,' 
New York, sole shareholder of your Corporation, consenting 
to amendments to the Articles of Association of Marine 
Midland International Corporation to change the address 
of the Corporation from 120 Broadway, New York, New York 
to 140 Broadway, New York, New York, to become effective 
on or about April 14, 1967. 
The Board of Governors approves the amendments 
to Articles THIRD and FOURTH. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
