Minutes for April 1, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 1 
Amendment to Regulation M, Foreign 
Activities of National Banks. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

784 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, April 1, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
- • • 
1 j.i 
{ > l • • ' 
i 
. ' i 
' • ' 
i i ' >.: 
• 
Cleveland Bank. The Board discussed developments in the search 
for suitable candidates for appointment to the presidency of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland. 
In view of the length of time during which 
that post had been vacant, and the unsuccessful negotiations with various 
candidates to date, the Board directed the Secretary to contact Chairman 
Clay of the Cleveland Bank and to indicate the Board's willingness 
to receive the names of additional nominees for consideration. 
The following staff membe rs then entered the room; 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Amendment to Regulation M. Effective April 1, 1971, the Board 
approved unanimously an amendment to footnote 8 to section 213.7(a) of 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

785 
4/1/71 
-7-
Regulation M, Foreign Activities of National Banks, to provide a means 
by which a member bank could retain its reserve-free base with respect 
to its Euro-dollar borrowings from its foreign branches by counting 
within its base the amount of purchases by its foreign branches of cer-
tain U.S. Treasury obligations. This action was taken subject to final 
determinat ion that the Treasury program involving the sale of the obli-
gations in question was going to be undertaken. 
(Note: This was sub-
sequently ascertained.) 
A copy of the Federal Register notice reflecting the action taken 
by the Board is attached under Item No. 1, along with a copy of the press 
release issued. 
The following staff members then entered the room: 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff 

4/1/71 
-3-
First National Bancorporation. The Board authorized the issuance 
of an order and statement reflecting approval on February 22, 1971, of 
the application of The First National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, 
Colorado, to acquire shares of The Exchange National Bank of Colorado 
Springs, Colorado Springs, Colorado. Copies of the documents are attached 
under Item No. 2, along with copies of the concurring statement of 
Governor Mitchell and the dissenting statement of Governors Robertson, 
Maisel, and Brimmer. 
American Bankshares. The Board's staff had recommended approval 
of the application of American Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wis-
consin, to acquire shares of Menomonee Falls Bank, Menomonee Falls, 
Wisconsin. 
Discussion of questions arising from the application included 
comments on the surveillance exercised over bank holding companies. It 
was brought out that Federal Reserve Bank examination policies varied. 
The staff was requested to explore the problem and develop recommendations 
for guidelines looking toward greater uniformity among the various Districts. 
The application was then approved unanimously, and the issuance 
of an order reflecting this decision was authorized. A copy of the 
order is attached as Item No. 3. 
Currency and coin services. In a memorandum of March 15, 1971, 
Governor Mitchell recommended that the Board adopt a policy statement 
covering Reserve Bank currency and coin services. He concurred with the 

QH* 
« O r 
4/1/71 
-4-
recommendations of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations in an 
attached memorandum of the same date regarding resolution of the three 
principal issues remaining after consideration of the subject over an 
extended period of time by System groups, including the Conference of 
Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks. The Division's memorandum 
was accompanied by a draft of letter to the Federal Reserve Banks set-
ting forth the proposed policy statement. 
Discussion included comments by Governor Mitchell and members 
of the staff on the nature of the negotiations on this matter that had 
taken place over a period of time, the principal points of contention, 
and the desirability of working toward a uniform System policy. Staff 
also summarized communications that had been received from several of 
the Reserve Banks in which objections were raised to certain parts of 
the proposed policy statement, and those objections were considered. 
There was a unanimity of opinion that the proposed statement 
included a satisfactory set of objectives, toward which the System 
should be moving. Some Board members suggested that the language of 
the letter to the Federal Reserve Bank be modified so as to indicate 
more clearly that it was not intended that the points covered in the 
policy statement would necessarily have to be implemented immediately 
by each Rese rve Bank, in view of the variety of situations presently 
prevailing from one Bank to another. At the same time, a view was ex-
pressed that it would be undesirable if progress toward the stated objec-
tives was not shown over a reasonable period of time by each Reserve Bank. 

788 
4/1/71 
-7-
It was agreed, therefore, to advise the Banks that the Board would 
expect to review the situation at the end of a year, and the Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations was instructed to follow up as 
necessary in order that such a review might be made. 
Subject to changes of the nature agreed upon and final review 
by Governor Mitchell, the letter to the Federal Reserve Banks was then 
approved unanimously. A copy of the letter, in the form in which it 
was subsequently transmitted, is attached as Item No. 4. 
Governor Daane then withdrew from the meeting. 
The following letters were approved unanimously after considera-
tion of staff documentation. Copies are attached as indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Bankers Trust Company, Des Moines, 
5 
Iowa, denying its request for permission to 
carry reduced reserves. 
Letter to the House Committee on Government 
6 
Operations commenting on H.R. 327, a bill to 
limit the sale or distribution of mailing 
lists by Federal agencies. 
Letter to the Office of Management and Budget 
7 
recommending approval of enrolled bill H.R. 5432, 
to extend the Interest Equalization Tax. 
Equal employment regulations. With a memorandum dated March 31, 
1971, the Legal Division recommended the adoption of regulations, a draft 
of which was attached, relating to equal employment practices of contrac-
tors and subcontractors performing under contracts with the Board. The 
proposed regulations would establish a definite policy of promoting non-
discrimination in the employment practices of contractors and subcontractors 

4/1/71 
-3-
and would set up a detailed procedure for processing complaints relating 
to alleged discrimination. 
The regulations were approved unanimously. A copy of the regula-
tions is attached as Item No. 8. A copy was sent to Chas. H. Tompkins Co., 
Washington, D.C., the contractor for the annex building, construction 
of which was about to begin, and it was understood that copies also 
would be furnished all future contractors. At the suggestion of Governor 
Brimmer, copies of the regulations were sent also to the Equal Employment 
Opportunity Commission, the Commission on Civil Rights, and the U.S. 
Department of Labor. 
Political activities. 
In a memorandum dated March 9, 1971, the 
Legal Division discussed a request from the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis that the Board permit the Chief Examiner of the Bank to con-
tinue to serve as Treasurer of the First Ward Republican Committee in 
Minneapolis and to serve in the future as a delegate to a State political 
convention. An attached memorandum reviewed the positions the Board had 
taken in similar circumstances and the arguments advanced by the Chief 
Examiner in support of his service. The Board's existing policy expressly 
prohibited service as a delegate to a political convention, but it was 
not entirely clear whether service as an officer of a party ward commit-
tee was prohibited if the activity did not publicly identify the individ-
ual as being associated with the Federal Reserve System. An attached 
draft of letter would take the position that the Chief Examiner should 

790 
4/1/71 
-7-
not serve as a convention delegate but that his service as Treasurer 
of the ward committee was not inconsistent with the spirit and under-
lying principles of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Discussion indicated a general view that neither type of polit-
ical activity should be permitted. Unanimous approval was given to the 
sending of a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank in the form attached as 
Item No. 9. 
United California Bank. In a memorandum of March 26, 1971, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation referred to questions raised by 
the Board in the fall of 1970 regarding the capital position of United 
Californ ia Bank, Los Angeles, California, following the failure of that 
bank's subsidiary in Basel, Switzerland. Subsequent discussions by the 
Board's staff with officers of the bank and its parent, Western Bancorpo-
ration, indicated that the parent would borrow to inject new capital 
into the bank if the Board insisted, but would prefer to wait until funds 
were available from a new stock issue expected to be marketed before the ' 
end of 1971. The Division believed that the latter proposal was suitable, 
provided the capital addition was sufficient in amount to meet the bank's 
needs. A draft letter was attached. 
Reference was made to the lack of specification in the draft 
letter as to the amount of capital to be added. It was explained that 
the amount needed would depend to some extent upon the methods used to 
finance a building program proposed by the bank. However, officers of the 

4/1/71 
-3-
bank and its parent had expressed an intention to add $60 million, which 
the Board's staff believed would put the bank in a reasonably good posi-
tion. 
The letter was then approved; a copy is attached as Item No. 10. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, and Dallas on 
March 25, 1971, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing 
schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropri-
ate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Interest rate ceilings. The Board was advised that a telegram 
had been received from Security National Bank, Walnut Creek, California, 
contending that with the expiration on March 21, 1971, of the flexible 
authority to prescribe maximum rates of interest payable by member banks 
on time deposits, no regulation prescribing interest rate ceilings was 
in effect, nor would any restrictions be applicable even if the President 
signed the bill extending the authority unless the Board prescribed a 
new supplement to Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits. The bank therefore 
proposed to offer interest rates in excess of those permitted under Regu-
lation Q. It was recommended that the bank be informed by letter, in 
confirmation of telephone conversations with the staff, that payment of 
interest on deposits as indicated in the bank's telegram would be regarded 
as a willful violation of Regulation Q. 

792 
4/1/71 
-9-
The recommended position and procedure were approved unanimously. 
A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 11. It was 
understood, also, that the matter would be brought to the attention of 
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

•Ao^cow-. \ 
n. in ir |L> /> ' 
{£> It- <«• iLV 
V / 5 
J 
Item No. 1 
4/1/71 
For immediate release 
April 1, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
amended its regulations to permit U.S. banks to count toward mainte-
nance of their reserve-free Euro-dollar bases any funds invested by 
their overseas branches in U.S. Treasury securities offered under the 
program announced today by the Treasury. The Board had previously made 
a similar amendment regarding Export-Import Bank securities offered to 
foreign branches. 
Euro-dollar borrowings by a member bank are subject to a 
20 per cent reserve requirement to the extent that they exceed a bank's 
reserve-free base. Foreign branches of U.S. banks may, however, pur-
chase and hold free of reserve requirements securities issued under this 
Treasury program, as they have heretofore been able to do under the 
similar Export-Import Bank program, even if the branch security holdings--
tofiethcr with head office borrowings of Euro-dollars from their branches-
exceed the reserve-free base. 
Attached is a copy of the amendment to the Board's Regulation K, 
which governs the foreign activities of member banks. 

12 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 213—FOREIGN ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL BANKS 
[Reg. M] 
Reserves Against Eurodollar Borrowings 
1. Effective April 1, 1971, footnote 8 to § 213.7(a) 
of Regulation M is amended to read as follows: 
£/ Including the principal amount paid by a foreign branch of the 
member bank for obligations held by such branch that were purchased 
by it from the Export-Import Bank of the United States pursuant to 
its program announced on January 15, 1971, or purchased by it from 
the U. S. Treasury pursuant to its program announced on April 1, 
1971, and excluding assets representing credit extended to persons 
not residents of the United States. 
2a. The change provides a means by which a member bank may 
retain its reserve-free base with respect to its Eurodollar borrowings 
from its foreign branches by counting within its base the amount of 
purchases by its foreign branches of certain U. S. Treasury obligations, 
b. The requirements of section 553(b) of title 5, United 
States Code, with respect to notice, public participation, and deferred 
effective date were not followed in connection with this amendment 
because the Board found that following such procedures with respect 
to this amendment would be contrary to the public interest and serve 
no useful purpose. 
-* 
. . - __ ' 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 1, 1971.. . 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
[SEAL] 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

'795 
Item No. 2 
4/1/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANCORPORATION, INC., 
Denver, Colorado, 
fef spproyaX 
JJQ 
par cent or mere of the voting shares 
of The Exchange National Bank of 
Colorado Springs, Colorado Springs, 
Colorado. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 
222.3(a)), an application by The First National Bancorporation, 
!nc., Denver, Colorado, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
Prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Exchange National Bank of Colorado Springs, Colorado Springs, 
Colorado. 

- 2 -
796 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency, 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller indicated his 
view that the proposed acquisition would have no adverse competitive effect 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 25, 1970 (35 Federal Register 12041), providing 
a n opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing 
comments and views has expired, and all those received have been con-
sidered by the Board, 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time shall be 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 1, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, Maisel, 
and Brimmer« 
(Signed) Kenneth A, Kenyon 
/ 0 f v 
Kenneth 
Kenyon 
VSMiif 
Deputy Secretary 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
TIE FIRST NATIONAL BANCORPORATION, INC., DENVER, COLORADO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE EXCHANGE NATIONAL BANK OF COLORADO SPRINGS, 
COLORADO SPRINGS, COLOPvADO 
STATEMENT 
The First National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
Exchange National Bank of Colorado Springs, Colorado Springs, 
Colorado ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
of the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
and recommendation thereon. The Comptroller indicated his view that 
proposed acquisition would .hflyg- a© adverse c omp c t i t iveJifffijBfcar 
Statutory considerations, - S e c t i o n 3(o) of the Act provides 
flil l^i Boa v< 1 ; ha 11 no tSgjgS&R®an acquisitionSMe would result in a 

798 
- 2 -
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acqui-
sition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into con-
sideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant, the 
second largest banking organization and bank holding company in Colorado, 
controls six banks with deposits of $553 million, representing 14 per cent 
of all commercial bank deposits in Colorado."^ It became a bank holding 
company in 1968 through the acquisition of First National Bank of Denver 
("Denver Bank"), and three other banks in the Denver area. On acquisition 
I T All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through January 31, 
1971. Included among Applicant's subsidiaries are The First National Bank of 
Greeley, Greeley, Colorado ($39 million deposits) and The Security State Bank 
of Sterling, Sterling, Colorado ($21 million deposits), which were approved 
by the Board on June 9, 1970, and December 21, 1970, respectively. Consum-
ption of these acquisitions has been delayed by litigation instituted by 
the United States Department of Justice. 

799 
- 3 -
of Bank (deposits of $52 million) Applicant would increase its control of 
State deposits by slightly more than 1 per cent and would become, by a 
slight margin, Colorado's largest banking organization and bank holding 
company. 
Bank is the second largest of 12 banks located in the City 
of Colorado Springs, El Paso County, Colorado. The county is served 
by 13 banks representing 15 banking organizations: 
COLORADO SPRINGS BANKING MARKET 
n 
Total Deposits 
Percentage of 
Banking Organizations 
June 30, 1970 
Market Share 
Affiliated Bankshares of Colorado, Inc. 
(holding company approved 1969) 
93 2 
34 
First National Bank of Colorado Springs 
90.5 
31 
Fort Carson National Bank 
4 . 4 
2 
Bank of Manitou 
3)3 
1 
i^rarj3rou£ 
. 
6 6 > 9 
2 3 
The Exchange N.B. of Colorado Springs 1/ 
52.3 
1G 
Colorado Commercial Bank 
14.6 
5 
Colorado Springs National Bank and affiliate 
45,0 
16 
Colorado Springs National Bank 2/ 
38.4 
13 
The East Colorado Springs National Bank 
7.4 
2 
Sgntral Colorado Bancorp, Inc. 
(holding company approved 1970) 
31.2 
n 
The Central Colorado Bank 
25.1 
9 
The Academy Boulevard Bank 
6.1 
2 
^gggican Heritage Bank and Trust Company 
12.7 
4 
Sg^Pikes Peak N-B. of Colorado Springs 
7 5 
3 
Air, Academy National Bank 
7*0 
t 
others (6) 
23^5 
8 
292 #8i 
101 37 
1/ Subject of present application. 
While acquisition by United Banks of Colorado^ Inc. has been approved, consum-
ption has been delayed by litigation instituted'by the United States 
department of Justice. 
J 
Percentages do not add to 100 due to rounding. 

800 
- 4 -
Thus, although Bank is the county's second largest bank with 18 per cent 
of deposits, it is slightly more than one-half as large as the county's 
largest banking organization which controls approximately 34 per cent 
of county deposits. It should be noted that the 12 smallest banks are 
retail institutions which have successfully served local markets in 
competition with the larger banks in the county. The last two banks 
to be chartered - in 1969 and 1966 - have deposits of $2 million and 
$6 million, respectively. It appears that consummation of the acqui-
sition would not unduly affect competition by these smaller banking 
institutions. 
The closest banking subsidiary of Applicant to Bank is 
First National Bank of South Glenn (deposits $6 million) which is 
located 57 miles north of Colorado Springs and does not compete to any 
significant extent with Bank. Applicant's largest subsidiary, First 
National Bank of Denver (deposits $468 million), which is located 71 
miles north of Colorado Springs, does compete with Bank to a limited 
extent, primarily through a mortgage loan production office located in 
Colorado Springs. However that bank made only 2 per cent of the mortgage 
loans in Colorado Springs in 1969. It appears from the facts of record 
.. 
.. i; 
that consummation of the transaction would not eliminate substantial 
existing competition between any of Applicant's subsidiaries and Bank. 
Approval of the application x*ould have several pro-competitive 
effects insofar as banking in El Paso County is concerned. Bank is 

SGI 
ji 5 -
affiliated through common individual ownership with the fifth largest 
bank in the county ($15 million deposits). An effect of approval of 
the pending application would be to end that affiliation and create an 
additional competitor in the market. Another affiliate in the same 
chain banking organization is The First National Bank of Pueblo 
($54 
million deposits), the largest bank in Pueblo, Colorado.—^ The 
chain of which Bank is now a part would thus continue to have repre-
sentation in two major Colorado markets, and x^ould continue to be a 
significant competitive factor in both. 
In approving the present application, the Board has approved 
the entry of four holding companies into the Colorado Springs market. 
' ' 
. 
1 •hit;. • 
" • ! 
; 
• 
T w o o f these approvals severed pre-existing "chain" relationships and 
0 
in effect added two new competitors to the Colorado Springs area. While 
the entry of additional holding companies into the area is a matter of 
conjecture, there remain several unaffiliated banks which, in appropriate 
circumstances, could be acquired by existing or newly formed holding companies. 
The introduction of Applicant as a competitive force in 
Colorado Springs and El Paso County should have the effect of reducing 
the market dominance of the area's largest banking organization. While 
the desirability of strengthening competition between the largest and 
second largest organizations in a market is not such as would ordinarily 
justify an acquisition which eliminates direct and significant competition, 
2J A proposal by Applicant to acquire that bank was denied by the Board 
September 1, 1970 (1970 Federal Reserve Bulletin 731). 

it is, we believe, a consideration which should be given appropriate 
weight in determining the public interest where, as here, the only 
possible adverse effects of the proposal are of a more speculative nature. 
The Board has considered a comment by the Department of 
Justice, which concludes that the proposed acquisition would have a 
significantly adverse effect on competition on the grounds, among others, 
that consummation of the acquisition might eliminate a source of 
correspondent services for unaffiliated Colorado Springs banks, would 
entrench the highly concentrated banking structure in El Paso County, 
would eliminate potential competition, and might trigger acquisitions of 
leading local banks throughout Colorado by the large State-wide holding 
companies. 
As regards the possible loss of correspondent services, the 
argument appears to be premised on the theory that the affiliation of 
a Denver bank with a Colorado Springs bank will reduce the number of 
correspondents for the other banks in Colorado Springs, in part because 
these banks would be unwilling to entrust confidential or business data 
to an affiliate of a competitor. However, correspondent services vary 
in character and importance, and the majority could be equally well 
performed by banks outside the areas in which the Justice Department 
alleges anticompetitive effects. Banks in Colorado Springs and in the 
State have more "upstream correspondents" outside than within the State. 
Portfolio and management advice, loan participations, and miscellaneous 

803 
* 1 -
specialized services could be furnished by these out-of-State corres-
pondents, Check processing may be done by banks with computer facilities, 
at service bureaus or at the Federal Reserve in Denver; no confidential 
information is involved which might preclude a banlc from seeking the 
services of an affiliate of a competitor. 
Moreover, the argument relies, in part, at least, on the 
premise that Applicant's Denver subsidiary, a leading correspondent bank 
in the State, would be less desirable or less available as a correspondent 
for banks in the Colorado Springs area if it had an affiliate in that 
area. A difficulty with the argument is that it would appear applicable, 
if valid in any case, to any proposal through which the Denver bank 
would obtain a Colorado Springs affiliate, without particular regard to 
the size or market position of such affiliate. More broadly applied, it 
argues against permitting a large correspondent bank to become a sub-
sidiary of a holding company, or in any other way expand into markets 
in which are located banks for which it serves, or could serve, as 
correspondent. The Board is not aware of any evidentiary basis for 
the premise on which the argument is based, and, in the absence of a 
demonstration that such expansion in fact, rather than in theory, leads 
to a curtailment in the availability of essential correspondent services, 
is unwilling to adopt that conclusion as a principal basis for curtailing 
expansion which is likely to result in better service to the communities 
affected. 

304 
- 3 -
With regard to the alleged entrenchment effect, eight banks 
have been chartered in the Colorado Springs area in the past 15 years 
and remain viable. The number of competing banks in the area does not 
now appear so small as to justify, much less require, denial of Applicant's 
proposal in order to preserve a mere possibility (as distinguished from 
a probability) of additional entry. Applicant has indicated that its 
expansion plans into Colorado Springs are premised on the acquisition 
of a "wholesale" bank that is capable of offering sophisticated banking 
services and of supplying the capital requirements for the expanding 
industrial needs of the city. These services cannot economically be 
offered through acquisition of a small bank or through de novo entry, 
unless the market involved affords unusual prospects for rapid expansion 
of such a subsidiary. Analysis indicates that prospects of the 
Colorado Springs market are not as attractive, in this sense at least, 
as might at first appear, as is more fully detailed in the Concurring 
Statement of Governor Mitchell, For example, probably because a 
substantial percentage of area personnel are transient military personnel 
with other banking connections, the average account size and the per 
capita account size of Colorado Springs banks are relatively small, 
despite the area's growing population. Accordingly, although it is nearly 
always possible that foreclosure of a given route of expansion will 
encourage a resourceful organization to seek an alternative, the Board 
does not in this case find the present competitive circumstances to 

306 
- 10 -
be so exigent, or possible alternatives so clearly preferable or so 
likely to result, as to warrant denial of a proposal which would provide 
immediate benefits of competition, service, and economies of scale. 
Insofar as any "triggering effect" which approval of the 
application may have, each subsequent application also must receive 
the approval of the Board, Presumably, one of the reasons for the 
requirement of administrative approval of individual cases, rather 
than the establishment of firm legislative guidelines, is to permit 
the recognition of distinctions which may exist among cases which 
uould otherwise be grouped in proscribed or permitted categories. 
Each application should be analyzed on the basis of the competitive 
structure of the market and other facts existing at the time of Board 
consideration of the matter. On that basis, and after careful con-
sideration of this entire record, the Board concludes that Applicant's 
acquisition of Bank would not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance 
any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the business 
banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen competition, 
tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. - 
The 
financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is generally 
satisfactory, their management is qualified, and prospects of the 
8roup appear favorable. 
Bank is in satisfactory financial condition, but because of 
the recent retirement of its chief executive officer is undergoing a 

306 
- 10 -
transitional period as regards its management, and at the present time 
needs additional assistance in the trust department and data processing 
department. Applicant's ability to provide assistance in these areas 
and to furnish management depth would further enhance Bank's prospects. 
These factors lend some weight for approval of the 
application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Consum-
mation of the Applicant's proposal would have no significant effect on 
the convenience and needs of the communities served by its present 
subsidiary banks. 
Colorado Springs, situated 71 miles south of Denver, has a 
Population of 135,060 and is the second largest city and metropolitan 
area in Colorado; the population of El Paso County is almost twice that 
the city. The economy of the area is dependent on military installations, 
tourism and light manufacturing. Banking needs of the area appear to be 
adequately and conveniently served at the present time by the banks 
located there; however, affiliation of Bank with Applicant could offer 
customers an alternative for sophisticated services which the area's 
growth is likely to demand. Applicant indicates that some specialized 
loan services would be introduced at Bank and that internal improvements 
in trust services and data processing would be effected. 
These considerations all lend weight for approval of 
application. 

- 10 -
306 
Summary and conclusion; - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction uould be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
April 1, 1971. 

CONCURRING STATE IE NT OF GOVERNOR MITCHELL 
I concur in the majority view that the application 
should be approved. I believe such action is consistent with 
the approvals given by the Board in two recent cases, one 
involving Affiliated Banlcshares of Colorado^ and the other United 
2/ 
Banks of Colorado. t I am, however, troubled by the fact that 
the record in this and other recent cases involving the re-
structuring of the Colorado banking system gives rise to so 
much difference of judgment and opinion on the questions of 
competition, concentration aid the convenience and needs of the 
public• 
Competition, Concentration and Service to the Public 
In assessing the impact on the public interest of bank 
mergers, holding company acquisitions or de novo entry, there 
does not seem to be much disagreement on basic goals. The public 
will benefit from more competition, less concentration, greater 
convenience in the location of banking facilities, and the provision 
of more diversified servies. Unfortunately, these objectives often 
seem not to be entirely compatible because more and better services 
can only be realized through economies of scale and in banking this 
requires larger banking organizations and may involve queitions of 
> 
: 
• 
s 
concentration and anti-competitiveness. 
Public policy has been and continues highly ambivalent 
on the role of competition and concentration in banking. Widespread 
banking failures in the early Thirties increased reliance on govern-
mental policies designed to partially insulate banks and other 
1/ 1969 Federal Reserve Bulletin, 552. 
2/ 1970 Federal Reserve Bulletin, 845 

-12-
depository institutions from the pressures of competition. Banks 
were prohibited, pricewise, from competing with each other in 
supplying demand deposit services. In many States, banks were 
prevented from branching into the "home office" territory of 
another bank. In other States, competition via branching of 
all kinds was prohibited. State and Federal chartering 
authorities often severely restricted entry in order to prevent 
"over banking" and on the grounds there was no need for 
additonal offices. 
Today, a more competitive environment in banking is 
possible because deposit insurance has all but removed failure as 
a cause of depositor loss and stronger banking managements and 
better supervisory techniques have been developed. But many 
constraints on competition still apply. Federal law limits 
competition for funds seeking a higher interest return. At times, 
Regulation Q has all but prohibited competition among financial 
institutions for loanable resources; banks have been severely 
limited in their competitive access to financial and capital markets. 
Under the circumstances, the statutory injunction in the 
merger law to avoid anti-competitive mergers or acquisitions is often 
difficult to implement. Statutes aimed at "protecting" depository 
institutions may do so by prohibiting effective competition. At 
the present time, competition on the deposit side is largely 
limited to service and convenience features. The evidence of 
such competition is often far from readily apparent as it adheres 

-3-
n 
to continuing personal and intangible relationships between bankers 
and their customers. On the other hand, it is quite obvious that 
banks generally operate in competitive markets in their investment 
and lending operations. Portfolios of Governments, State and local 
securities, mortgages, and loans to consumers, brokers and dealers, 
businesses and agriculture are acquired in competition with nonlocal 
banks, other local internediaree, nonfinaneial corporations and 
Government or Government-sponsored agencies. 
In recent years competition in banking at the local level 
has been becoming more of a reality as sheltering policies and 
neighborhood or local monopolies are being broken down by greater 
mobility of customers and their greater awareness of competitive 
terms. Radio and TV advertising, banking by mail or near work has 
broadened the banking alternatives for most households and businesses 
in urban areas. But banking competition can only exist in a meaning-
ful sense if at least some banking units have the capacity to 
broaden their services and make them more conveniently available. 
Their capability to do so is a matter of realizing economies of scale. 
Economies of Scale in Banking. Banking has long enjoyed 
significant economies of scale but in the past decade, in particular, 
such economies have become increasingly important as specialization 
and professionalization in banking has increased and as electronic 
accounting, analysis, and data processing have altered the profile 
of customer services and the cost dimensions of doing business. 
The changing banking structure of Colorado and Colorado 
Springs is illustrative of the difficulties of transition in a 
State which has traditionally limited economies of scale and is 

1 -
in the process of moving toward a structure in which some of 
I ; 
; • , 
the advantages of scale may be realized. 
s". ,i 
' 
1 
! 
Branching constraints have impaired Colorado banking's 
ability to service its customers more adequately. Comparative 
statistics and the studies of Professor Benston (see Appendix A) 
indicate that there are significant economies of scale in banking 
and that they tend to be "spent" in providing additonal convenience 
in offices and facilities when they are realized. This conclusion 
conforms to expectations and "explains" the comparative structure 
data. Thus, per capita demand deposits in accounts under $100,000 
tend to be relatively uniform among major banking markets regardless 
of the number of banking offices. Additional banking offices add to 
the convenience of depositors but do not add to the aggregate of 
such deposits in the area though they may strengthen a given bank's 
competitive position. For example, the State of Washington's SMSA's 
have almost the identical population of Colorado's (1,810,000 
compared to 1,764,000), the demand deposits under $100,000 in the 
areas are very nearly the same, too, $766 million and $763 million, 
but there are almost 2-1/2 times as many banking offices in these 
areas in Washington as in Colorado. 
Since Colorado needs more banking facilities and can 
only achieve this objective by changes in its banking structure 
which will permit economies of scale to be realized it follows that 
in the absence of branching authorization, holding company develop-
ment should be encouraged. 
\m 
'•'J§ 
I 

812 
'•' L •" 
Moreover, holding companies ought to be required to 
extend their operations with die novo offices whenever feasible. 
This general rule would be modified only if the banking market 
to be entered already had a normal complement of offices or 
because the economy of the area does not appear capable of 
profitably supporting an average standard of banking convenience. 
Entry Into New Markets. From a practical standpoint, 
the crux of the matter is a judgment on the attitude of banking 
entrepreneurship toward entry into a given market. When a bank 
seeks regulatory approval for entry how does it draw the line 
between de novo entry and purchase of a market share or between 
purchase of a major or minor market share? De novo entry has the dis-
advantage of start-up costs and getting customers away from someone 
else. It seems to work best in rapidly growing areas where established 
institutions in the older sections have locational-disadvantages 
which a new institution can avoid. Despite this important advantage 
it seems clear from the record of cases before the regulatory agencies 
that the purchase of as large a market share as is available is 
ordinarily the preferred method of entry. In some instances, moreover, 

81 
•iG-
1 
! 
. » . . 
. .1 • 
it is the only method of entry that will be considered by a 
knowledgeable banking entrepreneur. And, so far as the public in-
terest is concerned, there is ordinarily a positive advantage when 
the acquiring bank replaces an incompetent, stodgy or deteriorating 
management. 
Given a general entrepreneurial preference for entry via 
acquisition, there is nothing inherently hostile to the public interest 
in regulatory authorities recognizing the legitimacy of corporate 
interests. An acquisition is not suspect because it promises a profit 
for the stockholders of the acquired bank or the acquiring bank, or 
both. It becomes suspect if there is some evidence that the newcomer 
will be less competitive, is predatory in its policies, or by the 
record of its acquisitions can be shown to be moving toward domination 
of some banking market. 
Even if none of these conditions exist, the public interest 
may still be better served by dei novo entry, expecially if the 
absorption of a competent and aggressive competitor should be involved. 
But if banking markets are too fractionated by new entries economies 
of scale will be minimal and so will banking service standards. More-
over, a regulatory decision turing on the method of entry, granting 
entry is desirable, may be highly conjectural as to how entrepreneur-
manship will react to being limited to this alternative. If its re-
action is negative, regulatory policy is used, in effect to preserve 
the status quo. What is needed is an insight into the basis on which 

814 
-19-
banks make entry decisions. What do they regard as a realistic 
balancing of the services that can be provided in a new market and the 
cost incurred in doing so? 
Since banks have to be motivated by profitable prospects, 
the levels of convenience and banking service they offer to the 
public depends crucially on deposit levels which they believe can be 
achieved. These, in turn, depend upon the community's deposit poten-
tial, the extent to which market shares are likely to be protected or 
fractionated by public policy, and the economies of scale attainable 
under State laws. Broadly speaking, the approximate level of locally 
oriented bank deposits is substantially determined by the economic 
characteristics of the community and the competition from nonbank 
intermediaries, market instruments, and nonlocal banks. The market 
shares that individual competitors can attract is a function of their 
competitive abilities and the cost involved in implementing them. 
Many banking markets are so small or so fractionated that knowledgeable 
competitors would not attempt to enter them. Such markets can only 
attract marginal operators offering services of the lowest order. 
When banking entrepreneurs are given relative freedom to 
establish offices, they ordinarily tend to provide far more facilities 
than are available in Colorado today. Greater convenience to the public 
is possible with branching or holding company systems than with unit 
systems. Branching systems can service markets much more intensively 
than unit banks and generally considerably more intensively than 

815 
be-
holding companies. They can do so because a certain scale of 
operation is essential to cover the management overhead of a banking 
organization and because more specialization is possible. Looked 
at from the standpoint of entry alternatives, an area in which a 
competitive banking office can generate $2-3 million in demand and 
time accounts may support a profitable branch operation but be un-
profitable for a holding company affiliate. A larger potential might 
support a holding company affiliate but be insufficient to cover the 
costs of an independent bank. Scale also has a good deal to do with 
the quality and feasibility of several banking functions, such as 
portfolio management, the extension of consumer and other specialized 
credits and the functional applications of data processing equipment. 
In certain holding company systems important operating 
economies of scale are being realized1; in others, there is little to 
distinguish operations from those of a unit bank. If operating 
economies are not exploited and passed on to the public in the form 
of better and more convenient banking facilities one of the major 
community advantages inherent in holding company banking organizations 
is lost. 
Whether the relatively new holding companies in Colorado 
have achieved significant economies of scale is another fact on which 
the record is unsatisfactory. The probability is that progress is 
being made in that direction but, of necessity, rather slowly, The 
point is a critical one in appraising the likelihood of de novo entry. 
Acquisition may be the only feasible route unless the potential 
market is expanding so rapidly that scale economies characteristic 
of larger independent units will make for profitable operations. 

-19-
816 
The Quality of Banking Services 
A thorough appraisal of the quality of banking services 
in Colorado is not included in the record even though in this 
decision, as well as others before it, structural implications 
have been deliberately regarded as of primary importance. Those 
portions of Colorado where the banking structure is changing are 
growing much faster than the country as a whole (34 per cent compared 
to 12 per cent in the past decade). They are absorbing far more in 
capital and credit than can be locally generated, hence they need to 
attract funds from other sections of the nation and maximize their 
utilization of available local resources. It is not clear how this 
is being done. Nor is it clear whether the Colorado banking system 
is functioning adequately by contemporary or historical standards. 
Banking does not, of course, serve all of the financial needs of 
this or any other section of the country. Insurance companies, 
savings and loan associations, credit unions, capital markets, 
investment trusts, Government and quasi-Government agencies, as 
well as individual investors provide credit and capital, too. 
But knowledgeable and capable bankers are a key element in any 
community experiencing rapid economic growth. The essential 
need for Colorado at this stage of its development is access 
to their financial resources and expertise. 

8 1 ? 
-10-
Some indication of the quality of service and the market 
penetration of local banking organizations can be inferred from 
comparative performance of banking in Colorado, in the United States 
and in roughly comparable markets where competitive forces have been 
permitted to accommodate banking needs more fully. Accordingly, I 
have assembled in the attached Appendix A relevant evidence available 
to me which I believe sufficiently documents the applicability of the 
foregoing generalizations to Colorado banking. 
The relationships and inferences outlined in that Appendix 
point to the conclusion that, to better serve public needs and con-
venience, Colorado should have more banking offices—or at least as 
many more offices as are economically consistent with the limitations 
on branching in the Colorado law. 
Simply in terms of facilities, the Colorado region as a 
whole, with one banking office for 14,600 persons is, as indicated 
in the attachments, seriously deficient in providing convenient 
banking accommodations. But the ratio of persons to offices varies 
widely in sub-markets within the region. In Weld County (Greely), 
for example, it is 5,900--only slightly in excess of the national 
average. In Morgan County, where the Board recently approved an 
acquisition, the figure is 4,600. In the Denver and Pueblo SIISA's 
the population per office is much higher—17,700 and 16,700, respectively. 
Colorado Springs, with 12,700 persons per office, would clearly 
benefit from additional banking offices. Such an improvement in 
public convenience would no doubt have long since been achieved had 
Colorado permitted branch banking. Its consummation is problematical, 
if not academic, under unit banking and at least doubtful in the near 
future with holding company affiliations. 

818 
Whether or not there are unmet banking needs in 
Colorado Springs or any other community depends upon the 
service standards applied. A currency exchange or supermarket 
can cash checks conveniently. A limited service office of a 
bank can accept deposits. But there is more to modern banking 
than accepting deposits and caehing checks. A present-day bank 
should be able to offer competitively priced services in a broad 
variety of financial markets. To do so it must have prospects 
for growth and earnings to attract men with ability and investors 
with money. Meeting the convenience and needs of the community, 
therefore, involves far more than an enumeration of available 
service items and features. Basically what matters in a bank 
is the financial capacity and banking know-how to deal with the 
entire spectrum of a community's financial problems. 
Colorado Springs Banking Market 
Banking opportunities in the Colorado Springs SMSA are 
generally thought to be promising, but the economic and deposit 
data are not equally reassuring, particularly in comparison with 
other areas in Colorado, As presented in the attached Appendix B, 
such data make it seem doubtful that de novo entry into the 
Colorado Springs SMSA has more than a marginal appeal. The cost 
of branch entry might be entirely feasible, but—given the scale 
economies achievable in Colorado holding company practices at 
this time—affiliated de novo entry is, on the record of present 
performance, not obviously attractive. 

8 1 9 
-19-
Concentration Ratios. One popuibr Approach to evaluating 
competitive situations is the use of concentration ratios—the share 
of the particular market enjoyed by each banking organization. Shares 
are usually measured in terms of total deposits or assets. Markets 
are usually towns, cities, counties, SMSA's or states. The 
definition of the appropriate market area often involves con-
siderable judgment and approximation but if the intent is to seek 
that market in which the greater part of the deposit competition 
is local, then the measure of total deposits or total assets is 
often inappropriate. 
Local market shares can be much more reliably measured 
by using either demand or time and saving deposits of individuals, 
partnerships and corporations whose account balances are less than 
some amount which is large enough to exclude account holders who 
are susceptible to nonlocal bank competition. The amount cutoff 
needed to segregate local customers will not likely be less than 
$10,000 nor more than $100,000, depending upon the character of 
the community and the proximity of nonlocal banks. 
Using pertinent concentration ratios of this type, I do 
not believe it can be established that, from the standpoint of 
public policy, the banking structure of Colorado Springs is unduly 
concentrated or so anti-competitive as to require redress. I base 
that judgment on the clear evidence of the degree of nonbank and 

38 
-19-
nonlocal bank competition existing in the many banking markets and 
on the fact that Congress has not directed a broad revision or 
dismantling of the existing banking structure. It is illuminating 
to factually compare the concentration ratios in SMSA's comparable 
M z c M ^ C o l e f c a d © , t h i s 
applicatiQn*hadUbeen 
approved. 
The data conveniently available to me are concentration 
ratios based on June 1968 demand deposits IPC in accounts of under 
$100,000. The ratios are for the largest bank in each area and 
the four largest banks combined. The accompanying table divides 
160 SMSA's into two equal groups, those smaller and those larger 
than Colorado Springs. The concentration ratio for the largest 
bank in the Colorado Springs area is 31 per cent and for the four 
largest 73 per cent. The large bank ratio falls into the modal 
groups in the accompanying table and the four bank ratio, falls 
significantly below the modes in both the larger and the smaller 
SMSA's. 
Concentration Ratios in 160 SMSA's, 1968 
Ratio 
50 & over 
30-40 
20- 30 
Less than 20 
Largest Bank 
Larger 
SMSA's 
Smaller 
SMSA's 
Ratio 
97. 
15% 
90 & over 
15 
26 
80-90 
w 
28 
70-80 
30 
23 
GQ-70 
. 9' . 
8 
Less than 
100 
100 
Largest four Banks 
Larger 
Smaller 
SMSA's 
SMSA's 

821 
-14-
Another way of looking at concentration ratios is to 
compare distributions of such ratios in unit banking States with 
those in limited branching or state-wide branching States. The 
following table does this for 47 SMSA's in 15 unit banking States 
and 57 SllSA's in 17 limited branching States. It is immediately 
apparent that these measures show significantly lower levels of 
concentration in unit banking States. But the ratios do not take 
into account the affiliations through common ownership of banking 
chains, satellite arrangements or the dependence inherent in many 
bank loans to purchase a controlling stock interest. Nor do they 
incorporate the effects of the recent expansion of holding companies 
in several States, most notably Florida and Missouri. Therefore, 
in many unit banking States, the concentration ratios fall 
significantly short of reflecting the present degree of concentration 
in ownership and control of banks. 

bl 
40 
-19-
Concentration Ratios for 47 Metropolitan Areas in Unit 
Banking States Compared to 57 such areas in Limited 
Banking States 1/ 
Concentration 
^ 
Ratio 
than 10 
JO to 20 
20 to 30 
30 to 40 
40 to 50 
f0 to 60 
60 to 70 
to so 
80 to 90 
0 & over 
Unit % 
One Bank 
Limited Branching % 
Four Banks 
Unit 7o 
Limited Branching 
2 
• 
15 
2 
43 
16 
26 
30 
2 
6 
33 
2 
6 
5 
15 
3 
2 
2 
15 
16 
2 
2 
19 
9 
21 
24 
26 
40 
100 
100 
100 
100 
Areas with total deposits of less than $500 million on June 30, 1970. 
Concentration ratios based on demand deposits IPC under $100,000, 
of June 30, 1960. 
The unit banking States are: Arkansas, Colorado, Florida, Illinois, 
Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, 
Nebraska, North Dakota, Oklahoma, Texas, 
West Virginia and Wyoming. 
^he limited branching States are: Alabama, Georgia, Indiana, Kentucky, 
Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, 
Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, 
New Mexico, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, 
Tennessee, Utah and Wisconsin. 

323' 
Concentration tatios are sometimes calculated for 
States as indicative of the dominance of a small number of 
banking organizations. The usefulness of such data is limited 
as there are very few instances in which a State can be regarded 
as a realistic market area. The following table shows such con-
centration ratios as of June 30, 1961 and June 30, 1970. It 
is based on total deposits and all units of a holding company 
are combined into one banking organization. The data are most 
interesting because they show a significant decline between 1961 
and 1970 in shares of the largest and next to largest banks in 
over half of the States, little change in a third and an increase 
in 10 per cent. 
jjarket Shares of Largest Banking Organizations in each State, 1970 and 1961. 
State 
Alabama (LB) 
Alaska (B) 
Arizona (B) 
Arkansas (U) 
California (B) 
Colorado (U) 
Connecticut (B) 
Delaware (B) 
(B) 
Florida (U) 
Georgia (LB) 
Hawaii (B) 
Idaho (B) 
Illinois (U) 
Indiana (LB) 
Iowa (U) 
Kansas (U) 
Kentucky (LB) 
Louisiana (LB) 
Maine (B) 
Maryland (B) 
Massachusetts (LB) 
Michigan (LB) 
Minnesota (U) 
June 30. 1970 
June 30, 1961 
dumber 
Number 
Number 
Number 
1 
1 & 2 
JL 
1 & 2 
12 
19 
18 
25 
34 
61 
31 
55 
46 
79 
47 
83 
7 
11 
7 
13 
30 
51 
41 
54 
15 
28 
19 
34 
19 
36 
18 
35 
33 
54 
43 
63 
30 
54 
32 
56 
8 
14 
7 
14 
20 
31 
21 
36 
30 
70 
43 
82 
37 
66 
36 
67 
14 
27 
17 
34 
9 
18 
10 
19 
6 
9 
7 • 
11 
6 
9 
7 
11 
IQ 
19 
12 
23 
10 
16 
14 
22 
16 
29 
14 
25 
20 
33 
21 
35 
27 
39 
20 
40 
17 
26 
21 
31 
27 
51 
31 
56 

June 30, 1970 
June 30 , 1961 
Number 
Number 
Number 
Number 
State 
1 
. 1.&.2 
1 
1 & 2 
Mississippi (LB) 
14 
25 
13 
23 
'Missouri (U) 
o 
u 
16 
10 
19 
Montana (U) 
2S 
44 
30 
43 
Nebraska (U) 
10 
10 
15 
25 
Nevada (B) 
62 
77 
73 
86 
Hew Hampshire (LB) 
16 
26 
12 
13 
New Jersey (LB) 
5 
10 
6 
12 
New Mexico -(LB) 
17 
32 
17 
31 
New York (LB) 
17 
31 
17 
32 
North Carolina (B) 
21 
38 
24 
41 
Iforfch Dakota (U> 
17 
34 
19 
37 
Ohio (LB) 
10 
16 
12 
18 
Oklahoma (U) 
7 
14 
12-
23 
Oregon (B) 
43 
31 
43 
85 
Pennsylvania (£$) 
12 
19 
13 
21 
Rhode Island (B) 
53 
85 
54 
88 
South Carolina (B) 
23 
37 
25 
36 
South Dakota (B) 
24 
39 
24 
33 
Tennessee (LB) 
9 
18 
11 
21 
Texas (U) 
5 
11 
3 
15 
Utah 
, 
30 
46 
32 
53 
Vermont (B) 
14 
28 
9 
19 
Virginia (B) 
14 
25 
7 
14 
Washington (B) 
33 
53 
36 
55 
West Virginia (U) 
5 
10 
6 
12 
Wisconsin (LB) 
16 
22 
20 
27 
Wyoming (U) 
15 
23 
17 
28 
I conclude from my analysis of this case that the 
changes in banking structure taking place in Colorado are not 
only needed to provide better banking service and to facilitate 
growth in this developing metropolitan region , but that there is 
no significant evidence that undue concentration is a threat or 
that competitive opportunities permitted under our regulatory 
system are in danger of being stifled. 

825 
APPENDIX A 
A-l 
Banking data for the Colorado metropolitan region, for 
the U. S. and for two additional metropolitan regions, comprising 
most of the three SMSA's in Utah (Salt Lake, excluding Davis County, 
Ogden and Provo-Orem) and two SMSA's in the Puget Sound area of 
Washington (Seattle and Tacoma), are instructive in revealing the 
effect of structure patterns on banking services and market 
penetration. 
About 80 per cent of Colorado's 2,196,000 population is 
located in a multi-city metropolitan region east of the mountains, 
extending from Fort Collins, in the North, to Pueblo, in the South, 
find centering in Denver. It consists of the seven counties which 
form three SMSA's plus two counties which are important banking 
markets. This is the region of Colorado in which the banking struc-
ture is undergoing rapid change. It is presently served by 122 
(December 1969) banking offices (excluding industrial banks and 
military facilities) and 100 banking organizations. These banking 
facilities are so located and linked that they could readily be 
incorporated into a single urban clearing area. The area is 
blanketed by common press, radio and television coverage and in 
this sense is a single market. 
Colorado has a much higher population to banking office 
ratio than either the U. S. as a whole or the comparable metropolitan 
areas. (See accompanying Table) Thus it is atypical in that the 
banks in that area provide only 40 per cent of the facilities avail-
able on the average in the country as a whole. Economization of 

82G 
A-2 
offices reduces the cost of banking but, under present-day practices, 
at the expense of inconvenience to bank customers and the assumption 
of certain banking services, notable check cashing and currency service, 
by supermarkets, other.retailers, or currency exchanges. 
Commercial banks are not the only financial intermediaries 
providing credit and depository service to the public—savings and 
loan associations, credit unions, and mutual savings banks (in some 
areas) are highly competitive with banks.]./ The table shows the 
number of offices and amount of deposits in the Colorado, Utah and 
Washington areas. These inter-area comparisons are useful in reveal-
ing a relatively stable relationship between area income and depository 
aggregates. But the crude total deposit aggregates include corres-
pondent bank balances, money market CD's and large compensating 
balances in demand accounts which are highly exposed to nonlocal bank 
competition and often do not accurately portray local competitive 
positions. If depository totals are refined 
to more nearly reflect 
1/ It is sometimes assumed from the over-all deposit statistics that 
all or most of the 63 million households in the nation have checking 
accounts. The G4 odd million demand deposit accounts in the nation's 
commercial banks should not be so interpreted. This total includes 
businesses, nonprofit institutions and multiple accounts of house-
holds (estimates for the average household range from 1.2 to 1.4 
accounts). A large number of income recipients, probably between 10 
and 15 per cent, do not have checking accounts but use coin and 
currency for their transactions and credit unions, savings and loan 
associations, mutual savings banks, U. S. savings bonds, and passbook 
accounts in commercial banks as readily accessible sources of liqui-
dity in an emergency or for major household expenditures. Banks 
clearly are not the sole alternative for savers nor do they even 
handle a majority of money settlements for millions of households. 

827 
-19-
household and local sources of funds, the nature and degree of 
local bank and nonbank competition and the role of branching is 
more clearly revealed. 
(See Table) These relationships are more 
consistent than total deposits with such income variables as 
personal income or adjusted gross income. 
A reasonable conclusion from these data, bearing in mind 
that banking facilities are two to three times as numerous in the 
nation and the illustrative areas as in the Denver region, is that 
branching makes possible larger organizations and economies of 
scale that cannot be attained in unit banking and that may be 
seriously diluted even in holding company organizations. 
In 
Washington and Utah, and branching States generally, those economies 
appear to be absorbed by intra-depository industry competition. In 
the process more convenient depository services are provided but 
apparently without significantly enlarging the industry's market 
size. In States where competition is limited by law and numerous 
offices are not available, the inconveniences and costs of getting 
to and from more remote locations are apparently borne by bank 
customers, particularly household depositors. 
Such a conclusion is consistent with the findings in a 
recent paper (Sept. 1970), by Professor George Benston, of the 
University of Rochester, wherein he summarized several studies on 
2/ 
economies of scale in commercial banking as follows: 
2/ Presented at the 1970 Conference of University Professors, 
sponsored by the American Bankers Association, the University of 
California, Los Angeles, and the University of Southern California. 

"For an average commercial bank, overall elasticity 
with respect to operating costs is .93. A 10 per cent 
increase in the output at the average bank of each service 
while holding all other independent variables constant at 
their geometric mean values is accompanied by a 9.3 per 
cent increase in operating costs. 
•k k k -k 
"Branch banking was found to be more expensive than 
unit banking for both commercial banks and savings and 
loans. However, these costs increase at a decreasing 
rate as additional branches are added. Further, for 
commercial banks, the additional cost of branching appears 
to be offset by the economies of larger scale operation, 
since larger banks tend to be branch banks . . . . 
". . . Elasticities measured indicate that larger 
firms are preferable cet. par. However, for specific 
regulatory decisions the amount of the expected savings 
and operating costs should be compared to an estimate 
of the disadvantages, if any, of favoring larger banks. 
However, one can generalize that the size of the economies 
of scale is not such that medium sized banks would be 
'squeezed out' by larger banks if growth and mergers 
were allowed. However, small banks do appear to have a 
considerable cost disadvantage, especially with respect 
to branches of larger banks. In choosing between 
chartering a small unit bank or allowing branching of a 
larger bank, the regulatory authorities should prefer the 
branching application unless considerations of competition 
are overriding." 
Benston's findings are especially relevant to the issue 
of a restructured banking system in Colorado. They suggest that 
greater dependence on large banking organizations could extend 
the scope and improve the convenience of banking in that State. 

APPENDIX B 
B-1 
The richness and penetration of the banking market in 
the Colorado Springs SMSA is best examined by reviewing the 
comparative performance by all area depository institutions; 
commercial banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions. 
As is apparent from the data already cited, this comparison should 
be done by reference to the level of bank time and savings deposits 
under $100,000 since this is the financial sector which is sensitive 
to local competitive forces. 
Time and savings account deposits at all depository 
institutions in per capita terms are significantly lower in the 
Colorado Springs SMSA ($G49) than in the Pueblo ($1,320) and Denver 
SMSA's ($1,725), or in Boulder or Larimer Counties. 
The major source for the relatively poor showing of inter-
mediaries in the Colorado Springs SMSA does not seem to be due to 
lack of competition on the part of the commercial banks there. It 
lie s in the failure of the intermediaries as a group to match the 
performance of similar institutions in the Denver and Pueblo SMSA's 
in Boulder or Larimer Counties. In fact, even though time and 
savings deposits of commercial banks lag well behind the combined 
total for savings and loan associations and credit unions in all 
°f these areas (no more than 40 per cent of the depository market), 
the differential is not significantly less adverse in Colorado 
Springs than elsewhere. 
The relatively stable relationship of population to 
demand deposit accounts under $100,000 noted earlier in the comparison 

830 
B-2 
£ 
f 
' 
Of the Colorado metropolitan region with SMSA's in Utah and 
Washington and with national data also shows up within Colorado. 
The average size of such accounts under $1,000 and per capita 
demand deposit totals are not greatly different within the region. 
However, there are significantly more accounts per capita in 
Colorado Springs (.41) compared to Denver and Pueblo SMSA's (.34). 
Colorado Deposit Markets 
. 
SMS As 
Counties 
Col. Springs' Denver 
PuSblo 
Boulder 
Larimer 
Savings Accounts per capita ' r 
commercial-Banks (under 
$100,000) 
$ 334 
$ 670 
$ 410 
$ 428 
$ 575 
avings & Loan and 
I
T 0 t r e d i t U n i o n s 
515 
1,055 
910 
806 
070 
° a l 
249 
1,725 
1,320 
1,234 
1,445 
Cent Time & Saving 
— ^ C o m m e r c i a l Banks 
39 
No • of Bank Time & Saving 
p e r capita 
.32 
39 
31 
35 
40 
.34 
.34 
.34 
.32 
% S s « a n d 
TS^Siand Deposits 
A m o u n t P e r capita 
$ 393 
$ 455 
$ 321 
$ 400 
$ 395 
T> 
UUpUS 
^ I L $ 1 0 0 , 0 0 0 
Amo 
i< 
^ 
of accts. per capita 
.41 
.34 
.34 
.42 
.43 
^ A ^ g ^ s i z e of IPC Demand 
' ^ ^ j U n d e r $1,000) 
$ 217 
$235 
$ 207 
• $ 243 
$ 217 

B-3 
A partial explanation of these characteristics of the 
Colorado Springs banking and depository markets probably lies 
in the fact that 20 to 30 per cent of the households or potential 
depositors in the area are military personnel. S0me have established 
financial connections in other locations. Others obviously make only 
Partial use of local banking facilities, apparently using service-
charge type demand deposit accounts. Thus the banks in Colorado 
Springs seem to be able to attract at least as many and even more 
Accounts (relative to population) than in other Colorado areas but 
the average balances are consistently lower, particularly in time 
and savings accounts. 
Another bit of evidence suggesting that the market in 
Colorado Springs is less attractive than might appear is that savings 
loan and credit union totals also run well behind those in the 
°ther areas. Part of the reason must be that adjusted gross income 
laGs in the Colorado Springs SUSA. It is almost a third higher in 
Denver S1ISA and Boulder County; it is 10 per cent higher in Pueblo 
S11SA. in short, Colorado Springs is not a particularly productive 
inking market even when cultivated intensively. 

832 
co rH <J\ 
00 00 m 
m O rH 
00 1—1 00 
•u in <t CM CJN rs vO co oo CM 
r-co r^-00 
O CO O LO <1-o 
vO <1-CM <t 
00 o 
vO 
EH €\ 
ft r\ 
ft CN ft r\ 
ft 
ft 
St VD rH 00 vO m 
CM CO 
o CO vO o 
• o 
CO 
<1" 
o vo CM c^ 
CO CM 
r-H m 
H CO H O 
vO o CM CTi 
(Ti CO vO 00 
n 
« 
I-i 
eg 
tn <t r^ 
VO \£> CM 
oo o as 
ft ft ft 
<t CM vO 
<f vo o 
i—I C\1 
cyi m <t 
O CM CM 
h- vO 
rH vO 
m 
rH <t 
r\ 
cn 
Os 
O 
oo 
o 
co 
<u 
u 
< 
c 
3 
4J 
2 0 
co ij 
4J 
1 
c 
0 
4J 
<10 
c 
•H 
CO 
s 
h 
^D oo in 
oo cm r - oo 
CM 
CO 
o O oo f^ 
<t o vO vO 
vf r^ oo o 
vO <t CM -vf 
<J> 
m (Ti r^ I—I 
o H O0 H 
vO 00 ON -si-
ft ft 
CM 
-CO-
o co m oo 
sj- m sj- co 
<t m <1-
00 in O co 00 r-» o o 00 
oo CD r-s m 
rH O cr> o 
-C CM o 
CM CM co 
vO 
CO CM rH 
CO <t 00 
co 
rH CM rH CTi vO 00 00 
rH CO m 
vO <1-o 
4J 
ft A ft ft 
ft 
ft 
ft 
t) 
v£> m i-H CM 
rH 
i—i 
rH 
CM 
-co-
CO-
•co-
0 
13 
rH o <1-m 
CM vO vO CM 
CM O o CM 
in O 00 CO 
« vo CM as rH 00 © co C^ 
O 
vO V£5 
<t CM 
JH 
rH 
CM m CM rH <1-
CTi 
CO 
vO oo <t 
0 
r\ ft 
ft 
ft r\ 
ft 
rH rH 
sd-00 CM CO 
CM r-H <t 
r-H 
CM 
0 
r-H 
O 
<0-
•CO-
<ry 
CO "-O O-i 
rs o r^ 
H 00 C\ 
on o 
m 
-cl-
in 
<1-
co o co 
o 
r-s 
o 
<1- r-4 CTi 
oo cys co 
vO CT> vO 
O 
00 
O 
co oo vo 
O CM CO 
vO 00 
vO CO 
vO CM 
r-s <t 
vo in 
vo vo 
CM CO 
CO CM 
vO CO 
CM 
vO 
O 
rs 
CM 
•co-
in 
<1-<r 
oo 
vo 
00 
u 
cO 
d 
•H 
<u 
u 
a 
o 
r-s 
co 
T) 
C 
CO 
co 
3 
O 
Si 
•u 
a 
o 
•H 
4J 
CO 
rH 3 
(X 
o 
o 
r-s o 
r-s 
/-s rH 
•H <u 
O 09 CO 
m o 
a) 
o in 
m 
o •H 
m 
00 
oo •H 
m 
vO 
60 o 
\ 
m CO 
d 
<J\ 
CO o <u 
•iH • 
a) o 
o ^J •H 
a CO 
CO 
•H c 4H 
cO d CO 
d 
m 
m 
PQ H •M 
CO 
O 
m PQ o 
CO 
vo •H 
cO 
o 
rH 
a +J /-N 
' — 
4-J 
cO 
CO a 
CO 
CO •H 
CO cr> = CO 
4-1 
60 60 CO 
•rH O o a 
d CM •H 
•H 
C2 o 
O 4-1 cO 
O '—s CO o 
a 
•H •H •J 
H •H J-l O 
•H vO 
o 
CO 
> 
aj CO <u 
rH V d co 
O 
a 
<-8 
g O a 
rH 
cd co 
CO CO <-8 
g PL 
<u •H CO pa <J 
^ 
PQ 
CO 
o V 0) a. & ^ pa <J 
0) 
rH 60 
u O 6 
o d co d 
a 
• CtJ d 
o <u 
9 60 CO 
R 3 •rH 
JH J-t o B 
CO P0 d o 
CO 
B 4J > CO 
d) <u d o 
4-1 •H HJ 
4-1 
cS 3 cd dJ 
CU a. H o 
•H rH > 
•H 
cS s CO O 
c 
CO fO cO <^5 
CO 
•H 
d d CO H 
O •td CO 
O 
m iw m <4H 
o o CO 
a O 
CO 
cx 
o o o 
•H •H o rH 
aj rH 60 
a) 
o 
J-J J-l n CO « <u CO C rH P 
u n 
CO co O d 
G 3 -H CO 
<u a) <u rH 
rH rH 
o 
rH R 4-1 > 4J rH 
rQ rO CO 
3 3 • CO 
CO O 3 CO o 
CO 
6 
4J 
a. a, M 
4J O 
S co EH 
4J 
3 3 o 
o o 
CD 
O 
O 
!z 52 55 H 
FM 
< PH 
EH 
H 
/" N 
CO 
CO 
o 
d 
o 
o 
CO 
•H 
CO 
rH 
cO <J 
/-N 
rH 
4J 
CO 
•rH 
•H 
d 
d 
e 
a 
cO 
o 
v^ 
cO 
o £ 
•H 
rH 
rH 
O 
Jh 
•H 
O 
O 
6 
O 
a 
CO 
s—/ 
60 
o 
o 
d 
o 
o 
o 
•H 
o 
rH 
o 
> 
o 
-CO-
* 
o 
cO 
CO 
o 
VH 
o 
o 
<u 
rH 
rH 
T3 
co-
<o-
a 
CO 
CO 
3 
in 
M 
d 
(1) d 
<1) 
CO 
T3 
cO 
T3 
O CO 
PQ 
d co pq 
d 
P-i X 
PQ 
3 
3 
H c CO 
w d co 
cO 60 
cO 60 
CO 
CO PQ C 
CO pq d 
4-1 
6£ 
•rH 
6C 
•H 
•rH 
d rH > 
c rH > 
CO 
•H CO cO 
•H cO cO 
O 
> •H CO 
> •H CO 
o. 
CO O 
CO O 
<D 
CO U rH 
CO M rH 
Q 
<U CO rH 
QJ CO rH 
<U 3 CO 
4-1 4-1 
e 3 co 
E 4-1 4-1 X) 
d 
o O 3 O 
<u O 3 O 
aj 
e u £ H 
6 O S EH 
CD 
•H 
•H 
CD 
H 
H 
Q 
•H 
co 
O 
a\ 
0) 
co P 
3 co 
o* •|J 
CO «H 
CU 
d 
cO 
d 
cO 
o 
CO B 
6£ •H 
d H CO 
•H 
^ 
> r d 
cO •d cO 
CO d 
cO pq 
» e rH 
CO QJ cO 
P •H 
d 
O 
CO o !h 
pq 
p^ 
M <U 
CO 
60 o 
d CO a 
•H d 
> o UH 
CO •H o 
CO 4-1 
CO CO 
r-1 •H 6£ 
CO O d 
3 o •H 
4-1 CO > 
3 CO CO 
s <1 CO 

833 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON, MAISEL, AND BRIMMER 
In our judgment, Applicant's acquisition of Bank will 
eliminate existing competition, foreclose potential competition, 
lessen the likelihood of formation of a strong competitor to 
the existing holding companies in the State, and further the concen-
tration of banking resources in Colorado. Based on the facts of 
record and the statutory criteria, we would deny the application. 
Consummation of the proposal will eliminate present 
competition between Bank and Applicant's largest subsidiary, 
First National Bank of Denver ("Denver Bank"), located 71 miles 
north of Colorado Springs. Such competition is particularly 
significant and immediate with respect to mortgage lending; Denver 
Bank maintains a loan production office approximately one block 
from Bank in Colorado Springs that competes actively with Bank 
for mortgage loans. During the first six months of io 7 0 } 
Bank ranked third in mortgage lending in the Colorado Springs 
area, while Denver Bank ranked fourth. Combined, Denver Bank and 
Bank constitute the largest mortgage lender in the area. Addition-
ally, Denver Bank derives a substantial number of its trust accounts 
from Colorado Springs and the two banks compete to some extent for 
the deposit accounts of large companies and developers in the area. 
Eank is the ninth largest banking organization and the sec-
ond 
largest independent bank in Colorado. It is affiliated with 

52 
-14-
another bank in Colorado Springs ($14 million deposits) and with 
two banks in the Pueblo area (combined deposits of $58 million), 
one of which is the largest bank in its area and the largest 
independent bank in the State. Thus, Bank is part of a banking 
group with assets of over $120 million - one of only eight organi-
zations in Colorado which have deposits in excess of $100 million -
which could serve as the nucleus of a new holding company offering 
competition to Applicant and the other large banking organizations 
in the State. 
Ordinarily, a favorable aspect of the application would 
be its introduction of new competition into Colorado Springs by 
breaking the affiliation between Bank and another bank in that 
market. Under the circumstances of this case, however, the breaking 
0j: the affiliation will likely mean that one less Statewide banking 
°rganization will be formed, with all the members of the above-
ascribed chain becoming affiliates of one or the other of the 
few large holding companies now in existence. Any benefits to 
competition which consummation of the proposal might provide 
c°uld be achieved through means less inimical to regional compe-
tition than the present proposal. Moreover, alternate methods 
of entry in the Colorado Springs area would also be more beneficial 
tr» 
competition in that area, since such entry would likely lead to 
meaningful deconcentration, while Applicant's acquisition of the 
largest independent bank in the area would tend to produce the 
°Pposite result. 

In this connection, we believe that Colorado Springs is 
not, as the majority contends, an unattractive market for de novo 
entry. That market has enjoyed a good growth rate (between 1960 
and 1970 the population has increased from 70,000 to 145,000), 
and has a higher than average population per banking office (12,700). 
The total deposits per banking office ($13,434) compare favorably 
with the ratio in the State of Colorado ($13,517) as well as that 
prevailing throughout the United States ($12,559). 
In addition to the above, we previously have expressed 
our belief that approval of the acquisition of large banking 
organizations by the large Colorado holding companies is incon-
sistent with the Congressional mandate to control the expansion 
of bank holding companies so as to prevent concentration of banking 
resources in a few large organizations (e.g., 1970 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin 543). The considerations which compelled our votes to 
deny that application apply with equal if not stronger force 
to the present application. 
On all of the facts of record, we conclude that the 
acquisition will substantially lessen competition without off-
setting public benefit, and that it should be denied. 
April 1, 1971. 

836 
Item No. 11 
4/1/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
AMERICAN BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Menomonee Falls Bank, Menomonee Falls, 
Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
* 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
x842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by American Bankshares Corporation, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
m°re of the voting shares of Menomonee Falls Bank, Menomonee Falls, 
Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 

837 
- 2 -
of Banking of the State of Wisconsin and requested his viex^s and 
recommendation. The Commissioner offered no objection to approval 
of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on December 25, 1970 (35 Federal Register 19644), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction, A copy of 
the application was forwarded to the United States Department of 
Justice for its consideration. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired and all those received have been considered by 
the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light 
the fa ctors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including 
the effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the 
Applicant and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
the communities to be served. Upon such consideration, the 
Board finds that: 
Applicant, the sixth largest banking organization in 
Wisconsin, controls three banks with aggregate deposits of $126 million, 
^Presenting 1.4 per cent of the State's total deposits. (All banking 
data a r e as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect bank holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) Upon 

838 
- 3 -
acquisition of Bank ($8.9 million in deposits), Applicant would increase 
its share of State-wide deposits by only 0.1 per cent, leaving unchanged 
its present ranking among banking organizations in the State. 
Bank is located in the town of Menomonee Falls which is 
approximately 15 miles northwest of downtown Milwaukee. The only 
other bank in Menomonee Falls is almost four times as large as Bank. 
The closest banking office of any subsidiary of Applicant to Bank is 
situated about eight miles away within the city limits of Milwaukee. 
Though there is some existing competition between this subsidiary of 
Applicant and Bank, it is of a small magnitude. Applicant has 3.9 
per cent of deposits in a market approximated by Milwaukee County 
and the eastern portion of Waukesha County while Bank has only 0.3 
per cent of deposits in this area. Based upon the record before it, 
the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
not have significant adverse effects on competition in any relevant 
area. 
Banking factors as they relate to Applicant are generally 
satisfactory and are consistent with approval of the application and 
in the case of Bank weigh in favor of approval due to the likelihood 
strengthened management. 
Bank's affiliation with Applicant appears to offer the 
Prospect that expanded or improved banking services, such as a more 
varied loan policy, will be provided by Bank to customers in Bank's 
aervice area, and that Bank's operations will be strengthened through 

special services provided by Applicant. Considerations relating to 
the convenience and needs of the communities in Bank's service area 
thus lend support for approval of the application. It is the Board1 
judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in 
the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
of thi s Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 1, 1971. 
Voting for this action; vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor iiaisel 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

840 
i l l * / 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 11 
4/1/71 
S-2158 
a d d r l b s 
a r n t i A u 
c d r r e s p o n c e n c c 
TO THE BOARD 
April 5, 1971 
The Board has adopted the following broad policy statement 
to guide the evolution of currency and coin services of the Federal 
Reserve Banks. Reserve Banks should feel free to exercise discretion 
as to the timing and extent of implementation in their respective 
Districts based on their judgment as to feasibility and practicality. 
The policy with respect to member banks should 
be to provide all member banks, including branches 
where practicable and economically feasible, with 
currency and coin in standard units as determined 
by the Reserve Bank, including wrapped coin when the 
Reserve Bank has the facilities to perform the wrap-
ping efficiently. Armored car service should be used 
on a reasonably scheduled basis where feasible. The 
Reserve Bank should pay the transportation cost and 
assume the risk of loss on shipments to and from 
offices of member banks, provided that if member banks 
located in the central financial district of a Federal 
Reserve Bank city desire service more frequently or at 
times other than specified in the schedule, the cost 
of transportation and risk of loss for such extra service 
shall be borne by the member bank. The Reserve Bank 
should not perform excessive processing, such as would 
result from banks sending to the Reserve Bank frequent 
or unproven deposits while making withdrawals similar 
in amount and denomination. 
The policy with respect to nonmember commercial 
banks and mutual savings banks should be to accept 
orders and deposits direct from such banks and to make 
an equitable distribution of currency and coin to such 
banks upon their own request or the request of a mem-
ber bank. Shipments to and from nonmember commercial 
banks and mutual savings banks will be made at the 

expense and risk of such banks, with the understanding 
that when such a shipment is made at the request of a 
member bank any cost incurred by the Reserve Bank will 
be charged to the member bank. The Reserve Bank will 
include in the amounts charged for nonmember bank ship-
ments the cost of putting up the shipment and all 
necessary insurance and transportation. 
The above statement follows closely the version approved by 
the Conference of Presidents in June 1970, with the following exceptions 
Wrapped coin. The policy provides for furnishing wrapped 
coin to member banks where a Reserve Bank has the facilities to per-
form the operation efficiently. The version approved by the Conference 
of Presidents would have permitted an optional arrangement whereby the 
coin could be furnished through an intercept agreement with a carrier 
or by contract with a commercial firm. The optional procedure, while 
assuring a convenient source of supply for member banks^, would neverthe-
less result in banks having to pay appreciably more for their supply 
than banks in districts where Reserve Banks do the wrapping. 
Service to additional offices of a member bank in Federal 
Reserve Bank cities. The wording of the policy has been broadened to 
provide for free service to more than one office of a member bank in 
a Reserve Bank or branch city. The purpose is to give greater flexi-
bility to each Reserve Bank in determining the number of local offices 
of a member bank that it can serve reasonably. 
Nonmember bank shipments. Provision is made for recovering 
the cost of preparing shipments to nonmember banks. While the amount 
may seem insignificant, the Board is of the opinion that the cost is 
just as important from the standpoint of recovery as are insurance and 
transportation. Your Bank may find it convenient, however, to deter-
mine an average cost for preparing a nonmember bank shipment and use 
that figure as a basis for a flat charge against each order. 
The Board has instructed the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations to work closely with the cash departments of the Federal 
Reserve Banks with respect to this policy and to act as a clearing house 
for any problems. The Board intends to review developments in this area 
in a year. 
Very truly yours, 
<71 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

Q/2 O 
•f*4L KL&l' 
BOARD OF G D V E R N D R 5 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
4/1/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL C • R « E S P O N O E N C E 
TO THE BOARD 
April 5j 1971 
Board of Directors 
Bankers Trust Company 
Des Moines, Iowa 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has given consideration to your 
bank's February 2, 1971, application, submitted 
t h r o u g h the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, for permission to carry reserves 
on the basis required of banks not in a reserve city, permission 
for which was previously requested in 1964. As you will recall, 
the Board felt that a denial of the permission was necessary be-
cause the character of your bank's business was more nearly like 
that of the reserve city banks in Des Moines than like that o, 
the country banks. 
After a careful review of the matter in light of current 
information provided by the Reserve Bank, the Board does not feel 
that there is sufficient reason to change the position stated in 
its letter of November 3, 1964. Since that time a number of 
further studies of the structure of reserve requirements have been 
made within the Federal Reserve System, including studies ot the 
possibility of moving toward a system of graduated requirements, 
either under enabling legislation or, to the degree practicable, 
within the provisions of existing law. Thus far such studies have 
not developed a fully satisfactory basis for legislation or admin-
istrative action, but the problem continues under active consider-
ation as we seek to evolve a more equitable general structure ot 
reserve requirements. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

O /«} O 
B O A R D OF" G O V E R N O R S 
O F TH E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 6 
4/1/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
8 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E OF THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
April 2, 1971 
The Honorable Chet Holifield, Chairman 
Committee on Government Operations 
House of Representatives 
2157 Rayburn House Office Building 
Washington, I). C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your letter of February 4 
requesting the Board's comments on H.R. 327, a bill "To limit the 
sale or distribution of mailing lists by Federal agencies." The 
bill would amend Title 5 United States Code Section 552 ("Public 
Information Act of 1966") by adding thereto a new subsection. 
Wo understand that the purpose of the amendment is to 
protect members of the public from possible invasions of privacy 
that might arise from actions of Federal agencies in supplying, 
pursuant to the requirements of the Public Information Act, lists 
of names and addresses in their files to persons requesting such 
information. The lists dealt with by the amendment include lists 
of employees or former employees of an agency, persons licensed by 
an agency, and persons registered or required to file information 
with an agency. The effect of the bill would be to permit continued 
disclosure of such lists only where they will not be used for "pur-
poses of commercial or other solicitation", or for purposes unlawful 
under any State or Federal law, or where the list is made available 
by an agency as a necessary part of its statutory functions. "Crim-
inal penalties arc provided for violation of the provisions of the 
proposed amendment. 
The principal emphasis of the-bill, insofar as it is 
concerned with use of informational lists for purposes of solici-
tation, appears aimed at commercial solicitation. However, the 
language used--"commercial or other solicitation"--might be inter-
preted to prohibit furnishing lists for other-~possibly desirable--
purposes of solicitation, such as solicitations of information by 

The Honorable Chet Holifield 
-2-
scholars in connection with research projects. Because the new 
subsection would be a criminal statute the words "commercial or 
other solicitation" probably would be narrowly construed, but it 
might be preferable either to limit expressly the solicitations 
in question to commercial solicitations, or to specify the types 
of solicitations for which the lists may not be used. 
Apart from the foregoing reservation, the Board has no 
objection to the proposed legislation. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

845 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
D f 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
C. H D 5 5 I 
Item No. 11 
4/1/71 
O F F I C E OF THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
April 1, 1971 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request of March 31, 1971, 
for the views and recommendations of the Board of Governors with 
respect to enrolled bill H.R. 5432, "To provide an extension of 
the interest equalization tax, and for other purposes." 
The Board favors Presidential approval of the bill. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

Item No. 5 
4/1/71 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM . 
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY REGULATIONS 
NONDISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT BY CONTRACTORS AND SUBCONTRACTORS 
Section 1. Statement of Policy 
Although the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
does not come within the class of Federal executive agencies to which 
Executive Order 11246 is applicable, the concepts of Executive Order 
11246 relating to the policy of equal employment opportunity on contracts 
and subcontracts with Federal executive agencies will be fully applied 
by the Board to contracts and subcontracts to which the Board may become 
a party. Therefore, the Board of Governors has adopted these regulations 
to establish the obligations and responsibilities of all pertinent parties 
to ensure that applicants are employed by contractors and subcontractors, 
and that employees are treated during employment by contractors and sub-
contractors, without regard to their race, color, religion, sex or 
national origin. 
Section 2. Definitions 
a. "Board" means the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System. 
b. "Director" means the Board's Director of Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity. 
c. "Contractor" means, unless otherwise indicated, a 
prime contractor or subcontractor. 
d. "Equal Opportunity clause" means the contract provisions 
set forth in section 3. 
e. "Person" means any natural person, corporation, partner-
ship, unincorporated association, State or local 
government, and any agency, instrumentality or sub-
division of such a government. 
f. "Contract" means any agreement or arrangement between 
the Board and any person (in which the parties do 
not stand in the relationship of an employer and 
an employee) to perform construction work or to furnish 
services or supplies to the Board, except as otherwise 
excluded from these regulations. 

-2-
g. "Prime contractor" means any person holding a contract 
and, for the purpose of sections 11 through 20, 
any person who has held a contract subject to these 
regulations. 
h. "Subcontract" means any agreement or arrangement 
between a contractor and any person (in which the 
parties do not stand in the relationship of an 
employer and employee): 
1) For the furnishing of supplies or services 
or for the use of real or personal property, 
including lease arrangements, which, in whole 
or in part, is necessary to the performance 
of any one or more contracts; or 
2) Under which any portion of the contractor's 
obligation under any one or more contracts 
is performed, undertaken or assumed. 
i. "Subcontractor" means any person holding a contract 
and, for the purposes of sections 11 through 20, 
any person who has held a contract subject to these 
regulations. The term "first-tier subcontractor" 
refers to a subcontractor holding a subcontract 
with a prime contractor. 
Section 3. Basic Requirements 
Except as otherwise provided, the Board of Governors 
shall include the Equal Opportunity clause prescribed below, in 
each of its contracts, including modifications thereof: 
Equal Opportunity Clause 
During the performance of this contract, contractor agrees as 
follows: 
(1) The Contractor will not discriminate against any em-
ployee or any applicant for employment because of race, coLor, 
religion, sex or national origin. The contractor will take affirma-
tive action to ensure that applicants are employed and during their 
employment are treated without regard to their race, color, religion, 
S eX or national origin. Such action shall include, but not be limited 
to> the following: employment practices, upgrading, demotion or trans-
fer; recruitment or recruitment advertising; lay off or termination; 
rates of pay or other forms of compensation; and selection for training, 

848 
-19-
including apprenticeship. The Contractor agrees to post in con-
spicuous places, available to employees and applicants for employment, 
notices to be provided by the Federal Reserve Board setting forth 
the provisions of this nondiscrimination clause. 
(2) The Contractor will, in all solicitations or advertise-
ments for employees placed by or on behalf of the Contractor, state 
that all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employ-
ment without regard to race, color, religion, sex or national origin. 
(3) The Contractor will send to each labor union or repre-
sentative of workers with whom he has a collective bargaining agree-
ment or other contract or understanding, a notice, to be provided by the 
Federal Reserve Board, advising the addressee of the Contractor's commit-
ments under these provisions (referred to as the equal opportunity clause) 
and shall post copies of the notice in conspicuous places available to 
employees and applicants for employment. 
(4) The Contractor will comply with all provisions of rules 
and regulations issued by the Federal Reserve Board with respect to 
nondiscrimination in employment by contractors and subcontractors and, 
pursuant thereto, will furnish all information and reports required 
by such rules and regulations, and will permit access to his books, 
records, and accounts by the Federal Reserve Board, and, when in accor-
dance with the Board's regulations pertaining to compliance, by the 
Secretary of Labor and the Department of Justice, for purposes of 
investigation to ascertain compliance with such rules and regulations. 
(5) In the event of the Contractor's non-compliance with the 
nondiscrimination clauses of this contract or with any of such rules 
and regulations applicable thereto, this contract may be cancelled, 
terminated or suspended in whole or in part by the Board. In accordance 
with the Board's regulations pertaining to compliance, the Secretary 
of 
Labor may declare the contractor ineligible for government contracts 
in accordance with his procedures authorized in Executive Order No. 11246 
September 24, 1965, and may impose other sanctions and may invoke 
remedies as provided in Executive Order No. 11246 of September 24, 1965, 
by rule, regulation or order of the Secretary of Labor, or as other-
wise provided by law. 
(6) The contractor will include all the clauses 1 through 6 
inclusive in every subcontract or purchase order, except (a) subcontracts 
° r purchase orders not exceeding $10,000 and (b) subcontracts or purchase 
°rders not exceeding $10,000 for standard commercial supplies, so that 
such provision will be binding upon each subcontractor or vendor. The 
c°ntractor will take such action with respect to any subcontractor or 

849 
-19-
vendor as the Board may reasonably direct as a means of enforcing 
such provisions including sanctions for non-compliance; Provided, 
however, that in the event the contractor becomes involved in, 
or is threatened with, litigation with a subcontractor or vendor 
as a result of such direction by the Board of Governors, the con-
tractor may request the Board to enter into such litigation to 
protect the interests of the Board. 
Section 4. Subcontracts 
Each nonexempt prime contractor and subcontractor under 
a contract with the Board of Governors shall include the Equal 
Opportunity clause, prescribed in section 3 above, in each of 
its nonexempt subcontracts. 
Section 5. Adaptation of Language 
Such necessary changes in language may be made in the 
Equal Opportunity clause as shall be appropriate to identify 
properly the parties and their undertakings. 
Section 6. Notice to bidders regarding preaward equal employment 
opportunities compliance reviews. 
The following notice shall be included in the invitation 
tor bids for each advertised non-construction contract which may 
result in an award of $1 million or more: 
Where the bid of the apparent low responsible bidder is 
in the amount of $1 million or more, the bidder and his known first-
tier subcontractors which will be awarded subcontracts of $1 million 
°r more will be subject to full, preaward equal opportunity compliance 
reviews before the award of the contract for the purpose of determining 
^hether the bidder and his subcontractors are able to comply with 
the provisions of the Equal Opportunity clause• 
Action 7. Elimination of segregated facilities 
a. Prime contractors and subcontractors subject to the 
qual Opportunity clause must ensure that the facilities provided 
°r employees are provided in a manner that segregation on the 
asis of race, color, religion or national origin cannot result, 
y m a y neither require such segregated use by explicit directives 
°r tolerate such use by employee custom. The obligation extends 
nrther to ensuring that employees are not assigned to perform 
^eir services at any location under the prime contractor's or 
subcontractor's control where the facilities are segregated. Such 

850 
-14-
segregation at any facility provided by a prime contractor or 
subcontractor is an unacceptable failure to comply with the con-
tractor's equal opportunity obligations. Discharge of this obli-
gation in no way whatsoever diminishes or relieves a contractor 
or subcontractor of his responsibility to carry out fully the other 
nondiscrimination and affirmative action requirements of his contract, 
b. The following notice shall be included in all in-
vitations for bids: 
Notice to Prospective Contractors and Subcontractors of Require-
ment for Certification of Non-segregated Facilities 
(a) A Certification of Nonsegregated Facilities must 
be submitted prior to the award of a contract or subcontract exceeding 
$10,000 which is not exempt from the provisions of the Equal Opportunity 
clause. 
(b) Contractors receiving contract ..or subcontract awards ex-
ceeding $10,000 which are not exempt from the provisions of the Equal 
Opportunity clause will be required to provide for the forwarding 
of this notice to prospective subcontractors for supplies and 
construction contracts where the subcontracts exceed $10,000 and 
are not exempt from the provisions of the Equal Opportunity clause, 
(c) Pursuant to the requirements described in paragraph 
(a) above, bidders, offerors, recipients of contract awards and 
contract modifications and their respective subcontractors shall 
submit the certification prescribed by this paragraph in connection 
with their bids, proposals, contracts, contract modifications 
and agreements where awards and agreements may result in contracts 
and subcontracts exceeding $10,000 which are not exempt from the 
Provisions of the Equal Opportunity clause. Certifications shall 
be individually signed except where the certifications submitted 
by 
subcontractors shall be retained in the files of the prime 
contractor or subcontractor receiving the certification. Where 
a prime contractor or subcontractor does business with a concern 
a continuing basis, a single certification may be submitted 
Periodically (at least annually) rather than with each transaction. 
The certification is as follows: 
Certification or Nonsegregated Facilities 
By the submission of this bid, the bidder, offeror or 
subcontractor certifies that he does not maintain or provide for 
his employees any segregated facilities at any of his establishments, 
ancl that he does not permit his employees to perform their services 

69 
-19-
at any location, under his control, where segregated facilities are 
maintained. He certifies further that he will not maintain or pro-
vide for his employees to perform their services at any location, 
under his control where segregated facilities are maintained. The 
bidder, offeror, or subcontractor agrees that a breach of this 
certification is a violation of the Equal Opportunity clause in 
this contract. As used in this certification the term "segregated 
facilities" means any waiting rooms, work areas, rest rooms and 
wash rooms, restaurants and other eating areas, time clocks, locker 
rooms and other storage or dressing areas, parking- lots, drinking 
fountains, recreation or entertainment areas, transportation and 
housing facilities provided for employees which are segregated by 
explicit directive or are in fact segregated on the basis of race, 
color, religion or national origin, because of habit, local custom 
°r otherwise. He further agrees that (except where he has obtained 
identical certifications from proposed subcontractors prior to the 
award of subcontracts exceeding $10,000 which are not exempt from 
the provisions of the Equal Opportunity clause); that he will retain 
such certifications in his files; and that he will forward the 
following notice to such proposed subcontractors (except where 
the proposed subcontractors have submitted identical certifications 
for specific time periods): 
Notice to Prospective Subcontractors of Requirement for Certifications 
of Honsegregated Facilities 
A certification of Nonsegregated Facilities must be submitted 
Prior to the award of a subcontract exceeding $10,000 which is not 
exempt from the provisions of the Equal Opportunity clause. The 
certification may be submitted either for each subcontract or for 
a H subcontracts during a period (i.e., quarterly, semiannually, or 
annually). 
Note: The penalty for making false statements in offers 
ls prescribed in 10 U.S.C. 1001. 
(d) The failure of a prime contractor or subcontractor 
comply with the terms of his Certification of Nonsegregation 
^acilities or with the terms of the Equal Opportunity clause as 
^onstrued by paragraph (a) of this section shall be a ground .for 
crmination or cancellation of contracts or subcontracts, as pro-
v e d in section 17(b)(2). 
^ t i o n 8. Exemptions 
a. The following contracts and subcontracts are exempt 
the requirements of the Equal Opportunity clause: 

852 
-19-
(1) Contracts and subcontracts not exceeding $10,000. 
(2) Contracts and subcontracts for indefinite quantities 
where there is reason to believe that the amount to be ordered in 
any year under such contract will not exceed $10,000. However, once 
the Equal Opportunity clause is determined to be applicable, the 
contract shall continue to be subject to such clause for its duration, 
regardless of the amounts ordered, or reasonably expected to be 
ordered in any year. 
(3) Contracts providing for the sale of Federal Reserve 
Board real and personal property. 
b. The Board of Governors may exempt use of the inclusion 
of any or all of the Equal Opportunity clause in any specific contract 
or subcontract where special circumstances in the national interest 
so require, 
c. The Board may exempt from the requirements of the 
M u a l Opportunity clause any of a prime contractor's or subcontractor's 
facilities which is found to be in all respects separate and distinct 
rom the activities of the prime contractor, or subcontractor, related 
o the performance of the contract, or subcontract, provided that it 
s also found that such an exemption will not interfere with or impede 
the effectuation or the intent of these regulations. 
d. Notwithstanding the inclusion in any contract or sub-
contract of the Equal Opportunity clause, the contractor or sub-
ontractor shall be exempt from compliance therewith if the contract 
r subcontract containing such a clause is exempt, 
e- 
T h e Board may withdraw the exemption for a specific 
ontract or subcontract when such action is necessary or appropriate 
nofraChieVe t H e p u r P ° s e s o f t h e s e regulations. Such withdrawal shall 
t apply to contracts or subcontracts awarded prior to the withdrawal 
Witf^ t h a t i n P r o c u r e m e n t s entered into by formal advertising, such 
thdrawal shall not apply unless the withdrawal is made more than 
calendar days before the date set for the opening of bids. 
^gction 9. Administration 
U p
 
a* 
T h e award of all nonexempt contracts shall be conditioned 
i n a finding that the bidder has taken or has agreed to take action 
r eo mj e t. t h e re<luireraents of the Equal Opportunity clause and these 

85c 
r 
-o-
b. To review the equal opportunity compliance status of 
the prospective prime contract and subcontractors, the Board shall 
obtain such additional information as the name and address of each 
known subcontractor, whether the prime contractor and known sub-
contractors have previously held any Government contracts or federally 
assisted construction contracts subject to Executive Orders No. 10925, 
11114, or 11246, and whether the prime contractor has previously 
filed compliance reports required by Executive Orders No. 10925, 
11114, or 11246, or by regulations of the Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commission issued pursuant to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 
1964. The bidders will be notified of deficiencies found to exist 
and of remedial action required. 
c. The Board shall publicize the equal opportunity policy 
to prospective bidders and contractors, and shall make available to 
contractors information concerning their responsibilities under the 
clause. So that employees and labor organizations may be aware of 
these obligations, the Board shall provide notices to be posted by 
prime contractors and subcontractors, which notices shall state 
the requirements of the Equal Opportunity clause. 
Section 10. Reports 
a. The Board shall require each prime contractor and each 
prime contractor and subcontractor shall cause its subcontractors to 
file annually an Equal Employment Opportunity Information Report if 
such prime contractor 
(1) is not exempt; (2) has 50 or more em-
ployees; (3) is a prime contractor or first-tier subcontractor and 
(4) has a contract, subcontract or purchase order amounting to 
$50,000 or more. 
b. The Board may require a prime contractor to keep employ-
ment or other records and to furnish, in the form requested, within 
reasonable limit, such information as the Board deems necessary for 
the administration of these regulations. 
c. The failure to file timely, complete and accurate 
Reports, as required, constitutes noncompliance with the prime 
Contractor's or subcontractor's obligations under the Equal Oppor-
unity clause and is a ground for the imposition any sanctions 
authorized by these regulations. 
d. The Board shall require each bidder or prospective 
Prime contractor and proposed subcontractor, where appropriate, to 
state in the bid or at the outset of negotiations for the contract 
ther it has participated in any previous contract or subcontract 
ubject to the Equal Opportunity clause required by Executive Order 

8 5 * 
-9-
11246; and if so, whether it has filed with the Joint Reporting 
Committee, the Director of the Office of Federal Contract Compliance, 
a Federal agency, or the former President's Committee on Equal 
Employment Opportunity, all reports due under the applicable filing 
requirements, in any case in which a bidder or prospective prime 
contractor or proposed subcontractor, which participated in such 
a previous contract or subcontract but has not filed a report due 
under the applicable filing requirements, no contract or subcontract 
shall be awarded, unless such contractor submits a report covering 
the delinquent period and such other periods, as m y be'significant-
e, Reports filed pursuant to these regulations shall be 
used only in connection with the administration of these regulations 
or in furtherance of the Board's responsibility to achieve equal 
opportunity. 
Section 11. Compliance Reviews 
a. The purpose of a compliance review is to determine if 
the prime contractor or subcontractor maintains nondiscriminatory 
hiring and employment practices and is taking affirmative action to 
ensure that applicants are employed and that employees are placed, 
trained, upgraded, promoted, and ether-wise treated during employment 
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. 
It shall consist of a comprehensive analysis and evaluation of each 
aspect of the aforementioned practices, policies, and conditions 
resulting therefrom. Where necessary, recommendations for appropriate 
sanctions shall be made, 
b. Where deficiencies are found to exist, reasonable efforts 
shall be made to secure compliance through conciliation and persuasion, 
Before the contractor can be found to be in compliance with the equal 
opportunity clause, it must make a specific commitment, in writing, to 
correct any such deficiencies. The commitment must include the precise 
action to be taken and dates for completion. The time period allotted 
shall be no longer than the minimum period necessary to effect such 
changes. Upon approval of the Director, appropriate Deputy or the 
Federal Reserve Board of such commitment, the contractor may be con-
sidered in compliance, on condition that the commitments are faithfully 
<ept. The contractor shall be notified that making such commitments 
oes not preclude future determinations of noncompliance based on a 
inding that the commitments are not sufficient to achieve compliance, 
c. The Director shall have the primary responsibility for the 
conduct of compliance reviews. The Director shall institute programs 
°r the regular conduct of compliance reviews. 

855 
-id-
d. The Board shall include in the invitation for bids for 
each non-construction contract which may result in a bid of $1 million 
°r more, a notice (in the form approved by the Board) to prospective 
bidders that if their bid is in the amount of $1 million or more, the 
apparent low responsible bidder and his known first-tier subcontractors 
with subcontract of $1 million or more will be subject to a compliance 
Review before the award of the contract. Before the award of any non-
construction contract of $1 million or more, a pre-award compliance 
r^view of the prospective contractor and his known first-tier $1 million 
subcontractors must be conducted by the Director within 6 months prior 
t o the award of the contract. In order to qualify for the award of a 
contract, a contractor and such first-tier subcontractors must be found 
the basis of such review to be able to comply with the equal oppor-
tunity clause or carry out an acceptable program for compliance as pro-
dded in paragraph (b) of this section. 
potion 12. Who may file complaints 
a. Any employee of any contractor or applicant for employment 
x*ith such contractor may, by himself or by an authorized representative, 
file in writing a complaint of alleged or threatened discrimination in 
violation of the equal opportunity clause. Such complaint is to be filed 
n°t later than 90 days from the date of the alleged discrimination, un-
less the time for filing is extended by the Director upon good cause shown, 
^ e identity of complainants shall be kept confidential except to the 
G*tent necessary to carry out the purposes of these regulations. 
b. The Director may file a complaint on his own motion. 
Action 13. Where to file 
Complaints shall be filed with the Director. 
Action 14. Contents of complaint 
a. The complaint shall include the name, address, and telephone 
number of the complainant, the name and address of the prime contractor 
subcontractor committing the alleged discrimination, a description of 
acts considered to be discriminatory, and any other pertinent infor-
mation which will assist in the investigation and resolution of the 
Cotnplaint. The complaint shall be signed by the complainant or his 
authorized representative. 
b. Where a complaint contains incomplete information, the 
lrector shall seek promptly the needed information from the complainant. 
the event such information is not furnished to the Director within 
~ days of the date of such request, the case may be closed. The Director 
a H notify the complainant that the case has been closed and shall allow 

85C 
-li-
complainant 15 days to request reconsideration of such action. If 
n° request for reconsideration is filed, the Director may dismiss the 
complaint with prejudice. 
•^£tion 15. Processing of complaints 
a. Investigations. The Director shall institute a prompt 
investigation of each complaint filed with him, and shall be responsible 
or developing a complete case record. A complete case record consists 
^ the name and address of each person interviewed, and the summary of 
s statement, copies or summaries of pertinent documents, and a narrative 
^ummary of the evidence disclosed in the investigation as it related to 
ach violation revealed. Where deemed appropriate by the Director, he 
a y forward the substance of the complaint to the party against whom the 
omplaint was filed and request a written answer within 15 days to the 
^ legations in the complaint. If the Director finds that another govern-
n t entity has assumed jurisdiction over a complaint which involves the 
me contractor or subcontractor and which is based on the same or similar 
^rcumstances as the complaint before him, the Director may take such action 
may be appropriate such as deferring action until such time as the other 
government entity takes final action. 
bv
 
b- Resolution of matters. 
(1) If the complaint investigation 
Viol 6 D i r e c t o r pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shows no 
^°lation of the equal opportunity clause, (b) the Director shall so in-
the^ t h e c o m P l a l n a n t » 
t h e party against whom the complaint was filed, and 
c0
 
B o a r d* 
Within fifteen days of being informed of such a finding, the 
of k i n a n t o r h i s authorized representative may file a written appeal 
find 
s fi°ding with the Board. The Board may review the 
and
 l n§ s o f the Director and any appeal filed pursuant to those findings, 
. 
"?y request further investigation by the Director or may undertake 
investigation as it may deem appropriate. 
g 
( 2 ) If any complaint investigation or compliance review indicates 
the ° 
t i o n o r the likelihood of a violation of the equal opportunity clause, 
for rT,atter should be resolved by informal means whenever possible. Such in-
Dif01** means may include the holding of a compliance conference by the 
the
eCt°r' 
E a c h P r i m e contractor and subcontractor shall be advised that 
if .res°lution is subject to a review by the Board and may be disapproved 
l t determines that such resolution is not sufficient to achieve compli; 
*t\di 
) Where any complaint investigation or compliance review 
not j~ated a violation of the equal opportunity clause and the matter has 
aPpr G G n r e s o l v e d by informal means, the Board or the Director, with the 
hear?Val o f t h e Board, shall afford the contractor an opportunity for a 
Of 
If the final decision reached in accordance with the provision 
ection 16 is that a violation of the equal opportunity clause has 
,iance 

-12-
taken place, the Board may cancel, terminate, or suspend in whole or 
in part any contract or subcontract or may impose such other sanctions 
as are authorized by these regulations and the Board may advise the 
Secretary of Labor of such violation of the equal employment clause 
and the Secretary of Labor may declare the contractor ineligible for 
government contracts in accordance with his procedures authorized in 
Executive Order No* 11246 of September 24, 1965, and the Secretary of 
Labor may impose other sanctions and may invoke remedies as provided 
in Executive Order 11246 of September 24, 1965, or by rule, regulation 
or order of the Secretary of Labor, or as otherwise provided by law, 
(4) When a prime contractor or subcontractor, without a 
hearing, shall have complied with the recommendations or orders of 
the Director and believes such recommendations or orders to be 
erroneous, he shall, upon filing a request therefor within ten days 
of such compliance, be afforded an opportunity for a hearing and review 
of the alleged erroneous action by the Director or the Board. 
(5) The Director may permit the withdrawal of a complaint or 
portions thereof at any time, but the Director may deny such withdrawal 
if to permit withdrawal would be inconsistent with the purpose of the 
equal opportunity clause. The Director may approve the settlement of 
a complaint at any time provided that such settlement shall stipulate 
the occurrences which constituted'the violation of the equal opportunity 
clause and the relief accorded and shall contain the signatures of all 
Parties indicating that the settlement is mutually satisfactory. 
(6) For reasonable cause shown, the Director or the Board may 
consider or cause to be reconsidered any matter on its own motion or 
Pursuant to a request within two years from the date of the alleged 
discrimination. 
c. Reports to the Board0 
(1) Within 60 days from receipt of 
a complaint by the Director or within such additional time as may be 
allowed by the Board for good cause shown, the Director shall process 
the complaint and submit to the Board the case record and a summary 
report containing the following information: 
(i) Name and address of the complaint; 
(ii) Brief summary of findings, including a statement 
a s to the Director's conclusions regarding the contractor's compliance 
° r noncompliance with the requirements of the equal opportunity clause; 
(iii) A statement of the disposition of the case, including 
corrective action taken and any sanctions or penalties imposed or when-
ever appropriate, the recommended corrective action and sanctions or 
Penalties. 

-12-
(2) A written report of every preaward compliance review 
required by this regulation will be forwarded to the Board within 
10 days after the award of a postaward review. 
(3) A written report of every other compliance review or 
any other matter processed by the Director involving an apparent 
violation of the equal opportunity clause shall be submitted to the 
Board. Such report shall contain a brief summary of the findings, 
including a statement of conclusions regarding the contractor's 
compliance or noncompliance with the requirements of the equal 
opportunity clause, and a statement of the disposition of the case, 
including any corrective action taken or recommended and any sanctions 
penalties imposed or recommended. 
Section 16. Assumption of jurisdiction by Board 
The Board may inquire into the status of any matter pending 
before the Director, including complaints and matters arising out of 
reports, reviews, and other investigations. Where the Board considers 
it necessary or appropriate to the achievement of the purposes of the 
order, it may assume jurisdiction over the matter and proceed as pro-
vided herein. Whenever the Board assumes jurisdiction over any matter, 
it may conduct, or have conducted, such investigations, hold such 
hearings, make such findings, issue such recommendations and directives, 
order such sanctions and penalties, and take such other action as may 
he necessary or appropriate to achieve the purpose of this regulation. 
£gction 17, Hearings 
a. Informal hearings - (1) Purpose. The Board or the Director, 
With the approval of the Board, may convene such informal hearings as 
^ay be deemed appropriate for the purpose of inquiring into the status 
°f compliance by any prime contractor or subcontractor with the terms 
of the equal opportunity clause and for the purpose of resolving by 
•^formal means, any dispute that may arise with respect to the equal 
opportunity clause. 
(2) Notice. Contractors and subcontractors shall be advised 
1:1 writing as to the time and place of the informal hearing and may 
e directed to bring specific documents and records, or furnish other 
relevant information concerning their compliance status. When so 
requested, the prime contractor or subcontractor shall attend and 
ring requested documents and records, or other requested information. 
(3) Conduct of hearings. The hearing shall be conducted 
y hearing officers appointed by the Board. Parties to informal 
earings may be represented by counsel and shall have a fair opportunity 

859 
-19-
to present any relevant material. Formal rules of evidence will not 
apply to such proceedings. During the course of the hearing, the 
hearing officer may engage in mediation to settle the dispute. 
b. Formal hearings - (1) General procedure. At the request 
°f the complainant, the party against whom the complaint has been filed, 
on its own motion, the Board or the Director, with the approval of 
the Board, may convene formal hearings pursuant to this part. Except 
as otherwise provided in these regulations, such hearings shall be con-
ducted in accordance with procedures prescribed by the Board in its 
Rules of Practice for Formal Hearings, 12 CFR 263.5. Reasonable notice 
°f a hearing shall be sent by registered mail,1 return receipt requested, 
to the last known address of the prime contractor or subcontractor 
complained against. Such notice shall contain the time and place of 
hearing, a statement of the provisions of the order and regulations 
Pursuant to which the hearing is to be held, and a concise statement 
°f the matters pursuant to which the action furnishing the basis of 
the hearing has been taken or is proposed to be taken. Copies of 
such notice shall be sent to all concerned parties. Hearings shall 
he held before a hearing officer designated by the Board, and formal 
rules of evidence will not apply to such proceedings. Each party 
shall have the right to counsel, a fair opportunity to present evidence 
and argument and to cross-examine. Wherever a formal hearing is based 
in whole or in part on matters subject to the collective bargaining 
agreement and compliance may necessitate a revision of such agreement, 
a n
y labor organization which is a signatory to the agreement shall have 
the right to participate as a party. Any other person or organization 
shall be permitted to participate upon a showing that such person or 
°rganization has an interest in the proceedings and may contribute 
Materially to the proper disposition thereof. During the course of 
the hearing, the hearing officer may engage in mediation in order 
to settle the dispute. The hearing officer shall make his proposed 
Endings and conclusions upon the basis of the record before him. 
(2) Cancellations, termination, and debarment. No order 
° r cancellation or termination of existing contracts or subcontracts 
for debarment from further Board contracts or subcontracts shall 
e made without affording the prime contractor or subcontractor an 
°Pportunity for a hoaring. When cancellation, termination, debarment, 
0lr a related remedy or penalty is proposed, the following procedure 
shall be observed: 
. 
(i) Notice of proposed cancellation or termination, 
^enever the Board proposes to cancel or terminate, in whole or in 
a contract or contracts or to require cancellation or termination 
, a subcontract or subcontracts, a notice of the proposed action shall 
e sent to the last known address of the prime contractor or subcon-
ractor, return receipt requested. The prime contractor or subcontractor 

-15-
shall be given at least 10 days from the receipt of the notice either to 
comply with the provisions of the contract or subcontract or to mail a 
request for a hearing to the Board or the Director. During this 10 day 
period, the Director shall attempt to resolve the dispute by informal 
means• 
(ii) Notice of proposed ineligibility. Whenever the 
Board proposes to declare a prime contractor or subcontractor in-
eligible for further Board contracts or subcontracts, a notice of the 
proposed action shall be sent to the last known address of the prime 
contractor or subcontractor, return receipt requested. A prime con-
tractor or subcontractor shall be given at least 10 days from the 
receipt of such notice in which to mail a request for a hearing to the 
Board or the Director. During this 10 day period, the Director shall 
attempt to resolve the dispute by informal means. 
(iii) Suspension during pandency of hearing. Whenever 
the prime contractor or subcontractor requests a hearing in accordance 
wlth these provisions, his contracts or subcontracts may be suspended, 
In the discretion of the Board,during the pendency of the hearing. 
(iv) Hearing request0 
If at the end of the 10 day 
Period referred to in subdivision (i) of this subparagraph, no request 
has been received, the Board may cancel, suspend or terminate or 
cause to be canceled, suspended or terminated such contracts or sub-
contracts and may advise the Secretary of Labor of such action. If 
Qt the end of the 10 day period referred to in subdivision (ii) of 
this subparagraph no request has been received, the Board may enter 
an order declaring the contractor or subcontractor ineligible for 
further Board contracts, subcontracts, or extensions or other modifica-
tions of existing contracts, until such contractor or subcontractor 
shall have satisfied the Board that he has established and will carry 
out personnel and employment policies and practices in compliance with 
the provisions of the equal opportunity clause. 
(v) Decision following hearing. When the hearing is 
conducted under the direction of the Director, the hearing officer 
shall make recommendations to the Director who shall make a decision. 
No decision by the Director shall be final without the approval of the 
ftoard. When a hearing is conducted by a hearing officer appointed by 
the Board, the hearing officer shall make recommendations to the Board, 
Which shall make the final decision. Parties shall be furnished with 
c°pies of the hearing officer's recommendations, and shall be given an 
Opportunity to submit their written views to the Board within 15 days from 
the receipt of the hearing officer's recommendations. 

861 
-19-
Sectlon 18. Sanctions and penalties 
The sanctions described in 5 17b(2) may be exercised only 
by the Board. The Board may advise the Secretary of Labor of any 
matter arising under these regulations. Any other matter that shall 
come to the attention of the Board as a result of these regulations 
that indicates a violation of the laws of the United States shall be 
referred to the Department of Justice with an appropriate recommendation, 
lection 19. Show cause notices 
When the Board has reasonable cause to believe that a con-
tractor has violated or is continuing to violate the equal opportunity 
clause, the Board may issue a notice requiring the contractor to show 
cause, within 30 days, why monitoring, enforcement proceedings or other 
appropriate action to ensure compliance should not be instituted. 
Ejection 20. Reinstatement of ineligible prime contractors and subcontractors 
Any prime contractor or subcontractor declared ineligible for 
further contracts or subcontracts under these regulations may request 
reinstatement in a letter directed to the Board. In connection with 
the reinstatement proceedings, the prime contractor or subcontractor 
shall be required to show that it has established and will carry out 
employment policies and practices in compliance with the equal oppor-
tunity clause. Notice of such reinstatement shall be furnished to the 
°riginal parties to the complaint. 
Section 21. Intimidation and interference 
The sanctions and penalties contained in these regulations 
^ay be exercised by the Board against any prime contractor, subcontractor, 
labor organization or agent of any of the aforementioned parties, or 
at*y other person who fails to take all necessary steps to ensure that 
Neither he nor any other person intimidates, threatens, coerces, or 
^criminates against any individual for the purpose of interfering with 
he filing of a complaint, furnishing information, or assisting or par-
ticipating in any manner in an investigation, compliance review, hearing, 
°r any other activity related to the administration of the regulation or 
atly other Federal, State, or local laws requiring equal employment 
°Pportunity. 
Section 22. Affirmative action compliance programs 
a. Requirements of programs. The Board may require each 
Prime contractor who has 50 or more employees and a contract of $50,000 
°r more and each prime tontractor and subcontractor shall require each 

862 
-19-
subcontractor who has 50 or more employees and a subcontract of $50,000 
or more to develop a written affirmative action compliance program for 
each of its establishments. In the case of a construction contract, the 
contractor and his subcontractors shall furnish a written affirmative 
action compliance program that conforms to the requirements established 
by the Secretary of Labor as applicable to construction contracts in the 
Particular area where the construction is to take place. A necessary 
Prerequisite to the development of a satisfactory affirmative action 
Program is the identification and analysis of problem areas inherent 
in minority employment and an evaluation of opportunities for utili-
zation of minority group personnel. The contractor's program shall 
Provide in detail for specific steps to guarantee equal employment 
opportunity keyed to the problems and needs of members of minority 
groups, including, when there are deficiencies, the development of 
specific goals and time tables for the prompt achievement of full 
and equal employment opportunity. Each contractor shall include 
^n his affirmative action compliance program a. table of job classifi-
cations. This table should include but need not be limited to job 
titles, principal duties (and auxiliary duties, if any), rates of 
Pay, and where more than one rate of pay applies (because of length 
°f time in the job or other factors) the applicable rates. The affirma-
tive action compliance program shall be signed by the executive official 
°f the contractor. 
/ 
b. Utilization evaluation. The evaluation of utilization 
°f minority group personnel shall include the following: 
(1) An analysis of minority group representation in all job 
categories. 
(2) An analysis of hiring practices for the past year, in-
cluding recruitment sources and testing, to determine whether equal 
employment opportunity is being afforded in all job categories. 
(3) An analysis of upgrading, transfer and promotion for the 
Past year to determine whether equal employment opportunity is being 
afforded. 
c. Maintenance of programs. Within 120 days from the com-
mencement of the contract, each contractor shall maintain a copy of 
separate affirmative action compliance programs for each establishment, 
^eluding evaluations of utilization of minority group personnel and 
lle job classification tables, at each local office responsible for the 
Personnel matters of such establishment. An affirmative action com-
pliance program shall be part of the manpower and training plans for 
each new establishment and shall be developed and made available prior 
0 the staffing of such establishment. A report of the results of 

-12-
such program shall be compiled annually and the program shall be 
updated at that time. This information shall be made available to 
the Director or representative of the Board upon request and the 
contractor's affirmative action program and the result it produces 
shall be evaluated as part of compliance review activities. 
Section 23. Solicitations or advertisements for employees 
In solicitations or advertisements for employees placed by 
or on behalf of a prime contractor or subcontractor, the requirements 
of paragraph (2) of the equal opportunity clause shall be satisfied 
whenever the prime contractor or subcontractor complies with any of 
the following: 
a. States expressly in the solicitations or advertising that 
all qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment 
without regard to race, color, religion, sex, or national origin; 
b. Uses display or other advertising, and the advertising 
includes an appropriate insignia approved by the Director; 
c. Uses a single advertisement, and the advertisement is 
Crouped with other advertisements under a caption which clearly states 
that all employers in the group assure all qualified applicants equal 
consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, 
S ex, or national origin; 
d. Uses a single advertisement in which appears in clearly 
distinguishable type of phrase "an equal opportunity employer." 
Section 24. Notices to be posted 
a. Unless alternative notices are approved by the Director, 
the notices which prime contractors, subcontractors, and unions are 
Acquired to post by paragraphs (1) and (3) of the equal opportunity 
clause will contain the following language and will be provided by the 
&oard: 
EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY IS THE LAW - DISCRIMINATION IS PROHIBITED 
THE CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1964 
Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 
Prohibits discrimination because of Race, Color, Religion, 
sex, or National Origin by Employers with 25 or more employees, by 
*^bor Organizations with a hiring hall of 25 or more members, by 
Employment Agencies, and by Joint Labor-Management Committee for 
apprenticeship or Training. 

-19-
864 
ANY PERSON 
Who believes he or she has 
been discriminated against 
Should contact 
Director of Equal Employment Opportunity 
Board of Governors 
of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 
20551 
Contracts of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System prohibit discrimination because of Race, Color, Religion, Sex, 
National Origin, and require affirmative action to ensure equality 
°f opportunity in all aspects of employment. 
ANY PERSON 
Who believes he or she has 
been discriminated against 
Should Contact 
Director of Equal Employment Opportunity 
Board of Governors 
of the 
Federal Reserve Sjrstem 
Washington, D. C. 
20551 
c ]
 
b« The requirement of paragraph (2) of the equal opportunity 
ause will be satisfied whenever the prime contractor or subcontractor 
°sts copies of the notification prescribed by or pursuant to paragraph (a) 
tbis section in conspicuous places available to employees, applicants 
r employment and representatives of each labor union or other organiza-
^ 
representing his employees with which he has a collective bargaining 
Sfcement or other contract or understanding. 

-12-
Sectton 25. Access to records of employment 
Each prime contractor and subcontractor shall permit access 
during normal business hours to his books, records, and accounts 
pertinent to compliance with regulations for purposes of investigation 
to ascertain compliance with the equal opportunity clause of the con-
tract or subcontract. Information obtained in this manner shall be used 
only in connection with the administration of this regulation. 
Section 25. Rulings and interpretations 
Rulings under or interpretations of the equal opportunity 
clause or these regulations shall be made by the Board. 
Section 26. Existing contracts and subcontracts 
All contracts and subcontracts in effect prior to the effective 
date of these regulations which are not subsequently modified shall be 
administered in accordance with the nondiscrimination provisions of such 
contracts. Any contract or subcontract modified on or after the effective 
date shall be subject to these regulations. Complaints received by and 
violations coming to the attention of the Director or the Board regarding 
Prior contracts and subcontracts shall be processed as if they were 
complaints regarding violations of these regulations. 
Section 27. Effective date 
These regulations shall become effective on the approval of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
Approved April 1, 1971. 

BOARD • F GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
4/1/71 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 13, 1971 
Mr. M. Up Strothman, Jr. 
First Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55440 
Dear Mr. Strothman: 
This refers to your letters of March 6, 1970, and 
February 17, 1971, regarding the request of your Chief Examiner, 
Mr. J. R0 Vogel, for permission to continue to serve as Treasurer 
of the First Ward Republican Committee in Minneapolis and to 
serve, at some future date, as a delegate to a political con-
vention. 
As you know, acting as a delegate to a political 
convention is expressly prohibited by the Board's policy as set 
forth in F. Rc Ln Sa <f 100.45 (S-2071) . Although not expressly 
mentioned in its statement of policy, the Board regards service 
as an officer in a political party as being inconsistent with 
that policy. 
The Board has considered Mr. Vogel's reasons for 
wanting to take part in political activities and your recom-
mendation that the Board's policy be changed. However, upon 
such consideration, the Board has decided to adhere to its 
existing policy. Accordingly, it is the Board's view that 
Mr. Vogel should resign from his position as Treasurer of the 
First Ward Republican Committee in Minneapolis, and he should 
not become a delegate to any political convention. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

B O A R D D F 
G n V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
86? 
Item No. 10 
4/1/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P • N O £ N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 5, 1971 
Board of Directors 
United California Bank 
600 South Spring Street 
Los Angeles, California 
90014 
Gentlemen: 
In a letter dated October 2, 1970, shortly after the 
failure of your Swiss banking subsidiary, the Board indicated its 
concern over your bank's capital position. Following your reply of 
October 15, 1970, and in light of discussions with Mr. Tweter, 
Senior Vice Chairman of your bank, and the preliminary results of 
the most recent examination, the Board continues to believe that it 
Would be desirable to strengthen United California Bank's capital 
position. 
The Board understandsthat a capital improvement program 
for your bank via a new securities offering by Western Bancorporation 
has been under consideration and is now being actively planned. The 
Board believes that it is important that this program provide for an 
adequate amount of new capital to meet the long-range needs of your 
institution. In this connection, it is noted that your bank is con-
templating a significant building program which, depending on methods 
°f financing, could place further strain on the bank's capital funds. 
That building program should, of course, be considered in connection 
With any plans for augmenting capital. 
It is understood from Mr. Tweter that it is contemplated 
that the new securities will definitely be sold by year-end and 
Probably by September. The Board urges that the securities be sold 
as promptly as circumstances will reasonably permit and in an amount 
sniple to meet the capital needs of your bank. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

868 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 11 
4/1/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C H H R E S P O N D E N C E 
t c T t h e 
U Q A K D 
April 1, 1971 
Mr. Fortney 11. Stark, Jr. 
President 
Security National Bank 
Walnut Creek, California 
Dear Mr. Stark: 
The Board of Governors today considered your telegraph 
message of March 31, 1971. You are advised that payment of interest 
on deposits by your bank as indicated in your telegram would be 
regarded by the Board as a willful violation of the Board s Regu-
lation Q. 
The statutory authority for Regulation Q is section 19(j) 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371b). Effective March 22, 
1971, that authority reads as follows: 
"The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
shall from time to time prescribe rules governing the pay-
ment and advertisement of interest on deposits, including 
limitations on the rate of interest which may be paid by 
member banks on time and savings deposits, and shall pie-
scribe different rates for such payment on time and -vings 
deposits having different maturities, or subject to H « « e n t 
conditions respecting withdrawal or repayment, or subject to 
. different conditions by reason of different locations or 
according to the varying discount rates of member banks in 
the several Federal Reserve districts. 
The Board agrees with the views of its counsel expressed 
orally yesterday to Mr. T. A. Stark of your bank that, since March 21, 
197 ,the maximum rate that member banks may offer to pay on single 
maturity time deposit contracts entered into after March 21, 1971 
is the rate specified in Regulation Q for such deposits ^amounts 
es than $100,000. The most the change in the lawmeans is that 
(1) the Board's differentiation between m o n e y m a r k e C D a n d c o n s u m e r 
rni is ineffective until the President signs S.J. Res. 55 passed d, 
Z 
H o u s e on March 29, 1971 (so that the more restrictive « t e struc-
ture set forth in the Supplement to Regulation Q with respect 

8GS 
Mr. Fortney H. Stark, Jr. 
-2-
consumer CDs applies to money market CDs as well), and (2) the 
exemption for foreign official deposits in section 217.3(g) is also 
ineffective until that event. 
You will note that the change in the authority upon which 
Regulation Q is based had no effect whatsoever on the authority of 
the Board to limit the maximum rate of interest member banks may 
pay on savings deposits. 
As you were informed yesterday, in view of the passage 
of S.J. Res. 55, the Board would not regard payment by a member 
bank of interest on deposits received on or after March 29 as 
violating Regulation Q if the rate is within the limitations set 
forth in section 217.7 of Regulation Q. The official actions of 
the Board with respect to that section appear in the Federal 
Register of April 24, 1968 (33 F.R. 6233), June 21, 1969 (34 F.R. 
9702), January 29, 1970 (35 F.R. 1156), March 10, 1970 (35 F.R. 
4286), and June 27, 1970 (35 F.R. 10501). 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
