PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
October 29, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, October 29, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0?Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate supporting staff, including 
members of the research divisions who were 
present for the economic and financial review 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously the 
applications of The Foxworth Bank, Foxworth, Mississippi, (1) for 
admission to membership in the Federal Reserve System, and (2) for 
1/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

2812 
10/29/71 
-2-
permission to establish a branch in Columbia, Mississippi. A 
copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order (copy attached as 
Item No. 2) reflecting approval on October 14, 1971, of the appli-
cation of Banks of Iowa, Inc., Cedar Rapids, Iowa, to acquire shares 
of Valley Bank and Trust Company, Des Moines, Iowa. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Pan Ameri-
can Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Pan 
American Bank of Miami Beach, Miami Beach, Florida, a proposed new 
bank, and authorized issuance of an order (copy attached as 
Item No. 3) reflecting that decision. 
• 
- 
r 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Pan American 
Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Citizens Bank 
and Trust Company in Sarasota, Sarasota, Florida, and authorized 
issuance of an order (copy attached as Item No. 4) reflecting that 
decision. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Congressional testimony. The Board discussed a draft of tes-
timony to be given by Chairman Burns before the House Committee on 
Banking and Currency and the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and 
Urban Affairs on November 1 and November 2, 1971, respectively, in 
his capacity as Chairman of the Committee on Interest and Dividends. 
There was general agreement on the tone and content of the draft, 
although there were several suggestions for editorial revisions. 

10/29/71 
-3-
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
in addition to the comments made, other suggestions might be given 
to the Chairman in writing for consideration in developing the final 
'j;ifj 
form of his statement. 
(Note: Copies of the statement, as presented 
before the respective Committees, have been placed in the Board's 
files.) 
<4 
Policy on unionization. In August 1971, the Board published 
iji 
M 
for comment an Objections to Election Procedure as a proposed amend-
ment to the Policy on Unionization and Collective Bargaining for the 
Federal Reserve Banks. Concurrently, the Federal Reserve System 
Labor Relations Panel published for comment a proposed Code of Pre-
election Conduct and Rules and Regulations Pertaining to Preelection 
'H 
| kit
Conduct designed to implement the Policy amendment. 
The Legal Division, in a memorandum dated October 27, 1971, 
stated that after considering comments and recommendations received, 
the System Labor Relations Panel now recommended modification of the 
iij 
proposed Policy amendment and had extensively revised its two pro-
posed documents. The revised Policy amendment was transmitted with 
the Legal Division's memorandum for consideration by the Board; also 
transmitted, for the Board's information, were the revised Panel 
documents. The Panel desired that the revised Board and Panel 
documents be published concurrently for comment and requested 
approval for publication of the revised Board document. 
i 
i-'j 
< 
• M
| M
Ifj 
;f| 

281 
10/29/71 
-4-
Following a brief discussion, the Board authorized the 
publication for comment of the revised Policy amendment. Attached 
as Item No. 5 is a copy of the proposed amendment as subsequently 
published in the Federal Register. 
Chairman Burns and Mr. Holland then withdrew from the 
meeting. 
Branch application. In a memorandum dated October 28, 1971, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation presented (1) an appli-
cation by Idaho State Bank, Glenns Ferry, Idaho, to establish a 
branch in Hagerman, Idaho; and (2) a request by The Farmers National 
Bank of Buhl, Buhl, Idaho, for a hearing to contest the branch 
application. 
The Division felt that a hearing by the Board would serve 
no useful purpose in this case and recommended denial of the request. 
With respect to the Idaho State Bank branch application, the Division 
concurred with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and the 
Idaho State Banking Commissioner in the recommendation of approval. 
The Board approved unanimously the staff recommendations, 
with the understanding that appropriate letters would be sent 
reflecting that decision. Copies of the letters are attached as 
Items 6 and 7. 
Security Corporation. On September 28, 1971, the Board 
considered an application by Security Corporation, Duncan, Oklahoma, 

2816 
10/29/71 
-5-
t 
to become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of 
The Security National Bank and Trust Company of Duncan. However, 
questions were raised about the treatment of minority shareholders, 
the possibility of a control relationship between the applicant and 
its principal correspondent, and the fact that part of the funds for 
the transaction would come from a loan from the correspondent bank 
at an interest rate of 3 per cent for the first year. A memorandum 
dated October 22, 1971, had been prepared by the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation to provide additional information on the case. 
The Board approved unanimously the application, and authorized 
issuance of an order (copy attached as Item No. 8) reflecting that 
decision. 
STS Corporation. The Board approved unanimously an appli-
cation by STS Corporation, Billings, Montana, to become a bank 
holding company through acquisition of shares of Security Trust and 
Savings Bank, Billings, Montana, with the understanding that an order 
reflecting that decision would be prepared for the Board's consider-
ation . 
Economic review. The regular weekly economic and financial 
review was presented. Copies of the statistical materials prepared 
for the review have been placed in the Board's files, along with 
copies of the individual briefings. 

281 
10/29/71 
-6-
Legislative review. Mr. Cardon reviewed matters of interest 
to the Board presently being considered by the Congress. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
2818 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
10/29/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 29, 1971 
Board of Directors 
The Foxworth Bank 
Foxworth, Mississippi 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of The Foxworth Bank, Foxworth, Mississippi, 
for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, subject to the 
numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, such bank shall not 
cause or permit any change to be made in the 
general character of its business or in the 
scope of the corporate pox>/ers exercised by it 
at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character 
and conditions of its assets and to its deposit 
liabilities and other corporate responsibilities. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation II, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
The Board of Governors also approves the establishment 
°f a branch at 1000 Main Street, Columbia, Mississippi, by The Foxworth 
Sank provided the branch is established within one year from the date 
°f this letter. 

2819 
To: Board of Directors 
- 2 -
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member of 
the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Board 
of Directors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy of 
such resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit 
of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount 
of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Sigend) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

2 8 2 0 
Item No. 2 
10/29/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
BANKS OF IOWA, INC., 
• 
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, 
• 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 1 
cent or more of the voting shares of ' 
Valley Bank and Trust Company, Des 
' 
Moines, Iowa. 
• 
i 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Banks of Iowa, Inc., Cedar Rapids, 
Iowa, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's prior approval 
of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Valley 
Bank and Trust Company, Des Moines, Iowa ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of 
receipt of the application to the Iowa Department of 
Banking and requested its views and recommendation. The Superintendent 
°f Banking of the State of Iowa recommended approval of the application. 

2821 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 17, 1971 (36 Federal Register 13299), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and 
finds that: 
Applicant is a multi-bank holding company with deposits of 
approximately $205 million, representing 3.1 per cent of the total 
commercial bank deposits in the State, and is the fourth largest banking 
organization in Iowa. The inclusion of Applicant's affiliated bank in 
Cedar Rapids would increase Applicant's combined deposits to 3.3 per 
cent of total commercial bank deposits in the State. (All banking data 
are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect holding company formations and 
acquisitions approved through September 30, 1971.) Applicant's acquisi-
tion of Valley Bank, with deposits of close to $51 million, would increase 
Applicant's share of deposits in the State by 0.8 percentage points. 

281 
Valley Bank operates one office and a parking lot branch, 
located in the city of Des Moines, Iowa, and primarily serves the 
Des Moines metropolitan area, Applicant states that Bank essentially 
confines its business to serving the commercial and industrial seg-
ments of the community and does not actively solicit consumer deposits 
and loans. As an independent bank with smaller lending capabilities 
than its principal competitors, Bank, it appears, has not been able to 
compete effectively with the larger banks. Valley Bank is the fifth 
largest banking organization and the fourth largest of 20 banks in the 
Des Moines SMSA with 5.4 per cent of total market deposits. The three 
largest banking organizations in Des Moines are subsidiaries of the 
State's first, second and fifth largest bank holding companies, re-
spectively controlling 32.3, 24.1 and 14.6 per cent of deposits in the 
market. 
Applicant has recently received Board approval to acquire Union 
Sank and Trust Company, which upon consummation would become Applicant's 
subsidiary located closest to Valley Bank, approximately 87 miles south-
east of Des Moines. It appears that no significant competition exists 
between Valley Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiaries. On the facts 
record, notably, the distances involved, the large number of banks in 
the intervening areas, and the State's restrictive branching law, there 
appears to be little likelihood that such competition would develop in 
t he future. The fact that its principal officers have either reached or 
a re reaching retirement age and that adequate management continuity 
Presents a problem suggest that it is unlikely that Bank would form a 
h°lding company. 

4-
282 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely 
affect competition in any relevant area. Applicant plans to have Bank 
offer a more sophisticated array of commercial and industrial services. 
In addition, Applicant intends to expand Bank's consumer services to 
include solicitation of consumer and saving deposits accounts, and to 
"lake available greater amounts of funds for residential real estate 
mortgage loans and consumer installment credit. Considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served lend some 
w®ight toward approval of the application. 
Considerations relating to financial and managerial resources 
prospects as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiaries and Bank, 
a r e re8arded as satisfactory, except that Bank has not provided adequate 
Accessor management for its key officers who are advanced in years. 
Applicant's capabilities for finding competent and experienced officers 
f°t Bank as needed lend some weight in favor of approval. It is the 
B°ard's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be 
i n the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, Cn the basis of the record, that said 
application be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized above, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 

5-
2821 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 29, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Maisel and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Daane and Brimmer. 
(Si.-ned) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 3 
10/29/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
PAN AMERICAN BANCSHARES, INC., 
Miami, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of at least 
80 per cent of the voting shares of 
Pan American Bank of Miami Beach, 
Miami Beach, Florida, a proposed new 
bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Pan American Bancshares, Inc., 
Miami, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
o f at least 80 per cent of the voting shares of Pan American Bank 
o f Miami Beach, Miami,Beach, Florida, a proposed new bank ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Florida Com-
missioner of Banking and requested his views and recommendation. 
Commissioner recommended approval. 

-2-
2826 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 17, 1971 (36 Federal Register 15690), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that; 
Applicant controls seven subsidiary banks with aggregate 
dePosits of $278.3 million, representing 2 per cent of bank deposits 
Florida. (Banking data are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect 
h°lding company formations and acquisitions to date, including the 
acquisition of Citizens Bank of Sarasota, also approved by the 
B°ard today.) Approval of the acquisition of Bank would not increase 
percentage of deposits controlled by Applicant since Bank, as 
stated above, is a proposed new bank. 

All of Applicant's existing subsidiaries are located 
within 25 miles of Bank, and the closest, Applicant's lead bank, 
Pan American Bank of Miami, is only six miles from Bank. However, 
the intervening area is heavily populated and contains several 
highly competitive banks, and Applicant does not dominate the area. 
Consummation of the proposal would eliminate no existing competition 
nor have any adverse effects on any competing banks. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
°f Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are regarded as satis-
factory . Bank's location in a shopping center-apartment complex 
uill provide a convenient source of banking services; consid-
erations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served lend some weight toward approval. It is the Board's 
Judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest 
and should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that 
sald application be and hereby is approved for the reasons sum-
prized above, provided that the action so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
d a te of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 

Of this Order, and provided further that (c) Pan American Bank of 
Miami Beach shall be open for business not later than six months 
after the date of this Order. The periods described in (b) and (c) 
hereof may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 29, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Maisel. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 3 
10/29/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
PAN AMERICAN BANCSHARES, INC., 
* 
Miami, Florida, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of at least 
' 
80 per cent of the voting shares of 
1 
Citizens Bank and Trust Company in 
1 
Sarasota, Sarasota, Florida 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Pan American Bancshares, Inc., 
Miami, Florida ("Applicant") for the Board's prior approval of the 
acquisition of at least 80 per cent of the voting shares of Citizens 
Bank and Trust Company in Sarasota, Sarasota, Florida ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Wrttten notice of receipt of the application to the Florida Conc-
essioner of Banking and requested his views and recommendation, 
^he Commissioner recommended approval. 

- 2 -
2830 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 17, 1971 (36 Federal Register 15690) 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that! 
Applicant has six subsidiary banks which control $248.9 
million in deposits, representing 1.8 per cent of total deposits in 
the State. Upon acquisition of Bank (deposits $29.4 million) and 
the acquisition of Pan American Bank of Miami Beach approved by 
the Board today, Applicant would control eight subsidiary banks 
with aggregate deposits of $278.3 million. (All banking data are 
as of December 31, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company acqui-
sitions and formations to date.) Bank, which is the next to the 
smallest of five banking organizations in the Sarasota banking 
market, is located approximately 220 miles from Applicant's 
closest subsidiary bank and there is no existing competition between 
and any of Applicant's other subsidiary banks. Based upon the 

facts of record, consummation of the proposal would have no adverse 
effects on potential competition and would not have any adverse 
effects on any competing bank. In fact, consummation of the proposal 
would have a procompetitive effect by enabling Bank to compete more 
effectively with the larger banking groups in the county. 
There is no evidence that significant banking needs of the 
community are going unserved, however, consummation of the proposal 
would facilitate the Bank's ability to participate larger loans and 
make available to its customers the international banking facilities 
°f Applicant's lead bank. Considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served thus lend some weight toward 
approval. Applicant proposes to strengthen Bank's management signifi-
cantly and considerations relating to the banking factors, therefore, 
lend some weight toward approval. It is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction is in the public interest and should be 
approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that 
said application be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized 
above, provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 

unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board,- or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 29, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Maisel 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 
3 
10/29/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR PART 269] 
POLICY ON UNIONIZATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 
FOR THE FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Objections to Election Procedure 
The Board of Governors, pursuant to the authority conferred 
by section 248 of title 12, United States Code, published in the. 
Federal Register on August 6, 1971 (36 F.R. 14479) a proposal to add 
a new subparagraph (f) to § 269.5. 
The purpose of the. proposed amendment was stated to be (1) to 
protect employees from any interference with their making a fair and free 
choice in selecting or rejecting a bargaining representative even 
if such interference, does not constitute an unfair labor practice 
within the meaning of § 269.6 and (2) to authorize the Federal Reserve 
System Labor Relations Panel to establish an expedited procedure 
for processing charges of interference, to promulgate rules to guide 
the conduct of all parties, and to provide appropriate remedies 
when interference has been found to have affected the outcome of 
the election. Comments on the proposal were to have been received 
not later than September 7, 1971. 
In consideration of the response to the August 6 publication, 
the Board of Governors has modified its original proposal. The 
Board believes that offering the modified proposal for public comment 
will be helpful to its final consideration of this matter. Interested 
persons are invited to submit, relevant data, views, or arguments on 
the. amended proposal. Any such comments or materials should be sub-

2 8 3 * 
mitted in writing to the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System,Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received not later 
Ch&n November 18, 1971. 
The amended proposal is set forth below: 
§ 269.5 Elections. 
* 
:k 
•>'< 
* 
* 
(f) (1) If at any time prior to an election, an appreciable 
number of employees of a Federal Reserve Bank evidence substantial 
interest in representation by one or more labor organizations, whether 
or not a 30 per cent interest has yet been shown, it shall be incumbent • 
on the Bank, labor organisations, and all others to refrain from any 
conduct, action or policy that interferes with or restrains employees 
from making a fair and free choice in selecting or rejecting a bargaining 
representative. 
(2) A Bank, labor organizations, or employees are not 
precluded from exercise of the free speech privileges of 269.6(c) but 
such exercise may properly be held to be contrary to the intent of 
this section even if the conduct, action or policy in question does not 
constitute an unfair labor practice under 269.6(a), (1), (2) or (3) 
or 269.6(b), (1) or (2) of this Policy. 
(3) The Federal Reserve System Labor Relations Panel 
may promulgate expedited procedures for prompt disposition of allegations 
that a violation of this section has affected or is likely to affect 
the outcome of'the election. 

2835 
-3-
(4) The Panel may determine whether there has beam 
a violation of this section and may render appropriate interpretations 
of this section, and may set forth as guidelines the circumstances 
the Panel believes necessary for a fair and free election by a Code 
of Preelection Conduct or by decision in specific cases. 
(5) In the event of a proven violation of this section 
by a Bank, by labor organizations, or by other individuals or organ-
izations, found sufficient to affect the outcome of an election? the 
Panel may take appropriate remedial action such as the setting aside 
of the results of an election and the ordering of a new election, 
provided, however, that the Panel may not require a Bank to recognize 
a labor organization without an election unless the violation is 
found to be an unfair labor practice under 269.6 that would make a 
free election unlikely. 
By Order of the Board of Governors, October 29, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

B O A R D OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
283G 
Item No. 3 
10/29/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 29, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Idaho State Bank 
Glenns Ferry, Idaho 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment of a branch by Idaho State Bank, 
Glenns Ferry, Idaho, at Hagerman, Gooding County, Idaho, provided 
the branch is established within six months from the date of this 
letter. 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that your bank's management is satisfactory, that the proposed 
branch will serve the convenience and needs of the community, and 
that establishment of the branch will not tend to create an unde-
sirable competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
283 
'O i 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 7 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
10/29/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CDRRtiSPONDFNCE 
TO THE OriAKD 
November 1, 1971 
Mr. J. P. Hamilton 
President 
The Farmers National Bank 
of Buhl 
Buhl, Idaho 
Dear Mr. Hamilton: 
The Board has considered the request submitted by you 
in a telegram of September 29, 1971., and in letters of September 29, 
1971, and September 30, 1971, and through your counsel in a letter 
dated October 7, 1971, for a public hearing concerning the 
application by Idaho State Bank, Glenns Ferry, Idaho, to establish 
a branch office in Ilagerman, Idaho. 
The Board lias considered all the relevant facts, including 
the information contained in those letters and also the information 
presented at the public hearing conducted by the Regional Administrator 
of National Banks, Portland, Oregon, on October 8, 1971. The Board 
has concluded that a hearing is not warranted and consequently your 
request is denied. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2838 
Item No. 8 
10/29/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
SECURITY CORPORATION, 
1 
Duncan, Oklahoma, 
1 
for approval of action to become a 
1 
bank holding company through the 
' 
acquisition of 89.75 per cent of 
f 
the voting shares of The Security 
1 
National Bank and Trust Company 
' 
of Duncan, Duncan, Oklahoma. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Security Corporation, Duncan, 
Oklahoma, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby Applicant 
would become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 89.75 
Per cent of the voting shares of The Security National Bank and Trust 
Company of Duncan, Duncan, Oklahoma ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 

the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller 
offered no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register en August 3, 1971 (36 Federal Register 14285), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
tion. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and 
finds that: 
Applicant is a newly-organized corporation formed for the 
Purpose of acquiring Bank as a subsidiary. Bank ($38 million in 
deposits), is the largest of seven banks operating in the Stephens 
banking market, which is approximated by Stephens County. Bank controls 
47.1 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in that market. 
(Banking 
data are as of December 31, 1970.) 
The proposal is part of a plan by which the Halliburton 
Employees Benefit Fund, an organization that became a bank holding 
company as a result of the 1970 amendments to the Bank Holding Company 
A c t , plans to divest its interest in Bank. As Applicant has no present 
derations or subsidiaries, consummation of the proposal herein would 
Either alter existing banking competition nor is it likely to have an 

2840 
-3-
adverse effect on potential competition or on other banks in the 
market. 
Applicant's management has been drawn primarily from 
directors and officers of Bank. The financial and managerial resources 
and prospects of Bank are considered to be good. It is noted that the 
purchase of Bank is proposed to be effected in part through a loan. 
On a number of occasions, the Board has expressed concern with acquisi-
tion debt. In the circumstances of this proposal, notably Applicant's 
plans for an early and significant reduction of the debt through the 
sale to the public of an issue of common stock and Applicant's resources 
for servicing its debt without impairing Bank's financial condition, 
the Board concludes that the loan involved does not require denial of 
this application. Although consummation of the proposal would not have 
any immediate effects on the convenience and needs of the community, 
the expansion of bank-related services in the future may be facilitated 
by the operational structure of a holding company, and Applicant 
apparently has future plans for such expansion. Considerations related 
to these factors are regarded as consistent with approval. It is the 
Board's judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest, 
and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that said 
application be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized above, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 

2841 
-4-
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 29, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, 
and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson 
and Maisel. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
