4: 
April 30, 
Minutes for 
r 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

1413 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, April 30, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Winkler of the Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Plotkin, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Messrs. Ducy and Wiles of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed acquisition of a portion of the 
assets and assumption of the deposit liabilities of the Crenshaw 
Center Branch of First Western Bank and Trust Company, Los Angeles, 
California, by Bank of Finance, also of Los Angeles, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion, the conclusion stating that the transaction would have no 
adverse competitive effects. 

1414 
4/30/69 
-2-
Pursuant to the discussion at the Board meeting on April 25, 
1969, there had now been distributed a revised draft of report, with 
the conclusion prepared along lines suggested by Governor Mitchell, 
on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The 
Laconia National Bank, Laconia, New Hampshire, and The Peoples 
National Bank of Laconia, the conclusion stating: 
While several alternatives would remain in the 
general area served by the two banks, consummation 
of the merger of The Laconia National Bank and The 
Peoples National Bank of Laconia, New Hampshire, 
would eliminate the substantial direct competition 
between the two banks. The overall effect of the 
merger would be adverse. 
Governor Robertson commented that in his view the additional 
information concerning the area served by the two banks should not 
change the recommendation. He still felt that the conclusion should 
be substantially adverse instead of adverse. 
Governor Maisel stated that he had had no feeling that the 
original conclusion should be changed. However, Governors Mitchell 
and Sherrill at the April 25 meeting had expressed a clear preference 
for changing the conclusion, and in the circumstances he was willing 
to go along with it. 
Governor Daane said that he would prefer the revised version. 
The transmittal of the report to the Comptroller of the 
Currency was then approved, Governor Robertson dissenting. 

1415 
4/30/69 
-2-
Report on S. 34 (Item No. 1). There had been distributed a 
memorandum from Messrs. Cardon and Hexter dated April 25, 1969, 
relating to a request from Chairman Sparkman of the Senate Committee 
on Banking and Currency for the Board's views on S. 34, the proposed 
"Investment Company Amendments Act of 1968," under which banks would 
be permitted to operate managing agency accounts (bank mutual funds) 
and Smathers-Keogh collective funds. 
Although the Board had not previously commented on a bill in 
the exact form of S. 34, all of the topics covered in the proposed 
reply to Chairman Sparkman had been dealt with in connection with one 
or more previous bills on which the Board had reported to the Congress. 
The draft letter reiterated those views. 
From the standpoint of bank supervision, the main question of 
legislative policy presented by the bill was whether it would be in 
the public interest for banks to establish and operate collective 
funds that would be similar to, and would compete with, mutual funds, 
and the greater part of the proposed report dealt with that question. 
The draft letter stated, among other things, that (1) the 
Board recognized that the operation of collective funds by banks 
involved elements of risk, but with respect to the instant proposal 
the Board concluded that the probable benefits to the public from 
increased competition were substantial and the risks relatively less 
significant; (2) the Board recommended that administration of the 

1416 
4/30/69 
-2-
Federal securities laws with respect to banks' collective funds 
(Smathers-Keogh as well as the managing agency type) remain within 
the jurisdiction of the Securities and Exchange Commission; (3) the 
Board recommended amending the proposed section 22(h)(1) to delete 
the provision subjecting all bank mutual funds to regulations of the 
Comptroller of the Currency; and (4) the Board favored the treatment 
of other types of common trust funds provided by the bill. 
In discussing the proposed legislation, Mr. Cardon emphasized 
that the report took the same position previously taken by the Board 
in reports to Congress on similar bills. He indicated that there was 
some urgency in having the report submitted. He mentioned that he 
had discussed the report with Governors Mitchell and Brimmer, who 
had expressed agreement with taking the same position as before. He 
had not, however, had a chance to talk with Governor Sherrill. 
Governor Daane expressed uneasiness about the kinds of funds 
that some banks might get into. However, he would be willing to go 
along with the report since it took the same position as before, it 
reiterated the Board's belief in the principle of separation of 
commercial from investment banking, and it made reference to some of 
the potential risks involved. 
Governor Maisel indicated that he was in favor of the report. 
Governor Robertson, like Governor Daane, expressed some 
uneasiness. He had endeavored to go over each of the questions and 
his discussions with various people had persuaded him that perhaps the 

1417 
4/30/69 
-2-
dangers were not great, but he still had some qualms, particularly in 
the absence of any real need for the legislation. One reservation had 
to do with the "no-load" requirement. If that provision were taken 
out of the bill, he would be opposed to it. There was no indication 
that it would be, but he wanted to be sure, so he would suggest a 
change in the language of the report on that point. 
Governor Robertson's language was accepted, and he then 
inquired whether there was need to specify in the report that a mutual 
fund should not acquire stock of the bank itself. Such a practice 
might be unlikely, but he would like to see it precluded. 
Mr. Cardon was of the view that there was an SEC rule against 
an investment adviser recommending purchase of its own stock, and that 
this would suffice. Mr. Hexter commented that he was not familiar 
with the rule in question, and Governor Daane stated that, unless the 
SEC rule was explicit, he felt a strong demurrer should be included in 
the report. 
The matter was left that Mr. Cardon would check to see if the 
SEC rules barred such a practice and, if not, the report would be 
amended to cover the point. 
Governor Robertson added that another hazard involved was that 
the Board would be queried on this subject by the Congress at the next 
holding company go-around, particularly with regard to whether or not 
there was a potential conflict of interest when a bank was on two 

1418 
4/30/69 
-2-
sides of the fence. The staff considered this unlikely because of 
the disclosure rules of the SEC, and he agreed, but the Board must 
be prepared to defend its position. He was willing to go along with 
the report, but he had raised these issues because he was not sure he 
could answer all the questions to his own satisfaction. 
report to the Chairman of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee, 
subject to Mr. Cardon's checking out the question relating to the SEC 
rule that had been discussed. 
A copy of the letter subsequently sent to Chairman Sparkman is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Ratification of actions. Actions taken by the available 
members of the Board at the meeting held on Friday, April 25, 1969, 
as recorded in the minutes of that meeting, were ratified by unanimous 
vote. 
Unanimous approval then was given to the transmittal of the 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1/119 
.•Aqjcoj^.. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Q F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
3 0 S S I 
Item No. 1 
4/30/69 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
May 1, 1969 
The Honorable John J. Sparkman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your Committee's request for the 
Board's views on S. 34, the proposed "Investment Company Amendments 
Act of 1968". 
1. From the standpoint of bank supervision, the chief 
question of legislative policy presented by the bill is whether it 
would be in the public interest for banks to establish and operate 
collective funds that would be similar to, and would compete with, 
mutual funds. Opponents of the proposal contend that permitting 
banks to engage in this activity would constitute an undesirable 
departure from the policies of the Banking Act of 1933 (the Glass-
Steagall Act). 
The Board continues to believe that the principle of 
separation of commercial banking from investment banking, which was 
recognized by the Congress in the Banking Act of 1933, is a sound 
and significant one. This separation, we are convinced, avoids cer-
tain conflicts of interests that might impair the ability of commercial 
banks to devote themselves single-mindedly to their primary function 
of serving their depositors, borrowers, correspondents, and trust 
accounts. 
It must be borne in mind, however, that the service which 
would be performed by banks, if their collective funds were made 
available to the general public as investment media, would be similar 
in many respects to services already performed by banks for their 
individual trust and agency accounts. Moreover, the purposes of 
separating commercial banking from investment banking are not signifi-
cantly relevant to operations of the kind under discussion, for the 
following reasons. 

1420 
The Honorable John J. Sparkman 
-2-
The principal dangers of combining operations in those two 
fields are that, if commercial banks were permitted to underwrite and 
deal in securities, (1) a bank might find itself holding, either in 
its underwriting department or in its investment portfolio, securities 
that are unsuitable for bank investment, and (2) a bank engaged in 
underwriting and dealing might have undesirable opportunities and 
temptations to overreach its correspondent banks and other customers 
by selling to them unsuitable or overpriced securities it had acquired 
(or contracted to acquire) in its investment banking operations. 
When the nature and the anticipated mode of operation of 
banks' collective funds are examined, however, it appears that neither 
of these hazards would be present to any significant extent. In the 
operation of collective funds, the bank itself does not become the 
owner of any securities; it receives and invests the funds of the 
participants. In other words, an essential element of the dangers 
referred to - banks acquiring securities as underwriter or dealer -
simply is not present in connection with the operation of a collective 
fund. 
It might be contended, nevertheless, that a bank's management 
of a collective fund would permit it to "unload" on the fund poor 
investments that the bank had accumulated in its own portfolio, or to 
sell portfolio securities to the fund at inflated prices. The Board 
believes that these would not be real dangers, in view of provisions 
of the securities laws and other limitations on banks' selling assets 
to their own fiduciary accounts, the absence from banks' portfolios 
of the kind of assets that collective funds purchase (principally 
corporate stocks), the existence of day-to-day market prices for almost 
all securities purchased by collective funds, and the controls and pro-
tection resulting from governmental supervision of banks' operations. 
Some who oppose bank operation of managing agency collective 
funds have advanced another possible drawback, somewhat related to the 
foregoing. Banks occasionally make loans that prove difficult to col-
lect because of the financial situation of the borrower. In such cases, 
it has been argued, a bank might use money of a collective fund to 
purchase a new issue of stock or other securities from the weak borrower, 
or even to make a direct loan to that borrower, in order to enable it 
to discharge its indebtedness to the bank. 
Although such conflicts of interest and consequent misconduct 
are not impossible, this area of risk does not appear to be significant. 
For many years banks have participated in the management of employee-
benefit funds and other fiduciary accounts that hold stocks and other 
securities in an aggregate amount far exceeding those held by the 

1421 
The Honorable John J. Sparkman 
-2-
entire mutual fund industry. The examinations conducted by bank 
supervisory agencies have disclosed practically no such misuse by banks 
of their investment advisory and management functions. In the case of 
managing agency funds, an additional safeguard is the prophylactic 
restrictions and requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940, 
particularly publicity of the financial transactions of registered 
investment companies, which almost inevitably would expose such mal-
feasance. A further deterrent would be the adverse impact on a collec-
tive fund's performance - its comparative financial record - if any of 
its resources were used to make unprofitable investments; the detrimental 
effect on sales of participations might outweigh any benefits the bank 
could reasonably expect from its breach of fiduciary duty. 
On the basis of the experience described and the additional 
safeguards that exist in the mutual fund field, the Board believes that 
this alleged risk is negligible. 
The suggestion has also been advanced that bank operation of 
managing agency collective funds might, in certain circumstances, diminish 
banks' prestige and even public confidence in the banking system. An 
individual who invested $10,000, for example, in such a fund would feel 
that he had sustained a $3,000 loss if the market value of the stock 
held by the fund fell 30 per cent in a declining market. It is argued 
that this might be misunderstood (by persons who were not aware of the 
difference between bank deposits and mutual fund investments) as indi-
cating that the bank was insolvent, and that undesirable consequences 
would result. 
Whether there would be a material risk along these lines is, 
of course, a matter of judgment as to the extent to which investors and 
the banking public would be aware of the difference between (a) bank 
deposits and (b) investments in a diversified portfolio of securities. 
The Board believes that this basic distinction is well understood by 
most of the persons who would be concerned. Moreover, Securities Act 
prospectuses, which must be furnished to persons to whom mutual fund 
shares are offered, call attention explicitly to the inevitable fluc-
tuations in value - that is, the risk of loss as well as the opportunity 
for gain - as the market prices of the portfolio securities rise and fall. 
Another argument that has been advanced against bank entry 
into the mutual fund business is that banks enjoy advantages of con-
venience, prestige, and economies which would enable them, in time, 
to gain control of the mutual fund field to the virtual exclusion of 
non-bank competitors. But the Board considers it improbable, for 
reasons indicated below, that banks' collective investment funds would 
enjoy advantages which would exclude others from the business of 
establishing and maintaining mutual funds. 

1422 
The Honorable John J. Sparkman -2-
Most of the billions of dollars that are invested annually 
in mutual fund shares are elicited from investors by brokers, dealers, 
or salesmen motivated by the commissions to be earned through selling 
shares of "load" type funds. Under the terms of S. 34, banks1 managing 
agency funds in.all cases would be of the "no-load" type (a restriction 
that the Board considers essential), and the history of the industry 
indicates the unlikelihood that such funds would supplant mutual funds 
that have the benefits of commission-motivated selling efforts. (An 
analogous situation, in another field, is the limited sales of savings-
bank life insurance, which has been available for many decades. Despite 
favorable rates, such insurance has not been a serious competitor in the 
life insurance field, perhaps because of the absence of aggressive 
efforts of agents eager to earn commissions.) Furthermore, an important 
factor affecting sales of mutual fund shares is their "performance" as 
measured by capital appreciation (that is, increase in the market value 
of the portfolio), and there is no present reason to believe that banks1 
collective funds would excel those of their competitors in this respect. 
Participation by banks may yield valuable benefits in an 
industry that attracts the savings of millions of savers of limited 
means. Availability of such bank-operated investment media could be 
of service to those investors by providing (a) a means of performing 
a function, of a kind traditionally performed by banks1 trust departments, 
more efficiently and at less cost, (b) more competition for the funds of 
such investors, and (c) the opportunity to combine investment service 
and special fiduciary services when needed (a combination that is often 
less conveniently available when mutual fund shares constitute the 
investment vehicle). 
To recapitulate, the Board recognizes that the operation of 
collective funds by banks involves elements of risk. This is true, how-
ever, whenever banks - or other organizations - expand the services they 
offer. If the possibility of adverse consequences, however slight or 
remote, were regarded as sufficient ground for prohibiting such expan-
sion of activities, regulated industries could not adapt to changed 
circumstances and the new needs and demands of our economy. In every 
such situation, the ultimate judgment consists of weighing risks against 
prospective benefits. With respect to the instant proposal, the Board 
of Governors concludes that the probable benefits to the public from 
increased competition are substantial and that the risks are relatively 
less significant. The Board therefore favors the objective of S. 34 to 
authorize banks to establish and operate "no-load" investment funds 
substantially similar to conventional mutual funds. Our reasoning and 
conclusions are also applicable to collective investment by banks of 
retirement trusts for self-employed individuals (so-called "Smathers-
Keogh trusts" or "H.R. 10 plans"). 

1423 
The Honorable John J. Sparkman -2-
2. The Board understands that S. 34 is intended to place 
banks1 collective funds for managing agency accounts in the same 
securities-law status, broadly speaking, as the mutual funds with which 
they would compete - that is, they would be subject to those laws under 
the administration of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The 
situation would be otherwise, however, with respect to banks' Smathers-
Keogh collective funds, if this bill were enacted in its present form. 
They would be exempted from the Investment Company Act, and the three 
Federal bank supervisory agencies (1) would displace the SEC in the 
administration of the disclosure provisions of the Securities Act of 
1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as they apply to banks® 
Smathers-Keogh collective funds, and (2) would also be empowered com-
pletely to exempt such funds from those registration, prospectus, and 
periodic reporting requirements. 
A comparable proposal was embodied in the bills H.R. 8499 
and H.R. 9410 of the 88th Congress. Since the Securities and Exchange 
Commission has resources of personnel and experience, devoted to the 
administration of the securities laws, that would be difficult to 
duplicate, the Board concluded as to those bills that 
"the proposed transfer of jurisdiction in the securities field 
from the Securities and Exchange Commission to bank supervisors 
would yield no benefits of which we are aware, but on the con-
trary would be injurious to investors and would require the 
Federal Reserve System and other bank supervisors to perform 
functions that can be more efficiently performed by the Securities 
and Exchange Commission, whose facilities are devoted entirely to 
this complex and important subject." 
For the same reasons we recommend that administration of the Federal 
securities laws with respect to banks1 collective funds (Smathers-Keogh 
as well as the managing agency type) remain within the jurisdiction of 
the SEC. That arrangement would not only utilize the unique expertness 
of the SEC in the securities field, but would also assure to the public 
the benefit of ready comparability of all Smathers-Keogh plans offered 
to them, because such plans, whether administered by insurance companies 
or banks, would be governed by disclosure rules directed to that end. 
3. Under the proposed new section 22(h) of the Investment 
Company Act of 1940, the Comptroller of the Currency seemingly would 
be empowered to regulate all mutual funds maintained by banks. The 
SEC would also have such power under existing provisions of that Act. 
The Board questions the advisability of authorizing two agencies of 

1424 
The Honorable John J. Sparkman -2-
the Federal Government to regulate the securities aspects of mutual 
funds maintained by banks. It seems clear to us that banks' mutual 
funds, as such, should be governed by a single Federal regulatory 
system - subject, of course, to the general supervision of State and 
Federal banking authorities from the standpoint of safe and sound 
operation. The Board believes that the applicable regulatory system 
should be that which governs mutual funds generally under the Federal 
securities laws, administered by the SEC. Accordingly, the Board 
recommends amending the proposed section 22(h)(1) to delete the provi-
sion subjecting all bank mutual funds to regulations of the Comptroller, 
So amended, section 22(h)(1) would simply remove, insofar as banks are 
concerned, any existing prohibitions of Federal law with respect to 
"the creation or operation of a registered investment company, 
or a collective trust fund exempt from the definition of 
'investment company1 under section 3(c)(11) of this title". 
The Board favors the treatment of other types of common 
trust funds provided by the bill. 
Sincerely yours, 
arte*, 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
• 
