MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 7, 1969 

4 3 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, January 7, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 1/ 
Mr. Daane 1] 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board 
and Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farre11, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Doyle, Noble, and Via of the Legal 
Division 
Mr. Wiles of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Goodfellow, Maguire, and Rumbarger 
of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bouck, Consultant 
Withdrew from morning session at point indicated in minutes; 
attended afternoon session. 
Attended morning session only. 

• 
44 
1/7/69 
Bank Protection Act. Governor Robertson reviewed the negotiations 
that had taken place in an effort to achieve uniformity of regulations to 
be issued by the respective Federal supervisory agencies under the Bank 
Protection Act. In this connection he referred to a new draft of Board 
regulation that had been distributed under date of January 4, 1969, and 
noted certain minor modifications that had now been made in it. The 
Federal Home Loan Bank Board would definitely go along with the new draft 
in the form now proposed, he said, but it remained uncertain whether the 
Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Comptroller 
of the Currency would go along. The key question appeared to relate to 
use of Form P-l, through which an inventory of bank security devices 
would be obtained. Governor Robertson agreed with the view of the Depart-
ment of Justice that a requirement for the use of such a form was essential. 
Governor Robertson then proposed that the Board vote on the regu-
lation, with the hope that the other agencies would agree to the issuance 
of substantially similar regulations, subject to an understanding that if 
they did not agree he would bring the matter back to the Board this afternoon 
Governor Brimmer expressed agreement with Governor Robertson and 
indicated that he would be extremely reluctant to compromise further. 
Other Board members felt strongly that substantial uniformity in the 
regulations issued by the respective agencies should be achieved if at 
all possible, and a suggestion was made that if necessary the Board 
arrange to meet with the Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpo-
ration and the Comptroller of the Currency in an effort to resolve any 

45 
1/7/69 
-12-
remaining areas of disagreement. Several of the members concurred in 
the view that it was essential to retain the P-l form, although with 
some indication of willingness to modify the form slightly, if necessary, 
in the interest of achieving a uniform approach. One or two of the 
members questioned including a requirement for use of the P-l form by 
State member banks only if there was no similar requirement for other 
banks, while one member suggested the possibility of leaving the decision 
to the individual Federal Reserve Banks. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed to defer a 
decision on the Board regulation until this afternoon with a view to 
determining developments by that time. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Hartford National Bank and 
Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut, with Pearl Street National Bank, 
also of Hartford, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comp-
troller of the Currency. The conclusion stated that consummation of the 
proposed merger (which was merely a transaction to facilitate the acqui-
sition of Hartford National Bank and Trust Company by Hartford National 
Corporation, a newly-formed holding company) would have no adverse compet-
itive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
consolidation of Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of 
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, and Continental National Bank, also of Chicago, 
w a s approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. 

46 
1/7/69 
-12-
The conclusion stated that consummation of the proposed consolidation 
(which was merely a transaction to facilitate the acquisition of Conti-
nental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago by Conill 
Corporation, a newly-organized holding company) would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, San Francisco, Cali-
fornia, with WF National Bank, also of San Francisco, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The 
conclusion stated that consummation of the proposed merger (which was 
merely a transaction to facilitate the acquisition of Wells Fargo Bank, 
National Association, by Wells Fargo & Company, a newly-formed holding 
company) would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Community National Bank of Fresno County, Mendota, California, 
m t o Community National Bank, Bakersfield, California, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The 
conclusion stated that the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive 
effects. 
Membership application. The application of Middle Park Bank, 
Granby, Colorado, for membership in the Federal Reserve System was approved 
unanimously. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 1. 
Architectural consulting services. Pursuant to previous discussion, 
there had been distributed a draft of letter to the Chairman of the Confer-
ence of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks requesting the views of the 

47 
1/7/69 
-12-
Presidents on the question of providing more comprehensive architectural 
consulting services for Federal Reserve building projects. 
At the beginning of today's discussion Governor Brimmer reiterated 
his previously-expressed position, which was that he entertained substantial 
reservations with respect to the idea. 
Attention then was given to the form of the draft letter, which 
i 
was considered in conjunction with an alternative draft submitted by 
Governor Maisel. The thought behind the alternative draft as explained 
by Governor Maisel, was to focus more sharply on the proposal and to 
eliminate certain statements that he felt tended to approach the question 
in a negative manner. With his draft Governor Maisel attached a letter 
received by Governor Mitchell from President Galusha of the Minneapolis 
Sank, who presented views favoring the availability of consulting archi-
tectural services. 
The decision was to use as a base the staff draft, prepared by 
Mr. Farrell under date of January 2, 1969, but to make certain modifi-
cations in it in light of the points raised by Governor Maisel and other 
points mentioned at this meeting, one of which was that the Presidents 
should be invited to solicit the views of their directors in responding 
to the question presented by the Board. 
Accordingly, approval was given to a letter to the Chairman of 
the Conference of Presidents in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
Minneapolis building project. The Board approved unanimously a 
telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis authorizing the Bank 

48 
1/7/69 
-12-
to proceed with the preparation of detailed plans and specifications for 
its proposed new head office building. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
Amendment to Regulation K and delegation of authority. In a 
memorandum dated December 18, 1968, prepared in response to request at 
the Board meeting on December 9, 1968, Messrs. Doyle and Goodfellow 
recommended certain steps to reduce the volume of applications coming 
before the Board relating to international operations of member banks 
and Edge and agreement corporations. 
Their first recommendation was to amend Regulation K, Corporations 
Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing under the Federal Reserve Act, 
to restore the general consent that had been eliminated in February 1968 
in connection with the U.S. balance of payments program. However, they 
suggested that certain weaknesses seen in the former version of the 
general consent be corrected and, in addition, presented for consideration 
alternative approaches in two areas. The first alternative involved the 
question whether to impose under the general consent an absolute dollar 
limit on investments in any one foreign corporation. 
(This would be in 
addition to a restriction providing that investments under the general 
consent must be limited to no more than 25 per cent of the stock of the 
foreign company. Further, as provided in section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act, investments must also be limited to 10 per cent of an Edge 
o r agreement corporation's capital and surplus, or 15 per cent if the 
foreign company was a bank.) The second alternative involved the question 

49 
1/7/69 
-7-
whether language should be incorporated in the text of the general 
consent reflecting the Board's published policy of considering the 
competitive aspects of international joint ventures. 
In a memorandum of January 2, 1969, the same staff members 
submitted another version of the form of general consent that included 
certain editorial refinement s designed to make the material more readable 
and more precise. 
The second recommendation in the December 18 memorandum was to 
delegate to a member of the Board authority to approve all applications 
relating to international operations of member banks and Edge and agreement 
corporations except applications involving questions of policy, appli-
cations involving the first entry of a bank into the international field, 
applications involving the establishment of important subsidiaries, and 
such other applications as the member of the Board having delegated 
authority might decide warranted consideration by the full Board. All 
proposed denials also would be presented to the Board. 
After a general discussion of the proposal to restore the general 
consent during which a number of questions raised by Board members were 
dealt with to the satisfaction of the members concerned, a consensus 
developed in favor of the staff recommendation, but with the understanding 
that the general consent would not apply to any case where the proposed 
acquisition would cause the aggregate amount invested in the shares of 
the foreign corporation to exceed $500,000. Further, the foreign corpo-
ration must be one not doing buiness in the United States. 

1/7/69 
_g_ 
On the question whether the general consent should contain 
' > 
i..V; 
.'; 
some proviso relating to the application of the antitrust laws, it 
was the view of the Board that the formulation suggested by the legal 
staff was too specific and not entirely appropriate. The decision, 
therefore, was that nothing along those lines should be included in 
reintroducing the general consent, although the staff might study the 
problem at greater length with a view to further consideration by the 
Board at a later date. It was noted that the $500,000 limitation to 
be imposed on investments in any one foreign corporation, along with 
other restrictions provided in the general consent, offered a measure 
°f protection. 
Accordingly, the form that the general consent should take 
having been decided upon, amendment of Regulation K to effect the 
inclusion of the general consent was approved unanimously, effective 
immediately. A copy of the amendment, in Federal Register form, is 
attached as Item No. 4. 
With respect to the proposal for delegation of authority, it 
appeared to be the general opinion that some such delegation would be 
useful as a means of reducing the volume of applications requiring 
Board action and expediting the processing of applications. There was 
also general agreement that authority to approve certain types of appli-
cations, as listed in the December 18 memorandum, should not be delegated. 
rrii 
e principal question, therefore, was where the authority to act on 
items on a delegated basis should rest, and under what conditions. 

5 1 
1/7/69 
-12-
Two members (Governors Robertson and Brimmer) expressed the 
view that authority, if delegated at this time, should be vested in 
the member of the Board charged with responsibility for administration 
of the foreign credit restraint program inasmuch as many of the appli-
cations in the international banking area involved problems closely 
related to the conduct of that program. However, another member (Governor 
Mitchell) expressed disagreement in principle with the idea of delegating 
authority on a permanent basis to individual members of the Board. In 
his view the better practice from the standpoint of sound administration 
was to delegate authority either to persons holding particular positions 
on the Board's staff or to the Federal Reserve Banks. In this instance, 
he noted, delegation to the Reserve Banks, to the maximum extent feasible, 
would achieve the greatest benefits in terms of reducing paperwork and 
expediting the flow of applications. Governor Brimmer, however, recalled 
that the Board had earlier taken the position that it was advisable to 
have international banking applications transmitted to the Board's offices 
for consideration because of the foreign policy implications involved in 
many of them. 
After further discussion along those lines, Governor Brimmer 
commented that as long as the foreign credit restraint program was in 
effect he would not want to see applications for permission to make foreign 
investments acted upon at the Federal Reserve Bank level and that, within 
the Board's organization, he believed the major applications, at least, 
should receive consideration at the Board rather than the staff level. 

52 
1/7/69 
-12-
Governor Mitchell then pointed out that some of the classes of 
applications suggested for handling under delegated authority in the 
December 18 memorandum seemed to have no particular relationship to the 
foreign credit restraint program, and he suggested that in those cases 
authority be delegated to the Director of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation. Other members, including Governor Brimmer, agreed, with the 
result that the list of items was reviewed and it was determined that in 
certain cases authority should be delegated in the manner that Governor 
Mitchell has suggested. 
Appropriate amendment of the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation 
of Authority, as reflected in the attached Item No. 5, was then approved 
unanimously, effective immediately. 
(Note: Pursuant to this action 
the Chairman designated Governor Brimmer as the member of the Board in 
whom the delegated authority, to the extent that it ran to a Board member, 
was vested, and designated Governor Robertson to serve as Governor Brimmer' 
alternate.) 
The Board also authorized the issuance of an appropriate press 
release regarding the amendment to Regulation K and the delegation of 
authority. A copy of the release issued pursuant to that authorization 
is attached as Item No. 6. 
Governor Mitchell withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
American Bancorporation. American Bancorporation, Inc., Columbus, 
Ohio, a one-bank holding company by virtue of its ownership of shares of 
The Adelphi National Bank, Adelphi, Ohio, had applied for approval of 
action to become a registered bank holding company through acquisition 
of shares of The Harpster Bank, Harpster, Ohio. 

S 3 
1/7/69 
-12-
After a discussion relating principally to the management 
factor, as described in the supporting Reserve Bank and staff documen-
tation, the application was approved unanimously with the understanding 
that an order and statement reflecting the decision would be drafted for 
the Board's consideration. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened at 4:10 p.m. with 
Chairman Martin and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, 
and Sherrill present. Members of the staff in attendance included 
Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Forrestal, Molony, Cardon, Coyne, Nichols, 
Hexter, Solomon, Leavitt, Via, and Bouck, and also Mr. Sanford of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation. 
Bank Protection Act. Governor Robertson reported that this 
morning he had sent to the Comptroller of the Currency, Mr. Camp, and 
the Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Mr. Randall, 
copies of the P-l form in the revised style now proposed for use by the 
Board and hopefully also by the other Federal supervisory agencies in 
issuing their regulations under the Bank Protection Act. The Comptroller 
had suggested only one change, to which there was no objection. Chairman 
Randall, on the other hand, apparently still had some questions that he 
would like to have considered. However, Mr. Randall reportedly had now 
left town and the specific nature of his questions was not known. 
The net result, Governor Robertson said, was that Chairman 
Randall would like to have the whole operation postponed until Friday 
when he would have a meeting of the directors of the Corporation. That 

54 
1/7/69 
-12-
presumably would mean that the regulations of the Board and the other 
supervisory agencies could not be issued before next Monday. 
Governor Sherrill then reported his understanding, from telephone 
conversations, that Chairman Randall had only one question of significance 
the others being more or less of an editorial nature. The Comptroller, 
he said, apparently was satisfied with the latest drafting but preferred 
to wait for Chairman Randall's return in the interest of a coordinated 
effort. 
In further discussion Governors Robertson and Brimmer expressed 
their discouragement with respect to the turn of events and urged that 
the Board go ahead with the issuance of its regulation without waiting 
further. They noted that the Federal Home Loan Bank Board apparently 
was satisfied and willing to move ahead. 
With regard to the requirement contained in the statute that 
the respective agencies issue their regulations within six months of 
the date of the statute, Chairman Martin turned to Mr. Hexter and the 
latter expressed the view that in all the circumstances a short delay 
in issuing the regulations probably could be countenanced. 
Chairman Martin then observed that the Board's record in the 
matter was good, as would be reflected in the minutes, and he counselled 
deferment of action until Friday in the hope of achieving a uniform 
approach on the part of all of the agencies. 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Sherrill expressed agreement 
with the Chairman. Accordingly, the view of Governors Robertson and 

lan/69 
-13-
Brimmer to the contrary being noted, it was agreed to defer action 
on the matter until Friday. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Hiiix 
Secretary 
C 

B O A R D O F 
G G V E R N D R S 
• r THE 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1 / 7/ 6 9 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20351 
ADORCia OFFICIAL CORHCSfONOINCI 
TO THE BOARD 
January 7, 1969 
Board: of Directors, 
Middle Park Bank, 
Granby, Colorado. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application of Middle Park Bank, Granby, Colorado, for stock in the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, subject to the numbered conditions 
hereinafter set forth: 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety ot 
its depositors, and, except with the permission of the 
Board- of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the general character of its business or in the scope of 
the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's Regu-
lation H, regarding membership of State Banking institutions in the 
Federal Reserve System with especial reference to Section 208.7 thereof. 
A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member of 
the Federal Reserve System. 

57 
To: 
Board of Directors 
-2-
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Board of 
Directors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy of such 
resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. Arrangements 
will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of 
Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required reserve 
balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank 
stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner prescribed may be accomplished is limited 
to 30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the 
bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

'X-
\Q 
12: 
i; 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
1/7/69 
ADDRESS QFFIC IAL C O R R E S P D N O E N (". E
TO THE BOARD 
January 8, 1969 
Mr. George H. Clay, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents, 
c/o Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 64198 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
The purpose of this letter is to request, through the 
Conference of Presidents, views and comments with regard to the 
possible desirability of providing more comprehensive architec-
tural consulting services for Federal Reserve building projects. 
The Board has had available to it for about 20 years the 
services of a consulting architect. The primary purpose of this 
arrangement has been to assist the Board and its staff in consider-
ing proposed construction projects by providing professional advice 
on such matters as conformance to guidelines, aspects of plans 
and specifications that might cause trouble, and cost questions. 
In addition, the Board's consultant has been available upon request 
for discussions with the management of the individual Reserve Banks 
and their architects in the development of building plans. 
Mr. Eugene E. Witherell, the Board's present consulting 
architect, has recently moved to Florida and, while he is willing 
to continue his services for the Board, it is recognized that his 
removal from the Washington area may cause some delay and incon-
venience in the review of building plans, and particularly in 
arrangements for conferences that may be desirable in this 
connection. Moreover, it has long been recognized that a consulting 
arrangement with any individual provides no backup for temporary 
incapacitation and must face sooner or later the problem of 
replacement, with attendant loss of valuable experience. 

59 
Mr. George H. Clay 
-2-
These circumstances have prompted the Board to believe 
that it would be desirable to consider not only the possible need 
to replace Mr. Witherell, but also the benefits and problems that 
might result from an alternative arrangement under which a firm 
capable of serving and commanding respect throughout the country 
would be engaged to provide more service for the Reserve Banks, 
in addition to assisting the Board and its staff in reviewing 
building proposals. 
There is some feeling that much might be gained from a 
continuing arrangement with a consultant who could be of assistance 
to the management of a Reserve Bank and its architect in interpreting 
Board instructions and System guidelines, and in the design of 
vaults, alarm systems, and other special-purpose requirements. If 
so desired, such a consultant might also be of assistance in con-
sidering the selection of project architects. 
Such an arrangement would not contemplate that the 
consultant would become involved with the exterior or overall 
design of a building unless asked to do so by the management of 
the Bank concerned. The project architect would still have the 
basic responsibility for the design of a structure that would be 
fully responsive to the requirements of the Bank concerned and that 
would harmonize good architectural design with functional require-
ments and regional environment. 
Since an arrangement of this kind would probably have a 
significant effect on the handling of Federal Reserve building plans, 
the Board believes that a cross section of the views of the Reserve 
Banks and their directors on the proposal, in the light of possible 
benefits and costs, could be helpful. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

60 
T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
I t e m 
N o 
3 
b o a r d 
o f 
g o v e r n o r s 
o f 
t h e 
f e d e r a l 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
1 / 7 / 6 9 ° ' 
WASHINGTON 
January 7, 1969. 
) 
GALUSHA - MINNEAPOLIS 
Board authorizes your Bank to proceed with the preparation of 
detailed plans and specifications in accordance with the 
Preliminary plans referred to in your letter of December 23, 1968. 
FORRESTAL 

TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
1/7/69°* ^ 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 211 - CORPORATIONS ENGAGED IN FOREIGN BANKING 
AND FINANCING UNDER THE FEDERAL RESERVE ACT. 
Foreign Equity Investments 
1. Effective January 7, 1969, § 211.8 is amended to read as follows 
§ 211.8 Investments in shares of other corporations, 
(a) General consent. Subject to section 25(a) of the Act£/ 
and this part, the Board hereby grants its general consent for any 
Corporation to invest, directly or indirectly, in the shares of foreign 
corporations^/ not doing business in the United States; but no investment 
hereunder shall cause the Corporation to have invested more than $500,000 
in the shares, or to hold more than 25 per cent of the voting shares, 
°f any such corporation. 
(b) Specific consent. Prior specific consent of the Board is 
required with respect to the acquisition of any shares by a Corporation, 
except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section or the ninth paragraph 
o f section 25(a) of the Act (relating to purchases of stock to prevent 
loss on debts previously contracted). 
kl Including the limitations therein based on capital and surplus. 
5/ As used here, "corporation" does not include limited partnerships or 
similar organizations. 

62 
- 2 -
(c) Conditions. (1) Shares of stock in a corporation shall be 
disposed of as promptly as practicable if (i) such corporation should 
engage in the business of underwriting, selling, or distributing securities 
in the United States or (ii) the Corporation is advised by the Board that 
their holding is inappropriate under section 25(a) of the Act or this 
Part. 
(2) In computing the amount which may be invested in the shares 
of any corporation under paragraph (a) of this section and section 25(a) 
°f the Act, there shall be included any such investments in other corpora-
tions controlled by such corporation. Unless otherwise specified, "shares" 
in this section includes any rights to acquire shares, except that prior 
Board consent is not required for the acquisition and exercise of stock 
right s in lieu of dividends which are declared on shares already held by 
a Corporation and which do not result in an increase in percentage owner-
ship of the corporation. 
(d) Reports. A Corporation shall inform the Board through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of its district within thirty days after the close 
each quarter with respect to any acquisition or disposition of shares 
during that quarter, including the following information concerning any 
corporation whose shares it acquired for the first time (unless previously 
furnished): 
(1) Recent balance sheet and income statement, (2) brief 
descriptions of the corporation's business (including full information 
concerning any such business transacted in the United States), the shares 
acquired, and any related credit transaction, (3) lists of directors and 

« 3 
- 3 -
principal officers (with address and principal business affiliation of 
each) and of all shareholders (known to the issuing corporation) hold-
ing 10 per cent or more of any class of the corporation's shares (and 
the amount held by each), and (4) information concerning the rights and 
privileges of the various classes of shares outstanding. 
•k 
•k 
i< 
i< 
2a. This amendment is issued pursuant to the authority granted 
to the Board of Governors by sections 25 and 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act (12 U.S.C. 601 and 615) to prescribe regulations governing corporations 
operating or chartered under such sections. The purpose of the amendment 
to permit such corporations, without obtaining the Board's prior 
specific consent, to invest up to $500,000 in not more than 25 per cent 
of the stock of any foreign corporation not doing business in the United 
States. 
b. There was no notice and public participation with respect 
to this amendment, nor is the effective date deferred, because the Board 
found that such actions were not necessary in the public interest. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 7th day of January, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

G-l 
Item No. 5 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
1/7/69 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD- OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265 - RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
1. Effective January 7, 1969, the following new section is added 
after § 265.1: 
§ 265.1a Specific functions delegated to Board members. 
Any Board member designated by the Chairman is authorized under 
sections 25 and 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act and Parts 211 and 213 of 
this chapter (Regulations K and M): 
(1) To approve the establishment of a foreign branch or agency 
by a member bank or corporation organized under section 25(a) (an "Edge" 
corporation) or operating under an agreement with the Board pursuant to 
section 25 (an "Agreement" corporation) which has already established 
branches in more than one foreign country. 
(2) To grant specific consent to stock acquisitions by a member 
bank or an Edge or Agreement corporation (and to approve such acquisitions 
which may exceed the limitations in section 25(a) based on such a corpora-
tion's capital and surplus) not resulting in the acquisition by such bank 
°r corporation of effective control of any foreign company (other than a 
company performing nominee, fiduciary or other banking services incidental 
to the activities of a foreign branch or affiliate of such bank or corporation). 
(3) To permit an Edge or Agreement corporation to exceed the 
limitations in § 211.9(b) and (c) of this chapter (Regulation K) 
1/ Subject, of course, to the limitations in section 25(a) relating to 
a8gregate liabilities outstanding on debentures, bonds, and promissory notes. 

2. Also effective January 7, 1969, the titles of § 265.2 and 
Paragraph (c) thereof are amended to read as shown below, and the follow-
ing subparagraph (11) is added to paragraph (c): 
® 2 6 5• 2 
Specific functions delegated to Board employees and Federal 
Reserve banks 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(c) The Director of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
(°r, in his absence, the Acting Director) is authorized: 
* 
. * 
* 
* 
rt 
(11) Under sections 25 and 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act and 
parts 211 and 213 of this chapter (Regulations K and M), to approve in-
creases and reductions in the capital stock and amendments to the articles 
association of a corporation organized under section 25(a) and additional 
investments by a member bank in the stock of a corporation operating under 
a n agreement with the Board pursuant to section 25. 
3a. The purpose of those amendments is to delegate certain 
functions of the Board relating to the international operations of member 
banks and Edge and Agreement corporations, in order to expedite handling 
of various applications for Board action in this area. 
b. The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States Code, 
Elating to notice and public participation and to deferred effective dates, 
W e re not followed in connection with the adoption of this amendment, because 
th 
e rules contained therein are procedural in nature and accordingly do not 
constitute substantive rules subject to the requirements of such section. 

II 

<)7 
Item No. 6 
1/7/69 
For release th tnornitig papers* 
jdituaty 10, 1969 
Monday, JatiUary 
1969. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today an amendment to Regulation K, effective immediately, granting 
general consent for certain foreign equity investments by so-called 
"Edge" and "Agreement" corporations. Regulation K governs operations 
of "corporations doing foreign banking or other foreign financing under 
the Federal Reserve Act." 
Under the amendment, such corporations will be able in some 
circumstances to invest up to $500,000 in the stock of any foreign com-
pany not doing business in the United States without the specific consent 
of the Board of Governors. Investments under the general consent must 
be limited to no more than 25 per cent of the stock of the foreign com-
pany. 
As provided in section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, in-
vestments must also be limited to 10 per cent of the Edge or Agreement 
corporation's capital and surplus, or 15 per cent if the foreign company 
is a bank. Investments exceeding these limits may be approved by the 
Board upon specific application. 
Edge or Agreement corporations with applications pending which 
®ay be covered by the amendment should notify the Board as soon as 
Possible whether they intend to make such investment under the new 
general consent. 

m 
-2-
A previous general consent was suspended last February 8 in 
connection with the balance of payments program then in effect. Since 
last February, Edge and Agreement corporations have been required to 
obtain specific Board approval for all equity investments. The Board 
said at that time that equity investments in developed countries of 
continental Western Europe would not be approved unless circumstances 
clearly demonstrated the transaction would not be detrimental to the 
United States balance of payments position. The revised credit restraint 
guidelines announced on December 23, 1968, now permit banks to make 
equity investments in continental Western Europe subject to their foreign 
credit ceilings and to Board requirements. 
In another action designed to expedite the handling of cases, 
the Board announced adoption of an amendment to its regulation entitled 
"Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority" to delegate to a Board member 
and the Board's staff authority to approve certain international activ-
ities by Edge and Agreement corporations and member banks. Cases in-
volving foreign investments which don't fall within the general consent 
have been delegated to a Board member. All other delegated authority 
will be exercised by the Board's Division of Supervision and Regulation. 
Copies of the amendments to Regulation K and to the "Rules 
Regarding Delegation of Authority" are attached. 
(,'ov .vor Sh •::;; 
. ' 
-0-
Attachments 
