609 
Minutes for 
April 26, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary-
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

1585 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, April 26, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. 0'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Kiley, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Messrs. Cloth, Forrestal, and Robinson of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Golden, Greenspun, and Lougee of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
1/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

1597 
4/26/67 
-2-
Messrs. Lyon and Poundstone, and Miss Greene 
of the Division of Examinations 
Mr. Veenstra of the Division of Data Processing 
Approved items. The following letters were approved unanimously-
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the members of the Board. Copies are attached under the 
respective item numbers indicated. 
Letter to Marine Midland Grace Trust Company 
of New York, New York, New York, approving the 
establishment of a branch at 437 Madison Avenue, 
Borough of Manhattan. 
Letter to First National City Bank, New York, 
New York, granting permission for the bank to 
acquire the remaining authorized but unissued 
shares of capital stock of The Mercantile Bank 
of Canada, Montreal, Canada. 
Letter to Bank of Boston International, New 
York, New York, approving an amendment to its 
articles of association. 
Letter to the Organization Committee of Peoples 
Bank, Woodbury, Tennessee, approving the appli-
cation made on behalf of the bank for membership 
in the Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to The Commercial Bank & Trust Company of 
Ocala, Ocala, Florida, approving the establish-
ment of an in-town branch (drive-in facility). 
Letter to The First National Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois, consenting to the acquisition 
of substantially all of the capital stock of 
Banque Naayem, SAL., Beirut, Lebanon. 
Letter to the Secretary of the Federal Advisory 
Council transmitting topics suggested for con-
sideration at the forthcoming meeting of the 
Council. 
Item No. 

1597 
4/26/67 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to Chairman Patman of the House Banking 
and Currency Committee reporting on H.R. 232, 
a bill "to eliminate discriminatory exemptions 
in the Bank Holding Company Act." 
8 
Letter to the Bureau of the Budget concerning 
proposals submitted by the Export-Import Bank 
of Washington for State legislation. 
9 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
approving the payment of salary to six newly-
appointed officers at rates fixed by the Bank's 
Board of Directors. 
10 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
11 
interposing no objection to a proposed 5 per 
cent blanket salary increase for all permanent 
employees, other than officers, and approving 
the payment of salaries to 52 employees at 
rates in excess of the maximum of their respec-
tive grades. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
12 
Francisco approving the payment of salary to 
William E. O'Donnell, Jr., as Assistant Cashier 
at the rate fixed by the Bank's Board of Direc-
tors . 
In connection with Item No. 2, it was stated by the staff that 
the proposal of First National City Bank had been cleared with the 
Department of State. 
There had been an exchange of messages between 
the State Department and the American Embassy in Canada, and the 
Department then advised informally that it had no adverse comment con-
cerning the proposal. 
In connection with Item No. 4, Governor Brimmer referred to the 
fact that the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta had prepared a resolution 

1597 
4/26/67 
-4-
for adoption by the board of directors of the newly-organized Peoples 
Bank to the effect that a loan committee comprised of five members of 
the board of directors would exercise several functions to assure close 
supervision of lending operations, particularly in light of the fact 
that the proposed managing officer had not had an impressive record as 
loan officer at another bank. He inquired whether such a procedure on 
the part of a Reserve Bank was not rare and whether the prospects for 
the new bank appeared favorable in the circumstances indicated. 
Mr. Solomon said that the circumstances surrounding the member-
ship application had received careful consideration by a number of the 
officers of the Reserve Bank. 
It was their judgment, all things con-
sidered, that the proposed arrangement represented a reasonable approach, 
and that was also the judgment of the State Superintendent of Banks. 
Governor Robertson indicated that he regarded the arrangement 
as an appropriate precautionary procedure to be followed in the case 
of a new bank when the proposed managing officer had not established 
that he was completely qualified as a lending officer. 
Governor Brimmer then commented that his question went partic-
ularly to the role played by the Reserve Bank in this case, which he 
judged to be an unusual role for a Reserve Bank to play in launching 
what might be a weak institution. 
Mr. Solomon said Messrs. Leavitt and Egertson had advised him 
that the practice here in question was probably followed more frequently 

1 5 9 7 
4/26/67 
-5-
than he had been inclined to think, and Governor Shepardson observed 
that the role of the Reserve Bank appeared to have been one of advis-
ing the organizers of the proposed bank on a precautionary move that 
it appeared appropriate for them to take. Governor Brimmer then indi-
cated that he would not pursue the matter further. 
With reference to Item No. 8, Governor Maisel noted that enact-
ment of H.R. 232 would substitute a one-bank definition of "bank hold-
ing company" for the present two-bank definition, as well as repeal 
the partial exemption of bank holding companies that are labor, agri-
cultural, or horticultural organizations exempt from taxation under 
the Internal Revenue Code. He pointed out that there was in process, 
under his general supervision, a System study of loopholes in the Bank 
Holding Company Act. While the study would not be completed for a 
number of months, it might result in recommendations for changes in 
the Bank Holding Company Act somewhat different from those envisaged 
by H.R. 232. His question, therefore, was whether reference should be 
made to the study in the letter reporting on H.R. 232. 
One reason given in the ensuing discussion against conveying 
the information at this time was that the Board would then be under 
commitment to furnish the results of the study, which of course could 
not be predicted at this time. Another suggestion, by Governor 
Robertson, was to advance the view that it would be appropriate, in 
light of the amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act enacted last 

1597 
4/26/67 
-6-
year, to wait for another year before considering further amendments 
to the Act so as to obtain more experience under the existing law. 
However, question was raised whether such a position was warranted by 
the scope of last year's legislation. 
The result of the discussion 
was a decision to send a letter along the lines of the draft that had 
been submitted for the Board's consideration, indicating that the Board 
continued to believe that the amendments embodied in H.R. 232 were 
sound in principle. 
With respect to Item No. 9, it was noted that the Export-Import 
Bank had recommended to the Bureau of the Budget (1) that the Bank's 
participation certificates be made eligible for investment by State 
and local funds of various types available for investment, and by 
financial institutions, trusts, etc., whose investments are governed 
by the provisions of State law; and (2) that banks or other authorized 
depositories be permitted to pledge as collateral for State and local 
funds the specified percentage of any loan guaranteed or insured by 
the Export-Import Bank. 
Gall report. 
There had been distributed a memorandum from 
Messrs. Veenstra and Partee dated April 20, 1967, advising that an 
interagency staff subcommittee of the Coordinating Committee on Bank 
Regulation had reached agreement on a call report form for the mid-
year call that was uniform in all important respects. The memorandum 
expressed the view that the form was acceptable for the Board's purposes 

1597 
4/26/67 
-7-
and recommended that it be adopted for the use of State member banks 
on the June 1967 call date. State bank supervisors had reviewed the 
form and were agreeable to it, and the Bureau of the Budget was expected 
to concur. 
After discussion, the form proposed for use by State member 
banks at the June 1967 call date was approved unanimously. 
Application of Dominion Bankshares Corporation. There had been 
distributed a memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated 
April 21, 1967, and other pertinent papers with regard to the appli-
cation of Dominion Bankshares Corporation, Roanoke, Virginia, for prior 
approval of action to become a bank holding company through the acqui-
sition of more than 50 per cent of the voting shares of The First 
National Exchange Bank of Virginia, Roanoke, Virginia, and Metropolitan 
National Bank, Richmond, Virginia. 
The recommendations of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
the Division of Examinations, and the Banking Markets Section were all 
favorable. 
The salient facts of the application were reviewed by Mr. Lyon, 
following which there was a discussion of distinctions between this 
case and those involved in the application of Allied Bankshares Corp., 
Norfolk, Virginia, which the Board voted to deny on March 27, 1967. 
The application of Dominion Bankshares Corporation was then 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that an order and state-
ment would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 

1597 
4/26/67 
-8-
Planning and construction of Reserve Bank buildings (Item No. 13). 
There had been distributed a draft of letter to the Federal Reserve 
Banks in which it was pointed out that in the 15 years since adoption 
by the Board of guidelines for the planning and construction of Reserve 
Bank buildings (FRLS #3053) there had been a number of significant 
developments affecting the operations of the Reserve Banks and the need 
for space to accommodate those operations. 
The draft letter outlined 
those developments and noted that the Board had received requests from 
several Reserve Banks for approval of programs that would lead to sub-
stantial additions to existing buildings or to new buildings. 
Some 
Banks also had advised that they were engaging outside consultants to 
review space needs or to locate suitable sites for new buildings. 
The 
letter went on to state that the Board planned to conduct a study with 
respect to matters such as vault planning, the relationships of the 
activities of the Reserve Banks to the areas served, and the prospec-
tive size and scope of the operations over the years ahead. 
It was 
hoped that such a study would result in improved guidelines for plan-
ning new buildings and, in the long run, result in substantial econo-
mies^ 
In the meantime, the Board proposed not to act further on 
proposals from individual Reserve Banks. 
Governor Mitchell said that two members of the Board's Commit-
tee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans had met with the 
staff on the matter and that all three of the Committee members endorsed 

1597 
4/26/67 
-9-
the proposed letter to the Reserve Banks. A number of Reserve Banks 
were known to be ready to request approval for new buildings or for 
expansion, and it seemed advisable first to determine how future space 
needs might be affected generally by changing techniques, for example, 
in the handling of checks, cash, and securities. 
It would appear 
inappropriate for numerous Reserve Banks to retain professional consul-
tants to make studies of impending developments. 
Therefore, the 
approach outlined in the proposed letter seemed desirable. 
The letter to the Reserve Banks was then approved unanimously; 
a copy is attached as Item No. 13. 
Competitive factor reports. Reference was made to a memorandum 
dated May 4, 1966, in which Governor Maisel recommended five ratings 
that the Board might use in reporting to the other Federal banking 
agencies on the competitive effects of proposed mergers. 
The memoran-
dum suggested that the recommended ratings should also be useful in 
considering merger applications pending before the Board. 
The recommended ratings were: 
(1) monopoly, (2) tend to sub-
stantially lessen, (3) materially adverse, (4) some adverse effect, 
and (5) no adverse effect. 
They were designed to describe the "net" 
effect on competition after consideration of all competitive aspects, 
both adverse and favorable. Attached to the memorandum were samples 
of actual competitive factor reports indicating varying degrees of com-
petitive effects. These had been grouped under the several suggested 
classifications. 

11 
4/26/67 
-10-
» 
In another memorandum, dated May 9, 1966, Mr. Shay expressed 
the view that at least one of the suggested ratings (materially 
adverse) might be confusing because "substantially" was sometimes given 
as a synonym for "materially." Mr. Shay felt that in the absence of 
agreement among the Federal banking agencies and the Department of 
Justice on any system of ratings, the Board's competitive factor 
reports should at least carry a legend spelling out the meaning of each 
such rating. He also advanced the thought that there might be need for 
some distinction between effects on existing competition and effects 
on potential competition. 
Chairman Martin pointed out that the incoming member of the 
Board of Governors (Mr. Sherrill) had been serving as a director of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and might have views on this sub-
ject. The Chairman therefore suggested that today's discussion be of 
a preliminary nature. 
Governor Shepards on stated that he was sympathetic in principle 
to the idea of trying to achieve some codification. 
It seemed to him, 
however, that the points raised by Mr. Shay were significant. 
In view 
of the variety of cases with which the Board had to deal, he was not 
sure that it would be feasible always to apply such a simple codifica-
tion as proposed. He felt that it might be worth while for the Board 
to retain some degree of flexibility. 

1597 
4/26/67 
-11-
Governor Mitchell said that he was favorably inclined toward a 
scheme such as suggested by Governor Maisel. He had some suggestions 
with regard to the particular descriptions that might be used, and he 
felt, like Mr. Shay, that it would be desirable to work into the termi-
nology a distinction between the effects of a proposed merger on exist-
ing and on potential competition. 
He was not sure whether as many as 
five classifications were needed. Also, there might be some occasions 
when the Board would not find it easy to fit a case into one of the 
classifications. 
Governor Maisel commented that the establishment of the classi-
fications might sometimes make agreement on competitive factor reports 
more difficult for the Board. Yet he was opposed to transmitting 
reports containing conclusions that might mean something to the reader 
other than what was actually intended. He concurred in the thought 
that some distinction might well be made between actual and potential 
competitive effects. And it was his assumption that there might be 
occasions when the Board would not be able to fit a report into the 
suggested terminology. 
Governor Maisel also indicated that he saw good cause, in view 
of the language of the amended Bank Merger Act, for using the classifi-
cations "monopoly" and "substantially adverse." With respect to the 
other classifications that he had suggested, he had no strong feeling 
as to what particular words might best be used. 

1597 
4/26/67 
-12-
Governor Brimmer commented that during the period since Gover-
nor Maisel's memorandum was written there had been a trend toward the 
fashioning of competitive factor reports along lines such as Governor 
Maisel had suggested. 
Thus, the Board now seemed to be debating con-
firmation of a practice that had gradually been developing. He agreed 
with Governor Maisel on the classifications of "monopoly" and "substan-
tially adverse." In his view, however, the next classification might 
simply be "adverse." 
Governor Robertson said his thinking ran along the same lines 
as that of Governor Brimmer. Governor Maisel's memorandum had been 
valuable in shaping the manner in which the competitive factor reports 
were put together. Governor Robertson did not feel that it would be 
advisable to have hard-and-fast rules; he believed that the Board 
should retain some degree of flexibility. 
In general, however, he 
thought it was valuable to have guidelines, recognizing that there 
might be differences of opinion with respect to the choice of particular 
words. Like Governor Brimmer, he felt that the "materially adverse" 
classification might be changed to "adverse." 
Governor Robertson suggested that the proposed classifications 
now be given further study with a view to achieving an agreement with 
regard to the actual words that should be used and with the thought of 
having them applied by the staff in drafting reports. 

1597 
4/26/67 
-13-
Ghairman Martin expressed the view that progress had been made 
in the preparation of competitive factor reports, as indicated by the 
nature of the comments on Governor Maisel's memorandum on a date several 
months after it was written. Mr. Shay also had made a contribution by 
pointing out that some problems would necessarily remain because of the 
several meanings that could be attributed to certain words. 
The Chairman then suggested that Governor Maisel's memorandum 
be studied further against the background of an understanding that 
today's discussion had not resulted in any firm decisions. 
Governor Robertson suggested, more specifically, that the staff 
be requested to work with Governor Maisel in preparing a new memorandum 
in the light of today's comments, with the thought that such a memoran-
dum might be particularly useful to Governor Daane and the incoming 
member of the Board, Mr. Sherrill, who had not had the benefit of 
participation in today's discussion. 
Governor Brimmer proposed that the new memorandum take into 
account some of the cases that the Board had dealt with during the 
period since Governor Maisel's memorandum was prepared. 
Application of Virgin Islands National Bank (Item No. 14). 
Pursuant to the understanding at the meeting yesterday, there had been 
distributed a draft of letter that might be sent to Virgin Islands 
National Bank, Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, with 
respect to the Board's denial of its request for permission to establish 

1598 
4/26/67 
-14-
a branch in the Hato Rey section of San Juan, Puerto Rico. An alterna-
tive draft of letter prepared by Governor Maisel also had been distrib-
uted. 
Members of the Board indicated that they preferred the draft 
submitted by Governor Maisel. The only question arose with respect to 
the sentence in that draft indicating that if the opposition of the 
Puerto Rican banking authorities should be removed the Board would be 
willing to reconsider the application. Agreement was reached on sub-
stitute language stating that the Board had concluded that the branch 
application should not be granted "under the existing circumstances." 
Governor Mitchell had indicated at yesterday's meeting that his 
tentative vote was to approve the branch application, but that he would 
reserve final decision until he had seen the letter to be sent to Virgin 
Islands National Bank. He now said that he would approve Governor 
Maisel's draft, as amended, which expressed his views adequately. The 
applicant would know that the Board's views with respect to the applica-
tion were influenced substantially by the expressed opposition of the 
Puerto Rican authorities. 
i 
Accordingly, approval was given to the letter to Virgin Islands 
National Bank, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 14, Governor 
Brimmer dissenting. 
(Governor Brimmer had stated at yesterday's meet-
ing that his vote was to approve the branch application.) 

1599 
4/26/67 
-15-
Egg Harbor Bank and Trust Company (Item No. 15). Mr. O'Connell 
related that on the basis of examinations made by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Philadelphia of the Egg Harbor Bank and Trust Company, Egg 
Harbor City, New Jersey, during the period 1964-1966 a report had been 
made by the Reserve Bank to the U.S. Attorney concerning possible vio-
lation of Federal law in connection with moneys received by the presi-
dent of the bank from a company to which loans had been made. 
It was 
understood that the U.S. Attorney would tomorrow present evidence to 
the grand jury. 
In that connection, he had requested access to excerpts 
of correspondence between the Reserve Bank and Egg Harbor Bank and to 
extracts from the examination reports. He had also requested that the 
examiners in charge of the examinations in question be authorized to 
testify before the grand jury. The U.S. Attorney had stated that none 
of the information disclosed in the reports and correspondence would 
be made public or used as evidence in any trial of the matter. 
Mr. O'Connell said he and Mr. Solomon recommended that the 
Philadelphia Reserve Bank be authorized to comply with the U.S. 
Attorney's requests. 
Governor Maisel raised a question about the philosophy involved 
in a case of this kind where evidence obtained through examinations 
suggested possible criminal violations of law and yet the authorization 
to make materials available to the U.S. Attorney contained a stipula-
tion that the information disclosed would not be used as evidence in a 
trial. 

1 6 0 0 
4/26/67 
-16-
Mr. 0'Cormell replied that there was no intent to withhold 
information. 
The examination reports here in question had provided 
the basis for the original report to the U.S. Attorney, but the exami-
nation reports also referred to many unrelated matters. 
The U.S. 
Attorney had voluntarily stated that the information disclosed would 
not be made public nor used as evidence in trial. 
Governor Maisel inquired why it was felt that the information 
from the examination reports should not be used as evidence in trial. 
Mr. O'Connell replied that if the U.S. Attorney found that he 
would need such information for use in trial he would no doubt make 
such a request and the recommendation would be favorable. He went on 
to say that it had been the experience that when a bank examiner was 
called upon to testify on a particular matter an attempt almost invari-
ably was made, in cross-examination, to lead him into other areas of 
the examination report dealing with matters that he should not be 
required to disclose. 
The underlying philosophy was that a bank 
examiner should be protected from testifying on the whole of an exami-
nation report and that his testimony should be restricted to the subject 
at issue. 
Unanimous approval then was given to the transmittal to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia of an authorization to comply with 
the requests of the U.S. Attorney that had been described by Mr. 
O'Connell. A copy of the telegram sent to the Reserve Bank is attached 
as Item No. 15. 

1601 
4/26/67 
-17-
Application of BT New York Corporation. Governor Mitchell 
referred to the discussion at the meeting yesterday with respect to 
possible strengthening of the Board's statement in the matter of the 
application of BT New York Corporation, Suffern, New York, to acquire 
shares of Liberty National Bank and Trust Company, Buffalo. He said 
that he had now talked further with Mr. O'Connell and that the main 
points appeared to be as follows: 
(1) the statement should emphasize 
the degree of concentration in the Buffalo metropolitan area, which was 
very high, with about 95 per cent of the bank deposits held by three 
banks; (2) the statement should confirm that Liberty National was a 
viable institution, one which could continue to grow and expand in the 
Buffalo area and did not need new management for that purpose; and 
(3) there was the question how far to go in pointing out that it might 
be possible for a bank holding company to enter the Buffalo market by 
sponsoring a new bank and then bringing that bank into the holding 
company organization, according to the pattern of several cases that 
the Board had recently approved. 
On the last point, Governor Mitchell said, Mr. O'Connell held 
the view that the inclusion of such language in the statement would 
amount to an invitation and something of an assurance that if a bank 
holding company were to follow that route its action would be approved 
by the Board. Obviously, the Board could not commit itself in advance 
to approve any application. 
However, the record did indicate that the 

1602 
4/26/67 
-18-
Board had repeatedly approved the acquisition by bank holding companies 
of newly-organized banks in somewhat comparable situations, and such a 
procedure seemed to offer the best possibility for alleviating the 
concentration problem in the Buffalo area substantially. 
Governor Mitchell commented that his purpose in raising the 
matter today was to seek views on how far the Board felt that it might 
appropriately go in espousing this technique for adding another major 
competitor in the Buffalo area. 
Governor Robertson suggested that the Board's statement might 
indicate simply that a bank holding company was not precluded by law 
from entering the Buffalo market through the sponsorship and acquisi-
tion of a de novo institution. 
Governor Maisel raised the question whether the Board would 
want to cite instances in which it had approved the acquisition by 
holding companies of de novo institutions or small banks in areas 
where the holding company was not previously represented. 
Governor Brimmer expressed reservations about referring specif-
ically in the statement on a particular case to decisions made in the 
past, and using them as a peg on which to hang a more general state-
ment. 
Governor Shepardson expressed himself in favor of language 
such as suggested by Governor Robertson. 
Mr. O'Gonnell brought out that the statement in this case, as 
drafted, fairly well suggested the routes that might be open to a 

1603 
4/26/67 
-19-
holding company desiring to enter the Buffalo market. The question, 
then, was whether the Board, as a matter of policy, would want to go 
further and make known that it approved, at least in theory, the estab-
lishment of a de novo institution in an area such as Buffalo by an 
institution of such size as BT New York Corporation. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that it might be helpful 
to collect the previous cases, review the record, and then perhaps 
devise a general statement. He observed that as a Board member he had 
not reviewed the previous cases with the explicit objective of focus-
ing on this point of policy. Therefore, it was his suggestion that the 
record be pulled together in a systematic fashion so as to assist the 
Board in discussing the issue. 
Chairman Martin expressed the opinion that the Board should not, 
in issuing a statement on a particular application, argue the whole 
philosophy of establishment of de novo institutions as against the 
acquisition of existing banks. 
Mr. 01Connell commented that the staff, in drafting statements, 
did systematically review the record. However, when it came to compar-
ing individual decisions, the staff was faced with the fact that the 
variety of circumstances peculiar to each case made comparisons 
difficult. 
Governor Brimmer agreed that the Board's statements ordinarily 
should not cite previous cases freely. However, as of today, the Board 

1604 
4/26/67 
-20-
members had not received a systematic presentation of previous cases 
that might bear upon the general policy question under consideration. 
He repeated that he had reservations about extrapolating from particular 
cases. 
Chairman Martin said that in this case he would consider it 
sound to strengthen the statement in terms of the references to the 
degree of concentration in the Buffalo area. However, he believed it 
would be going too far to specify alternative routes through which the 
applicant might proceed. 
In his view, language such as suggested by 
Governor Robertson would be sufficient. 
Governor Maisel remarked that a change several years ago in the 
management of the Liberty Bank at top level appeared to have brought 
about a basic change in management philosophy. He suggested that con-
sideration might be given to whether that circumstance deserved recog-
nition in the Board's statement. 
It was understood that Governor Mitchell would continue his 
discussion of the statement with Mr. O'Connell in the light of the 
comments that had been made. 
Annex building. Governor Shepardson recalled that at the time 
of the Board's most recent meeting with the architects concerning the 
proposed annex to the Federal Reserve Building the Board had advised 
the architects that it intended to have its Consulting Architect, Mr. 
Witherell, review the plans. Mr. Witherell had now made such a review 

1805 
4/26/67 
-21-
and had furnished a report. He had raised in it two or three questions 
that the architects had now answered to his satisfaction. 
In general, 
Mr. Witherell's report on the plans, up to the current stage of develop-
ment, was favorable. 
Governor Shepardson went on to say that, as the Board knew, the 
architects had made a presentation before the Fine Arts Commission on 
Wednesday, April 19, which he and Governor Mitchell also had attended. 
At the previous discussion of the Board with the architects, some of 
the Board members had expressed the view that the Board should consider 
adding another floor to the annex building, partly from the standpoint 
of general appearance and partly out of regard for the potential need 
for space, for example, if the Board should be called upon to administer 
truth-in-lending legislation. 
The question therefore was raised with 
the Fine Arts Commission. While no firm answer was given, there was a 
general indicat ion that the Commission probably would not object. 
The architects, Governor Shepardson continued, were now restudy-
ing the roof design of the building in light of exceptions taken by 
members of the Fine Arts Commission. 
Otherwise, the Commission members 
seemed well pleased with the design and, as he had said, they apparently 
would not be averse to the inclusion of an additional floor. 
A letter had been received from the architects, Governor 
Shepardson said, asking whether or not the Board wanted them to go 
ahead, in connection with the preparation of a new roof design, with 

1606 
4/26/67 
-22-
the development of a plan including an additional floor. His recommenda-
tion was that the architects be so instructed. 
In further discussion it was brought out that the inclusion of 
an additional floor would give the architects more leeway in dropping 
down some of the mechanical equipment that it had been proposed to include 
within the roof structure according to the design that would now have to 
be abandoned. 
On the other hand, if an additional floor was not autho-
rized, the total amount of usable space that had been envisaged in the 
annex building probably would be reduced. 
The Board then authorized Governor Shepardson to advise the 
architects to include in the plans that would be taken back to the Fine 
Arts Commission provision for an additional floor in the annex building. 
Call report. 
Pursuant to established procedures, the close of 
business Tuesday, April 25, 1967, had been selected as the date for the 
first call for reports of condition to be made by insured banks within 
the calendar year 1967. The call was to be announced at 9:00 a.m., 
Friday, April 28. 
The Secretary reported that in accordance with the usual prac-
tice a telegram had been sent this morning to the Federal Reserve Banks 
advising that a call for reports of condition by State member banks as 
of the close of business April 25 should be made at a specified time 
on forms furnished with the Board's letter of March 24, 1967. 
The sending of the telegram was ratified unanimously. 

1 ( > 0 ? 
4/26/67 
-23-
Governor Shepardson withdrew from the meeting at this point, 
along with all of the members of the staff except Mr. Sherman. 
Appointment of Board Consultant. 
The Board appointed Charles N. 
Shepardson as Consultant to the Board, effective upon the completion of 
his service as a Board member on April 30, 1967, and ending December 31, 
1967, with compensation at the rate of $22,000, the approximate net 
between his present salary and his retirement annuity. 
Mr. Shepardson was to perform the following duties, subject to 
the direction of the Board: 
(1) supervise the planning and construction of the proposed 
new annex building; 
(2) participate in the development and promulgation of pro-
posed means for improving the ability of the financial system, includ-
ing the Federal Reserve, to provide appropriate credit assistance to 
agriculture; and 
(3) perform such other duties of a consultative nature as 
might be desired by the Chairman of the Board; or by Vice Chairman 
Robertson (who had been requested to take on the function heretofore 
vested in Governor Shepardson of directing the Board's internal admin-
istrative affairs, including matters pertaining to Board personnel, 
budget, and housekeeping); or by the Board. 
Secretary's Note: The foregoing action 
formalized a general agreement that had 
been reached in executive session on 
April 12, 1967, at which time all of the 
members of the Board except Governor 
Shepardson were present. 

1608 
4/26/67 
- 24-
Th e meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Later in the day the avail-
able members of the Board (Governors Robertson, 
Shepardson, Mitchell, and Maisel) approved the 
sending of a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Dallas approving the payment of salary to 
Forrest E. Coleman as Cashier (El Paso Branch) 
and Thomas H. Robertson as Assistant Cashier 
(El Paso Branch) at rates fixed by the Bank's 
Board of Directors. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 16. 
Pursuant to the authority granted by the Board 
on April 13, 1967, a letter was sent today to 
Peoples Bank of Glen Rock, Glen Rock, Pennsyl-
vania, granting an extension of time for the 
bank to file a registration statement pursuant 
to section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 and Regulation F, Securities of 
Member State Banks, until 60 days after the 
date of the Board's decision on the bank's 
application for exemption from registration. 
Governor Shepardson today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Transfers 
Carroll Hawkins, from the position of Messenger to the position of 
Messenger-Driver, Division of Administrative Services, with no change 
in basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective April 24, 1967. 
Ernest R. Thomas, from the position of Messenger-Driver to the 
position of Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, with no 
change in basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective 
April 24, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Gladys Gentry, Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative Ser-
vices, effective the close of business April 21, 1967. 
Charles M. Wrenn, Programmer, Division of Data Processing, effec-
tive the close of business April 28, 1967. 

1609 
4/26/67 
-25-
Acceptance of resignations 
(continued) 
Peter N. Sapsara, Operations Analyst, Division of Bank Operations, 
effective the close of business May 5, 1967. 
Rowena A. Lipscomb, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business May 31, 1967. 

1 610 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 20551 
Item No. 1 
4/26/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
BOARD 
April 26, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Marine Midland Grace Trust 
Company of New York, 
New York, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Marine Midland Grace 
Trust Company of New York, New York, New York, of a 
branch at 437 Madison Avenue, Borough of Manhattan, New 
York, New York, provided the branch is established within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

ill 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 2 
4/26/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
BOARD 
April 26, 1967. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of April 13, 1967, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M, for First National City Bank, 
New York, New York, to purchase and hold approximately 200,000 
shares of the capital stock of The Mercantile Bank of Canada, 
Montreal, Canada, at a cost of approximately US$2,325,000. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans 
and investments of your bank, First National City Overseas Invest-
ment Corporation and International Banking Corporation, will not 
cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the guide-
lines established under the voluntary foreign credit restraint 
effort now in effect and that due consideration is being given to 
the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1612 
B D A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 20551 
Item No. 3 
4/26/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
BOARD 
April 26, 1967 
Bank of Boston International, 
2 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter dated March 31, 
1967, enclosing a certified copy of a resolution of share-
holders amending Article FIFTH of the Articles of Associa-
tion of your Corporation to designate the number of 
directors as not fewer than five nor more than twenty. 
The Board of Governors approves the amendment 
to Article FIFTH. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

OV Co^' •. 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 20551 
Item No. 4 
4/26/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
BOARD 
April 26, 1967 
Organization Committee, 
Peoples Bank, 
Woodbury, Tennessee. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application made on behalf of Peoples Bank, Woodbury, Tennessee, 
for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, effective if and when 
the bank opens for business under appropriate State authorization, 
subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and, except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the general character of its business or in the scope 
of the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $160,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$240,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership. 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board s Regula-
tion H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in the Federal 
Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 thereof. A copy 
o f the regulation is enclosed. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
1614 
Peoples Bank 
-2-
It is understood that although the bank under its charter would 
be authorized to exercise fiduciary powers, guarantee payment of bonds 
and mortgages owned by others, or guarantee titles to real estate, it 
does not plan to exercise such powers upon admission to membership. Should 
the bank at any future time desire to exercise any powers not exercised at 
the time of admission to membership it will be necessary, under condition 
of membership numbered 1, to. obtain permission of the Board of Governors. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing copies 
of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined whether such 
change affects in any way the bank's status as a member of the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank's charter has been issued and a certified 
copy of such resolution should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the 
required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal 
Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited to 
90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to the 
Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised that 
all of the requirements have been complied with and that the appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, the 
Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Garmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

1615 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 5 
4/26/67 
• F 
T H E 
f^uiEsf: 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
BOARD 
April 26, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Commercial Bank & 
Trust Company of Ocala, 
Ocala, Florida, 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The Commercial 
Bank & Trust Company of Ocala, Ocala, Florida, of a branch 
at the intersection of Osceola and Washington Streets 
Ocala, Florida, provided the branch is established within 
six months from the date of this letter. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1616 
B D A R D 
O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 6 
4/26/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
BOARD 
April 26, 1967. 
The First National Bank of Chicago, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 10, 1967, the 
Board of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M, for The First National 
Bank of Chicago ("FNBC"), Chicago, Illinois, to purchase and hold 
all or substantially all of the capital stock of Banque Naayem, 
SAL., Beirut, Lebanon, at a cost of approximately US$1,037,850, 
provided such shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Banque Naayem by FNBC is granted subject to the applic-
able provisions of Section 25 and Regulation M and the condition 
that FNBC shall not hold any shares of stock in Banque Naayem if 
Banque Naayem at any time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a national bank or to a foreign branch of a national 
bank under the provisions of Regulation M. 
The above consent is granted with the further condition 
that, FNBC shall not carry on its books the shares acquired of 
Banque Naayem at a net amount in excess of its proportionate share 
of the book capital accounts of Banque Naayem, after giving effect 
to the elimination of all known losses. 
Regulation M provides that, when required by the Board 
of Governors, FNBC will furnish the Board with such reports regard-
ing the activities of Banque Naayem as it may require from time to 
time. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
1617 
The First National Bank 
of Chicago 
-2-
loans and investments of The First National Bank of Chicago, will 
not cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the 
guidelines established under the voluntary foreign credit restraint 
effort now in effect and that due consideration is being given to 
the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1618 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 7 
4/26/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
BOARD 
Ml RESf 
April 26, 1967. 
Mr. Herbert V. Prochnow, Secretary, 
Federal Advisory Council, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Herb: 
The Board of Governors suggests the topics 
shown on the attached list for discussion at the meeting 
of the Federal Advisory Council on May 15, 1967, and the 
joint meeting of the Board and the Council on May 16. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman 
Secretary. 
Attachment 

1619 
Suggested Topics for Discussion at Meeting of 
Federal Advisory Council on May 15-16, 1967 
Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the general economic outlook through 
the end of 1967? 
B. To what extent has construction activity recovered in the Council 
members' respective regions, and what are the prospects for con-
struction over the rest of the year? 
C. What impressions do Council members have from their customer 
contacts of the probable volume of new corporate bond issues over 
coming months? 
' Banking developments. 
A. What is tbe Council's assessment of the strength of business loan 
demand currently and over the next few months? 
B. How would Council members appraise recent and prospective changes 
in demand for consumer CD's? In demand for savings deposits? 
In rates paid on time and savings deposits? 
C. Do Council members expect any significant changes in bank lending 
policies in the near future? 
ft. What are the present attitudes of banks with respect to the adequacy 
of their liquidity positions? 
E. What are the present attitudes of banks with respect to the adequacy 
of their capital positions? With respect to the relative usefulness 
of (1) increased capital, and (2) realignment of assets, as means of 
improving capital positions? With respect to the probable market 
reception of flotations of bank capital? 
F. What are the views of banks as to the recent expansions of bank 
credit cards and the methods followed in those expansions? As to 
the probable future of bank credit cards in the financial picture? 
3 
Balance of payments. 
A. Do Council members expect foreign demands for term loans, short-
term loans, and acceptance credits from U.S. banks to change 
significantly in the months ahead? 
B. Would the Council expect U.S. bank indebtedness to the Euro-dollar 
market to increase, decline, or remain about unchanged in the next 
few months? 

1620 
-2-
What are the Council's views on monetary and credit policy under 
current circumstances? 

±621 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 8 
4/26/67 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E OF THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
April 27, 1967 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your letter of February 7, 1967, in 
which you requested a report on H.R. 232, "a bill to eliminate dis-
criminatory exemptions in the Bank Holding Company Act". 
Enactment 
of the bill would (1) substitute a one-bank definition of "bank 
holding company" for the present two-bank definition, and (2) repeal 
the partial exemption of bank holding companies which are labor, 
agricultural, or horticultural organizations which are exempt from 
taxation under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. 
You will recall that the Board of Governors has repeatedly 
recommended and supported legislation to amend the Bank Holding Company 
Act to effect the changes embodied in H.R. 232. Our views in this 
respect were most recently reflected in a letter to your Committee of 
August 15, 1966. The Board continues to believe that the amendments 
embodied in H.R. 232 are sound in principle. Accordingly, the Board 
favors enactment of H.R. 232. 
Sincerely 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson. 

1622 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N • RS 
item No. 9 
•F the 
4/26/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
BOARD 
April 26, 1967. 
Mr. William D. Carey, 
Assistant Director, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Executive Office Building, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Carey: 
This is in response to your letter of 
March 30, 1967, requesting the views of the Board 
concerning the proposals submitted by the Export-
Import Bank of Washington for consideration by the 
Committee of State Officials on Suggested State 
Legislation of the Council of State Governments. 
The Board has no objection to these 
proposals. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary 

1623 
B O A R D 
O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 10 
• F THE 
4/26/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
BOARD 
April 26, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Scanlon: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment of 
salaries to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago listed 
below for the period May 1 through December 31, 1967, at the fol-
lowing rates fixed by your Board of Directors, as reported in your 
letter of April 6, 1967. 
Name 
George G. Kaufman 
Dorothy M. Nichols 
William J. Hocter 
Allen G. Wolkey 
Eugene J. Wagner 
Buddie J. Belford 
Annual 
Title 
Salary 
Senior Economist 
$19,000 
Senior Economist 
17,500 
Administrative Asst. 
15,000 
Assistant Cashier 
14,500 
Assistant Cashier 
14,000 
Assistant Cashier 
12,500 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1624 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 11 
4/26/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
BOARD 
April 26, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Watrous H. Irons, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Dear Mr. Irons: 
Reference is made to your letter of April 6, 
advising that the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas had 
approved an enlarged merit review and 5 per cent blanket 
increase for all permanent employees below the official 
level. In view of the circumstances outlined in your 
letter, the Board will interpose no objection to the pro-
posed blanket increase. 
The Board also approves the payment of salaries 
to 52 employees above the maximum of their respective 
grades, resulting from the blanket increases. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1625 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 12 
4/26/67 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
BOARD 
April 26, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salary to 
Mr. William E. O'Donnell as an Assistant Cashier of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco at the rate of $12,300 per annum for 
the period May 1 through December 31, 1967. This is the rate fixed 
by your Board of Directors as reported in your letter of April 7. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1626 
•oOf Gow* •. 
\f„« 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 20551 
Item No. 13 
4/26/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
BOARD 
April 26, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
In the fifteen years since adoption by the Board of guidelines 
for the planning and construction of Reserve Bank buildings (F.R.L.S. 
#3053), there have been a number of significant developments affecting 
the operations of the Reserve Banks and the need for space to accommodate 
those operations. 
Most of the change has been in the operations of the Check 
Collection, Fiscal Agency, and Currency and Coin functions which together 
aocount for about half of the total number of Reserve Bank employees 
and require, perhaps, half of the space in the Reserve Bank buildings. 
1952 these activities accounted for a greater share of personnel and 
building space, and new construction was then based on the expectation 
that space needs for these activities would continue to grow. 
Check Collection staffs rose from about 5,100 in 1952 to a 
Peak of 6,600 in 1963, dropped to about 4,800 in 1966, and are continuing 
downward. Fiscal Agency staffs have declined from 4,100 in 1952 to 1,900 
in 1966; and the number of Currency and Coin employees has remained 
relatively unchanged. Most of the reductions have been in one way or 
another associated with automation and improved methods of handling. 
The lack of a change in the level of Currency and Coin staffs 
has been due in large measure to less opportunity for adapting to automation. 
However, the need for more vault space for this activity has grown sub-
stantially as a result of the following developments: 

1627 
-2-
(1) Since 1952, the Reserve Banks have been required to 
hold increasing stocks of currency in accordance 
with recommendations of the Committee on Post-Attack 
Functioning and Rehabilitation of Banking Institutions. 
This had the effect of increasing the currency supply 
from about 340,000 packages of 4,000 notes each to 
about 650,000 packages. 
(2) Beginning in 1963, the replacement of silver certificates 
with Federal Reserve notes resulted in nearly doubling 
the space requirement for storing currency, primarily 
because of the assumption by the Reserve Banks of the 
responsibility for maintaining the full goal for $1 notes. 
The present goal of a one year's supply of $1 bills 
(about 285,000 packages) would be increased to a two 
years' supply under a long-range planning recommendation 
of the Subcommittee on Emergency Operations made in its 
May 1965 report. 
(3) Since the beginning of 1966, the large flowback of coin 
from circulation has nearly depleted the space at some 
offices. 
These developments would seem of crucial importance to the 
planning and construction of new buildings. Once the building is con-
structed it is difficult and sometimes impossible to enlarge the vaults, 
and therefore improper vault planning may result in early obsolescence 
of the structure. 
The Board has received requests from several Federal Reserve 
Banks for approval of programs that would lead to substantial additions 
to existing buildings or new buildings at their head offices. The most 
frequently mentioned reasons given for the need for such construction 
are the limitations in the vaults and the security court arrangements. 
Some Banks have also advised that they are engaging outside consultants 
to review space needs and to locate suitable sites for new buildings. 
Before acting further on these proposals the Board plans to 
conduct a study with respect to such matters as vault planning, the 
relationship of the activities of the Reserve Banks to the areas served, 
and the size and scope of operations over the years ahead. The study 
would also consider prospective developments in the use of computer 
installations for centralizing money payments without use of checks, 
currency, and coin. It is felt that a study of this type would result 
in improved guidelines for planning new buildings and in the long run 
result in substantial economies. 

-3-
1628 
In the area of Currency and Coin alone, for example, the Board 
believes that changing conditions would warrant an overall evaluation of 
the following matters before a reasonable judgment on new construction 
can be made. 
(1) The impact on currency staff needs from a redesign of 
currency which would permit electronic sorting and counting. 
(2) The effect on staff and vault storage requirements should 
there be a single issue of Federal Reserve notes. 
(3) The effect on size of the emergency currency reserve 
needed should the Bureau of Engraving and Printing have 
available alternative facilities for the printing of 
currency in a location relatively safe from destruction. 
(4) The extent to which stocks of currency could be placed in 
dense storage in the vaults of the Reserve Banks and not 
used except in an emergency in view of the ability of the 
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, due to the recent con-
version to high-speed rotary presses, to make available 
large supplies of a Reserve Bank's notes on short notice. 
(5) The effect on space needs should regional depositaries 
for storage of supplies of coin in or near the Federal 
Reserve cities be constructed. 
(6) The extent to which efficiency and security in the Currency 
and Coin operation could be improved by designing a separate 
structure for the purpose, with all other Reserve Bank 
operations being conducted in the existing building. 
The Board realizes that a study of this kind may take some time 
and that in the interim the need for more space at some Reserve Banks may 
become even more pressing. However, it is felt that the benefits of 
more complete analysis will outweigh the hardships that might come about 
from some deferment of new construction. 
Very truly yours, 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

1629 
.•^ofcdw:. 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 20551 
Item No. 14 
4/26/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
BOARD 
April 26, 1967. 
Virgin Islands National Bank, 
Charlotte Amalie, 
St. Thomas, Virgin Islands. 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of September 21, 1966, 
requesting permission of the Board of Governors for the Virgin 
Islands National Bank to establish a branch in El Monte Shopping 
Center, Munoz Rivera Avenue, Hato Rey, San Juan, Puerto Rico. 
The Board has carefully reviewed the information sub-
mitted in support of your application. In addition, it has 
received from the Puerto Rican banking authorities strong protests 
against the granting of permission to establish the branch. The 
Board has also examined the adequacy of present banking facilities 
in San Juan and in Puerto Rico and the existing competitive 
situation among the banks. In appraising these factors, the 
Board has given considerable weight to the unfavorable views of 
the Puerto Rican banking authorities. 
After careful consideration, the Board has concluded 
that approval of your request should not be granted under the 
existing circumstances. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1 B 8 0 
T E L E G R A M 
Item No. 15 
L i A i t D w m i H R v i c i 
4/26/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
April 26, 1967. 
PHILADELPHIA--VERGARI 
REURLET APRIL 21, 1967, AND TELPHONE CONVERSATION OF THIS DATE, 
RE GRAND JURY PROCEEDING INVOLVING EGG HARBOR BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, 
BOARD AUTHORIZES U.S.ATTORNEY'S ACCESS FOR PURPOSES OF PRESENTATION 
TO FEDERAL GRAND JURY TO EXTRACTS FROM EXAMINATION REPORTS OF THAT 
BANK AS OF CLOSE OF BUSINESS 6-16-64, 2-2-65, 10-22-65, AND 6-17-66, 
COPIES OF WHICH WERE ENCLOSED IN YOUR APRIL 21, LETTER. BOARD ALSO 
AUTHORIZES SIMILAR ACCESS TO EXCERPTS OF CORRESPONDENCE EXCHANGED 
BETWEEN YOUR BANK AND EGG HARBOR BANK IN THE FORM AND TO THE EXTENT 
OF THE COPIES ENCLOSED IN YOUR LETTER, EXAMINERS IN CHARGE OF 
EXAMINATIONS IN QUESTION ARE AUTHORIZED TO TESTIFY BEFORE GRAND JURY 
IN RESPONSE TO U.S. ATTORNEY'S REQUEST. FOREGOING AUTHORIZATION 
GRANTED WITH UNDERSTANDING THAT THE.INFORMATION DISCLOSED WILL NOT 
BE MADE PUBLIC NOR USED AS EVIDENCE IN ANY TRIAL BY U.S. GOVERNMENT. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
SHERMAN 

1631 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 16 
4/26/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
BOARD 
April 26, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Watrous H. Irons, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 75222 
Dear Mr. Irons: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment of 
salaries to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas listed 
below for the period May 1 through December 31, 1967, at the fol-
lowing rates fixed by your Board of Directors, as reported in your 
letter of April 14, 1967. 
Name 
Title 
Annual 
Salary 
Forrest E. Coleman 
Cashier 
Thomas H. Robertson 
Assistant Cashier 
$13,000 
11,000 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
