Minutes for 
July 29, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy, of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

^
O 
T\J 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, July 29, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
'Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Plotkin, and Sanders and Mrs. 
Heller, Senior Attorneys, and Mr. Heyde, 
Attorney, Legal Division 
Messrs. Lougee and Wiles, Economists, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant to the Director, Division 
of International Finance 
Messrs. Goodfellow and Sanford, Review Examiners, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Application of Continental International (Item No. 1). Unani-
mous approval was given to a letter to Continental International Finance 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, granting consent to its acquisition of 
all the shares of Societe Anonyme Financiere d'Administration et de 

T B 
7/29/68 
-2-
Gestion, Brussels, Belgium. A copy of the letter is attached as item 
No. 1. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
of The Merchants National Bank of Shenandoah, Shenandoah, Pennsylvania, 
into Pennsylvania National Bank and Trust Company, Pottsville, Pennsyl-
vania, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. 
The 
conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Pennsylvania 
National Bank and Trust Company, Pottsville, Pennsylvania, 
and The Merchants .National Bank of Shenandoah, Shenandoah, 
Pennsylvania, would eliminate both present and potential 
competition, particularly the competition between the latter 
bank and the three branches of the Pottsville Bank situated 
on three sides of Shenandoah at distances ranging from 5 to 
7 miles. 
It is concluded that the overall effect on compe-
tition would be adverse. 
Operations subsidiaries. There had been distributed a draft 
of letter to the Chairmen of the Senate and House Banking and Currency 
Committees (revised to take account of suggestions made at the Board 
meeting on July 17, 1968) that would indicate that the Board proposed 
to submit for consideration a legislative proposal on the subject of 
permitting member banks to conduct activities through subsidiary cor-
porations. The letter would also state that in the meantime the Board 
considered an interpretation warranted, as far as Federal law was con-
cerned, that would permit State member banks to own operations subsid-
iaries and also permit subsidiaries to engage in mortgage lending at 

<r> * ') v-n—^ 
/ C G • / 
7/29/68 
-3-
places authorized by the Board. A draft of such an interpretation was 
attached. 
There had also been distributed memoranda from Mr. Hackley 
dated July 24 and from Governor Robertson dated July 25, 1968. 
Mr. 
Hackley discussed the implications of a reinterpretation and suggested 
that if the Board did reverse its 1966 ruling it would be preferable 
to do so solely on the merits without expressly stating that the pur-
pose of the action would be to promote competitive equality. 
However, 
in his opinion the better course would be for the Board to seek legis-
lation specifically authorizing operations subsidiaries for member banks 
despite the fact that such legislation might not be enacted in the near 
future. 
Governor Robertson also urged that the Board seek relief through 
legislative action rather than reinterpret the statutes. He reviewed 
the pertinent legislative history, examined the Comptroller of the Cur-
rency's position in the light thereof, and cited reasons why the Board 
should not now change its position. 
At the beginning of today's discussion Chairman Martin commented 
that the memoranda from Governor Robertson and Mr. Hackley pointed up 
the problem well. 
It seemed to him that a matter of judgment was 
involved and five members of the Board had expressed themselves at the 
July 17 meeting as tentatively favoring a reversal of the 1966 inter-
pretation. He had prepared a draft statement, which he would now put 

7/29/68 
-4-
on the table for discussion, that would constitute a reinterpretation 
purely on the merits, without extraneous comments. 
Governor Maisel said that he had prepared a similar statement, 
and copies of both drafts were then handed to the members of the Board. 
Governor Maisel added that while he was willing to proceed on the mat-
ter of operations subsidiaries, he hoped the question of one-bank 
holding companies would not be put aside indefinitely. 
Chairman Martin stated his understanding that the Board members 
were in agreement that legislation on one-bank holding companies should 
be sought. However, he thought it would be a mistake to become involved 
in a major confrontation with the Comptroller if that could be avoided, 
and he then asked Governor Sherrill, who had had occasion to talk with 
the Comptroller recently, whether their conversation had been helpful 
in throwing any light on the situation. 
Governor Sherrill replied that the Comptroller believed his 
course of action was correct but apparently was hopeful of avoiding an 
open conflict and would like to communicate with Chairman Martin. 
The 
Comptroller's staff was in the process of conducting a study of one-
bank holding companies, and upon completion of the study the Comptrol-
ler would be in touch with the Chairman to see whether there was a 
common ground. 
In response to a question from Governor Brimmer, Gov-
ernor Sherrill said he understood the Comptroller's study was nearing 
completion. 

7/29/68 
-5-
Governor Robertson stated that although he would not urge 
action until the Comptroller had completed his study, he did believe 
that a time limit should be set beyond which the Board should not be 
prepared to wait longer. 
The more one-bank holding companies that 
were established, the greater would be the problem of divestiture and 
the more difficult it would be to cope with the situation. 
Whatever 
the conclusions were, they should be reached quickly and announced pub-
licly so that banks would be on notice. 
Institutions that expected 
legislation to be forthcoming would attempt to form holding companies 
prior to its enactment, with the hope that it would not be retroactive. 
Governor Brimmer agreed with the thought that some value should 
be attached to avoiding conflict with the Comptroller. 
However, the 
Comptroller had announced that he saw no reason to restrict one-bank 
holding company arrangements, so it was difficult to perceive what 
would come out of the current study that would lead the Comptroller to 
adopt a different position. 
Therefore, he felt it was desirable that 
the Board make its views known as soon as possible in a public state-
ment or a letter to Congress. 
Governor Daane commented that the question seemed to come down 
to how long the Board should be prepared to wait. 
If there was even 
an outside chance of being able to reach some compromise with the Comp-
troller, it would seem advisable to wait a reasonable time. 
Chairman Martin then stated that upon further consideration he 
had had second thoughts on the matter of timing. 
He had not changed 

2880 
7/29/68 
-6-
his views with respect to one-bank holding companies, but he now felt 
that it was highly important for the Board to have more support for 
its position than it appeared to have at this time. Recently he had 
discussed the subject with several members of the Congress and had con-
cluded that a request for legislation now would not be productive. 
On 
the other hand, he believed it would be possible to mobilize support, 
and he thought that it was vital to do so before proposing legislation. 
He suggested that the next step should be for him to meet with the 
Comptroller for a discussion of the broad elements of the problem. 
Governor Daane said he would accept the Chairman's suggestion, 
with the clear understanding that on the question of substance the 
Board members all felt that developments were leading to a dangerous 
situation. 
Governor Sherrill remarked that the issue of one-bank holding 
companies was not new to the Congress, that the Congress had not been 
receptive to the Board's recommendations in the past, and that the 
chances of obtaining legislation would be much improved if the Board 
had the support of the Comptroller as well as of others. 
Governor Mitchell observed that in fact a new situation did 
exist in the sense that in the past the Board's representations to the 
Congress on one-bank holding companies had been in terms that such 
arrangements provided a device for evading prohibitions against chain 
banking, in effect, whereas the threat at present was that all sorts 

2881 
7/29/68 
-7-
of activities could be brought together by a company owning a large 
bank. 
Further, the trend was now beginning to snowball. 
Chairman Martin emphasized that he considered it important that 
the Board not go off on its own. 
It should try to get some support. 
The problem went beyond just the possibility of conflict between the 
Board and the Comptroller, and it was important to get some dialogue 
going to establish support. 
If the Board simply wrote letters to the 
Congress saying that it intended to propose legislation, that might 
only create additional activity toward the organization of one-bank 
holding companies b y parties who thus far had not been considering the 
matter seriously. 
Governor Maisel agreed, but urged that the staff keep in close 
touch with day-to-day developments. 
The length of time it was appro-
priate to delay would depend on what happened during the period. 
Once 
a
dditions to the ranks of one-bank holding companies began to accelerate, 
the Board's position would become more difficult. 
Governor Brimmer inquired how in the meantime one would answer 
questions as to the attitude of the Board with respect to one-bank 
holding companies. 
He had thus far commented only to the effect that 
the Board was watching developments and undoubtedly would make its 
views public at some point. 
Chairman Martin said he had replied to such questions by indi-
cating that he had been consistently opposed to the one-bank holding 

7/29/68 
-8-
company if its purpose was to enable banks to get into nonbanking 
business. 
The whole battle over the Transamerica case related to 
that principle, and he did not think the world had changed enough to 
warrant such involvement by banks. 
Chairman Martin went on to say that, on the other hand, he had 
crossed the bridge with respect to operations subsidiaries. 
He now 
thought the Board had made the wrong decision originally. 
The need 
for a reinterpretation was not a matter of expediency; it was a matter 
of judgment. 
He would like to see the Board adopt a statement along 
the lines of the drafts distributed today. 
Discussion then turned to the scope of the proposed interpre-
tation. 
In response to questions, Chairman Martin made clear that 
the basic intent of his draft was to permit banks to conduct through 
wholly-owned operations subsidiaries those functions that the banks 
were empowered to perform directly. 
Governor Mitchell observed that 
the interpretation, as drafted, apparently would not permit the opera-
tion of loan production offices, and he expressed the view that it 
would not receive much support unless that point was covered. 
Governor Sherrill said that, as he understood it, the Comp-
troller held that a so-called loan production office was not a branch 
because it did not receive deposits or close or disburse loans. 
These 
activities had to be carried on at the head office or an authorized 
branch. 
That might represent a common ground on which the Board and 
the Comptroller could meet. 

1/29/6Z 
-9-
Mr. Hexter expressed his belief that the factual situation was 
somewhat different from the foregoing description. According to his 
understanding the Comptroller had been permitting loans to be made at 
the offices of mortgage company subsidiaries of national banks, and he 
doubted that the Comptroller was prepared to instruct banks to rearrange 
the operations of such subsidiaries so that the loans actually would be 
made by the banks themselves. 
After discussion based on Mr. Hexter's comments, Governor 
Robertson noted that it was not clear in either of the draft interpre-
tations that had been distributed whether the new interpretation would 
apply only to operations subsidiaries whose stock was wholly owned by 
a member bank. 
There was general agreement that this was the intent 
a
n d that it should be made clear. 
Mr. Molony presented the possibility of obtaining a legal 
opinion from the Attorney General, and Mr. Hexter noted that the Trea-
sury had the option of requesting such an opinion, whereas the Board 
did not. 
Governor Maisel then suggested that the Board proceed to deter-
mine how far it would be willing to go as a minimum. He believed a 
m a
j o r i t y of the Board had agreed to a minimum position on operations 
subsidiaries, and he suggested that if such a position were adopted 
the question of loan production offices could be handled separately. 
In terms of operations subsidiaries, a minimum position was expressed 

2 8 8 4 
7/29/68 
-10-
in both of the drafts now before the Board, and he would be willing to 
accept either formulation, according to the wishes of the other Board 
members. 
Governor Mitchell again expressed the view that it was important 
to deal at the same time with the problem of loan production offices, 
and Governor Maisel said that, while he considered the questions sep-
arable, he would personally be agreeable to issuing an interpretation 
covering both points. 
Chairman Martin commented that he saw more of a legal question 
in regard to the loan production offices than he did with respect to 
the operations subsidiaries. 
Governors Mitchell and Daane then suggested that the interpre-
tation, insofar as it dealt with loan production offices, include 
criteria of the kind previously described by Governor Sherrill. 
Gov-
ernor Sherrill said that he also could go along with an interpretation 
under which the activities of loan production offices would be limited, 
specifically by providing that deposits could not be received or loans 
closed or disbursed at such offices. 
The Chairman then turned to M r . Hexter, who pointed out that 
when the Congress defined a branch as a place where deposits were 
received or checks paid or money lent, it apparently had in mind con-
trolling the places where banks could maintain operations offices and 
engage in basic banking functions. 
If personnel were stationed at 

• ^' I 
/O 
7/29/68 
-11-
lending offices far removed from a bank's basic banking area--in other 
States for example--the result that the Congress presumably had had 
in mind could be overcome through certain formalities. 
If the Board 
was prepared to go that far, it seemed to him that it would be more 
straightforward to go all the way and permit full operations. 
Governor Sherrill observed that bank officers typically trav-
eled to other locations and actually produced loans, and Mr. Hexter 
agreed that no serious question had been raised about officers of banks 
traveling, making contacts, and negotiating loans. Somewhere, however, 
a line must be drawn if the apparent intent of the Congress was to be 
carried out. He added that it was his understanding that national 
banks in certain southern States owned mortgage companies that had 
permanent offices in other States at which the function of lending 
money was actually performed. 
Governor Maisel suggested that, while one might debate the 
facts, the more important matter was to issue an interpretation con-
taining criteria that the Board deemed appropriate, while Mr. Hexter 
noted that a related question was whether such criteria would permit 
^tate member banks to compete with national banks and therefore be 
satisfactory to the State banks. 
Governor Mitchell observed that the attempt to preserve single-
office locations in unit-bank States was tending to fly more and more 
in the face of the facts. 
It was becoming unrealistic to say that the 
F-I 
» 

£88S 
7/29/68 
-12-
functions that banks performed for themselves and their customers 
could not be dispersed. Mr. Hexter stated that he agreed on policy 
grounds. However, the Congress had passed a law, and he felt that 
policy should be changed only by a change in the law. 
Chairman Martin inquired further of Governor Sherrill as to 
the latter
f
s understanding of the Comptroller's position, and Governor 
Sherrill replied that he understood the Comptroller had in mind, in 
speaking of a loan production office, one where loans could be com-
mitted but not closed or disbursed. He added that bank officers were 
doing that very thing now, and apparently there had been no serious 
attempt to stop the practice over the years. In other words, lending 
out-of-territory seemed to be an acceptable practice, and that was the 
basic issue. 
In reply to another question from the Chairman, Governor 
Sherrill said he would be willing to accept the Comptroller's state-
ment of interpretation since it seemed logical. There might, of 
course, be some questions when it came to the application of the ruling 
to factual situations. Governors Daane and Maisel expressed their agree-
ment . 
Chairman Martin then repeated that, while he was clear in his 
mind as to the appropriateness of the proposed interpretation with 
respect to operations subsidiaries, he continued to have some doubt 
about the interpretation on loan production offices, and Governor 
Sherrill said that he would be willing to proceed on the first one 

2887 
7/29/68 
-13-
while holding up the second one pending discussion between the Chairman 
and the Comptroller. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the Board act, at 
least tentatively, and draft an interpretation the issuance of which 
could be held up until after the Chairman had talked with the Comp-
troller. Governor Daane said he would be willing to proceed in that 
manner, leaving it to the Chairman to discuss the subject with the 
Comptroller and review the Comptroller's criteria more closely. 
Gov-
ernor Sherrill observed that it would be helpful if this point were 
not closed off until after discussion with the Comptroller to deter-
mine whether there was a chance of finding a common ground. 
Chairman Martin then commented that perhaps this was as far as 
the Board could go today. He pointed out that the question of one-
bank holding companies still had to be faced, even though the issuance 
°f an interpretation on operations subsidiaries might relieve some of 
the pressure, and that all members of the Board should review the ques-
tion carefully prior to the meeting scheduled on Tuesday, August 13, 
with representatives of the National Association of Supervisors of 
State Banks. 
Governor Maisel suggested that in the meantime revised drafts 
°f interpretations on both operations subsidiaries and loan production 
offices should be made available to the Board members for study, follow-
ing which Chairman Martin asked for a tentative vote on a reinterpreta-
tion pertaining to operations subsidiaries along the lines of the drafts 

7/29/68 
-14-
that had been distributed. 
Five of the members of the Board indicated 
that they would be favorable to such an interpretation, while Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer indicated that they would not. 
On the question of loan production offices, Chairman Martin 
noted that it appeared that four members of the Board would favor an 
interpretation along the lines that had been discussed today. 
He 
added, however, that he would want to withhold for the time being his 
own vote on that question. 
Governor Brimmer inquired as to the basis for reinterpretation, 
and Chairman Martin expressed the view that, generally speaking, the 
interpretation regarding operations subsidiaries should be premised on 
a
 finding that the use of such subsidiaries was not clearly prohibited 
by law and would be in the public interest. 
Governor Mitchell obtained confirmation that the Board had not 
today made any decision with regard to investments in the stock of 
community development corporations, and Governor Robertson commented 
that legislation on that subject was pending in the Congress. 
He sug-
gested that efforts be made informally to assure that a specific pro-
vision authorizing banks to participate in such corporations was 
included in the legislation. 
Chairman Martin emphasized the longer-run importance of the 
matters under consideration today, following which Governor Brimmer 
commented that M r . Hackley's memorandum provided an excellent exposition 

a ^ O H J 
7/29/68 
-15-
of his (Governor Brimmer's) views. He regretted that the Board was in 
a position where it might appear to be acting in response to pressure, 
for he believed that the Board's image would be damaged. 
Chairman 
Martin responded that there were always pressures confronting those 
required to make policy decisions, for example, in the open market 
area. 
in his judgment, no undue pressures had been brought to bear in 
this situation. The important factor was that conditions in the bank-
ing and business communities were continually changing. 
Governor Brimmer made clear that he felt that a change in 
policy was desirable. However, he believed the appropriate procedure 
i- • • 
was to go to the Congress to obtain a change in the law, even though 
some time might be required to obtain legislation. He had no disagree-
ment on the substantive issues and felt that the outcome being sought 
was appropriate and desirable. However, he felt that the Board might 
open itself up to the kinds of criticism discussed in Mr. Hackley's 
memorandum. 
Governor Daane noted that his position had changed in light of 
changing environment of banking and business, and Governor Sherrill 
observed that a change of position in the face of pressures, even though 
sound, was often a difficult move to make. 
The discussion concluded with an understanding that the vote 
taken today was of a tentative character, that the Chairman would enter 
i n t 0
 discussion with the Comptroller, that the Board would await the 

2830 
7/29/68 
-16-
meeting with the representatives of the State bank supervisors on 
August 13, and that the Board would then finalize its position, at 
which time there would be no objection if members of the Board who dis-
agreed with whatever interpretations were issued made that fact known 
publicly. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
Governor Sherrill 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
July 24, 1968, recommending that Professor Franco Modigliani's appoint-
ment as a consultant be renewed until December 31, 1968, for the pur-
pose of completing a paper on the use of the discount rate to ration 
credit, with compensation at the rate of $95 per day for each day 
worked for the Board, either in Washington, D. C., or outside the 
city, it being understood that transportation expenses and per diem 
would be paid in accordance with the Board's travel regulations for 
any necessary trips from Cambridge, Massachusetts, to Washington. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Janice L. Wickstead as Economist, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $8,744, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty, it being understood that the Board would 
Pay her transportation costs to Washington, D. C., from Long Valley, 
New Jersey. 
Salary increases 
James T. Jones, ITEK-Multilith Operator, Division of Administra-
tive Services, from $5,512 to $5,762 per annum, effective July 29, 
1968. 
) 
Geraldine M. Venable, Supervisor, Cafeteria, Division of Adminis-
trative Services, from $5,828 to $6,171 per annum, effective July 28, 
1968. 

.It 
7/29/68 
-17-
Transfer 
Bruce D. Shuter, from the position of Attorney in the Legal Divi-
sion to the position of Special Counsel in the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation, with an increase in basic annual salary from $12,986 
to $14,409, effective July 29, 1968. 
Reemployment following maternity leave 
Mary Sumler, Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,149, effective July 29, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Joel Sarfati, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
effective the close of business August 2, 1968. 
Governor Sherrill today noted on behalf 
of" the Board a memorandum advising of 
the death of Orville K. Thompson, Chief 
of the Consumer Credit and Finances Sec-
tion, Division of Research and Statistics, 
on July 23, 1968. 
On July 29, 1968, action was taken on 
behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the follow-
ing letter, a copy of which is attached 
as indicated: 
By the Acting Director of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
approving the appointment of Suzanne Wilkes 
Nagel as assistant examiner. 
2 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
• F T H E 
7/29/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P Q N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
^riisf: 
July 29, 1968 
Continental International 
Finance Corporation, 
231 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of June 21, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("CIFC") to purchase and hold all of the shares of 
Societe Anonyme Financiere d'Administration et de Gestion ("SAFAG"), 
Brussels, Belgium, at a cost of approximately US$160,000, provided 
the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of SAFAG by CIFC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(1) 
That CIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in SAFAG if SAFAG at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if SAFAG establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Belgium or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to CIFC; 
(2) 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, CIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of SAFAG as it may require from time 
to time; 
(3) 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by SAFAG, 
for its own account or the account of Banque Europeenne 
d'Outre-Mer, be reported under Section 211.8(c) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if SAFAG were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act; and 

Continental International 
Finance Corporation 
- 2 -
(4) That CIFC shall not carry on its books the shares of 
SAFAG at a net amount in excess of the book capital 
accounts of SAFAG, after giving effect to the elimina-
tion of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by SAFAG in Belgium in 
the currency of that country, and so far as they relate to the ac-
quisition and holding of shares by SAFAG acting solely in a capacity 
equivalent to that of trustee or nominee for the account of customers 
of SAFAG or customers of Banque Europeenne d'Outre-Mer. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, Continental Bank International, and Continental 
Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No 
• F THE 
7/29/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
2 £ 3 < : l 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 30, 1968 
Mr. R. M . Stephenson, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia 
30303 
Dear Mr. Stephenson: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
Mr. Heck's letter of July 24, 1968, the Acting Director 
of the Division of Supervision and Regulation, on behalf 
of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, ap-
proves the appointment of Miss Suzanne Wilkes Nagel as 
an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta. Please advise if the appointment is not made 
effective on August 5, 1968, as planned. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
