Minutes for February 15, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Governor Sherrill 

608 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, February 15, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mes 
Mrs 
Mis 
Mes 
Mes 
Mes 
Mis 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Holland, Secretary 
Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Kakalec, Controller 
O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
srs. Dahl and Egertson, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Examinations 
. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
s McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
srs. Doyle and Via of the Legal Division 
srs. Shull, Cleaver, King, Lawrence, and 
Wendel of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
srs. Grimwood and Maroni of the Division of 
International Finance 
s McShane and Messrs. Achor, Harris, Maguire, 
Pounds tone, and Sanford of the Division of 
Examinations 
Millea, Assistant to the Controller 
Jamison, Assistant Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco 

2/15/68 
-2-
Application of Marine Midland International. 
There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated February 9, 1968, from the Division of 
Examinations regarding an application by Marine Midland International 
Corporation, New York, New York, for permission to purchase up to 
29 per cent of the capital stock of Carte d'Or, Paris, France. 
Question was raised whether the application was not one that 
would fall within the Board's new restrictive policy regarding foreign 
equity investments by banks and their subsidiaries, as adopted Febru-
ary 7, 1968, and Governor Brimmer said he had some reservations about 
the application even under the criteria previously followed. 
He could 
see no real advantages to the U.S. in permitting Marine Midland to 
help foster a credit card system in France; he doubted the argument 
of the applicant that the venture would increase the purchase in France 
of goods manufactured in the U.S. If that was the strongest case the 
applicant could make, he would be reluctant to approve the proposal. 
Governor Daane observed that in one sense it might be con-
sidered that credit card systems were analogous to finance companies, 
in which a number of investments had been approved. However, he agreed 
that the current proposal seemed to offer no advantage to the U.S. 
balance of payments and that denial would seem justified even under 
the more lenient rules the Board had followed until recently. 
Mr. Shay commented that in the past little question had been 
raised about acquisitions that represented less than majority control, 

633 
2/15/68 
-3-
that is, where an Edge corporation through a subsidiary was not 
actually engaged in an enterprise but was merely making an investment. 
General statements had frequently been made by applicants that such 
investments would contribute to the development of U.S. foreign com-
merce or might encourage the sale of U.S. goods, but there was virtu-
ally no way to prove or disprove the validity of such statements. 
Governor Robertson stated that he would be disposed to dis-
approve the present application in the current circumstances. 
It 
involved an investment in France, and the principal thrust of the new 
restrictions in the balance of payments program was toward the devel-
oped countries of continental Western Europe. He could see nothing 
in favor of the application in terms of benefit to the U.S. 
Moreover, 
the application had been received only a few days before the strength-
ened balance of payments program was announced on January 1. 
In response to a question by Governor Sherrill, Governor 
Robertson verified that his adverse position on the present case did 
n°t imply a negative attitude toward all proposals for investment in 
credit card or instalment loan organizations. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the former rule should 
apply on the ground that this application had been pending before the 
new policy regarding foreign equity investments was adopted by the 
Board. He did not understand that the new policy had been intended 
to apply retroactively. 
Further, he believed that in considering the 

(Z'l 1 
o.tJL 
2/15/68 
-4-
present proposal it should be assumed that in order to meet the require-
ments of the new balance of payments program Marine Midland would reduce 
other credits to continental Western Europe to make room for the credit 
contemplated by this application. 
Governor Brimmer agreed with Governor Robertson's view that an 
adverse position regarding the present application did not mean that 
all similar proposals should be denied. The similarity to sales finance 
companies had been pointed out, and some sales finance companies did 
finance U.S. exports in a substantial way. It was his assumption that 
some proposals of this type might warrant approval. 
As the discussion continued several members of the Board again 
raised the question whether the present application should be considered 
as having been "in the pipeline" when the stricter policy was adopted. 
Mr. Dahl said it was his understanding that not only was the date of 
receipt of the application a test, but that the Board would also have 
regard for bona fide commitments made by an applicant. 
Chairman Martin then noted that the proposed investment was a 
modest one. He leaned toward the view that if a stricter policy was to 
prevail this was not a particularly good case for its first application. 
Governor Brimmer noted that while the initial investment was 
niodest and it was expected that the venture would operate at a loss 
initially, there was potential for a considerable amount of business. 
There was no guarantee that additional investments would not be 

2/15/68 
-5-
necessary at some stage. His personal feeling was that the adverse 
considerations were strong enough to warrant denial. 
Chairman Martin remarked that some weight might be given to 
the fact that the negotiations leading up to the application had been 
conducted in a different climate, before the announcement of the 
President's strengthened balance of payments program. Marine Midland 
might have entered into some understandings from which it would be 
embarrassing to withdraw. 
Governor Daane noted that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
had recommended approval of the proposed investment under the guide-
lines in existence prior to January 1, and that it continued to have 
no objection provided the investment could be made within the terms of 
the revised guidelines. 
He did not see how the proposal could be con-
sidered consistent with the new program. He had sympathy for Marine 
Midland's practical problem, but doubted whether such consequences 
could be avoided if the new program was to be carried out effectively. 
If exceptions were made because of prior negotiations by an applicant, 
the program would falter. 
It seemed clear to him that the proposal 
would not benefit the U.S. balance of payments, and he believed Marine 
Midland, 
if so informed, should readily see the justification for the 
Board's concern. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether, if it appeared that the 
Board was disposed to deny the application, the applicant might be 

2/15/68 
-6-
given an opportunity to withdraw the application rather than have the 
fact of denial made available to the public, as apparently would be 
necessary under the Public Information Act. 
Governor Robertson then suggested that before the Board acted 
the staff get in touch with Marine Midland to determine the extent of 
negotiations and commitments that might cause difficulties if the pro-
posed transaction could not be carried out. 
The staff could let Marine 
Midland know in such conversations that the Board felt it must take a 
strict view with respect to investments in continental Western Europe. 
Further discussion resulted in general agreement with the 
procedure suggested by Governor Robertson. 
Application of United California Bank International. 
There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated February 9, 1968, from the 
Division of Examinations regarding the application of United California 
Bank International, New York, New York, for permission to amend its 
articles of association to increase its capital stock by $1 million 
and to purchase up to 50 per cent of the capital stock of Financiera 
California, S.A., Madrid, Spain. 
Governor Maisel noted that this application presented about 
the same questions as the Marine Midland application that the Board 
had just discussed, although this proposed investment was larger. 
It 
served to point up his earlier question regarding the extent to which 
the Board's new rules should be applied to applications that had been 
submitted before the first of this year. 

2/15/68 
-7-
Governor Robertson said he would approve this application. 
Although Spain was in continental Western Europe, it was not in the 
same category as the developed countries of that area. Moreover, the 
negotiations leading up to this application apparently had commenced 
as long as two years ago. 
Governor Daane commented that, while he had no strong feelings 
about the application, he was inclined toward denial. At least, he 
did not believe the application should be approved unless the State 
Department so recommended, and consultation with the Treasury Depart-
ment also might be advisable. 
Governor Brimmer inquired what reason the staff could offer 
for viewing this proposal as consistent with the balance of payments 
program. 
Mr. Dahl brought out, among other things, that Spain did not 
permit foreign banks to establish branches or permit foreigners to hold 
more than 50 per cent of the capital of Spanish financial institutions. 
Therefore, U.S. banks seeking to establish a banking organization 
abroad and gain a foothold in potential markets had been compelled, 
in the case of Spain, to establish relationships in the form of minor-
ity interests in industrial banks and institutions of the financial 
intermediary type. These affiliations, entered into in lieu of the 
establishment of U.S. banking offices, enabled the banks to serve U.S. 
and foreign customers in Spain. 

•u-
2/15/68 
-8-
Governor Brimmer then expressed the view that if such an 
arrangement provided the only avenue through which U.S. banks could 
operate in Spain, the application took on a somewhat different aspect. 
Accordingly, it was understood that the matter would be brought 
back to the Board for further consideration after the staff had con-
sulted with the State and Treasury Departments. 
Multiple ownership of Edge corporations (Items 1-3). On 
December 4, 1967, the Board discussed the application of The Fidelity 
Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina; and Zilkha & Sons, Inc., New York, New 
York, for permission to organize an Edge corporation to be known as 
American International Bank, New York, New York. Action was deferred 
pending an exchange of correspondence with the Department of Justice 
regarding possible antitrust implications of such a proposal. 
(The 
Department was asked to comment also on an application by a group of 
banks headed by American Fletcher National Bank and Trust Company, 
Indianapolis, Indiana, to form an Edge corporation to be called 
American Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York.) 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated February 9, 
1968, from the Division of Examinations quoting the substantive para-
graphs of the January 16, 1968, reply of the Department of Justice, 
which read as follows: 

2/15/68 
-9-
The only significant antitrust issue which we see 
in the formation of jointly-owned Edge Act corporations 
is that such joint ventures might in some circumstances 
unduly limit the number of competitors engaged in inter-
national banking and financial operations. 
This might 
occur if the number of banks participating in such a 
joint venture was unduly large or if it included banks 
already having competing Edge Act subsidiaries or other 
international banking operations. While we might ques-
tion whether the proposed "American Overseas Banking 
Corporation" in fact needs the number of banks present-
ly proposed as shareholders in order to conduct effec-
tive international banking operations, we are not in a 
position to resolve this question or to conclude that 
the participation of this number of banks in a single 
Edge Act corporation is likely to unreasonably limit 
the number of such corporations which are likely to be 
formed. 
With the exception of the possible problem mentioned 
above, we conclude that the formation of the proposed cor-
porations, with the shareholders listed herein, would 
probably not raise significant issues under the antitrust 
laws. We are influenced in reaching this conclusion by 
the fact that none of the banks involved in the forma-
tion of the proposed corporations appears to be a major 
factor in the foreign banking and financing field or has 
an office located outside the United States, and that 
since no two of the banks are located in the same city, 
the formation of these joint ventures will not reduce 
the number of locally available foreign banking alter-
natives in any community. 
The Division proposed to submit with the application of the 
group seeking to form American Overseas Banking Corporation a memoran-
dum discussing the questions of competition involved if Edge corpora-
tions were owned jointly by a number of banks. 
However, since the 
Department of Justice did not believe the reservation it had expressed 
regarding that application applied to the proposal to form American 
Xnt ernational Bank, the Division believed the latter could now be 

2/15/68 
-10-
considered by the Board, along with certain other applications upon 
which the question of multiple ownership had some bearing. 
The memo-
randum then set out the following comments regarding the several 
applications, with respect to each of which the Division had earlier 
recommended approval. 
(1) The three participants in organizing American Inter-
national Bank had already established a close working relationship 
through their joint ownership of Banque Europeenne de Financement, 
Paris, France. Both banks had existing Edge corporations, located 
with their parents, through which they held equity interests abroad. 
Geographic separation alone argued forcefully that they were not 
strong competitors with each other for international business. 
(2) The application of United Virginia Bankshares Incorpo-
rated, Richmond, Virginia, a registered bank holding company, to form 
United Virginia Bank International, Norfolk, Virginia, had been sub-
mitted to the Board with a memorandum from the Division of Examinations 
dated November 16, 1967. After preliminary consideration on December 4, 
1967, the Board decided to delay decision pending reply to its inquiry 
of the Department of Justice. Because the proposed stockholders of 
United Virginia International Bank were all subsidiaries of United 
Virginia Bankshares, the application did not seem to the Division to 
present the same competitive issues that might exist with respect to 
the two applications on which the Department of Justice had been asked 
to comment. 

6J 
2/15/68 
-ll-
CS) In a memorandum dated December 12, 1967, the Division had 
presented for the Board's consideration the application of International 
Bank of Detroit, a subsidiary of National Bank of Detroit, Detroit, 
Michigan, to increase its capital by $1.6 million. 
The staff memorandum 
had mentioned that the corporation, together with the subsidiaries of 
two other banks in the United States and one in England, had formed a 
new bank in London. During the Board's preliminary discussion of the 
application on December 18, 1967, Governor Maisel inquired whether con-
sideration had been given to the competitive aspects of banks joining 
together in ventures abroad. 
The Division now suggested that the Board 
complete its consideration of the application, with the understanding 
that the broad issue raised by Governor Maisel would be covered in the 
staff paper currently being prepared. 
Mr. Dahl, in reviewing the several applications, observed that 
since the Department of Justice had offered no objection from the anti-
trust standpoint to the formation of American International Bank, and 
there would appear to be no anticompetitive issues involved, it would 
now appear appropriate for the Board to act upon it. He noted that 
this was the first application proposing multiple ownership of an Edge 
corporation for almost 15 years, and prior to that time there had been 
none since 1920. The current application was unique also in that the 
organizers included a nonbank stockholder, Zilkha & Sons, Inc., a New 
York corporation. 

633 
2/15/68 
-12-
Governor Daane suggested the desirability of making it clear, 
if the Board approved the several applications presented today, that 
the competitive aspect had been among the considerations weighed by 
the Board and that the question would be explored also in considering 
other applications of similar character. 
Mr. Shay responded that a statement such as Governor Daane had 
suggested could be included in the letters to the applicants. 
Or, if 
desired, a general statement could be published. 
Such a statement 
might indicate also that in some circumstances applications would be 
submitted to the Department of Justice for consideration of possible 
antitrust implications. 
Governor Brimmer expressed himself in favor of issuing a public 
statement so that other organizations planning to submit similar appli-
cations would be on notice. 
Governor Robertson said that although he continued to have 
qualms about multibank ownership of Edge corporations, he would vote 
to approve these applications. He had misgivings about difficulties 
that might arise, particularly if no line was drawn between ownership 
by two banks or by 30 or 50 banks. 
Governor Robertson also drew attention to the fact that Fidelity 
Bank was over its ceiling under the program of foreign credit restraint, 
while Wachovia Bank and Trust Company had a large leeway. The effect 
of their joint participation in organizing American International Bank 

2/15/68 
-13-
would be to transfer to Fidelity some of Wachovia's leeway. He did 
not like this aspect of the application, yet the same result could be 
accomplished if Fidelity sold assets to Wachovia. 
However, he believed 
it would be desirable to specify in the letter of approval that the 
ceiling of the Edge corporation for purposes of the foreign credit 
restraint program must come out of the ceilings of the individual banks 
that would be shareholders. 
The formation of the Edge corporation 
should not be allowed to add to the amount of foreign credits permis-
sible for its owners under the guidelines. 
Although all of the bank shareholders in the proposed United 
Virginia Bank International were tied together in a holding company 
system, Governor Robertson continued, only two of them would be enti-
tled to apply for special ceilings, which could then be transferred to 
the Edge corporation. 
The corporation and its shareholding banks would 
be subject to the guidelines. 
He believed it would be desirable to 
specify these facts in the letter of approval. 
Further discussion indicated agreement with Governor Robertson's 
suggestions, and also with a suggestion that Mr. Molony consider the 
most appropriate means of making the public aware of the Board's intent 
to include competitive and possible antitrust implications in its con-
sideration of applications contemplating multiple ownership of Edge or 
agreement corporations. 
The Board then approved unanimously letters to Zilkha & Sons, 
Inc. (with copies to Fidelity Bank and Wachovia Bank and Trust Company), 

633 
2/15/68 
-14-
to United Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, and to International Bank 
of Detroit in the form attached as Items 1, 2, and 3, respectively. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
of Farmers' and Merchants' Bank, New Oxford, Pennsylvania, into Cumber-
land County National Bank and Trust Company, New Cumberland, Pennsyl-
vania, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
There is little if any competition now existing 
between Farmers' and Merchants' Bank, New Oxford, 
Pennsylvania, and Cumberland County National Bank and 
Trust Company, New Cumberland; however, since either 
bank could enter the other's area there is some poten-
tial for future competition. 
Overall the effect of 
the proposal on competition would be slightly adverse. 
Application of Wells Fargo Bank. There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated February 6, 1968, from the Division of Examinations, 
with other pertinent papers, regarding the application of Wells Fargo 
Bank, San Francisco, California, to merge Bank of Pasadena, Pasadena, 
California. 
The Division recommended approval, as did the Banking 
Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
Among other things, the Division's memorandum pointed to prob-
lems that Bank of Pasadena had experienced, largely as a result of the 
lending practices of a former president, and the difficulties the bank 
reportedly had encountered in recruiting adequate management in the 
light of the bank's condition. 
In summarizing the basis for its favor-
able recommendation, the Division stated that while the proposed merger 

f''>9 
2/15/68 
-15-
would eliminate virtually no existing competition between the propo-
nents, it would eliminate potential for competition between them. 
It 
would also increase slightly the concentration of banking resources in 
California's largest banks. However, in view of the problems confront-
ing Bank of Pasadena and the broader range of services that would be 
offered through the bank's offices by Wells Fargo, it was believed 
that competition in the Pasadena area would be stimulated upon consum-
mation of the merger. 
Approval of the proposed transaction would solve 
the management problems of the Pasadena bank and bring offices of 
another full-service bank into the Pasadena area. It was believed 
that these latter considerations outweighed the slightly adverse com-
petitive effects. 
After summary comments by Mr. Egertson, based primarily on the 
material that had been distributed, Chairman Martin requested comments 
from Mr. Jamison. 
Mr. Jamison said he concurred with the conclusion reached by 
the Reserve Bank and the Board's staff. He believed the effect of the 
proposed merger on convenience and needs of the community would be 
insignificant, because the services Wells Fargo would provide were 
already being offered by other banks in the Pasadena area. The most 
persuasive circumstance 
was the condition of the Pasadena bank. 
It 
was evident that the bank's search for executive talent had left some-
thing to be desired, but he did not think the bank was a viable insti-
tution; the situation would probably become worse before it became 

V f - O 
2/15/68 
-16-
better. Under those conditions, he believed that the banking factors 
warranted favorable consideration of the application. 
Governor Maisel suggested that if the Board approved the appli-
cation the supporting statement make clear that Statewide expansion of 
California banks should preferably be accomplished through de novo 
branching and that the merger route was condoned in the present case 
because of considerations under the banking factors. 
Governor Brimmer observed that the Pasadena bank's efforts to 
attract competent management had apparently been somewhat pedestrian; 
he believed a statement in support of approval should bring out that 
the bank's recruitment effort had not been vigorous. Also, when Wells 
Fargo expanded into Southern California it had given a clear impression 
that it would pursue the route of de novo branching, and the present 
application seemed to raise a question whether the bank now proposed 
to develop a network of offices there through mergers. 
If that was 
the intent, he believed the expansion would be counterproductive in 
terms of strengthening competition in the area. Because of these pos-
sible implications of the proposal, he might want to write a concurring 
statement. 
Governor Sherrill said he would approve, although he felt the 
application was marginal. 
Governor Robertson agreed that the margin of weight toward 
approval was very thin. He believed that the proposal was slightly 

2/15/68 
-17-
anticompetitive, since there was at least some potential for competi-
tion. The only basis for approval was to be found in the banking 
factors, and even those were put in a questionable light because of 
the high premium Wells Fargo was willing to pay for the Pasadena bank. 
He shared the misgivings that had been expressed about expansion of 
Wells Fargo through mergers rather than through the establishment of 
new offices. 
Governor Daane stated that he would approve on the basis of 
the banking factors; he concurred in some of the reservations that had 
been expressed by other members of the Board. 
The application of Wells Fargo Bank to merge Bank of Pasadena 
was thereupon approved unanimously. 
It was understood that an order 
and statement reflecting this decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration. 
At the conclusion of the discussion of each of the preceding 
topics, members of the staff who had attended for the presentation of 
that topic withdrew from the meeting. 
Treasury request for Board financial data. 
There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated February 12, 1968, from Mr. Kakalec regard-
ing a request from L. D. Mosso, Assistant Commissioner of the Bureau 
of Accounts of the Treasury Department, that the Board submit a monthly 
report of its receipts and expenditures related to the budgetary state-
ments published in the 1969 Federal budget. 
(Federal Reserve Bank 
transactions were not included in the monthly reporting proposal.) 

2/15/68 
-18-
The Treasury request was related to a Budget Bureau shift of 
the Board's annual budget reports from the category of memorandum 
statements, in the "annexed budgets" section of the Federal budget 
appendix, to "trust funds" under "other independent agencies" in the 
Federal budget. Receipts and disbursements of all budgets thus clas-
sified appeared in the Treasury's monthly statement of receipts and 
expenditures, and consequently monthly reports from the agencies con-
cerned were required. 
The memorandum stated that an official of the Bureau of the 
Budget had indicated that the presentation of the Board's financial 
data in the main Federal budget, as distinguished from the annexed 
budgets section, and the resultant request for a monthly report to the 
Treasury, stemmed from a major recommendation of the President's Com-
mission on Budget Concepts. 
One of the recommendations in the Commis-
sion's October 1967 report had been that "The budget should as a gen-
eral rule, be comprehensive of the full range of Federal activities. 
Borderline agencies and transactions should be included in the budget 
unless there are exceptionally persuasive reasons for exclusion. 
Specifically, the budget should include the transactions of the Federal 
trust funds which are now outside the administrative budget (although 
the Commission believes that the identity and integrity of trust funds 
should be maintained); . . . " 
The Budget Bureau official had explained 
that no change in Bureau policy was involved. 
The Board's budget data 

2/15/68 
-19-
would be included in the main Federal budget, without review, in the 
same way as other former "annexed budgets" and the budgets of the 
judiciary and the legislative branch. 
The memorandum reviewed the background of the Budget Bureau's 
1963 request for data regarding the Board's financial affairs, which 
data had since then appeared in the annexed budgets. 
In acceding to 
the request the Board had stated its understanding that the data would 
be presented in the Federal budget for informational purposes only, 
and that their presentation would not affect in any manner the proce-
dures then in effect with respect to budgetary review. The change to 
show the Board's data in the main budget, as distinguished from the 
annexed budgets section, was made in the 1969 fiscal year budget, and 
the Board's staff was not aware of this change until a printed copy 
of the budget was received. 
The memorandum concluded by noting that if the Board decided 
that the requested monthly reports should not be made it would appear 
inconsistent to continue to submit the annual statements. 
Their inclu-
sion in the Federal budget, as distinguished from the annexed budgets, 
necessarily meant monthly reporting because of the interrelationships 
between the monthly receipts and expenditures and the Federal budget 
figures. 
Supplemental remarks by Mr. Kakalec were followed by a series 
of questions, to which the staff responded, regarding other agencies 
accorded the same treatment as the Board. 

tz'y-y 
2/15/68 
-20-
Governor Daane inquired whether there seemed to be a likelihood 
that the changed procedures would lead to a request for Budget Bureau 
review of the Board's financial affairs. 
Mr. Holland responded that a Bureau official had indicated that 
the change was not intended to alter the status of the Federal Reserve 
and did not connote review or surveillance; it reportedly had been 
proposed at the technical staff level as being in keeping with the 
report of the Commission on Budget Concepts. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that, since the change had 
been instituted without consultation with the Board, it had no stand-
ing. He believed a policy matter was involved rather than just a 
technical procedure, and he suggested that it be explored at the policy 
level rather than the technical level. 
There was general agreement with Governor Brimmer's suggestion 
regarding the procedure that should be followed in exploring the matter. 
Foreign travel (Item No. 4). 
There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated February 13, 1968, from the Office of the Secretary 
regarding a memorandum of January 18, 1968, from the President to the 
heads of executive departments and establishments relating to reduction 
of overseas personnel and official travel. 
It was believed appropriate 
that the Board, although not an agency of the Executive Branch, submit 
to the Director of the Bureau of the Budget a statement of actions to 
reduce overseas travel. A draft of letter for that purpose was attached. 

G
* > o 
2/15/68 
-21-
The President's memorandum also requested that plans for travel 
to international conferences held overseas be presented to the Secre-
tary of State who, with the Director of the Budget, would undertake a 
special review of the matter. 
However, it was the staff's interpreta-
tion that no action on the part of the Board was required unless the 
Board itself set up a conference overseas. 
Travel by members of the 
Board or its staff to international conferences normally took the form 
of participation in meetings arranged by other organizations, and to 
the 
extent that such conferences were arranged by other agencies of 
the U.S. Government the latter presumably would report their plans to 
the Secretary of State. 
The memorandum commented also that it would seem unnecessary 
to refer to foreign travel by Federal Reserve Bank personnel in the 
report to the Budget Bureau. However, since the Board presumably 
would favor full cooperation by the Federal Reserve with the spirit 
of the President's program, it was suggested that copies of the Presi-
dent's memorandum and the report sent to the Budget Bureau be trans-
mitted to the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks for their infor-
mation and guidance. 
Governor Brimmer observed that under certain circumstances 
representatives of the Board attended meetings in foreign countries, 
such as some of those held at the Bank for International Settlements, 
at the Board's initiative. 
He suggested that the draft letter be 

2/15/68 
-22-
amended to avoid giving an impression that all Board representation at 
overseas meetings was arranged or requested by other organizations. 
Governor Daane suggested certain editorial changes in the 
letter in the interest of clarification, particularly in relation to 
the types of conferences attended by members of the Board and its 
staff. 
The sending of the letter was then approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that the staff would work with Governor Daane on 
language changes to meet the points he had raised. A copy of the let-
ter in the form in which it was subsequently transmitted is attached 
as Item No. 4. 
Messrs. Kakalec, Reynolds, Dahl, Grimwood, and Millea then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Reserve Bank directors' views. 
There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated February 12, 1968, from the Office of the Secretary 
noting that at the meeting of the Conference of Chairmen of the Fed-
eral Reserve Banks in December 1967 both the Chairmen and members of 
the Board had expressed an interest in having the views of the boards 
of directors of the Reserve Banks regarding discount rate actions made 
more directly available to the Board. The Chairmen were reminded of 
a 1935 Board letter on this subject, and a copy was subsequently sup-
plied to each Chairman for his reference. 
Since that time, only the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston had supplied any summary of directors' 

2/15/68 
-23-
views in connection with its rate actions. To provide a more positively 
worded and updated invitation for such views, it was suggested that a 
letter along the lines of a draft attached to the memorandum now be sent 
to each Reserve Bank Chairman. 
Mr. Holland said he had conferred with Governor Mitchell regard-
ing the general subject, and at the latter's suggestion the draft letter 
included a paragraph specifying the Board's interest in being advised 
from time to time of any special insights or information reported by 
directors that might represent a net addition to the Board's knowledge 
concerning economic or financial trends of national significance. 
Mr. 
Holland suggested also that, in order to guard against any impression 
that the letter might be related to any particular incident of discount 
hi story, it be made clear that it arose from the discussion at the 
recent Chairmen's Conference. 
Governor Maisel expressed apprehension that the sending of such 
a letter might have a divisive effect on the System by putting the views 
of the directors in sharper focus if circumstances arose in which the 
Board decided that it must overrule actions taken, particularly on the 
discount rate. 
Governor Brimmer observed that one suggestion that might be 
forthcoming from the current discount study was that changes in the 
dis count rate be deemphasized. 
It would seem unfortunate to highlight 
the role of the Reserve Bank directors in regard to discount rate actions 

2/15/68 
-24-
if there was any likelihood that their role would in fact be deempha-
sized, for that might seem to put the Board in the position of mislead-
ing the directors. 
Chairman Martin expressed agreement with Governor Maisel's 
point about the possibility that the letter would have a divisive 
effect. 
Further, it seemed to him that it was an inherent part of the 
Board's responsibility to determine whether proposed discount rate 
actions were appropriate. 
Yet if a truly capable directorate was to 
be maintained, its role must not be undermined. 
He believed the draft 
letter should include a clear indication that the Board was not under 
obligation to approve a recommendation by the directors. 
This thought, 
as well as the Board's interest in the views of the directors, needed 
to be carefully balanced. 
Governor Sherrill said he certainly did not want Reserve Bank 
directors to feel they must not express themselves. 
On the other hand, 
he would not want them to feel that it was incumbent upon them to sub-
mit comments regularly. 
He would like to see the channels of communi-
cation opened up, but not tied specifically to the discount rate. 
The 
letter might be broadened to invite directors' views on monetary policy 
and economic conditions generally. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that a 
revised draft of letter would be prepared for the Board's considera-
tion in light of the views expressed. 

(O 
o 
2/15/68 
-25-
Director appointment. 
It was agreed to request that the Chair-
man of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland ascertain whether Edward 
Danforth Eddy, Jr., President, Chatham College, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
would accept appointment if tendered as a director of the Pittsburgh 
Branch for the unexpired portion of the term ending December 31, 1970. 
Mr. Shepardson, Cons ultant to the Board, had entered the room 
earlier, and at this point members of the staff except Messrs. Holland 
and Kenyon withdrew. 
Assignments to Task Force. Governor Robertson presented plans 
for the organization of a staff task force to develop appropriate 
implementation for the pending truth-in-lending legislation and to 
administer the new and amended regulatory provisions concerning securi-
ties credit. He proposed that several members of the Board's staff be 
assigned temporarily to those functions, with the understanding, how-
ever, that they would retain their regular staff titles. 
Specifically, 
Frederic Solomon, Director of the Division of Examinations, would serve 
as Director of the new Task Force on Truth-in-Lending and Securities 
Credit Regulation; Tynan Smith, Associate Adviser in the Division of 
Research and Statistics, would serve as Chief of the Truth-in-Lending 
Regulation Unit; Janet Hart, Senior Attorney in the Legal Division, 
would serve as Chief of the Securities Credit Regulation Unit; and 
Bruce Shuter, Attorney in the Legal Division, would work with Miss 
Hart in the latter area. 
In addition, a number of Reserve Bank staff 

633 
2/15/68 
-26-
members would work in each of the two units, either on a part-time or 
rotating basis, and several consultants would work as needed with 
System staff on the development of an appropriate truth-in-lending 
regulation. 
The arrangements proposed by Governor Robertson were approved 
unanimously. 
Annex building. Mr. Shepardson said it had been thought that 
there was complete agreement with the Department of the Interior and 
the National Park Service regarding the development of the park above 
the so-called north garage. According to that understanding, the Park 
Service would not only control the park but would be responsible for 
its development, except that the Board would have its architects pre-
pare tentative plans for the park and would replace several trees that 
it was necessary to move during the construction of the annex building. 
However, there had been certain personnel changes in the National Park 
Service, and concern had now been expressed about the cost of the park 
Project. The Interior Department had suggested that there be another 
meeting this week to review the whole matter, and it appeared that the 
Board might be asked by the National Park Service to share equally in 
the cost of development of the park. 
Mr. Shepardson asked for the Board's guidance on the position 
that should be taken at the forthcoming meeting; that is, whether the 
Board would be prepared to negotiate on the cost of the park and, if 

2/15/68 
-27-
so, what limits it would want to set. The Board's architects had sub-
mitted a rough estimate of $400,000 for the development of the park 
several months ago, and they had now been asked to prepare a more 
accurate estimate. 
After discussion, Governor Sherrill and Mr. Shepardson were 
authorized to negotiate on behalf of the Board regarding the matter. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Subsequent to the 
meeting, and after receipt of informa-
tion regarding Citizens Trust Company, 
Atlanta, Georgia, in addition to that 
contained in a memorandum from the Divi-
sion of Examinations dated February 12, 
1968, all members of the Board (except 
Governor Mitchell, who was not available) 
approved the sending of a letter to Presi-
dent Kimbrel of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Atlanta expressing concern about the 
member bank's situation and the view that 
a change in management was needed. A copy 
of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Administrative Services dated 
February 14, 1968, containing the following recommendations relating 
to modernization of elevators in the Federal Reserve Building: 
that 
the Division be authorized to accept a proposal from Westinghouse 
Electric Corporation for the modernization of four elevators at a 
cost of $136,400 ($11,400 in excess of the amount budgeted for this 
Purp ose); that the Division be authorized to negotiate a contract 
with Westinghouse for the overhaul and modernization of the private 
elevator at an estimated cost of $32,000 (for which no budgetary 
Provision had been made); and that approval of this program consti-
tute approval of any resultant overexpenditure in the 1968 budget of 
the Division. 

2/15/68 
-28-
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
February 12, 1968, relating to the staffing of the new Special Studies 
Section in that Division and recommending the transfer of the follow-
ing positions to the new Section, it being understood that the changes 
would be effective February 25, 1968: 
From the Government Finance Section 
Edward Gramlich, Economist 
From the Business Conditions Section 
Jared Enzler, Economist 
From the National Income, Labor Force, 
and Trade Section 
Alfred Telia, Economist 
Peter A. Tinsley, Economist 
Enid Miller, Economist 
John McRae, Research Assistant 
Diane Waiters, Statistical Clerk 
(Vacancy), Stenographer (to be 
changed to a secretarial position) 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointmpnt-
Harriet Nardi as Statistical Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,565, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
sion to engage in outside activity 
John McRae, Research Assistant, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, to work for a local store on a part-time basis. 
On February 14 and 15, 1968, actions 
were taken on behalf of the Board under 
delegated authority as indicated by the 
following letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item num-
bers indicated: 
' i" vS'l 
.< U .. . 
a,.. 
r 

2/15/68 
-29-
Qn February 14, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to Chemical Bank New York Trust 
Company, New York, New York, granting 
an extension of time within which to 
establish a branch in New Dorp, Borough 
of Richmond. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Letter to The Atlantic National Bank of 
Jacksonville, Jacksonville, Florida, 
granting an extension of time for Atlantic 
Trust Company (now Atlantic Bancorporation), 
Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of 
The Atlantic National Bank of Jacksonville. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, approving the relocation of the 
bank's Marble Mortgage Company Office from 
610 East 17th Street to 2021 East 4th Street, 
Santa Ana. 
Qn^February 15T 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Letter to The Union Commerce Bank, Cleveland, 
Ohio, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish an in-town branch. 

ofcovA'.. 
*4L RE^.' 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
• . 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
2/15/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P Q N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 15, 1968. 
Mr. Ezra K. Zilkha, President, 
Zilkha & Sons, Inc., 
120 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Dear Mr. Zilkha: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and Organization Certificate dated October 4, 1967, of 
American International Bank, New York, New York, and there is 
enclosed a Preliminary Permit authorizing that Corporation to 
exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its organization. 
Under Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, a Corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) becomes a body corporate upon issuance by the Board of 
a preliminary permit. The Board, therefore, has approved the Articles 
of Association with the understanding that the word "preliminary" be 
inserted before "permit" in Article TWELFTH. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board 
will issue its final permit to commence business, the President, 
Secretary or Treasurer, together with at least three of the directors, 
must certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
(2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
by citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest of which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
under the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States, 
or by firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned by 
citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital 
stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent 
has been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individually 
paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription. There-
after the Secretary or Treasurer shall certify to the payment of the 
remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with 
law. 

Mr. Ezra K. Zilkha. 
-2-
Your attention is drawn to the fact that under the guide-
lines for the foreign credit restraint program currently in effect 
no provision is made for special ceilings for newly created corpora-
tions. However, the Federal Reserve System will be prepared to 
consider the transfer to a new corporation of a reasonable portion 
of the ceilings available to its stockholders. Accordingly, the 
foregoing approval is given with the understanding that any foreign 
loans and investments of the Corporation, including any such loans 
and investments acquired from a stockholder of the Corporation, will 
not exceed any ceiling established by the transfer from the stock-
holders. It is further understood that in making foreign loans and 
investments, within whatever ceiling is agreed, the Corporation will 
have due regard for the provisions of the guidelines issued January 1 
1968, relating to lending or investing in developed countries of 
continental Western Europe, and for the other priorities specified by 
the guidelines. The Corporation should report separately from its . 
stockholders to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
The foregoing understandings may be changed or modified at 
any time that the foreign credit restraint program is changed or 
modified. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

633 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
February 15, 1968. 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it 
by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has 
this day approved the Articles of Association dated October 4, 
1967, and the Organization Certificate dated October 4, 1967, 
of AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL BANK duly filed with said Board of 
-
Governors, and that AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL BANK is authorized to 
exercise such of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) 
as are incidental and preliminary to its organization pending 
the issuance by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System of a final permit generally to commence business in 
accordance with the provisions of said Section 25(a) and the 
rules and regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
tsusz ai' 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(SEAL) 
B y 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
iT'-ii " 
'.-'•<?.• ' 

RES^r-' 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
2/15/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 15, 1968. 
United Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, 
900 East Main Street, ' 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23219 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and Organization Certificate dated September 15, 1967, 
of United Virginia Bank International, Norfolk, Virginia, and there 
is enclosed a Preliminary Permit authorizing that Corporation to 
exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its organiza-
tion. Under Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, a Corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) becomes a body corporate upon issuance 
by the Board of a preliminary permit. The Board, therefore, has 
approved the Articles of Association with the understanding that 
the word "preliminary" be inserted before "permit" in Article 
ELEVENTH. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board 
will issue its final permit to commence business, the President or 
Secretary-Treasurer, together with at least three of the directors, 
must certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United 
States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held 
and owned by citizens of the United States, by corporations the 
controlling interest of which is owned by citizens of the United 
States, chartered under the laws of the United States or of a 
State of the United States, or by firms or companies the controlling 
interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States; and 
(3) that of the authorized capital stock specified in the Articles 
of Association at least 25 per cent has been paid in in cash and 
that each shareholder has individually paid in in cash at least 
25 per cent of his stock subscription. Thereafter, the Secretary-
Treasurer shall certify to the payment of the remaining instalments 
as and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 

f 
S41 
United Virginia Bankshares Incorporated 
-2-
Your attention is drawn to the fact that under the guide-
lines for the foreign credit restraint program currently in effect, 
no provision is made for special ceilings for newly created corpora-
tions. However, the Federal Reserve System will be prepared to 
consider applications for special ceilings from stockholding banks, 
as appropriate, with the understanding that any ceiling thus granted 
will be transferred to the corporation for its use. From information 
presently before us, it appears that the only banks among the stock-
holders of the Corporation that could appropriately request a special 
ceiling are Seaboard Citizens National Bank and State-Planters Bank 
of Commerce and Trusts. Since neither of the aforementioned banks 
has previously engaged in international business, it is further under 
stood that any foreign loans and investments made by the Corporation 
under the ceiling transferred from the banks will be for priority 
purposes only, i.e., export credits or credits to meet the needs of 
developing countries. 
The foregoing understandings may be changed or modified at 
any time that the foreign credit restraint program is changed or 
modified. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

'I ' 
' 
642 
s 
• f/y-'p" 
'i: 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
February 15, 1968. 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it 
by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this 
J 
* 
i y-9 y* f \ | r 
A"|-|> ^ 
day approved the Articles of Association dated September 15, 1967, 
and the Organization Certificate dated September 15, 1967, of 
UNITED VIRGINIA BANK INTERNATIONAL duly filed with said Board of 
Governors, and that UNITED VIRGINIA BANK INTERNATIONAL is authorized 
to exercise such of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) 
as are incidental and preliminary to its organization pending the 
issuance by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of 
a final permit generally to commence business in accordance with 
the provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations 
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(SEAL) 
B y 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

643 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
2/15/68 
A O O R E B B 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R C S P O N D C N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 15, 1968. 
International Bank of Detroit, 
611 Woodward Avenue, 
Detroit, Michigan. 
48226 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter dated December 1 
1967, enclosing a certified copy of a resolution of share- ' 
holders amending Article SEVENTH of the Articles of Associa-
tion of your Corporation to increase the capital stock to 
$14,400,000 consisting of 144,000 shares having a par value 
of $100 per share. 
The Board of Governors approves the amendment to 
Article SEVENTH. Please advise the Board when the capital 
increase has been effected. 
It is understood that the National Bank of Detroit 
will purchase the additional 16,000 shares at a cost of $125 
each, consisting of $1,600,000 to capital and $400,000 to 
surplus. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

oOfCOi^. 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
2/15/68 
O r T H E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , Q . C . 
2 D 5 5 I 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
February 21, 1968 
The Honorable Charles J. Zwick, 
Director, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Executive Office Building, 
Washington, D. C. 
20203 
Dear Mr. Zwick: 
This refers to the President's memorandum of January 18, 
1968, to the heads of executive departments and establishments 
relating to official overseas travel, and in particular to the 
request therein that you be furnished, not later than March 15, 
a statement on actions taken to reduce all types of overseas travel. 
Upon receipt of the memorandum the Board caused a review 
to be made of foreign travel in 1967 by members of the Board and 
its staff. This review revealed that there were 59 individual 
trips at a total cost of about $57,000. A substantial part of 
this travel reflected participation by members of the Board or its 
staff in multi-national meetings having to do directly or indirectly 
with international monetary reform and the U.S. balance of payments 
problem, and the Board participants often served as members of the 
U.S. delegation at the request of other agencies of the U.S. Govern-
ment. Meetings attended included those of the Organization for 
Economic Cooperation and Development, including its constituent 
working parties, and the Deputies of the Group of 10. Other travel 
was for the purpose of attending central bank meetings at the Bank 
f°r International Settlements, the annual meetings of the Inter-
national Monetary Fund and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development, and a conference of Central Bank Governors of the 
American Continent. 
In addition, there was some travel in response 
to requests by foreign central banks for technical assistance. 
It will be of interest to you to know that the Board has 
always followed a practice whereby proposed foreign travel by members 
°f its staff must in each instance be approved in advance at Board 
. » 

The Honorable Charles J. Zwick 
-2-
level. 
Through continuing this practice the Board will be in a 
position to scrutinize all prospective foreign travel, including 
that involved in attendance at international conferences, to make 
sure that such travel is maintained at the minimum practicable 
level consistent with fulfilling the Board's responsibilities. 
As for the scheduling of conferences where possible in 
the United States or in countries in which excess currencies can 
be used, the Board is not often in a position to determine such 
scheduling. 
However, it will do whatever it can in this regard, 
at least by suggestion if not through the exercise of direct 
responsibility. 
In summary, while the Board's foreign travel program is 
believed to have been close to the minimum practicable level, 
each foreign travel proposal will be considered carefully in the 
light of the President's balance of payments program, with the 
obj ectives of which the Board is in complete accord. 
I might mention, incidentally, that since the Board 
does not maintain any personnel overseas, the part of the Presi-
dent's memorandum directed toward reduction of overseas personnel 
is, of course, not applicable. 
Sincerely yours, 
^ ^ 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
( j 

C A ,(7 
O l O 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 5 
• F THE 
2/15/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 15, 1968. 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear Mr. Kimbrel: 
For quite some time, the Board of Governors has been 
following with growing concern the performance of management of 
Citizens Trust Company, Atlanta, Georgia. This concern has been 
sharpened by recent critical developments growing out of the bank's 
action in proceeding with construction of a 12-story office building 
with estimated cost of almost $5 million without obtaining necessary 
approval of the Board of Governors. 
The latest examination of Citizens as of January 22, 1968, 
indicates that Citizens faces a difficult situation with respect to' 
capital and assets. Beyond that, however, the examination points up 
an even more serious problem with respect to the bank's management. 
Against this background, the Board of Governors requests 
that you, as President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, in 
cooperation with the State Superintendent of Banks communicate to 
the Directors of Citizens Trust Company the seriousness with which 
the Board views the management situation at the bank and the Board's 
strong conviction of the urgency of effecting a change in the man-
agement of Citizens Trust. Accordingly, you are requested to transmit 
to the Directors a copy of this letter, and you are further requested 
to make every appropriate effort, in cooperation with State authorities, 
to bring about suitable improvement in the management situation at 
Citizens Trust Company. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

Item No. 6 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K OF N E W Y O R K 
2/15/68 
N e w 
Y o r k , N . V . 
1 0 0 4 B 
AREA CODS 212 732-S700 
February lA, 1968 
John J. 0'Connell 
President 
^ e m i c a l B a n k N e w Y o r k 
Trust Company 
Pine Street 
*** York, New York 10015 
De 
ar Mr. 0'Connell: 
196R 
Reference is made to your letter dated January 1 7 , 
You 
re<luesting a one-year extension of the time within which 
B0
Uf bftnk m a y e B t a b l i s h a branch on the shore side of Hylan 
ty
UJ;evard-> New Dorp, Borough of Richmond, New York, as approved 
the Board of Governors on February 27, 1967. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
u ® r v e System, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, acting 
to 
<iele6ated authority, has approved your request and extends 
February 27, 1969, the time within which the subject branch 
be established. 
18 
We shall appreciate your advising us when the branch 
^^tablished and opened for business, giving the effective 
o f opening, the name, if any, by which it will be known, 
the official postal address, including the zip code number. 
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter by signing 
returning the enclosed copy to us. 
1, 
Very truly yours, 
Fred W. Pideittt, Jr. 
Vice President 
' U o s u ra 

42 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K 
I t e m No. 7 
OF A T L A N T A 
2/15/68 
A T L A N T A , G E O R G I A 
3 0 3 0 3 
February 14, 1968 
Kdward W. U m , Jr., President 
Atlantic national Bank of Jackaonvllle 
J«ckeonvllle, Florida 32203 
Mr. Lana: 
Thl» la In reference to your lattar of Fabruary 13, 1968, In 
you requested an extension of tint within which to consummate the 
Sard's Ordar of Kovember 30, 1967 coverlag the acquisition of mora than 80 
wr cant of the outstanding voting share* of The Atlantic National Bank of 
J«ckaonvllla. 
_ • 
In your latter you estimate that eight months from Fabruary 
» 
will be required to obtain SIC approval of the prospectus and 
C0*?lete the exchange of stock. 
On behalf of the Board of Oovernors, acting under delegated 
•uthorlty, this Bank has approved the extension of time to October 31, 1968, 
Ati 
n 1* l c h A t l a m t l c T r u M t Company, Jacksonville, Florida, (now entitled 
tlantlc Bancorporatlon), may acquire more than 80 per cent of the outstanding 
noting sharea of The Atlantic Vatlonel Bank of Jacksonville, Jacksonvllls, 
Florida. 
Presldsnt 
Board of 
Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 

613 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N F R A N C I S C O 
item NO. 8 
SAN FKANCIMOO, Calxtohnu 04190 
2/15/68 
February 14, 1968 
Mr. IU1 Mend on, 
Senior Executive Vice President, 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
Los Angeles, California 90034. 
Dear Mr. Rend on: 
On behalf of the Board of^Coverndrs of the 
Federal Reserve System, acting qndsr delegated authority, 
this Bank has approved the relocation of youi bank's 
Marble Mortgage Company Office from 610 Kapt 17th Street 
to new quarters in a building noW\under/^ons true t ion at 
2021 Best 4th Stre**r~*ln<a Ana, California. We note 
that occupancy isr expected\o take place around March 1, 
1968. This approval is givek with the provision that 
operations at tjhe existing office are discontinued 
sisHilteneously With the opening of the office at the 
[ocation, arid that the operations to be conducted 
ft the new location will still be limited to the negoti-
ating, processing, and-eefvlcing of reel estate mortgage 
loans• 
rill be appreciated if you will advise the 
»erd of Gp^ernors in writing, through this bank, when 
tKVoJLficle is actually eeteblishsd and opened for 
business et the new location. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 

nmzm 
o 5 0 
COPY 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E BANK O F C L E V E L A N D 
Item No. 1 
2/15/68 
February 15, 1968 
Mr, William D. Deedrick, Vice President 
The Union Commerce Bank 
Euclid Avenue at E at Ninth Street 
Cleveland, Ohio 44101 
Dear Mr. Deedrick: 
This refers to your letter of February 13, 1968, in which you 
requested an extension of time within which The Union Commerce 
Bank may establish its proposed branch to be located at the southwest 
comer of East 9th Street and Rockwell Avenue, Cleveland, Ohio. 
The circumstances causing the delay have been reviewed and 
appear reasonable. 
Accordingly, on behalf of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System, acting under delegated authority, the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland hereby approves an extension of 
time within which your bank may establish the branch until 
February 15, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
A
-
H. W. Huning 
Vice President 
