MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 13, 1969 

3450 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, November 13, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Ormsby of the Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Ettin and Freedman of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
-S i • >• , H 11. ... iU • •' • ' s..' ' * - ' . 
Report on S. 2958. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
Chairman Sparkman of the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency in 
response to his request for the Board's views on S. 2958, a bill to 

11/13/69 
-2-
authorize the Federal National Mortgage Association to purchase, 
service, sell, lend on the security of, or otherwise deal in conven-
tional mortgages. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Travel Regulations. Effective immediately, the Board's 
Travel Regulations were amended to: 
1. Authorize payment to members of the Board's field 
examining staff of a per diem in lieu of subsistence 
not to exceed $25; 
2. Authorize payment to other members of the Board's 
staff and to other persons, including consultants, 
traveling at Board expense, of a per diem in lieu 
of subsistence not to exceed $11 plus actual cost 
of room; 
3. Authorize payment to members of the Board of a per 
diem in lieu of subsistence not to exceed $30, or 
a per diem of $15 plus actual cost of room. 
Messrs. Kakalec and Freedman withdrew from the meeting at 
this point. 
Interest rate ceilings. 
In preparation for today's meeting, 
scheduled to begin at 10:30, with the directors of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation and the members of the Federal Home Loan Bank 
Board, there was at this time a further discussion of the interest 
rate ceilings applicable to deposits at commercial banks and savings 
and loan associations. 
At the beginning of the discussion Governor Maisel reviewed 
and elaborated upon a memorandum he had distributed under yesterday's 

3452-
11/13/69 
-3-
date in which he presented, with reasons, a proposed revised schedule 
of rate ceilings on consumer-type time and savings deposits. 
Governor 
Mitchell, while not necessarily agreeing with the specifics of 
Governor Maisel's proposal, concurred generally in the view that the 
time was at hand for a move on the rate ceilings. After referring to 
recent developments as creating inequities for small savers and 
significant problems for banks, especially intermediate-sized institu-
tions, he advanced the opinion that a case could be made for an 
adjustment of the ceilings applicable to a broad range of time deposits. 
He suggested that consideration might be given, if the Board so desired, 
to an offsetting gesture in the form of an increase in reserve require-
ments. 
The remaining members of the Board felt that the best option 
at this time would be to maintain the status quo. A central theme in 
their comments was that the announcement of any action on the rate 
ceilings might be construed as a softening of the present posture of 
monetary restraint. 
Such an interpretation would in their judgment 
be unfortunate, particularly when there were appearances that fiscal 
policy might be moving toward a more expansive stance. At the same 
time they made known their willingness to reconsider the problem in 
the light of developments as they might unfold over the course of the 
next several weeks. 

3453 
11/13/69 
-4-
Preauthorlzed payment plans. As discussed in memoranda of 
November 12, 1969, from the Legal Division and the Division of Research 
and Statistics, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, acting under authority 
contained in a section of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 
1968, had published for comment a proposal to change its regulations 
in such a manner as to give Federal savings and loan associations 
authority to operate preauthorized payment plans under which depositors 
could issue nontransferable orders or authorizations instructing the 
associations to make payments out of savings accounts to meet various types 
of obligations. According to information received at staff level, it 
appeared that the Bank Board might act on the proposal within the next 
few days. 
After comments by Governor Sherrill on the ramifications of 
action on the part of the Bank Board to implement such a proposal, 
other Board members also expressed concern that there had not been an 
opportunity to study the implications of the proposal in more depth. 
It was suggested that Governor Sherrill refer to the issue during 
today's joint meeting and indicate that it would be appreciated if the 
Bank Board would withhold action to permit more thorough consideration 
of the proposal, particularly since it appeared likely that thought 
would have to be given to whether a similar plan should be authorized 
for commercial banks. 

FflSH 
3454 
11/13/69 
-5-
Emergency lending. Mr. Holland recalled that after the 
meeting of the supervisory agencies in September the Board's staff 
had sent to the other agencies material relating to emergency lending 
to savings and loan associations and mutual savings banks. Since 
then, he said, the question of what procedures might best be followed 
had been under discussion at staff level. 
If the matter came up at 
today's joint meeting, it would probably be at the initiative of the 
Home Loan Bank Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

toy m 
I , 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20S5I 
Item No. 
11/13/69 
QFflCE CF THE CHAIRMAN 
November 13, 1969. 
The Honorable John Sparkman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your requesr' of October 29 , 1969 , 
asking for the Board's views on S. 2958, a bill to authorize the 
Federal National Mortgage Association to purchase, service, sell, 
lend on the security of, or otherwise deal ir conventional 
mortgages, and for other purposes. 
A1the ugh FNMA as a Government-sponsored corporation has 
recently shifted from mixed to wholly private ownership, it is 
still in a transitional stage so far as its relation with the 
Department of Housing and Urban Development is concerned. Thus 
far, FNMA.Ts activities have been confined to dealing in mortgages 
which conform to standard policies as expressed in the under-
writing of mainly FHA- and VA-mortgages. The nature of its 
operations could in time be altered appreciably if the amendments 
proposed in S. 2958 were incorporated in the Federal National 
Mortgage Association Charter Act as presently constituted. 
Appropriate further improvements in the secondary as 
well as the primary mortgage market would, the Board feels, 
clearly be in the public interest. However, significant 
technical, as well as policy, questions would arise at this 
time were FNMA permitted to deal in conventional mortgages, 
though presumably only on residential properties. Perhaps the 
principal problem is that conventional mortgages generally lack 
the marketability of Government-underwritten loans, which are 
ba sed on uniform minimum standards relating to safety of 
principal, collateral, loan terms and origination practices. 
There is a serious risk, therefore, that ever though FNMA 
might be able to pool or otherwise participate its conventional 

The Honorable John Sparknian 
- 2 -
loan holdings, FNMA would in time accumulate a portfolio which 
would be comparatively illiquid and which might come to displace 
its holdings of Government-underwritten mortgages. Moreover, 
the additional accumulation would have to be financed through 
even larger issues of agency paper in the credit market; this 
would exert further upward pressures on market interest rates 
and would be disadvantageous to flows of funds to the depositary 
institutions which are also active mortgage investors. 
Based on these considerations, there is reason to 
question whether attempts to provide special support to 
conventional mortgages by FNMA. would serve a useful public 
purpose at this time. Thus far, the size of FNMA's contribution 
to the mortgage market, even though based strictly on purchases 
of Government-underwritten mortgages, has been notable. Quickest 
results in helping to alleviate present mortgage-market 
conditions would most likely be obtained by reliance on existing 
institutional arrangements, and particularly by permitting 
contract interest rates on Government-underwcitten mortgages to 
move more flexibly so that these instruments--which are already 
well adapted to secondary market trading--coald compete more 
readily with conventional mortgage loans in the primary market. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
