Minutes for
 
A P
r i l 
2 9 >
 
1 9 6 9 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
1 / 
the above date. —' 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
1/ Meeting with Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks. 

1405 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
l 
Banks was held in the Board Room of the Federal Reserve Building 
in Washington, D. C., at 12:30 p.m. on Tuesday, April 29, 1969. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to 
the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division 
of Personnel Administration 
Messrs. Morris, Hayes, Bopp, Hickman, 
Heflin, Kimbrel, Scanlon, Francis, 
Galusha, Clay, Coldwell, and Swan, 
Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, 
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, 
Dallas, and San Francisco, respectively 
This meeting was called for the purpose of considering 
further the proposed policy on unionization and collective bargain-
ing for the Federal Reserve Banks. 
President Galusha, Chairman of the Conference Committee on 
Management and Personnel, said that the Committee had met last 

1406 
4/29/69 
-2-
night with Judge Pierce and reviewed the draft statement of policy 
in the light of comments received from a number of Reserve Bank 
/ 
Presidents, supplemented in some cases by comments from their 
Boards of Directors. 
These covered a wide range of views. 
How-
ever, the Committee continued to believe that the best course of 
action was to move forward with the adoption by the Board of 
Governors of a statement of policy along the lines drafted by 
Judge Pierce. 
The Committee did, however, suggest a few changes 
in the statement, the nature of which President Galusha described. 
(It was understood that these changes would be made available to 
the Board for review of the precise language.) 
President Hayes said he considered it appropriate that a 
decision had been made to expose the.proposed statement to the 
directors of the Reserve Banks, in view of the legal responsibilities 
of the directors as well as on grounds of policy. 
He was personally 
in favor of the proposal and had so indicated to his directors. 
While he had expected some adverse reactions, he was surprised at 
the vehemence of the views expressed. 
The directors felt that the 
issuance of the statement would constitute an invitation to the 
unions to organize the Reserve Banks, which in turn would reduce 
the efficiency of Bank operations. 
They also felt that it was 
problematical whether the fact that salaries and related subjects 

14C7 
4/29/69 
-3-
were excluded from negotiation would really restrain the unions 
once they had established a foothold. 
The directors also were 
concerned about the precedent that would be set in terms of 
potential effect on the commercial banking structure. 
They 
believed that the Reserve Banks should place major reliance on 
good personnel policies, including fringe benefits, since these 
would help to defeat unionization efforts, and that each Reserve 
Bank should be left to take its own counsel when and if a question 
of this kind should arise at a particular Bank. 
In summary, 
President Hayes said, he had no alternative but to report that 
the directors thought the proposed statement should not be issued 
and that, if issued, it should not indicate that the Reserve Banks 
thought it was a good thing. 
President Coldwell stated that the views of his directors 
were similar to those reported by President Hayes. 
President Hickman said that his directors had expressed 
some of the same thoughts. 
They were concerned, naturally, from 
the point of view of their own operations. Almost all of the 
directors regarded this as an entering wedge toward unionization. 
The best defense against union inroads, in their opinion, was for 
the Reserve Banks to improve their fringe benefits and to be sure 
that the Banks were fully competitive, if not a little ahead, on 

1408 
4/29/69 
-2-
salaries. 
Nevertheless, most of the directors, he thought, would 
accept the policy statement despite their reservations. 
1 
Governor Daane inquired whether there were any directors 
who saw positive merit in the issuance of such a statement, and 
President Hickman replied that at least one of his directors saw 
merit in such a procedure. 
President Galusha reported quite a strong feeling on the 
part of the Conference Committee that there should be published 
System ground rules for the conduct of negotiations. 
President Bopp observed that it would be readily agreed, 
he thought, that it was simply good management to follow progressive 
personnel practices, with adequate compensation and fringe benefits. 
However, an assumption that these practices would necessarily deter 
the desire for unionization missed an important point, namely, the 
desire for recognition. An employee of long service who had not 
progressed too far in his Bank might relish the chance to obtain 
recognition as a union officer. 
Therefore, he doubted whether 
good personnel practices were in themselves adequate to prevent 
unionization. 
Governor Maisel requested clarification concerning references 
during the discussion to "publication" of the policy statement. 
One 
possibility was for the Board to adopt the statement and issue a 

1409 
4/29/69 
-2-
press statement concerning it. Another possibility, apparently 
favored by some, would be simply to send the statement to the 
/ 
Reserve Banks in the form of a letter that each Bank would have 
available as needed. 
President Galusha noted that as soon as President Swan 
disclosed the policy to union representatives in San Francisco, 
without doubt the news would spread fast even if no press release 
was issued. 
f 
Governor Brimmer asked the Presidents whether their direc-
tors had addressed themselves to the first two paragraphs of 
the preamble now included in the statement of policy. 
(Those 
paragraphs recited that Federal Reserve Banks were expressly 
excluded from the definition of "employer" in the Labor Manage-
ment Relations Act of 1947, as amended; employees of the Banks 
were excluded from coverage under that Act; and Executive Order 
10988 was inapplicable to Reserve Banks and their employees.) 
President Hayes replied that, although his directors had 
not addressed themselves to those paragraphs in depth, the point 
was specifically discussed. 
The essence of the directors' views 
was that the Federal Reserve Banks were exempt from both the 
Labor Management Relations Act and Executive Order 10988, that 
this was a desirable state of affairs, and that there was no reason 

1410 
4/29/69 
-2-
to change it. They doubted that Congress would make any change 
in the law. 
President Hickman said that only one of his directors had 
taken the position that the Reserve Banks should do nothing and 
try to hold the line. 
The general feeling was that under such 
circumstances pressure would be brought on the Congress to change 
the law. 
President Bopp stated that his directors did focus on the 
paragraphs in question. 
They felt strongly that the Reserve Banks 
should move in the direction of permitting negotiation on wages 
and other key issues. 
If not, it would be only a matter of time 
until the unions became dissatisfied. 
In his view, Mr. Bopp said, 
a choice must be made between moving in the direction of private 
industry or Civil Service, and the approach embodied in the policy 
statement would lead down the road toward Civil Service. 
However, 
his was a minority view within the Presidents
1 Conference, and he 
was willing to go along with the majority to present a united front. 
President Scanlon said his directors had addressed them-
selves to the paragraphs in the preamble and that they shared many 
of the views expressed by the New York directors. 
However, the 
director with the most experience in labor matters had commented 
that if any organization thought it could remain untouchable in 

1411 
4/29/69 
-7-
this day and age he had his head buried in the sand. 
Therefore, 
this director was in favor of the adoption of guidelines the 
Reserve Banks could use if they were called upon to deal with 
the unions. 
Governor Brimmer referred to the proposed elimination 
from the document of the clause stating that it had been adopted 
after consultation with the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Especially 
in view of that deletion, he felt that it would be unfortunate if the 
statement got into the public domain from a Reserve Bank. 
The proper 
course, in his view, would be for the Board to issue the statement 
with a press release. 
Mr. Molony agreed that that course would be clear cut. 
If 
news of adoption of the statement came out in San Francisco, 
inquiries would certainly be made and the Board would be placed 
in a somewhat defensive position. 
It might seem as though it had 
been necessary to extract the statement from the Board. 
President Heflin said one of his directors had advanced 
the view that it would be less of an invitation to unionization 
if the matter were handled quietly. 
The issuance of a letter by 
the Board to the Reserve Banks would be in conformity with the 
usual method of handling administrative matters. 
President Swan pointed out, however, that he was committed 
to making the policy known to union representatives and that this 

1412 
4/29/69 
-2-
meant he would also have to inform the Reserve Bank's employees 
of at least the essence of the policy. 
Questions would no doubt 
soon be raised elsewhere, so he could not see any gain in not 
issuing the policy statement. 
President Galusha commented that on the basis of letters 
he had seen and the reactions of his own directors he thought it 
would be improper to assume that all of the Reserve Bank directors 
were opposed to the issuance of the proposed statement. 
There 
appeared to be a considerable body of opinion that this was the 
best direction in which to move. 
Chairman Martin then stated that the Board of Governors 
would take the policy statement, as amended, under advisement, 
following which President Swan recalled that at the meeting of 
the Board and tte Presidents on April 14 it had been agreed that 
a policy would be decided upon no later than the week beginning 
May 4. 
President Galusha commented that the Committee on Manage-
ment and Personnel believed that the time for decision was here. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
