MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 31, 19 72 

2237 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, August 31, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
M r . Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Pizer, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. 
The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of Wachovia Bank & Trust Company, N.A., Winston-Salem, North 
Carolina, to organize an Edge corporation in New York City, to be 
known as Wachovia International Banking Corporation (New York). A copy 

2283 
8/31/72 
- 2 -
of the letter sent to the applicant, which transmitted a preliminary 
permit, is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Chase 
Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, to continue 
to hold the shares of Inversiones Atlantida, S.A., Tegucigalpa, Honduras, 
after the latter acquires shares of a Honduras real estate subsidiary. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Chemical 
Bank, New York, New York, to issue a capital note. A copy of the letter 
sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved for transmittal to the Comptroller 
of the Currency a report on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed merger of The First National Bank of Girard, Girard, Ohio, 
into The Union National Bank of Youngstown, Youngstown, Ohio, the 
conclusion reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Union 
National Bank of Youngstown and The First National Bank 
of Girard would eliminate existing and potential for 
increased competition between them, and the overall effect 
on competition would be adverse. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order reflecting approval 
on August 17, 1972, of applications of Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., 
Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of Westchester National Bank 
of Dade County, Miami, Florida, and Midway National Bank, Miami, Florida. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 

22Q9 
8/31/72 
-3-
The Board authorized the issuance of an order and statement 
reflecting approval on August 8, 1972, of the application of Texas 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of the 
successor by merger to American National Bank of Beaumont, Beaumont, 
Texas, and, as an incident to the acquisition of that bank, to acquire 
shares of Beaumont State Bank. Attached under Item No. 5 are copies 
of the order and statement. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Midwestern 
Financial Corporation, Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of Crawshaw 
Mortgage and Investment Co., Encino, California, and authorized issuance 
of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached 
as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Wyoming 
Bancorporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to acquire shares of The Stockgrowers 
Bank of Evanston, Evanston, Wyoming, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 7. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Reception for Bank-Fund delegates. 
In a memorandum dated 
August 30, 1972, the Office of the Secretary recommended that the Board 
hold a reception on Wednesday, September 27, for central bank delegates 
attending the Annual Meetings of the Boards of Governors of the Inter-
national Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development, and associated organizations. 
The reception would be similar 

2230 
8/31/72 
-4-
to those given in other recent years when the Fund-Bank meetings were 
held in Washington. 
The estimated cost was $2,000. 
The Board unanimously approved the recommendation. 
Royal Trust Company. At its meeting on August 18, 1972, the 
Board granted a temporary stay of its order of June 16, 1972, approving 
the application of The Royal Trust Company, Montreal, Quebec, Canada, 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of 
the successor by merger to Inter National Bank of Miami, Miami, Florida. 
The Florida Banking Commissioner and the Florida Bankers Association 
had requested a stay and reversal of the Board's approval action. 
The 
Board granted the temporary stay to permit the parties to file further 
documentation in support of the request for reconsideration. 
Additional 
briefs had now been submitted, and in a memorandum dated August 29, 1972, 
the Legal Division recommended that the Board deny the request. 
The Board unanimously denied the request for reconsideration. 
A copy of the denial order is attached as Item No. 8. 
Regulation Y: 
insurance activities. At its meeting on August 14, 
1972, the Board discussed a proposed interpretation of section 225.4(a)(9) 
of Regulation Y , Bank Holding Companies, regarding insurance activities 
of bank holding companies. The proposed interpretation had been revised 
in light of comments made at that meeting and was attached to a memorandum 
from the Legal Division dated August 29, 1972. 

2231 
8/31/72 
-5-
The proposed interpretation generally would make the sale 
of convenience insurance, or insurance sold as a matter of convenience 
to the purchaser, a permissible activity if premium income from 
convenience insurance did not constitute more than 5 per cent of the 
aggregate insurance premium income of the holding company system from 
the sale of insurance directly related to an extension of credit by a 
bank-related firm. 
(However, a large holding company could not operate 
a general insurance agency, even if its premium income would be within 
this limitation.) 
Some Board members felt that 5 per cent did not 
constitute a significant portion of aggregate insurance premium income, 
and that a higher limit on convenience insurance would be more reasonable. 
However, a majority of the Board favored the 5 per cent limit on conven-
ience insurance, with the understanding that it could be modified in the 
future, if desirable. 
Further discussion developed a consensus for including insurance 
protecting trust assets (if permitted by State law) and insurance related 
to mortgage servicing by a bank or bank-related firm in the list of types 
°f insurance that would be regarded as directly related to the provision 
of other financial services by a bank or bank-related firm. 
The Board thereupon approved publication of an interpretation in 
the form attached as Item No. 9. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

^Xv 
H misvv 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 1 
8/31/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADORtBS OFFtCIAI. CDSKCSPQNDENCi 
TO THE HDARO 
August 31, 1972 
Wachovia Bank & Trust Company, N.A. 
P. 0. Box 3099 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina 
27102 
Gent 1 er.en: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated July 12, 1972 
of Wachovia International Banking Corporation (New York), New York, 
New York 
and there is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing 
that Corporation to exercise such of che powers conferred by ^ 
Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Reserve Act: as are incidental ana 
preliminary to its organization. 
E'-xopt as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K . 
che Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Losrd 
authorizing it generally to commence business. 
Before the -3oara will 
issue its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
or secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
(2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
by citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
under the laws of the United States or of a State of the United states 
or bv firms or companies the controlling interest in which is ownea by 
Citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital 
stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent 
has been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individually 
Paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription, 
hereafter 
the treasurer or secretary shall certify to the payment 
of the remaining instalments as ano. when each is paid in, in accordance 
with law. 
Your attention is directed to the fact that Wachovia Inter-
national Banking Corporation (New York) will have no separate base 

Wachovia Bank & Trust Company, N.A. 
- 2 -
urider the foreign credit restraint effort and that any foreign 
loans and investment will need to be made under the ceiling of 
Wachovia Bank & Trust Company, N.A. ("WBTC"). Accordingly, the 
foregoing approval is given with the understanding that any 
foreign loans and investment of the Corporation will be made 
within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to 
WBTC and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

2 2 3 4 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON. Q.C. 205BI 
August 31, 1972 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated July 12, 1972, of WACHOVIA INTERNATIONAL BANKING CORPORATION 
(NEW YORK) duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that 
WACHOVIA INTERNATIONAL BANKING CORPORATION (NEW YORK) is authorized 
to exercise such of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 2 5(a) 
as are incidental and preliminary to its organization pending the 
issuance by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of 
a final permit generally to commence business in accordance with the 
provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant 
thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By (Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
8/31/72 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
August 31, 1972 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
i Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 30, 1972, and a letter 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York dated July 18, 1972, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation, ("CMOBC
1
'), 
to continue to hold the shares of In.versiones Atlantida, S.A. ("XASA"), 
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, after IASA. acquires all of the capital stock 
of a Honduras real estate subsidiary, ("HRS"), at a cost of approxi-
mately LI,000,000 (about $500,000), provided the shares are acquired 
Within one year from the date of this letter, and should HRS issue 
notes with maturities in excess of one year up to an amount of 
approximately $5,000,000. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of K.RS by CMOBC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) 
That CMOBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in HRS if HRS at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if HRS establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Honduras or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to CMOBC; 
(2) 
That : when required by the Board of Governors, CMOBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of HRS as it may require from time 
to time; and 

2 ^ 9 8 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
(3) 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
HRS be reported under Section 2.11.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if HRS were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act. 
The Board's consent is granted subject to the additional 
condition that HRS shall restrict its holding of real estate to 
that which is, or is to be, used as bank premises by Banco Atlantida, 
S.A. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by HRS in Honduras in 
the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of HRS. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to The Chase Manhattan Bank National Association 
and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N • R S
 
% J 
Item No. 3 
'v>- 
°
F T H E
 
8/31/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
v;<TV:"V::'/ 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C, 
2055' 
A D D S E 9 3 D r "ir.IAl. 
C O B a e g C C I N U E N C E 
" 
"I CI THE 
ODARC 
August 31, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Chemical Bank 
New York, New York 
10045 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f) (3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D , the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of a $50,000,000 
subordinated capital note by Chemical Bank, Row York, New Y o r k , in 
the form submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
This 
approval is given on the condition that the capital note cannot be 
called for redemption prior to maturity without the approval of the 
Federal Reserve Bank. Approval is granted with the understanding 
that the sale of this capital note will be consummated vithin six 
months from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A . Greenspan 
Michael A . Greenspan 
A s c i s tan t S ec. r 0 i:a ry 

22*}Q 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has filed separate applications for the Board's approval under 
§
 3
(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent 
°t more of the voting shares of Westchester National Bank of Dade 
County, Miami, Florida ("Westchester Bank"), and Midway National Bank, 
Miami, Florida ("Midway Bank"). 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and the Board has considered the applications and 
a
ll comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant is Florida's third largest banking organization 
and controls 34 banks with total deposits of $1.0 billion, representing 
per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in the State. 
(All 
banking data are as of December 31, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
J u
ly 31, 1972.) The acquisition of Westchester Bank ($17.3 million 
deposits) and Midway Bank ($2.7 million deposits) would increase 
Applic ant's share of State deposits by 0.1 percentage points, and 
Applicant's rank among banking organizations in Florida would not change. 
Item No. 4 
8/31/72 

22*39 
-2-
Westchester and Midway Banks are located in Dade County 
where they control .48 and .07 per cent, respectively, of deposits in 
this banking market. Although subject banks are located only three 
miles apart, they do not actively compete with each other. Midway Bank 
was established in April 1971 by directors of Westchester Bank and is 
the only bank in its primary service area. Westchester Bank ranks as 
the smallest bank in its immediate service area. Both banks are under 
common ownership, control, and management. It appears that no signifi-
cant present or potential competition would be eliminated by consummation 
of this proposal. 
Applicant presently controls 2.8 per cent of the Dade County 
banking market deposits through three subsidiary banks (representing 
aggregate market deposits for each of $63.6, $26, and $9.7 million, re-
spectively) and ranks as the market's ninth largest banking organization. 
Consummation of this proposal would represent an increase in Applicant's 
control of market deposits by only .5 percentage points. Applicant's 
Present subsidiaries in Dade County are located 23, 16, and 10 miles, re-
spectively, from the Westchester and Midway Banks' offices. There is 
n
o significant present competition between any of Applicant's subsidiaries 
and subject banks. Due to Florida's restrictive branching laws and the 
highly banked areas which intervene, it appears that no substantial 
amount of future competition would be eliminated by consummation of this 
Proposal. Therefore, competitive considerations are consistent with 
approval of the applications. 

2300 
-3-
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiaries 
are considered to be generally satisfactory in view of Applicant's 
plans to improve the capital positions of its subsidiaries where a need 
exists; management for the system is also considered to be generally 
Satisfactory, and prospects for the group appear favorable. The finan-
cial condition and management of Westchester and Midway Banks are deemed 
satisfactory, and prospects for each appear favorable. Banking factors 
are, therefore, consistent with approval of the applications. Although 
the proposed affiliation with Applicant would not introduce new services 
to the market, it would better enable each bank to respond to the in-
creasing financial needs in the expanding western section of the county 
which they serve. Specialized banking services of Applicant would be 
®ade available to both Westchester and Midway Banks, and the quality 
and quantity of the banking services offered by each would be improved. 
Accordingly, considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served are consistent with and lend some support toward 
approval of the applications. It is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed transactions would be in the public interest and that the 
a
Pplications should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved 
f°r the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
d
ate of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective 

-4-
2391 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 31, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
and Governors Daane and Mitchell. 

2302 
Item No. 5 
8/31/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
TEXAS COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), to acquire 100 per cent 
of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the 
successor by merger to American National Bank of Beaumont, Beaumont, 
Texas. As an incident to acquisition of said bank, Applicant necessarily 
would acquire, and seeks approval for, acquisition of, 37 per cent of 
the voting shares of Beaumont State Bank, Beaumont, Texas, shares of 
which are indirectly controlled by American National Bank under a trust 
relationship. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
On the basis of the record, and for the reasons summarized 
in the Board's Statement of this date, the application is approved on 
condition that Applicant divest itself of its interest in Beaumont State 
®ank at the earliest practicable time and, in any event, within two 
^ a r s from the effective date of consummation of the acquisition of shares 
American National Bank, unless such period is extended for good cause 

23G3 
-2-
b
y the Board. The application to acquire shares of Beaumont State 
Bank is approved only to the extent necessary, and for the period 
granted to Applicant, to effect the required divestiture of its 
interest in Beaumont State Bank. The acquisition of American National 
Bank of Beaumont shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the effective date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ effective August 31, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
J Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
itchell, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Daane 

2304 
STATEMENT BY 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REGARDING APPLICATIONS BY 
TEXAS COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC., HOUSTON, TEXAS 
FOR APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF BANKS 
Nature of transaction. - Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., 
Houston, Texas, a registered bank holding company, has applied to 
the Board of Governors, pursuant to § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisi-
tion of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors* qualifying 
shares) of the successor by merger to American National Bank of Beaumont, 
Beaumont, Texas ("American Bank"). The bank into which American Bank 
is to be merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate 
the acquisition of the voting shares of American Bank. Accordingly, 
the proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor organization is 
treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of American 
Bank. Applicant has applied also for approval to acquire 37 per cent 
the voting shares of Beaumont State Bank, Beaumont, Texas ("Beaumont 
Bank").!/ A trusteed affiliate of American Bank through its trustees, 
1/ At the time this application was filed, American General Insurance 
Company, Houston, Texas, owned more than 32 per cent of the voting shares 
Texas Commerce Bancshares so that an acquisition of shares by Texas 
Commerce would constitute indirect acquisition by American General. There-
fore, separate applications with respect to the acquisition of the shares 
Beaumont State and American Bank were filed by American General. How-
l e r , during the period of the Board's consideration of these applications, 
^eriean General effected a divestiture of its ownership and control of 
the voting shares of Texas Commerce and has ceased to be a bank holding 
c
°mpany under the Bank Holding Company Act. Accordingly, American General's 
a
Pplications indirectly to acquire shares of each of said banks have been 
dismissed as moot by Order of the Board (1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 7650). 

2305 
-2-
holds 37 per cent of the outstanding voting shares of Beaumont Bank 
for the benefit of shareholders of American Bank. Therefore, acquisition 
of American Bank would result in Applicant acquiring 37 per cent of 
the voting shares of Beaumont Bank. 
In its Order and Statement dated April 11, 1972, the Board 
denied Applicant's application to acquire American Bank. At the 
same time, by separate Order, the Board approved Applicant's application 
to acquire shares of Beaumont Bank. Subsequently, Applicant filed a 
Request for Reconsideration of its application to acquire American 
Bank stating in part, that the proposed acquisition of shares of Beaumont 
B
ank was incident to, and sought only in connection with, an acquisition 
°f American Bank" that Applicant did not seek to acquire shares of Beau-
m
°nt Bank independently of an acquisition of American Bank and could 
n
°t acquire the shares of Beaumont Bank apart from an acquisition of 
African Bank. In addition, Applicant supplemented its original appli-
C a
tion with respect to American Bank with additional information con-
C e
*ning the present condition of that bank and the emerging structure 
o f
 the Beaumont banking market. In an Order dated June 13, 1972, the 
Board granted Applicant's Request for Reconsideration of the Board's 
0r
<ler of April 11, 1972; and vacated its Order of April 11, 1972, which 
granted approval to Applicant to acquire shares of Beaumont Bank. 
Hotice of the Board's Order granting Applicant's Request for 
^consideration of its application to acquire American Bank has been 
Siven and the time for filing comments and views has expired. The Board 

has reconsidered this application and all comments received in the light 
°f the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act and the original and 
supplemental material received in connection xsrith these applications. 
Statutory considerations. - Applicant controls two banks 
located in the Houston area with aggregate deposits of $1.2 billion, 
^presenting 3.9 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the 
State. Applicant, the fourth largest banking organization in Texas 
and the second largest in the Houston banking market, controls approxi-
mately 16 per cent of total commercial deposits in the Houston area. 
In addition, Applicant controls between 20 and 24.9 per cent of the 
Voting shares of each of five other banks located in the Houston market 
a
nd holding aggregate deposits of $160.7 million, representing approxi-
2/ 
lately 2.8 per cent of commercial bank deposits in the Houston area. 
Upon acquisition of both American Bank and Beaumont Bank (respectively 
$112.5 million and $25.2 million of deposits), Applicant's position in 
Elation to other Texas banking organizations and holding companies 
V/ould remain unchanged and Applicant's share of deposits in the State 
w
ould increase by approximately .5 percentage points. (All banking data 
as of December 31, 1971, and reflect holding company formations and 
acquisitions approved through June 30, 1972.) 
American Bank (located in downtown Beaumont) and Beaumont 
Sank (located 2 miles west of downtown Beaumont) both operate in the 
B
eaumont banking market and are, respectively, the second and seventh 
27~Applicant has filed applications with the Board to acquire all of 
remaining voting shares of each of two of these banks. 

2307 
-4-
largest of 18 banking organizations in that market; and they control 
respectively 17.7 and 4.0 per cent of commercial bank deposits in that 
market. American Bank, however, has a relatively large share of deposits 
of other banks and large certificates of deposit. Its market share of 
total IPC deposits in accounts under $100,000 is only 13.7 per cent; and 
the share of these smaller accounts is a better measure of the competitive 
situation in a local market. Upon consummation of the proposals herein, 
Applicant would control deposits of $137.6 million, representing 21.7 
v. * 
Per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the Beaumont market, and 
would control 18.8 per cent of total IPC deposits in accounts under 
3/ 
$100,000. 
The banking office of Applicant closest to either proposed sub-
sidiary is located approximately 90 miles west of Beaumont in Houston, 
Texas, and operates in a separate but adjacent banking market. It appears 
that no meaningful competition exists between any of Applicant's present 
subsidiary banks and American or Beaumont Bank; and, on the facts of record, 
in particular, the Texas law prohibiting branch banking and the distances 
between the banks involved, consummation of the applications is unlikely 
to foreclose significant potential competition between either of the 
Proposed subsidiaries and any of Applicant's subsidiary or satellite banks. 
In its Order of April 11, 1972, denying acquisition of American 
Bank, the Board found that the facts of record indicated that acquisition 
-2/ Beaumont Bank was organized in 1955 and has been affiliated with 
American Bank since 1959 as the result of the purchase of 37 per cent 
Beaumont Bank's outstanding voting shares by a corporation, all of 
t^e shares of which are held in trust for the benefit of the shareholders 
°f American Bank. In addition, it appears that individuals owning 18 
cent of the outstanding voting shares of American Bank directly 
c
°ntrol an additional 39 per cent of the outstanding voting shares of 
Beaumont Bank. 

-5-
2308 
by Applicant of control of both American Bank and Beaumont Bank or of 
American Bank alone, would have serious adverse effects on potential com-
petition in the Beaumont banking market. The Board found the market 
attractive for de novo entry and Applicant a likely entrant into the 
Beaumont banking market. Acquisition of Beaumont Bank alone, and the 
resulting disaffiliation of that bank from American Bank was seen as 
reducing concentration in the Beaumont banking market by the introduction 
°f an additional organization to compete with the larger banking organiza-
tions in that market. American Bank was regarded as strong enough to com-
pete as a viable independent bank and capable of becoming a lead bank or 
substantial participant in a new or smaller bank holding company system. 
In connection with its Request for Reconsideration, Applicant 
Provided information not previously available to the Board at the time 
o f
 its earlier consideration of the subject proposals. This information 
indicates the following: 
1. Applicant's original applications failed to inform the 
Board that the proposed acquisition of shares of Beaumont Bank 
was sought only in connection with and as an incident to its 
acquisition of American Bank. Applicant has been advised by 
directors of both Beaumont and American banks and by trustees 
holding shares of Beaumont Bank that they will neither consider 
nor cooperate with any efforts of Applicant to acquire Beaumont 
Bank separate from acquisition of American Bank 
2. American Bank does not provide significant competi-
tion to the largest banking organization in the Beaumont 

2809 
-6-
raarket and does not have the management or financial resources 
to become a substantial member of a small bank holding com-
pany system. 
3. Subsequent to the Board's denial of Applicant's 
proposal to acquire American Bank, three bank holding 
company organizations have either reached agreement or 
have applied to the Board to acquire the third, fourth, 
and fifth largest banks in the Beaumont market. 
4. Applicant has committed itself to divest its 
interest in Beaumont Bank (acquired as a consequence of 
an acquisition of American Bank), should the Board dis-
approve of Applicant's having control of both banks. 
The Board has reviewed the information submitted by Appli-
cant in connection with its Request for Reconsideration, together with 
a
 review of the entire record in this matter; and finds that significant 
changes have occurred in the Beaumont banking market and with respect 
to American Bank and that such changes lend weight toward approval of 
Applicant's acquisition of American Bank provided Applicant is required 
to divest the interest in Beaumont Bank that will be acquired as an incident 
to acquisition of American Bank. 
Applicant's inability to acquire shares of Beaumont Bank 
(independently from an acquisition of American Bank) eliminates the 
Prospect of Beaumont Bank, through affiliation with Applicant, becoming 
a n
 additional competitor to the larger banking organizations in the 

2310 
-7-
Beauraont market. At the time of the Board's prior consideration of 
this proposal, the management of American Bank was considered generally 
satisfactory despite some indications of a lack of managerial resources; 
and the prospects for American Bank for operation independently 
were viewed as favorable. However, the most recent examination of 
American Bank (the results of which were not available to the Board 
at its earlier consideration of that bank's condition) indicates 
considerable executive turnover and a further weakening of management 
depth. Furthermore, additional analysis of American Bank's earnings 
and growth relative to other banks in its market indicates that 
American Bank is presently not in a position to provide vigorous 
competition in that market- and that it is unlikely that the bank 
could serve as a lead bank or significant participant in a new or 
smaller bank holding company system. 
Events occurring subsequent to the Board's denial of the 
Proposed acquisition of American Bank by Applicant have changed 
dramatically the outlook with respect to present and potential banking 
competition in the Beaumont market. Three additional banking organiza-
tions (two of which are the third and fifth largest banking organizations 
^ the State) seek acquisition of the third, fourth and fifth largest 
banks in the market and to compete with the dominant banking organiza-
tion in that market. We express no opinion on those pending applica-
tions but view as likely the prospect that some of the State's largest 

-8-
2311 
banking organizations will enter the Beaumont market. The competitive 
position of American Bank would be further weakened by the introduction 
of additional bank holding company organizations through affiliation with 
the significant banks in the market. 
The Board continues to view the acquisition by Applicant of both 
American and Beaumont banks as having serious adverse effects on potential 
competition in the Beaumont market. Accordingly, acquisition by Appli-
cant of American Bank is subject to the condition that Applicant divest 
its interest in Beaumont Bank (acquired incidentally to acquisition of 
American Bank) at the earliest practicable time and, in any event, 
within two years from its acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to American 
Bank. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes that 
consummation of Applicant's proposal, as herein conditioned, xrould not 
result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, 
or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any area. Moreover, 
the competitive effects of the proposal are consistent with approval of 
the application and to the extent competition among Beaumont banking 
organizations is likely to become more aggressive, lend some weight toward 
approval. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant and its subsidiaries appear satisfactory and prospects 
of all are favorable. Although the financial condition of American 
Bank is generally satisfactory, the bank has not operated as successfully 
as competing banks in the market due, in part, to its lack of managerial 
strength. Affiliation with Applicant will enable American Bank to 

J L ^ 
-9-
draw upon Applicant's financial, managerial, and technical resource 
strength and should result in that bank becoming a vigorous competitor 
in the Beaumont area. In addition, Applicant proposes to introduce 
through American Bank specialized banking services such as international 
petroleum and chemical banking operations to accomodate the large 
corporations engaged in various aspects of oil and gas operations in 
the Beaumont area. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the relevant area are consistent with and lend weight to approval of 
the applications. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the 
proposed acquisition of American Bank, upon the condition that Applicant 
divest shares acquired in Beaumont Bank, is in the public interest and 
that the applications should be approved. 
August 31, 1972. 

2313 
Item No. 6 
8/31/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MIDWESTERN FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Crawshaw Mortgage and Investment Co. 
| 
, 
I 
Midwestern Financial Corporation, Denver, Colorado, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the 
voting shares of Crawshaw Mortgage and Investment Co,, Encino, 
] 
California, a company that engages in the activity of mortgage banking. 
Such activity has been determined by the Board to be closely related to 
the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
ested persons to submit comments and views on the public interest 
factors has been duly published (37 Federal Register 9805). The time 
I 
for filing comments and views has expired, and none has been timely 
received. 
Applicant is a one-bank holding company through its ownership 
I 
' 
' : • 
of The First National Bank in Golden (deposits of $39,8 million), Golden, 
y 
Colorado, 
Applicant's major activity of mortgage banking is conducted 
through three subsidiaries: Kassler & Co., Kassler-West Mortgage Cor-
poration and Kassler of California, As of June 30, 1971, Kassler & Co. 
serviced $701 million of permanent mortgages and ranked as the 18th 
largest mortgage banking firm in the nation. Until March, 1970, when 
it acquired Kassler of California, Applicant was not active in the 
California mortgage banking markets. 
i/ 
Banking data as of December 31, 1971. 

-2-
2314 
Crawshaw Mortgage and Investment Co. ("Crawshaw") is a 
2/ 
small mortgage company 
operating out of one office in Encino, 
California. It engages in originating, brokering and servicing FHA 
and VA loans on single-family residences and construction loans on 
commercial properties. In its most recent fiscal year, Crawshaw 
originated a total of $11.3 million in single family mortgages 
(primarily in Ventura County and the San Fernando Valley -- includ-
ing the northern part of Los Angeles County) and $8.8 million in 
commercial mortgages (throughout the Los Angeles area). During 
!971, Crawshaw had 0.17 per cent of the total mortgage recordings 
in Los Angeles County, while Kassler of California had about 0.51 
Per cent. In view of the relatively large number of other mortgage 
lenders in the Los Angeles area, elimination of this small amount of 
local competition would have no significantly adverse effect on 
mortgage lending in the area. 
Kassler of California does not presently compete in the 
l o s
 Angeles area for commercial mortgage loans. Therefore, consum-
mation of the proposal x;ould not eliminate any existing competition 
in this product market. Since Applicant could commence commercial 
Mortgage lending on its own, however, its removal as a potential 
competitor to Crawshaw for such loans could have a slightly adverse 
e
£fect. 
Z/ 
As of September 30, 1971, Crawshaxj's servicing portfolio was 
^proximately $28 million. 

-3-
2315 
It is anticipated that the proposed acquisition would enable 
Kassler of California to compete more effectively with the numerous 
mortgage departments of large banks and savings and loan associations 
in the Los Angeles area. Present and potential mortgage customers 
could be served more conveniently out of Kassler of California's 
established offices in the area. On balance, the Board concludes 
that these public benefits outweigh any possible adverse effect on 
competition. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(3) is 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
^termination is subject to the conditions set forth in 5 225.4(a) of 
Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 
the provisions and purposes of the Act, and the Board's regulations 
and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasions thereof. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective August 31, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
3 T - — - — . 
,.. 
ffitt ,
V
°
t i n 8 f o r 
t h l s
 action: vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
chell} Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Airman Burns. 

2316 
Item No. 7 
8/31/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WYOMING BANGORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Wyoming Bancorporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of The Stockgrowers Bank of Evanston, Evanston, Wyoming ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the second largest banking organization in the State, 
controls nine banks with total deposits of $103.2 million, representing 
11.1 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in Wyoming. (All 
banking data are as of December 31, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding 
company acquisitions approved by the Board through July 31, 1972.) Con-
summation of the proposal would not significantly increase Applicant's 
share of total deposits in the State. 
Bank, located in the southwestern corner of Wyoming about 75 
miles northeast of Salt Lake City, Utah, is the smaller of two banks 
located in Evanston and holds total deposits of $8.6 million. Applicant's 
subsidiary located closest to Bank is about 175 miles to the north and 
Neither it nor any of Applicant's other subsidiaries compete with Bank 

2317 
-2-
to any significant extent. Moreover, the development of competition 
between Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiaries is considered unlikely 
in view of the intervening distances between the banks, Wyoming's 
restrictive branching laws, and the unlikelihood that Applicant would 
enter the Evanston's area de novo. It appears, therefore, that con-
summation of the proposal would not eliminate any existing competition 
nor foreclose the development of any potential competition. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant and its subsidiary banks are regarded as generally satis-
factory and consistent with approval of the application. While Applicant 
will incur acquisition debt as a result of consummation of the proposal, 
Applicant proposes to retire the entire debt at an early date from the 
proceeds of a stock offering. In addition, Applicant states that a 
portion of the proceeds from the stock offering will be used to augment the 
capital at its lead bank and at Bank, thus strengthening the financial 
condition of each. Affiliation with Applicant would provide Bank with 
a source of experienced banking personnel. Thus, considerations relating 
to the banking factors lend x^eight toward approval of the application. 
Applicant proposes to assist Bank in improving its services by establishing 
trust services and increasing Bank's lending capabilities. These con-
siderations relating to the convenience and needs lend some weight 
toward approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed trans-
action would be in the public interest and that the application should 
^e approved. 

2318 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order, unless such period is exteneded for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 31, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
i t Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns. 

2319 
Item No. 8 
8/31/72 
THE ROYAL TRUST COMPANY 
Order Denying Request for Reconsideration 
The Honorable Fred 0. Dickinson, Jr., Comptroller 
and Banking Commissioner of the State of Florida and the Florida 
Bankers Association ("Petitioners") by telegram received by the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on July 13, 1972, 
and by letter dated July 13, 1972, have requested reconsideration 
of the Order of the Board of Governors dated June 16, 1972, whereby 
the Board approved the application of The Royal Trust Company, 
Montreal, Quebec, Canada ("Royal"), pursuant to section 3(a)(1) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), for 
prior approval to become a bank holding company by the acquisition 
of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors
1
 qualifying 
shares) of the successor by merger to Inter National Bank of Miami, 
Miami, Florida ("Inter National"). 
The Petitioners contend that reconsideration of the Board's 
Order of June 16, 1972, is appropriate in that (1) consummation of 
the proposed transaction would violate 19 Florida Statutes Annotated 
5 659.20 (1972) x-;hich generally prohibits banks and trust companies 
from investing in stock, (2) consummation of the proposed transaction 
contravenes the public policy of the State of Florida with respect 
to investment in stock by a trust company, and (3) the Board erred 
in its June 16, 1972 Order when it concluded that "consummation of 
the proposed transaction should have a beneficial effect on the 

2820 
-2-
convenience and needs of [the Dade County] community in that [Royal] 
intends to utilize its trust expertise in the establishment of a 
trust department in [Inter National]," Petitioners claiming that the 
establishment of a trust department in a national bank owned by a 
foreign trust company is prohibited by 5 659.141 of the Florida 
Statutes. 
By Order dated August 18, 1972, the Board granted a 
temporary stay of its Order of June 16, 1972, until the close of 
business on September 1, 1972, for the purpose of affording Petitioners 
and Royal an opportunity to submit written briefs or other documentation 
in support of their contentions and particularly with respect to certain 
specified issues. Petitioners and Royal have submitted additional briefs. 
After due consideration of the arguments presented, the Board 
concludes that the contentions of Petitioners are without substantial 
merit. It appears to the Board that § 659.20 of the Florida Statutes 
does not prohibit every foreign trust company from investing in stock, 
hut rather that the prohibition is directed to a trust company (or bank) 
chartered by or operating in the State of Florida, the State of Florida 
having no authority over the character of investments of other trust 
companies. 
Petitioners also contend that consummation of the proposed 
transaction would violate 
the public policy of the State of Florida 
that disfavors investment in stock by trust companies and that, therefore, 
the charter powers of Royal to invest in stock may not be exercised 
i n
 the State of Florida (even though Royal, a foreign corporation, 

2 3 
-3-
does not operate in the State of Florida). The Board is not 
convinced that the public policy embodied in C 659.20 is to 
prohibit investment in stock by all trust companies. Rather, 
the Board is of the opinion that 3 659,20 implements a public 
policy to ensure the liquidity of financial institutions that serve 
citizens of Florida; as stated above, it appears that the State of 
Florida has no legitimate interest in the character of investments 
made by a trust company which is neither chartered by, nor operated 
in, the State of Florida, 
Finally, the Petitioners contend that the Board erred in 
regarding the proposed establishment of a trust department in Inter 
National by Royal as a benefit deriving from the proposal and favor-
ing the convenience and needs of the Dade County community. Section 
659,141 of the Florida Statutes appears to prohibit a trust company, 
the operations of which are principally conducted outside the State 
of Florida, from acquiring control over a trust company operating 
in Florida. The Petitioners contend that 5 659.141 forbids a 
foreign trust company from acquiring control of a national bank 
operating a trust department. The Board concludes that this contention 
lacks merit. The Attorney General of Florida, whose official opinions 
a
re the guide to State executive and administrative officers in perform-
ing their official duties (until such opinions are superseded by judicial 
decisions or opinions),V in an opinion to the Governor of that State on 
I^sTate ex rel. Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. State Board of Equalizers, 
So. 681 (Fla. 1923). 

-4-
O ' ^ O O 
/CO^fW 
April 17, 1972, advised that 5 659.141 does not prohibit a non-
Florida corporation from acquiring a national bank with trust powers. 
By letter of April 10, 1972, to Inter National, the Florida Banking 
Commissioner stated that he would "follow the advice of the Attorney 
General of Florida" in this matter. The Board regards the advice of 
the Florida Attorney-General as sound. 
The Board further notes that the Florida Banking Commissioner 
apparently has been aware of the proposed transaction for at least 
a year; that, shortly after its receipt of Royal's application, 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta sent a copy of the application 
to the Florida Banking Commissioner; and that notice of receipt of 
the application was published, and public comment invited, on 
9 / 
^lay 2, 1 9 7 2 . D e s p i t e ample opportunity to object to the proposal 
while it was pending before the Board, Petitioners' objections to the 
Proposal were not presented to the Board until 26 days after the 
Board's action approving the application. Petitioners have offered 
no explanation or justification for their delay. 
Finally, the Board notes that its Crder of June 16, 1972, 
(as is the case with all approval orders under section 3 of the Bank 
Holding Company Act) Is permissive in nature, in effect, removing 
°nly one obstacle to Royal's share acquisition - that created by 
5
 3
(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act. That Order neither relieves 
6 37 Federal Register 8915 (May 2, 1972). 

2323 
-5-
Royal of duties deriving from other laws nor shields Royal from the 
consequences of violations of other laws. The courts of Florida 
appear to be open to Petitioners and may be a more appropriate forum 
than the Board for the interpretation and enforcement of Florida 
statutes. 
On the basis of the facts and arguments presented, the 
Board concludes that the Petitioners' request for reconsideration 
neither presents relevant facts that, for good cause shown, were 
not previously presented to the Board, nor does it otherwise appear 
to the Board that reconsideration would be appropriate. Accordingly, 
the request for a stay, for reconsideration of the Board's Order of 
June 16, 1972, and for denial of Royal's application, is hereby 
denied, 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective September 2, 
1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action; Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
itchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting 
^airman Burns. 

Item No. 9 
8/31/72 
TITLE 12—BANKS AMD BANKING 
CHAPTER II«-FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Y] 
PART 225--BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Nonbanking Activities.of Bank Holding Companies 
§ 225,128 
Insurance agency activities. 
(a) Effective September 1, 1971, the Board of Governors 
amended § 225.4(a) of Regulation Y to add specified insurance agency 
activities to the list of activities the Board has determined to be 
e
° closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to 
kc a proper incident thereto* 
la the course of administering this 
C e
£uXation r a number of questions have arisen concerning the scope and 
tctrna of the Board's regulation. The Board's views on some of these 
f
i
u
es Lions are set forth below. 
(b) g
(
9
) 
( i > I n s u r a n c e "for the holding company 
aubsidiaries'', The Bo.Td regards the sale of group insurance 
the protection of employees of the holding company as insurance 
the holding company and its subsidiaries. 
(c) U25.4(a)(9)(il) (a): Insurance "directly related to 
'^L^HSysion of credit by a bank or a, bank-related titm
1!
. (1) This 
4
 ^vision iz designed to permit the sale, by 3 bank holding company 
G
ystcT.;, of insurance that supports the lending transactions of. a b$rik 
°
r
 ^ank-related firm in the holding company system. The Board 

O ' K O 
regards the sale of insurance as directly related to an extension of 
credit by a bank or bank-related firm where (i) the insurance assures 
repayment of an extension of credit by the holding company system in 
the event of death or disability of the borrower (for example, credit 
life and credit accident and health insurance); or (ii) the insurance 
Protects collateral in which the bank or bank-related firm has a 
security interest as a result of its extension of credit; or (ili) the 
insurance is other insurance which is sold to individual borrowers in 
conjunction with or as part of an insurance package (as a matter of 
general practice) with insurance protecting the collateral in which a 
bank or bank-related firm has a security interest as a result of its 
extension of credit. Examples that fail within (ill) above are: 
(a) liability insurance sold in conjunction with insurance relating 
to physical damage of on automobile when the purchase of such auto-
mobile is financed by a bank or bank-related firm; and (b) a homeowner s 
insurance policy with respect to a residence mortgaged to a bank or 
bank-related firm. 
(2) Other types of insurance may be directly related to an 
extension of credit. A bank holding company applying to engage in the 
s
ale of such other types should furnish information showing that such 
l n
surance is so directly related. 
(3) A renewal of insurance, after the credit extension has 
bee u repaid, Is regarded as closely related to banking only to the extent 
tbat such renewal is permissible under § 225.4(a)(9)(ii)(c) of Regulation Y 

(WO/wO 
(4) The Doard generally regards insurance protecting 
collateral where the security interest of a bank or bank-related 
firm was obtained by purchase rather than by a direct extension of 
credit by the holding company system aa not being directly related 
to 
an extension of credit by a bank or bank-related firm. However, 
if euch security interests are purchased on a continuing basis from 
& firm or an individual and the interval between the creation of 
the security interest and its subsequent purchase is minimal, the 
Board may regard such purchase as an extension of credit. Full 
details of the transactions should be provided to support a holding 
corapany's contention that such insurance sales are directly related 
to an extension of credit. 
(d) § 225,4(a)(9)(ii)(b): 
Insurance "directly related to 
thejn-oyis 1.on of other financial services by a bank or . . ..bank" 
delated firm".' This provision is designed to permit the sale by a bank 
holding company system of insurance in connection with bank-related 
services (rendered by a member of the holding company system) ether 
than an extension of credit. Among the types of insurance the Board 
Regards as directly related to such services are: (i) insurance 
gainst loss of securities held for safekeeping: (ii) insurance for 
v
aluables in a safe deposit box; (iii) life insurance equal to the 
dif 
ference. between the maturity value of a deposit plan for periodic 
^Posits over a specified term and the balance in the account at the 
tir,\e of the depositor's death; (iv) in connection with mortgage loan 
icing that U\ provided by a bank or bank-related firm, insurance 

on the mortgaged property and/or insurance on the mortgagor to the 
extent of the outstanding balance of the credit extension, provided 
that the mortagee is a beneficiary under such types of insurance 
policies; and (v) insurance directly related to the provision of 
trust services if the sale of such insurance is permitted by the 
trust instruments and under State law. 
(e) 
225.4(a) (9) (ii) ( c) : __Insurance that "is otherwise 
sold as a matter of convenience to the purchaser, so long as the premium 
income from sales within . » . subdivision (ii)(c) does not constitute 
-g^significant portion of the aggregate insurance premium income of.the 
ilOldinR company from insurance sold pursuant to 
subdivision (ii)", 
(1) This provision is designed to permit the sale of insurance 
Q s
 a matter of convenience to the purchaser. It Is not designed to 
Permit: entry into the general insurance agency business, 
(2) The term "premium income" means gross commission income. 
(3) The Board generally will regard premium income attributable 
t o
 "convenience" sales as not constituting a "significant portion" if the 
income attributable to "convenience" sales is less than 5 per cent of the 
A
2gi:egate insurance premium income of the holding company system from 
insurance sold pursuant to § 225.4(a)(9)(ii). 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.3.C. 1043(c)(8).) 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 31> 1971. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of. the Boat 
