609 
v. 5-67) 
Minutes for 
September 27, 1968 
To: 
Membe rs of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
ML : 
VI 

O u • i 
Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Friday, September 27, 
1968. The meeting was held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of- International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Miss Eaton, Open Market Secretariat Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Mrs. Winkler, Secretary, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Wernick, Eckert, 
Keir, Baker, Burns, Ettin, Fry, Kelty, and 
Kichline of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Hersey, Wood, Bradshaw, 
Gekker, and Stem of the Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Money market review. Today's review included a report by Mr. 
Kelty on the Government securities market, comments by Mr. Fry on 
recent and prospective developments in the area of bank credit, and 
comments by Mr. Bradshaw on the gold and foreign exchange markets. 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Brill, 
Solomon, Partee, and Sammons then withdrew and Mr. Hexter, General 
Counsel, entered the room. 

O f— 
9/27/68 
-2-
The following actions were taken subject to ratification at 
the next meeting of the Board at which a quorum was present: 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of Boston on September 23 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, 
Kansas City, and Dallas on September 26, 1968, of the rates on dis-
counts and advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, 
with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those 
Banks. 
Policy record entry. With a memorandum from Mr. Broida dated 
September 25, 1968, there was submitted a draft of policy record entry 
covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee held on 
July 16, 1968. The draft entry took account of comments received from 
Committee members and staff following distribution of a preliminary 
draft. 
The entry was approved unanimously for inclusion in the Board's 
Annual Report, with the understanding that there would be added a ref-
erence, inadvertently omitted, to the ratification of an action approv-
ing an increase in the reciprocal currency agreement with the Bank of 
France. 
It was understood that the entry would be distributed to the 
Reserve Bank Presidents, primarily for information but with an indica-
tion of the date by which any further comments should be received. 
It 
was contemplated that the entry would be released to the press about 
October 14, 1968, after final review by the Board. 

r-^j*) 
o o / O 
9/27/68 
-3-
Application of Provident International Corporation (Item No. 1). 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to Provident International 
Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, granting permission to invest 
in common stock of Deltec Panamerica S.A., Nassau, Bahamas. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

o o / l 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
•'Vgo'-. 
• p the 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9 / 2 7 / 6 8 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
'••f^LRtsf:-* 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
TO THE BOARD 
September 27, 1968. 
Provident International Corporation, 
Broad and Chestnut Streets, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
Gentlemen; 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of August 20, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation to purchase and hold 54,229 shares of common stock of 
Deltec Panamerica S0A. ("Deltec"), Nassau, Bahamas, at a cost of 
approximately $249,996, provided the shares are acquired within one 
year from the date of this letter, 
t
 
T h e Board's approval is granted on the understanding that 
Deltec s activities in the United States through Frederic Hn Hatch 
& Co., Inc„ ("Hatch") will be essentially limited to (1) the private 
Placement of foreign debt obligations or participations therein, 
representing the investments or extensions of credit of Deltec or 
its subsidiaries, (2) the execution of orders to buy and sell securi-
ties in the United States for the account and risk of customers abroad 
(3) the plac ing of orders to buy and sell securities abroad for the 
account and risk of United States customers, (4) trading for Hatch's 
own investment account in domestic or foreign securities, and (5) 
other activities which would be permissible if Deltec and its sub-
sidiaries were organized as one corporation under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act, This approval is subject to the conditions 
that Deltec, through Hatch or otherwise, shall not take any action 
that would constitute being engaged in the business of underwriting 
or dealing in securities in the United States and that your Corpora-
tion will make available to the Board such information about the 
activities of Deltec in the United States and elsewhere as the Board 
may from time to time require,, 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 

3575 
Provident International 
Corporation 
»2-
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation and that due consideration is being given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary,, 
