MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 27, 19 72 

1803 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, July 27, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Layton, Director of Equal Employment 
Opportunity 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super 
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Super 
vision and Regulation 
1/ Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

1834 
7/27/72 
-2-
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. McClintoelc, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and San 
Francisco on July 20 and by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on July 24, 
1972, of the rates on advances and discounts in their existing schedules 
was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Pursuant to a recommendation of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations in a memorandum of July 19, 1972, the Board unanimously 
approved the establishment of uniform procedures 
at the Federal Reserve 
Banks for handling and disposing of misstruck coin. Attached as Item No. 1 
is a copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Banks in this connec-
tion. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans in a memorandum of July 24, 1972, the 
Board unanimously approved an increase in the budget of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston to cover additional start-up costs for the 
Maine Regional Check Processing Center. A letter was sent to the 
Reserve Bank in the form attached as Item No. 2. 

1825 
7/27/72 
-3-
In a memorandum of July 20, 1972, the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations recommended approval of an increase of 54 
positions in the employment ceiling of the Second District for the 
operation of a Regional Check Processing Center to be located in 
Freeport, New York, and of an estimated $150,000 increase in the 1972 
budget of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for start-up and 
operating costs. At today's meeting Governor Mitchell suggested that 
the memorandum be revised for the record to indicate savings that 
would result at the New York Reserve Bank because the proposed center 
would process approximately 231,000 items daily that were now being 
processed at the Reserve Bank at a substantially higher cost than 
would be incurred at the Freeport center. 
It was understood that that 
revision would be made. The Board unanimously approved the establish-
ment of the Freeport center on the terms described in the Division's 
memorandum. Attached as Item No. 3 is a copy of the letter sent to 
the New York Reserve Bank. 
Pursuant to a recommendation by the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations in a memorandum of July 11, 1972, with which the Commit-
tee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans and the System 
Steering Committee on Improving the Payments Mechanism concurred, the 
Board unanimously approved a proposal by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
St. Louis to expand the Louisville immediate payment area in two steps, 
A. copy of the letter sent to the Reserve Bank is attached as Item No. 4. 

183S 
7/27/72 
-4-
Pursuant to a recommendation by the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations in a memorandum of July 13, 1972, with which the Commit-
tee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans and the System 
Steering Committee on Improving the Payments Mechanism concurred, the 
Board unanimously approved a proposal by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City for extending the Oklahoma City immediate payment area. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Reserve Bank is attached as Item No. 5. 
Pursuant to a recommendation by the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations in a memorandum of July 21, 1972, the Board unanimously 
.adopted control standards for food coupon operations that had been 
formulated at the request of the Division and approved by the Conference 
of First Vice Presidents. Attached as Item No. 6 is a copy of the letter 
informing the Federal Reserve Banks of this action. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
Charter Corporation, Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of the 
successor by merger to Butler State Bank, Butler, Missouri, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its actions 
on July 20, 1972, (1) denying the application of The Trust Company of 
New Jersey, Jersey City, New Jersey, to merge with a non-operating 
subsidiary of Wilshire Oil Company of Texas, New York, New York; and 

1837 
7/27/72 
-5-
(2) determining Wilshire Oil Company's status under the Bank Holding 
Company Act. A copy of the order is attached under Item No. 8 , along 
with the related press release. A copy of the letter sent to Wilshire 
Oil Company denying its request for a hearing is attached as Item No. 9. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Continental 
Illinois Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, a bank holding company, (1) to 
acquire shares of Continental Illinois International Corporation, a 
Delaware holding company; (2) to acquire through the Delaware holding 
company (a) shares of a merchant bank to be established in England, 
and (b) shares of a merchant bank to be formed in Hong Kong; and (3) to 
acquire through the United Kingdom merchant bank shares of a United 
Kingdom corporation that would act as the merchant bank's representative 
in Japan. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
I_tem No. 10. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Fidelity 
Bank and Trust Company, Minneapolis, Minnesota, to issue subordinated 
capital notes. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as 
Item No. 11. 
Pursuant to a recommendation by Governor Mitchell in a memo-
randum of July 26, 1972, the Board unanimously approved a letter to 
the Federal Reserve Banks establishing guidelines for Reserve Bank 
participation in the development and implementation of automated 
check clearings. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 12. 

1833 
7/27/72 
-6-
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City regarding procedures for electing Reserve Bank 
directors. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 13. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Civil Rights. The United States Commission on Civil Rights 
had made a fourth annual inquiry regarding actions taken by the Federal 
Reserve with respect to enforcement of relevant sections of the Civil 
Rights Act. With a memorandum of July 24, 1972, the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation and the Legal Division submitted a draft letter 
to respond to the Commission. 
A number of changes in the letter were agreed upon during 
discussion, and particular note was taken of the Commission's question 
whether the Board had reconsidered its position concerning its authority 
to require member institutions to impose nondiscrimination requirements 
on builders and developers with whom they had financial dealings. 
The 
draft letter would refer to the staff Memorandum of Law dated April 8, 
1971, which had been submitted as a supplement to the Board's response 
to the Commission of March 12, 1971. That memorandum had discussed the 
legal and practical impediments to the attempted imposition of such 
enforcement procedures. 
Discussion brought out that no view had been expressed by the 
Commission regarding the rightness or wrongness of the position set 

1899 
7/27/72 
-7-
forth in the Memorandum of Law. Governor Brimmer suggested that an 
opinion of the Attorney General be obtained regarding the position. 
However, support developed for an alternate suggestion that the 
Commission be requested to give the Board the benefit of comments. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the letter to the Commission 
was approved unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 14. 
Chairman Burns entered the room during the preceding discus-
sion, accompanied by Mr. Smith, Secretary. 
Testimony on State taxation of banks. A statement had been 
drafted for presentation by Governor Mitchell when he testified before 
the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs on August 1, 
1972, on proposed legislation regarding State taxation of banks. 
The 
statement would indicate that the Board recommended enactment of the 
Provisions of Title II of H. R. 15656. 
At today's meeting Governor Mitchell indicated that the state-
ment was substantially 
the same as the one he had presented on June 19 
before the Subcommittee on Bank Supervision and Insurance of the House 
Committee on Banking and Currency. 
Reference was made to a passage in the statement regarding 
a provision in H. R. 15656 for a study to be made by the Board to 
develop uniform standards for multiple State taxation. The statement 
would express the hope that responsibility for the study would be 

1900 
m i n i 
-8-
placed in the Treasury Department or the Advisory Commission on 
Intergovernmental Relations, but would indicate that although the 
Board was not in a position to accept responsibility for development 
of the needed criteria, it was prepared to assist in the study. 
Ques-
tion was raised whether financial assistance was contemplated, and 
it was understood that it would be appropriate for the Board to provide 
financial assistance if requested. 
It had been learned that an amendment to the bill was expected 
to be proposed that would provide for full insurance of public deposits 
in insured banks and savings and loan associations. 
A memorandum from 
the Division of Research and Statistics discussing the pros and cons 
of that question was transmitted to the Board with a memorandum of 
July 25 in which Mr. Cardon inquired whether, since the arguments 
seemed to be fairly well balanced, the Board might wish to alter its 
previous position opposing full insurance of public deposits and adopt 
a more neutral stance. 
In a memorandum of July 27 Mr. Solomon, Direc-
tor of the Division of Supervision and Regulation, advocated continued 
opposition. 
Discussion indicated a general view in favor of continued 
opposition. 
Chairman Burns expressed the view that full insurance 
of public deposits would surely lead, sooner or later, to a clamor 
for full insurance of deposits of individuals and corporations. 
If 

1901 
m i n i 
-9-
it came to that, one bank would be as safe as another, for large as 
well as small depositors, and the present competition for excellence 
would go by the board. Other points mentioned in opposition to full 
insurance of public deposits were the weakening of the Government 
securities market, since the present requirements that such securities 
be pledged against deposits of State and local governments presumably 
would disappear, and the dangers that might ensue if public deposits 
were diverted to savings and loan associations, which rely on long-term 
mortgages as their primary investments. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that a section 
would be added to the statement expressing opposition to full insurance 
of public deposits, and that the statement would be presented in a final 
form satisfactory to Governor Mitchell. A copy of the statement as 
subsequently presented has been placed in the Board's files. 
Foreign management consulting. 
By order dated June 5, 1972, 
the Board denied the application of First Commerce Corporation, New 
Orleans, Louisiana, to acquire shares of W. R. Smolkin & Associates, Inc., 
also of New Orleans. The decision involved a determination that manage-
ment consulting is not an activity permissible under section 4(c)(8) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act. The question whether foreign manage-
ment consulting is such a permissible activity had arisen in connection 

1903 
7/27/72 
-10-
with two applications to be considered today, namely, (1) the applica-
tion of First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, 
New York, an Edge corporation, to acquire shares of a money market 
company to be organized in Makati, Rizal, Philippines; and (2) the 
application of The Chase Manhattan Corporation, New York, New York, 
a bank holding company, for permission (a) to make an additional 
investment in Chase Manhattan Consulting, Inc., a New York company 
formed to hold shares of Mitsubishi-Chase Manhattan Corporate Services 
Limited, a company to be formed in Tokyo, Japan, and (b) to expand 
the activities of Chase Manhattan Consulting, Inc., to include offering 
advice on cash management to customers at locations outside the United 
States. The Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
°f the applications in memoranda of June 5 and July 10, 1972, respectively. 
In a memorandum of July 10, 1972, the staff explored the ques-
tion whether foreign management consulting is an activity permissible 
for bank holding company subsidiaries. 
The three principal questions 
involved are set out below with staff recommendations. 
(1) Whether U.S. banks through affiliates should be permitted 
to engage from foreign locations in management consulting 
activities relating to foreign or international operations. 
The staff recommended affirmatively, because it believed that there 
were benefits to U.S. foreign commerce to be derived from permitting 
such activities, and that with respect to consulting from foreign 

1903 
mini 
-11-
locations the possible adverse effects were significantly less than 
in domestic consulting. 
(2) Whether affiliates of U.S. banks should be permitted to 
engage at locations in the U.S. in management consulting 
activities relating to foreign or international operations. 
The staff recommended affirmatively because it believed that the loca-
tion at which foreign consulting services are provided does not alter 
the substance of the conclusion with respect to the first question. 
(3) The extent to which U.S. bank affiliates should be per-
mitted to provide management consulting services to 
foreign customers with respect to their activities in 
the U.S. market. 
The staff believed that consulting services to foreigners about their 
activities in the U.S. market should be restricted to the initial entry 
of foreign companies into the U.S. in order to preclude the conduct of 
essentially domestic consulting activities. 
In a memorandum of July 25 the Legal Division commented on 
foreign management consulting services with particular reference to 
Edge corporations and their subsidiaries. 
Discussion at today's meeting developed agreement upon the 
following positions: 
(1) Bank affiliates may provide at foreign locations a wide 
range of management consulting services relating to 
foreign markets and foreign and international business 
operations. 
Such services may be provided to U.S. as 
well as foreign companies. 

1904 
-12-
Any such affiliates may not have offices or other facilities 
in the U.S. 
Such affiliates may not at foreign locations provide con-
sulting services to U.S. companies with respect to their 
U.S. operations. 
Such affiliates may at foreign locations furnish consulting 
services to foreign companies regarding operations in the 
U.S., so long as such foreign companies have not made an 
initial entry into the U.S. 
Initial entry in this context 
was deemed to be the establishment for the first time of a 
manufacturing or distributing facility, an operating sales 
office, or the like. Any subsequent establishment of addi-
tional offices or facilities—no matter where located— 
would not be considered initial entry. 
The applications of First National City Overseas Investment 
Corporation and The Chase Manhattan Corporation were approved unanimously. 
Copies of the letters sent to the applicants are attached as Items 15 and 16, 
respectively. 
Guaranty Loan and Investment Corporation. 
In a memorandum of 
July 25, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval of the applications of Guaranty Loan and Investment Corporation 
°f Tulsa, Inc., Tulsa, Oklahoma, (1) to become a bank holding company 
through acquisition of shares of Republic National Bank of Tulsa, and 
(2) for permission to continue to engage in industrial banking and 
credit life insurance. The recommendations of the Banking Markets Section 
and the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City also were favorable. 
At today's meeting Governor Robertson expressed reservations 
regarding the ability of the applicant successfully to handle the large 
7/27/72 
(2) 
(3) 
(4) 

1905 
7/27/72 
-13-
acquisition debt contemplated. 
He saw nothing in the documentation 
to indicate any assurance that if the debt was found burdensome the 
applicant would not drain the bank through excessive dividends; he 
could not find support for the optimistic projections regarding the 
applicant's ability to finance the transaction. He suggested that, 
if the Board approved the applications, it express an expectation 
that the bank's dividends would not be unduly increased. 
Governor Sheehan concurred with the view Governor Robertson 
had expressed, and spoke especially of the danger that might arise 
because the applicant financed its operations by issuing thrift certifi-
cates on which it paid a high rate of interest, and which could fail to 
be renewed in the event of an economic downturn. 
After further discussion the applications were approved, Governors 
Robertson and Sheehan dissenting, and issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision was authorized. A copy of the order is attached under 
Ijlgm No. 17, along with a copy of the dissenting statement by Governors 
Robertson and Sheehan. 
Capital Management, Inc. In a memorandum of June 15, 1972, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the appli-
cations of Capital Management, Inc., Aurora, Nebraska, (1) to become a 
bank holding company through acquisition of shares of Bank of Brady, 
Brady, Nebraska, and (2) to retain the assets of Brady Insurance Agency. 
Other recommendations also were favorable. 

1906 
7/27/72 
-14-
Documentation had brought out that the applicant was reluctant 
to pay a price for a small block of shares of the bank that had been 
purchased from a trust equal to the price that had been paid for other 
shares being acquired. 
Discussion developed agreement that approval be 
conditioned upon an equal price being paid for all shares acquired. 
The applications were approved unanimously and issuance of an 
order reflecting this decision, including the condition agreed upon, 
was authorized. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 18. 
Alabama holding company cases. Today's agenda called for 
consideration of the following applications: 
The Alabama Financial Group, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama, 
to acquire shares of Peoples National Bank of Huntsville, 
Iluntsville, Alabama (the Huntsville application); 
The Alabama Financial Group, Inc., to acquire shares of The 
First National Bank of Dothan, Dothan, Alabama (the Dothan 
application); 
Alabama Bancorporation, Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire 
shares of The American National Bank and Trust Company of 
Mobile, Mobile, Alabama (the Mobile application); 
Alabama Bancorporation to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to First National Bank of Decatur, Decatur, 
Alabama (the Decatur application); and 
Central and State National Corporation of Alabama, Birmingham, 
Alabama, to acquire shares of Peoples Bank & Trust Co., 
Montgomery, Alabama (the Montgomery application). 
In memoranda of April 19, 1972 (Huntsville and Dothan), July 10 
(Mobile and Decatur), and June 21 (Montgomery), the Division of Supervi 
sion and Regulation recommended approval of all five applications and 

ISO? 
7/27/72 
-15-
indicated also that the recommendations of the Banking Markets Section 
and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta were favorable. The Department 
of Justice had concluded that acquisition of Peoples National Bank of 
Huntsville would have an adverse effect on competition, and that the 
acquisitions of The First National Bank of Dothan, The American National 
Bank and Trust Company of Mobile, and First National Bank of Decatur 
would result in significantly adverse competitive effects. 
After discussion, the Huntsville application was approved unani-
mously; the Dothan, Mobile, and Decatur applications were approved, 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting with respect to each case; 
and the Montgomery application was approved unanimously. 
It was under-
stood that documents to implement these decisions would be drafted for 
the Board's consideration. 
First City Bancorporation of Texas. 
In a memorandum of July 20, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of the application of First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, 
Texas, to acquire additional shares of United Bank Shares, Inc., El Paso, 
Texas, and the consequent acquisition of shares of Southwest National 
Bank of El Paso. The Banking Markets Section also recommended approval, 
as did the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, although the Bank's Research 
Department had recommended denial. 

1908 
m i n i 
-i6-
Governor Robertson indicated that he would vote to approve, 
inasmuch as he felt that the question had been decided in essence 
in February 1972 when the Board permitted First City Bancorporation 
indirectly to acquire shares of United Bank Shares, which in turn 
owned Southwest National Bank of El Paso. He noted, however, that 
if this were a completely new proposal coming before the Board, he 
would vote for denial, principally on the grounds cited by the Research 
Department of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, namely, that approval 
would have an adverse effect on the potential for reducing the degree 
of banking concentration in the El Paso market, and that conditions 
for de novo entry were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, and 
issuance of 
an order reflecting that decision was authorized. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 19. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Smith, Cardon, and O'Connell. 
Watergate incident. 
Chairman Burns reported on questioning by 
Senator Proxmire 
at a hearing before the Joint Economic Committee 
yesterday regarding the failure of the Board to respond to the Senator's 
request for information regarding Federal Reserve notes found in the 
possession of suspects in the Watergate incident. After discussion, 

1909 
7/27/72 
-17-
th e Board agreed to adhere to its original decision not to give any 
information to Senator Proxmire on this matter at this time. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

' ' P f ! ' ^ . 
« 
S l v . 
1910 
B O A R D D F G L 1 V E R N G R S 
Item Mo. 1 • 
NR THE 
7/27/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
s-2210 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S OrriCiAt C D R H E 5 P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E U Q A K D 
July 28, 1972 
It has come to our attention that Reserve Banks and 
Branches are handling miss truck coin received In Mint shipmevits 
by several methods, ranging from returning them 10 the Mint to 
simply holding them indefinitely. Although the quanLity of 
coin Involved is ncL significant (possibly several thousand 
Pieces per year), the potential numismatic value of this coin 
Warrants a consistent handling procedure to protect the in-
tegrity of the Federal Reserve System. 
Exposure will increase 
coin wrapping is established throughout die System. 
The Board has adopted the policy set forth below to 
f.uide Reserve Banks in handling and disposing of miss truck coin. 
Reserve Banks should segregate all such coin detected during 
the. conduct; or normal coin operations and maintain then: tempo-
rarily in the "unciirrent" category. After an appropriate 
Quantity has been collected, but in any case, net less than 
Annually, miss truck items should be returned by insured parcel 
Post to the Bureau of the Mint, ATTN: Assay Division, 15th 
Street & Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, D. C. 29220. 
A Treasury Form 12 should be prepared for each shipment, debiting 
tine Treasurer's General Account for the face value of the c.cin 
listed thereon and charging the Mint furnishing the coin. 
Provicif;d their genuineness and denomination are readily 
identifiable, misstruck items returned by commercial banks should 
be credited to their account; private individuals should be 

1311 
advised of the potential numismatic value of their coins and then 
offered an exchange at: face value. 
Items of questionable gen-
uineness or denomination should be treated as mutilated coin, in 
accordance with Treasury Circular 55. 
The Board reiterates the view set forth in F.R.L.S. 
250.45 that there is no objection to retention of such items to 
fill out Reserve Bank currency and coin exhibits. However, it 
is inappropriate for Reserve Banks to trade or sell currency and 
coin to collectors and dealers, nor should Reserve Bank employees 
be permitted to cull coins and convert them to their own use. 
All Bank employees should be instructed in this regard. 
The procedures outlined herein are applicable only to 
misstruck coin (i.e., Hint errors) and do not apply to mutilated 
coin or other coin unfit for circulation. 
The Board has instructed the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations to work closely with the cash departments of the 
Federal Reserve Banks with respect to this policy and to act as a 
clearing house for any problems. 
TO THE m S I D E N T S CF ALL F.'iX'ERAL RESERVE BANKS 
AND THE VICE PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R G 
OF THE 
Item No . 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/27/72 
W A S H I N G T C N , 
D. C . ,"20551 
19? 
JL/W 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E B O A R D 
July 2.7, 1972 
Mr. Frank E. Morris, President. 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Dear Mr. Morris: 
The Board of Governors today approved 
an increase in the budget of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston of $23,741.50 for the purchase of 
miscellaneous furniture and equipment for the 
Lewiston, Maine, Regional Check Processing Center. 
The Board understands that this will increase total 
start-up costs for the Maine center to approximately 
$40,141.50. 
Vary truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Hichaei. A. Greenspan 
Assis cant Secretarv 

•^tRESv^.1 
A. 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• r the 
I t e m N o- 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O . C . 20551 
7/27/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E B O A R D 
July 27, 1972 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 
10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
The Board of Governors approves the pro-
posal of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York xor 
conversion of the Check Clearing Bureau o, the.Long 
Island Bankers Association to a Federal Reserve Re-
gional Check Processing Center. The Board understands 
that the facility will be moved to a more suitable 
site before the end of 1973. 
In approving the proposal, the Board 
approves an increase in the budget of the Federal 
R;; crve Bank or New York of approximately *1j0,000 
fo-r s t a r t - a n d 1972 operating expenses related to 
T_ho Jong Island RCPC. The Board also approves an 
increase in the employment ceiling of 54 positions. 
Very tialy yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistaat Secretary 

1914 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Of-" T H E 
Item No. 4 
1 Hi 111 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C . 20551 
A D D R E S S OrFICIAL C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D T H E B O A R D 
July 27, 1972 
Mr, Darryl R. Francis, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
St. Louis, Missouri 
63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
The Board of Governors approves the proposed ex-
pansion of the Louisville immediate payment area with one 
reservation. 
Because it appears that some counties m the 
proposed Louisville immediate payment area may be mere 
efficiently served from the Cincinnati Branch, the Board 
requests that representatives from the Cincinnati, Chicago 
c-nd Louisville offices develop a joint plan for serving 
the southeastern Indiana and northeastern Kentucky areas. 
Pending the development of this combined check 
clearing plan, the Board approves an increase of 18 
positions in the Eighth District's current employment 
ceiling to provide personnel necessary to expand the 
Louisville immediate payment area. It is understood 
that increased expenses resulting from this expansion 
will be reflected in the revised budget for the second 
half of 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
As sis taut: Secre tary 

W 
1915 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• r THE 
Item No 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/21/12 
Mr. George H, Clay, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Kansas City, Missouri 
64193 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
The Board of Governors has no objection 
to the Federal Reserve 3ank of Kansas City plan 
to expand the Oklahoma City immediate payment area 
and approves an increase of 4 positions in the 
Tenth District's current employment ceiling. It 
is understood that increased expenses resulting 
from this expansion will be reflected in the 
revised budget for the second half of 1972. 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C . 20S51 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E B O A R D 
July 27, 1972 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A„ Greenspan 
As sis t&nt Se crctary 

Item No. 6 
7/27/72 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F 
T
H
E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
s-2209 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2055! 
- Iv^V' 
ADtjucss urriniAL COHRCSPCINOE NCC 
TO TH£ HOARD 
July 28, 1972 
Reference is made to the report dated June 16, 1972, 
prepared by the Food Coupon Task Force, which set forth control 
standards for use by the Reserve Banks in the receiving, proces-
sing, and disposing of Food. Coupons, copies of which have been 
furnished to all Reserve Banks. As you know, the Conference of 
First. Vice Presidents, on June 26, 1972, accepted the report and 
approved its reconmendations. 
The Board has adopted the recommended standards as 
System policy and directs that they be reflected in the operating 
procedures of all Reserve Bank offices. 
They are effective 
immediately and should be implemented at the earliest possible 
date. 
IT would be appreciated if each Reserve Bank office would 
advise the Board of the estimated date of implementation. Em-
ployee additions, if required to implement these controls, should 
be submitted to the Board for prior approval. 
The Board has instructed the Division of Federal Reserve 
ftank Operations to work closely with Reserve Banks in implementing 
this policy and to act as a clearing house for any problems. 
Very truly yours, 
'r /) /1 /
/ 
Michael A. Greenspan 
// 
Assistant Secretary 
ij 
J-'0 TriS PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
AM:) >TMZ VICE PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

1917 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 7 
H21 Hi 
FIRST NATIONAL CHARTER CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First National Charter Corporation, Kansas City, Missouri, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to 
Butler State Bank, Butler, Missouri ("Bank"). The bank into which 
Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a means of acquir-
ing all of the shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition 
of the shares of the successor organization is treated herein as the 
proposed acquisition of shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
The 
Board has considered the application in light of the factors set 
forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant is the fifth largest banking organization in 
Missouri, controlling eight subsidiary banks which have aggregate 
deposits of $553.9 million, representing 4.4 per cent of total 
deposits in commercial banks in the State. 
(All banking data are 
as of December 31, 1971, and are adjusted to reflect holding company 

-2-
1918 
acquisitions and formations approved by the Board to date.) Acquisition 
of Bank by Applicant will increase its share of Statewide deposits by 
.1 percentage points and will not increase its ranking among the 
State's largest banking organizations. 
Bank controls deposits of $15 million and is located about 
60 miles south of Kansas City, Missouri. 
It is the largest bank in 
the market controlling 43.6 per cent of the deposits in Bates County. 
There are nine other banks competing in the market} with the next 
largest controlling approximately 24.5 per cent of market deposits. 
There is no existing competition between Bank and any of Applicant's 
existing subsidiary banks, the nearest of which is located 40 miles 
from Bank. The area is not attractive for d£ novo entry and the 
smaller banks in the area would not appear to be likely entry 
vehicles due to their locations and limited growth prospects. 
The 
other alternative, Bank's major competitor, has correspondent re-
lationships with a large Kansas City bank. Consummation of the 
Proposal would eliminate no present competition nor would it fore-
close any significant possibility of competition developing in the 
future due to an alternative entry into the market by Applicant. 
Consummation of the proposed transaction will have the 
effect of strengthening Bank's position in the market, however, 
the Board does not believe that it will give Bank a dominant posi-
tion. Further, any adverse effects of the affiliation on competing 

1919 
-3-
banks in the market are outweighed in the public interest by the con-
siderations relating to the financial and managerial resources and 
prospects of Bank and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
Bank is presently in need of capital and approval of the 
application will result in Applicant's immediate addition of $400,000 
to Bank's capital accounts. 
Bank is also in need of strong executive 
management, which Applicant will furnish upon consummation of the 
proposal. 
Bank's prospects will be substantially improved by 
Applicant's proposed changes in Bank's operations and con-
siderations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
and prospects of Bank lend strong weight toward approval of the 
application. 
There is no evidence on the record that significant 
banking needs of the communities involved are going unserved. 
However, affiliation of Bank with Applicant will enable larger 
loans and specialized banking services to be provided as the de-
mand for them increases. These considerations provide some weight 
for approval of the application. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effec-
tive date of thi's Order or .(b) later than three months after the 

1920 
-4-
effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 27, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(S2AL) 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman 
Burns and Governors Doane, and Bucher. 

Item No. 8 
mini 
July 27, 1972 
For immediate release 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
announced its denial of an application to merge The Trust Company of 
New Jersey, Jersey City, New Jersey, into The New Trust Company of 
New Jersey, Jersey City, New Jersey, a wholly-owned nonoperating 
subsidiary of Wilshire Oil Company of Texas, New York, New York. 
The purpose of the proposed merger was to enable Wilshire, 
which presently owns 50.6 per cent of the outstanding voting shares 
of Trust Company, to acquire the remaining minority interest. 
At the same time, the Board announced its determination 
that Wilshire is not entitled to "grandfather rights" under the 
Bank Holding Company Act since, in the Board's judgment, Wilshire 
did not exercise a "controlling influence" over Trust Company on 
June 30, 1968. 
In view of this determination, Wilshire will be required, 
by January 1, 1981, to either (a) divest its impermissible nonbantc-
ing activities, or (b) cease to be a bank holding company as defined 
by § 2 of the Act by divesting its controlling interest in Trust 
Company. 
Attached is the Board's Order relating to these actions. 
Attachment 

1922 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE TRUST COMPANY OF NEW JERSEY 
WILSHIRE OIL COMPANY OF TEXAS 
Order Denying Application by The Trust Company of New Jersey 
for Merger with Nonoperating Bank 
Determination of Status of Wilshire Oil Company of Texas 
Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Order With Respect to Merger Proposal 
The Trust Company of New Jersey, Jersey City, New Jersey 
("Trust Company"), a State member bank of the Federal Reserve System, 
has applied for the Board's approval, pursuant to the Bank Merger Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) ("Act"), of the merger of that bank with The New 
Trust Company of New Jersey, Jersey City, New Jersey ("New Bank"), a 
newly-chartered, nonoperating bank which is a wholly-owned subsidiary 
°f Wilshire Oil Company of Texas, New York, New York ("Wilshire"), a 
bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 
1956 (12 U.S.C. 1841 et se^.). Wilshire is the owner of 50.6 per cent 
°f the outstanding voting shares of Trust Company. New Bank, into which 
Trust Company is to be merged, has significance only as a means to 
facilitate the acquisition of all of the voting shares of Trust 
Company by Wilshire. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in 
form approved by the Board, has been published, and the Board has re-
quested reports on competitive factors from the Attorney General, the 
V 
Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 

1923 
-2-
The Board has considered the application and all comments and 
Sports received in the light of the factors set forth in the Act. 
The Act requires the Board to take into consideration: 
(1) the 
competitive effects of the proposed transaction; (2) the financial and 
managerial resources of each of the banks involved; (3) future prospects 
°f the existing and proposed institutions; and (4) the convenience and 
Needs of the community to be served. 
Trust Company ($203.3 million of deposits and $229.7 million 
°f assets), headquartered in Jersey City, New Jersey, operates 12 offices, 
a ll in Hudson County, New Jersey, and is the 13th largest of 84 com-
me*eial banks in the State's First Banking District. 
(All banking data 
a re as of December 31, 1971.) Since the proposed merger of Trust 
Company into a wholly-owned nonoperating subsidiary of Wilshire is only 
a vehicle intended to facilitate the acquisition by Wilshire of all of 
the outstanding voting shares not now held by that company, and since 
Wilshire already holds more than 50 per cent of the outstanding voting 
shares of Trust Company, consummation of the proposal would have no 
6£fect on competition in any relevant area. 
Wilshire, in addition to its investment in Trust Company, is 
Gngaged in extensive nonbanking activities. These activities include 
acquisition of oil, gas and other mineral properties; production and 
s^le of crude oil, natural gas and other minerals extracted from 
Properties in the United States and Canada; and distribution and sale of 
Electronic equipment and components and automotive equipment. 

1924 
-3-
The record indicates that Wilshire initiated its relationship 
with Trust Company in early 1967 when Wilshire began purchasing shares 
of the bank and Wilshire's president advised the president of Trust 
Company of its intention to acquire control of Trust Company. As of 
June 1968, Wilshire had acquired 8 per cent of the outstanding voting 
shares of Trust Company and its president and one of its directors were 
elected to the board of Trust Company, Wilshire's president, with the 
consent of Trust Company management, appears to have participated in 
the operations of Trust Company from some time in 1968 as Wilshare's 
share ownership in Trust Company increased. Wilshire acquired 17 per 
cent of Trust Company shares through a tender offer announced in 
August 1969 and an additional 25 per cent through another tender offer 
in 1970. Consequently, on December 31, 1970, Wilshire held 50.6 per 
cent of the outstanding voting shares of the bank. Upon consummation 
of the proposed merger Wilshire would hold 100 per cent of the outstanding 
voting shares of the successor by merger to Trust Company. 
The financial condition of Trust Company appears satisfactory. 
The bank appears to have been operated by conservative management prior 
to the assumption of control by Wilshire. Although net income has 
declined in recent years, Trust Company's operating revenues have 
remained constant and the bank has experienced steady asset growth. 
Trust Company has paid relatively stable cash dividends for at least the 
last five years and stock dividends in 1967, 1968 and 1969. Since 
acquiring control over the bank, Wilshire has initiated several programs 

1925 
-4-
aimed at revitalizing the performance of Trust Company, such as upgrading 
°f management personnel and salaries, modification of loan policies and 
M a n s i o n and modernization of bank offices and equipment. In view of 
the present resource strength of Trust Company and the changes in 
management and operating policies already undertaken, its future pros-
pects for continued growth appear satisfactory. 
The current financial condition of Wilshire appears satis-
factory, although the drain on cash as a result of its commercial 
derations and debt costs incurred in connection with the acquisition 
o f Trust Company shares has caused some deterioration in its cash flow 
Position in recent years. Analysis of Wilshire's past and present financial 
c°ndition and future prospects indicates that it is subject to wide fluctu-
ations in income due to the speculative nature of many of its non-
banking enterprises. Wilshire's nonbank activities earned only marginal 
n e t profits in the years 1966 - 1969. In 1970, Wilshire sustained a 
l o ss from its nonbank operations and in 1971, the net income realized 
hy Wilshire as a result of its investment in Trust Company after 
^eduction of interest and related acquisition expenses, was more than 
double its net income derived from its nonbank operations. Although 
Wilshire generally operated profitably before its investment in Trust 
Con 
ttpany, it is clear that its investment in Trust Company (representing 
approximately $11 million of its total $27 million of assets) represents 
Ushire's principal source of net income as well as its most reliable 
n°0tne Producer. In contrast to Trust Company's record of cash divi-
n d s , Wilshire has paid stock dividends but has never paid a cash 
dtvtdend. 

1926 
-5-
The Supreme Court has observed that it is clear not only 
from the language of the Bank Merger Act, but from the statements of 
those who supported it while the Act was under consideration that in 
determining whether the merger should be approved "[t]he public interest 
W a s the ultimate test imposed." (United States v. Third National Bank 
jnNashville, et al.. 390 U.S. 171, 184 (March 1968)) 
The Board, in two recent decisions under the Bank Holding 
Company Act, has expressed its belief that a holding company should be 
a source of financial strength for its subsidiary banks rather than 
vice versa. 
(Application of First Southwest Bancorporation, Inc., 
Waco, Texas, to acquire four banks, 1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 301 
Qnd application of Seilon, Inc., Toledo, Ohio, to acquire shares of 
First Bancorporation,1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
(July 20, 1972)) 
In its Order denying the application of Seilon, Inc., the 
Board concluded that it was unlikely that the Applicant would be able 
t o provide meaningful financial assistance to the bank in the 
Reasonably near future. It was only i t s existing interest in the bank 
wlUch provided Applicant with an operating profit as Applicant's non-
banking activities had been operated at a loss. 
Because the sole purpose of the proposed merger is to provide 
a means for the acquisition by Wilshire, a bank holding company, of all 
o f the outstanding shares of Trust Company, the Board believes it 
appropriate to apply these same principles to the merger proposed herein. 

-6-
1349 
Upon consideration of the possible effects of the proposed merger on the 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of Trust 
Company and the effects upon minority shareholders of that bank, the 
Board is of the opinion that the proposed merger is not in the public 
interest. 
Upon consummation of the proposed merger, Wilshire would 
control 100 per cent of the successor to Trust Company and, thereby, 
^e able to rely more heavily upon the resource strength of Trust Company 
to bolster its own historically erratic financial condition. 
In this 
connection, it is noted that the application of Trust Company with 
respect to this proposal quotes Wilshire as stating that "if Applicant 
i s a wholly-owned subsidiary of Wilshire, Wilshire will have maximum 
flexibility in all aspects of Applicant's future operations." 
Acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares of the successor to 
Trust Company increases the possibility that Trust Company could be 
Used to advance the speculative enterprises of Wilshire. 
Although 
federal and State banking laws afford some degree of protection against 
unwise Use of bank assets, a great deal of latitude is still provided 
t o bank management. 
Situations which give substantial possibility for 
Potential abuses should, in the Board's opinion, be prevented from 
9rising, rather than to rely solely on remedial action once trouble 
begins, with consequent potential damage to the banking public. 

. 1923 
-7-
Further, although the application appears to contend to the 
contrary, there is little likelihood in the Board's opinion that 
Wilshire can or would in the foreseeable future, be in a position to 
provide financial strength to Trust Company. 
(See applications of 
First Southwest Bancorporation, Inc., and Seilon, Inc., noted above.) 
Consummation of the proposed merger would, in addition, 
result in the squeezing out of those minority shareholders of Trust 
Company who do not wish to receive shares of Wilshire in exchange for 
those of Trust Company. In the Board's opinion, the elimination of 
these minority interests is not in the public interest. There is an 
obvious inequity of forcing a result on minority shareholders without 
any balancing benefits, except perhaps some tax advantages to Wilshire, 
Furthermore, in the present case, the presence of minority shareholders 
may serve as a beneficial restraining influence upon any possible use 
by Wilshire of the resources of Trust Company that would be contrary to 
the best interests of the bank. 
In addition, as a result of the 
Board's concurrent determination under the Bank Holding Company Act, 
described hereinafter, with respect to Wilshire's status as "a com-
pany covered in 1970", Wilshire is required to divest either its 
nonbanking activities or its control of Trust Company by January 1, 1981. 
Approval of the proposed merger would therefore remove the minority 
interest in favor of Wilshire which, in turn, may be required to divest 
its control over Trust Company before January 1981. 

1929 
-8-
Expansion of Wilshire's interest over Trust Company may 
provide some benefit to the convenience and needs of the community 
served by the bank insofar as it may increase the possibility that 
Wilshire would cause Trust Company to expand and modernize its banking 
services. However, it appears that improvements in the banking services 
provided by Trust Company could be accomplished under Wilshire's 
present interest in the bank or by the bank absent Wilshire's present 
interest. 
Any possible benefits to the convenience and needs of the 
community in which Trust Company operates are clearly overshadowed by 
the potentially adverse consequences to the public interest brought 
about by cementing further a relationship between the bank and a 
corporation whose nonbanking operations are so incompatible with the 
interests of prudent banking. Approval of the proposal to acquire the 
Remaining 49 per cent of Trust Company shares would, in the Board's 
°Pinion, clearly do violence to the basic intent of the Bank Merger 
Act, the Bank Holding Company Act and the banking lax^s in general inso-
far as it would further a union of banking with a most speculative type 
°f industrial enterprise. 
On the basis of the record as summarized above, it is the 
board's judgment that approval of this application would not be in the 
Public interest and, accordingly, the application is denied. 

1930 
-9-
Determination of Status Under Bank Holding Company Act 
Concurrent with its denial of the proposed merger, the Board 
has considered a request by Wilshire that the Board determine that it 
is a "company covered in 1970" within the meaning of section 2(b) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act and as such would be permitted to continue 
indefinitely its nonbanking activities while at the same time continue 
to maintain its ownership of more than 50 per cent of the outstanding 
voting shares of Trust Company.i/ By virtue of its ownership of this 
interest in Trust Company Wilshire became a bank holding company 
subject to the Act as a result of the 1970 Amendments to the Act. 
Wilshire contends that (a) its relationship with Trust 
Company on June 30, 1968 satisfies the presumptions of control under 
the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.2(c)) and in any case (b) on or 
before June 30, 1963, it exercised a "controlling influence" over the 
management or policies of Trust Company consistent with section 2(a)(2)(C) 
of the Act and that such "controlling influence" has continued to the 
Present. 
p 
Section 2(b) defines a "company covered in 1970" as a company which 
becomes a bank holding company as a result of the enactment of the Bank 
Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970 and which would have been a bank 
holding company on June 30, 1968, if those amendments had been enacted 
on that date. If Wilshire held "control" or a "controlling influence" 
over Trust Company on June 30, 1968, it would have been a bank holding 
company as defined by § 2(a) of the Act. 

1931 
-10-
The Board has considered information, including extensive 
legal memoranda and affidavits, submitted in support of Wilshire's 
contention and has considered materials submitted by stockholders' 
counsel challenging Wilshire's belief that it is a "company covered 
in 1970." Additionally, Wilshire has been provided with adequate 
opportunity to review and comment upon materials submitted by parties 
opposed to Wilshire's assertion of "grandfather" status with respect 
to its nonbanking activities. The Board has considered the informa-
tion submitted in the light of the statutory provisions and legislative 
history of the Bank Holding Company Act and judicial and administrative 
determinations under other Federal statutes which contain a "controlling 
influence" provision,"*^ 
Among the factors cited by Wilshire in support of its 
Position are the following: 
1. On June 30, 1968, Wilshire held 8 per cent of the out-
standing voting shares of Trust Company. 
2. On June 30, 1968, Wilshire had two directors on the 
board of Trust Company. 
3. No other person owned, controlled or had the power to 
v°te as much as 5 per cent of the outstanding voting shares of Trust 
Company. 
4. From late 1967 through June 30, 1968, the president of 
Wilshire maintained an "active presence" at Trust Company and in fact 
I ^ P u b l i c Utility Holding Company Act (15 U.S.C. 79b(a)(7) and (8)); 
Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(9). 

-11-
was present "almost daily" throughout this period. This officer of 
Wilshire participated in senior management conferences and was con-
sulted regularly regarding various aspects of Trust Company's 
operations, including investment and advertising policies, employment 
Practices and modernization of facilities. 
It does appear that on June 30, 1968 Wilshire was capable 
of exerting some influence on the bank through its share holdings, 
representation on the board and its presence, primarily through its 
President, in the operations of the bank during at least part of the 
Period ending on June 30, 1968. However, that "influence", in the 
Board's opinion, did not amount to a "controlling influence" over 
Trust Company. 
Although it appears that Wilshire's relationship with Trust 
Company satisfied the conditions established by section 225.2 of the 
Board's Regulation Y (Presumptions of Control), satisfaction of that 
Provision establishes only a presumption of control which the Board 
finds to have been rebutted by additional information (see hereinafter). 
These conclusions are founded upon a number of observa-
tions on the character of Wilshire's relationship with Trust Company 
0r* June 30, 1968, including the following: 
1. Wilshire's ownership of 8 per cent of the outstanding 
v°ting shares of Trust Company on June 30, 1968, without the existence 
°f other factors, appears inadequate to establish a "controlling 
influence". 

-12 
1933 
2. While Wilshire's shareholdings may have placed it in 
an advantageous position if a proxy fight had developed, it seems 
apparent from Trust Company's response to a tender offer in 1969 that 
there was substantial opposition to Wilshire among the management and 
shareholders of Trust Company.-^ The tender offer in 1969 (which was 
not endorsed by Trust Company management) and a subsequent tender 
offer in 1970 resulted in Wilshire acquiring just over 50 per cent of 
the outstanding voting shares of Trust Company. 
(In each instance the 
tender offer was for all outstanding shares.) 
3. The very brief interval of eight months between Wilshire's 
first contact with Trust Company and its alleged assumption of a 
"controlling influence", and the fact that only two Wilshire repre-
sentatives became "insiders" (two of 16 Trust Company directors) just 
two months prior to June 30, 1968, indicates that strong historical 
ties between Wilshire and Trust Company had not developed. In contrast, 
decisions under other Federal statutes containing "controlling 
influence" provisions which have relied on established corporate and 
personnel affiliations to identify "controlling influence" indicate 
that such "controlling influence" will be found where relationships have 
existed over a number of years. 
(H. M. Byllesby and Co. ,v, SEC 639 (1940) 
American Gas and Electric Company v. SEC, 134 F. 2d, 633 (D. C. Cir.) 
3/ 
I n a letter dated September 23, 1969, of the Board of Directors of 
Trust Company to its stockholders concerning Wilshirefs tender offer, 
it was stated: "Your Board of Directors has full confidence in the 
management of The Trust Company under whose leadership The Trust Company 
has operated on a sound and profitable basis for many years. It is not 
clear to what extent The Trust Company's present management would con-
tinue to direct the affairs of The Trust Company if Wilshire were to 
succeed in taking control." 

IS 
-13-
cert. denied, 319 U.S. 763 (1943)). 
4. Although it seems that Wilshire's president did participate 
in many areas of Trust Company operations, information submitted relating 
to this officer's activities at Trust Company fail to indicate more than 
a consulting or advisory relationship rather than a position of dominance. 
The fact that some of his recommendations may have been adopted by those 
in management positions does not indicate that Trust Company was con-
trolled by Wilshire, any more than one can say that if management accepts 
the recommendations of an attorney, accountant or outside management 
consultant, such person "controls" the company. 
5. It is clear that Wilshire's involvement with Trust Company 
from November 1967 (when it announced its intention to acquire control of 
Trust Company) to June 30, 1968 established the basis for Wilshire's 
eventual controlling influence and control over Trust Company. The 
Period of November 1967 to June 30, 1968 was one in which Wilshire's 
Presence and influence over Trust Company was increased. However, it 
took two tender offers, at subsequent times, for Wilshire to achieve even 
bare majority control over Trust Company. 
On the basis of all the information submitted, the Board is 
unable to conclude that Wilshire exercised or possessed the power to 
exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of 
Trust Company on June 30, 1968. Accordingly, the Board has determined 
that Wilshire is not a "company covered in 1970" within the meaning of 
Section 2(b) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 

1935 
-14* 
As a result of this determination, Wilshire is required by 
January 1, 1981 to either (a) divest those of its nonbanking activities 
not permitted for bank holding companies, or (b) cease to be a bank 
holding company as defined by section 2 of the Act by divesting its 
controlling interest in Trust Company, 
By order of the Board of Governors^ effective July 27, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
1 
' 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
| 
k 
5 
4/ Voting for these actions: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell 
and Daane. 

1938 
• • A R I D D P G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 9 
7/27/72 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C . 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I K I A L 
C D K R E E P F J N D E N C E 
TCJ T H E B O A R D 
July 27, 1972 
Mr. Siggi B. Wilzig, President 
Wilshire Oil Company of Texas 
250 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10017 
Dear Mr. Wilzig: 
This is in response to your letter of December 10, 1971, 
and subsequent information submitted, on behalf of Wilshire Oil Com-
pany of Texas, New York, New York ("Wilshire"), in support of Wilshire's 
contention and requesting a determination by the Board that Wilshire 
exercised a "controlling influence" over the management: or policies 
of The Trust Company of New Jersey, Jersey City, New Jersey ("Trust 
Company") and is, therefore, a "company covered in 1970". 
Concurrent, with its denial of the proposed merger of Trust 
Company with a nonopcrating wholly-owned subsidiary of Wi3.shi.re, the 
Board has determined that Wilshire is not a "company covered in 1970" 
in that it did not exercise a "controlling influence" over Trust 
Company on June 30, 3 968. 
The Board has considered the request submitted by counsel 
for Wilshire that the Board hold a hearing on the question of Wilshire's 
relationship with Trust Company on June 30, 1968, if the Board is 
unable to determine, on. the basis of the information submitted,-that 
Wilshire is a "company covered in 1970". In view of the extensive 
record established on this matter by voluminous legal memoranda and 
affidavits submitted on behalf of Wilshire and by persons challenging 
Wilshire's contention and the opportunity extended to all parties to 
respond to material submitted by opposing parties, the Board is of the 
view that a hearing on this matter would serve no useful purpose. 
Accordingly, the Board has denied the request that a hearing be he)d 
on this matter, 
Attached is the Board's Order relating to these actions. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tyr.au Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosures 

^ JAj^J's^/c,-/ 
MlRts^:- • 
46 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N G R B 
o f THE: 
i t e m N o . 1 0 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
7/27/72 
y.V/r^-.i:-}-^'. 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20b51 
A D D R E S S 
Q I N C I A L . 
G O R W E 5 P C 1 N O E N C E 
T D "THE 
B D A R D 
July 27, 1972 
Continental Illinois Corporation 
231 South La Salle Street 
Chicago, Illinois 60693 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 1, 1972, the Board of 
Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tion 4(c)(i3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 19 56, as amended, 
and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your Corporation to pur-
chase: and hold up to 100 per cent of the shares of Continental 
Illinois International Corporation ("CIIC"). a Delaware corporation, 
at a cost of $21 million and to purchase indirectly through CIIC ail 
of: the shares and all of the unsecured loan stock of a proposed 
United Kingdom merchant bank ("UKliB") at a cost of approximately 
$/'.0 million, and to purchase all of the shares of a proposed Hong Kong 
merchant bank ("HKMB") at a cost of approximately $500,000, provided 
such shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
As subsidiaries of a bank holding company under Sec-
tion 4(c)(13)j CIIC, UKKB, and HlCilB shall confine their activities to 
international or foreign banking and other international or foreign 
financial operations. 
In addition, CIIC shall not receive any deposits 
in the United States or elsewhere. 
You have requested consent for UKMB and HKMB to engage in 
the business of underwriting or dealing in securities. 
The Board's 
consent to such activities is conditioned upon your Corporation's 
obtaining the prior consent of the Board for the continued holding of 
shares of UKMB and HK11E should UKKB or HKMB acquire stock of individual 
issuers costing in excess of $500,000 or representing 25 per cent of 
the voting shares of any company, except in the case of underwriting 
operations covered by firm commitments from subunderwriters or other 
purchasers. 
With respect to trading in securities in which companies 
urgaiutfyd under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act are prohibited 
from investing by the provisions of the eighth paragraph of Section 2 5(a), 
'"he Board's consent is further conditioned on the fact that UKLHft and 

47 
To: Continental Illinois Corporation 
HKMB will acauire such shares only as dealer or underwriter, maintain 
a size and turnover of inventory that is reasonable in relation to 
demand, and dispose of such shares within a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not be 
reported tinder Section 225.4(f)(4) of Regulation Y. However, they^are# 
to bo reported as a separate class, together with the date or acquisition, 
on any Call Report of Condition or similar report requested by the Board. 
Consent is also granted for your Corporation to purchase and 
hold indirectlv through UKMB all of the shares of a company to be in-
corporated in the United Kingdom ("UKC") at a cost of approximately 
$13 000 provided UKC restricts its activities to acting as a rep-
resentative office in Japan for affiliates of your Corporation, and 
provided such shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter, 
The foregoing consents are given with the understanding that 
CJTC will be governed by the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as 
they *npiy tc Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of 
Chlcapo ("CTKJS") and its affiliates, in particular by those provisions 
whieh'VaU Cor the foreign assets of CJIC minus outstanding amounts or 
fore lira borrowings by CIXC of au original maturity of three years or 
more to be consolidated with the foreign assets of CINB lor purposes 
of Hie Guidelines; and with the further understanding that the invest-
ments in UKMB, HKMB, and UKC will be made within the Guidelines as tney 
apply to GI13B and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board. 

1939 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
of THE 
Item No. 11 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
7/27/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C . 
£0551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 27, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Fidelity Bank and Trust Company 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
55440 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of $1,425,000 in 
subordinated notes by Fidelity Bank and Trust Company, Minneapolis, 
Ki.roiesctii, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis. Avprcvai is granted with the understanding that the 
sale cf these capital notes will be consummated within six months 
from the date of this letter and on the condition that the capital 
naze* cannot be called for redemption prior to maturity without the 
approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
MichaeJ A. Greenspan 
Assistant Seer eta ry 

19-10 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C . ?.OI55T 
Item No. 12 
7/27/72 
S-2208 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P Q N D C N C F . 
T O THE" B O A R D 
July 28, 1972 
The Board of Governors has announced its support of: direct 
participation by Federal Reserve Banks in paperless payments exchange 
arrangements. In order to insure uniformity of practice among Federal 
Reserve Banks, the Board has adopted the attached set of Guidelines 
for participation in such arrangements. 
The Board notes that Federal Reserve Banks have already been 
involved in research., analysis and design of paperless payments systems, 
most notably iu Atlanta, San Francisco, and Los Angeles. 
Participation 
so far. however, has been on a supportive and experimental basis. 
As a result of these and other related experiences, the Board 
regards paperless entry exchange programs as significant positive steps 
in achieving Federal Reserve objectives of expediting payment trans-
actions and moving toward widespread electronic transfers of funds. 
The Board, therefore, urges each Federal Reserve Bank to be responsive 
to requests front organ!zed groups of commercial banks for the expansion 
of services designed to achieve these objectives. 
In December, 1969, the Board approved a proposal from the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco for the provision of space, com-
puter facilities and operational management in the San Francisco and 
Los Angeles offices for the exchange of paperless payments among Los 
Angles arc! San Francisco clearing-house banks on an experimental basis. 
The proposal, was the result of the participation of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of'spp Francisco in the investigation and planning done by the 
California Special Committee On Paperless Entries (SCOPE)„ The California 
GCOxi: project has now reached the implementation stage. 
The Board encourages similar proposals from other Federal 
Reserve Banks, The Board has noted the existence of groups in the 
following areas that are studying the feasibility of paperless payments 
arrangements and may soon wish to request automated clearing ana settle-
ment- services from their respective Federal Reserve Bamzs: 

134 
Atlanta, Ga. 
Baltimore, Md. 
Boston, Mass. 
Buffalo, N.Y. 
Cincinnati, Ohio 
Chicago, 111. 
Cleveland. Ohio 
Columbus, Ohio 
Dallas-Ft. Worth, Tex, 
Denver. Colo. 
Detroit, Mich. 
Houston, Tex. 
2. 
Ind1anapoli s, Ind« 
Kansas City, Mo, 
Long Island (Nassau & Suffolk Counties) 
N.Y. 
Los Angeles-San Francisco, Calif. 
Milwaukee, Wis. 
Minneapolis-St. "Paul, Minn, 
New York City, N.Y. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Richmond, Va. 
St. Louis, Mo. 
Seattle, Wash. 
The Board is relying upon the Federal Reserve Banks to cooper-
ate fully in the development of such arrangements. 
Very truly yours. 
c s 
/stf ^ c t w 
^
^
V
f 
7
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Attachment 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BAIL'S 
AND Til?. VICE PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

1C) *z< 
Guidclincs for Federal Reserve Bank 
Paperless Payments ^rrangcmients 
In order to maintain national uniformity and compatibility, 
the Board suggests that Federal Reserve Banks observe the following 
guidelines: 
1. The right to participate in paperless payments 
arrangements involving Federal Reserve Banks or 
Branches should be open to all commercial banks 
located in the area served by that office or 
Regional Check Processing Center (RCPC). 
2„ Volumes must be sufficient to justify initiation, 
and participating banks must indicate a willing-
ness to continue marketing efforts to expand the 
program. 
3V 
Magnetic tapes (or other input media) containing 
data for the participating banks will not include 
"on us" transactions for the sending bank. 
/lo 
The costs of purchasing or developing computer 
software vo be used by commercial banks for auto-
mated clearinghouses or similar systems should 
not be borne by Federal Reserve Banks. 
This 
should not, however, preclude Federal Reserve 
Banks from financing or providing supportive and 
implementa! software for use on Federal Reserve 
Bank computers, or participation in systems 
design studies. 
5. Programs supported by Federal Reserve Banks must 
accept comnunicat:ions standards and formats that 
conform to BAI end ABA standards for communication 
of payments messages„ 
6. Systems design must Include capability for link-up 
with other exchange arrangements in other localities. 

19>13 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
.v-'cVcoV;.. 
™E 
Item No. 13' 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/27/72 
lb;'*; •:»•)•' „ : *r\. 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 20551 
A D O R E S 45 O F F I C I A L C O R R E 5 PFJ N T) F N T* E 
V.) • 
T O T H E B O A R D 
July 28, 1972 
Mr. Roger Guffey 
Vice President;., General Counsel, 
and Secretary 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Federal Reserve Station 
Kansas City, Missouri 
64198 
Dear Mr. Guffey: 
This is in response to your letter of June 21, 1972, 
reviewing difficulties experienced by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Kansas City in the 1970 election of directors and noting 
the potential for reoccurrence in this year's forthcoming 
election. You anticipate that clarification or interpretation 
cf the questioned election procedures will obviate such 
reoccurrence. 
The four questions you have asked are set forth below 
in summary form followed by the Board's interpretation of the 
pertinent provisions. The first question below did not appear 
to necessitate a decision cf the Board, and the answer thereto 
is our iudgment of a reasonable interpretation of the pertinent 
provisions of the Federal Reserve Act. 
1. Q. Where first choice votes are counted together 
with second choice votes in a three-candidate election, pursuant 
to section 4(19), dees the requirement that a candidate to be 
elected must have a "majority of the electors" refer to a majority 
of the banks casting valid ballots or does it refer to a majority 
of the votes cast? 
A. A similar question involving an election at 
the St. Louis Bank on November 30, 1928 resulted in amendment 
of section 4(19) in 1930 to require that the winning candidate 
must receive, the votes of: a majority of the banks casting valid 
ballots and also the highest number of combined votes in the 
event that second choice votes are tabulated. This section has 
not been change! since that time and the same result is still 
re qui red. 

Mr. Roger Guffey 
- 2 -
2. Q. Does the language In section 4(17) of the 
Federal Reserve Act that the person casting a vote for director 
"shall make a cross" to indicate his choices require that a 
mark other than "X" would invalidate the ballot? 
A. A marking other than "X" on the ballot should 
not invalidate chat ballot: if the voter's intention can be 
clearly determined. 
3. Q. 
In a three-candidate election^ is a ballot 
necessarily invalidated by a failure to mark second and third 
cho ice ? 
A. 
Such invalidation should take place only when 
no candidate has received a majority of the first choice votes 
since the technical infraction has not given any candidate an 
unfair advantage or resulted in any unfair detriment and since 
the preferential ballot provided for in section 4(19) of the 
Act contemplates the counting of second choice votes only when 
there is not a majority selection of the first choice votes. 
Otherwise, the absurd result could conceivably occur wherein 
a candidate could receive 85 par cent of the first choice votes 
and nevertheless still lose the election since those voting 
for him failed to indicate their second choice. In the event 
that there is no majority choice among the ballots for first 
choice and, therefore, ballots not indicating additional prefer-
ences are invalidated, the director should not be selected by 
the remaining first choice ballots, 
instead, the remaining 
valid first choice ballots should be added to the second choice 
ballots and the director receiving the highest: total of such 
combined ballots shall be declared elected. 
4. Q. 
Xs a subsidiary of a bank holding company 
precluded from participating in an election for a director if 
it has not been designated or expressed an intention to nominate 
or vote? 
A. A subsidiary of: a bank holding company should 
not be precluded from participation in an election for a director, 
even if it has not been designated by the bank holding conrpauy 
i» ths situation where no other subsidiary has been designated or 
expressed an intention to nominate or vote. 
Conversely, if more 
than one subsidiary purports to act for the bank holding company, 
then none should be allowed to participate without a written 
designation. 
In addition, one subsidiary may make a nomination 
and a different subsidiary may vote. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
MiohaeL A, Greenspan 
Atyista))l Jccretary 

1945 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
,-^oVcoV-,:-. 
OF THE 
Item No. 14 
'" 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/27/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TC) T H E D O A U S 
July 31, 1972 
The Honorable Theodore M, Hesburgh, Chairman 
United States Commission on Civil Rights 
Washington, D. C. 20425 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your letter of July 3, 1972, 
in which you e sited to be provided with updated information on the 
relevant actions talt en by the Federal Reserve System with respect 
to civil rights enforcement so that your Commission would be in a 
position to assess the progress made by the System. To aid in 
your evaluation, you request the Board's response to several ques-
tions set forth as an attachment to your letter. 
The following answers, preceded in each instance for 
convenient reference by the relevant question, have been prepared 
only in relation to State member banks over which the Board has 
primary Federal supervisory responsibility. As of December 31, 
1971, there were about 1,100 State member banks, representing 
about 8 per cent of the 13,500 insured commercial banks in the 
Nation, The State, member banks hold about 21 per cent of the 
total deposits of the Nation's insured, commercial banks, 
1. "What structures with respect to staffing and organiza-
tion has your agency developed in order to best fulfill its respon-
sibilities in the area of equal opportunity? 
Please describe the 
office (s) and the number of staff positions assigned to this area 
and their specific functions." 
In, a letter elated May 18, 197 2, to Representative Don 
Edwards, Chairman, Civil Rights Oversight Subcommittee. 
Committee on the Judiciary, House of Representatives, 
Chairman Burns outlined the Federal Reserve's Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity policies an follows: 

-
19 
"In April 1971, the Board adopted regulations 
covering nondiscrimination in employment by Board con-
tractors and subcontractors holding construction, 
service and supply contracts. Although the Board is 
not within the class of Federal Executive Agencies to 
which Executive Order 112.46 applies, the concept of the 
executive order relating to the equal employment, policy 
on contracts and subcontracts is being fully applied by 
the Board to the contracts and subcontracts to which the 
Board is a party. Also, the provisions of the "Washington 
Plan" which cover quantified minority hiring goals in^ 
II skilled construction trades are included in the prime 
contract for the Board building annex now under construction, 
"An Affirmative Action Plan with quantified objectives 
and timetables covering the recruitment, hiring, assign-
ment:, training, and promotion of minorities and women was 
initially adopted by the Board in December 1970. 
This 
plan is revised annually. 
Each Federal Reserve Bank has 
"an Affirmative Action Plan as well, similar to that of 
the Board. 
"In November 1969, the Board adopted regulations and 
procedures applicable, to Board employees to provide a 
method for the processing of complaints in the field of 
equal employment opportunity. Equal employment counselors 
and a Federal Women's Program Coordinator have been appointed. 
"In March 1971, the Board appointed a Director of 
Equal Employment Opportunity who monitors the affirmative 
action plans of the Board and the Reserve Banks and 
serves as a consultant to r.hc Reserve Banks on all equal 
employment opportunity matters, including the processing 
of discrimination complaints." 
The contractors who have thus far performed on the 
Board's annex building program are ahead of the goals 
set by the "Washington Plan". 
The Board's 1972 Affirmative 
Action Plan with quantified goals and objectives is set 
forth as an attachment. 
With respect to organization and staffing, the Office 
of Equal Employment Opportunity consists of the Director 
and secretarial staff. 
The Director of Equal Employment 
Opportunity is responsible to the Board which directly 

1349 
-3-
oversees the program. 
The Board's Equal Employment 
Opportunity Regulations and Procedures, a copy of 
which is enclosed, provide for an Equal Opportunity 
Officer and for such Equal Opportunity Counselors as 
may be necessary to assise the Board in carrying out 
its policies in this area. Additionally, the Director 
of Equal Employment Opportunity utilizes personnel 
from all of the Board's Divisions and works particularly 
close with the Division of Personnel Administration. 
2 
"Since October 1971, have any complaints of discrimination 
in mortgage lending by member institutions been received by the Board? 
It so, please provide all relevant information on the disposition of 
such comp1aints. 
"Has your agency referred any complaints to the Depart-
ment of Housing and. Urban Development (HUD)? 
If so, have you done 
any follow-up to determine the outcome of the complaint? 
What 
were the results? 
If not, do you intend to follow-up referrals to 
HUD 
A survey of the R e s e r v e B a n k s indicates that the 
Federal Reserve. Svstem has not received any complaints 
of discrimination in the area of loans for residential 
purposes. 
The Equal Housing Lender Poster which has 
been on displav in State member banks since May 1, 19/Z, 
pursuant to an agreement with the Department of Housing 
and Urban Development, directs that complaints be made 
directly to that Aiency. 
Recently HUD was requested ny 
Board's staff to inform the Board of any such complaints 
involving a State member Lank. 
It is contemplated that 
such complaints will be carefully reviewed and, if it 
appears warranted, follow-ups on complaints will be made. 
"(a) Has your agency done any further analysis of the 
results of" the questionnaires (HUD) on its oxen? If so, please furnish 
us with any materials that have been developed. 
At- the time the questionnaire was being prepared it 
was screed that HUD would collate, and analyze the data 
obtained from the responses. 
In May of this year, tne 
federal Reserve received a "first report" on the results 
of the ouestionnaire. 
This report was analyzed and a 
meeting 'to discuss its implications was held with Assistant 
Secr-ntary Simmons of HUD. 
Further communication with HUD on 
the implications of its findings as well as a more detai.,co 
report*of the results of the questionnaire are expected. 

57 
When received the questionnaires were reviewed by 
the Federal Reserve for possible violations ot the Civil 
Rights Act. Nineteen State member banks indicated that 
there were neighborhoods or other areas of high con-
centration of minority group members in which their 
institutions refuse to make loans for resident!*, pur-
poses. 
System examiners made a special investigation 
of each State member bank that made such a response. 
/ few of the banks investigated indicated that the question 
was not'understood and requested that the answer be changed, 
Most of the banks that did not change their response cited 
pending urban renewal programs and inability to obtain 
insurance as the reason for such refusal. The examiners 
reviewed their findings with the Legal Departments of he 
Reserve Banks to determine if the Act was being violated. 
A review of the lending policies of these banks revealed 
no apparent violations of the Act. 
System examiners have also been instructed to make_ 
a special review focusing on the mortgage l e n d i n g policies 
of each State member bank that indicated it considered 
certain, neighborhood characteristics (question 8 on the 
questionnaire) in determining whether or not r.o make a 
loan OP. a particular property. 
Your agency's nondiscrimination requirements which 
were recently issued cover HUD's first recommendation on posters anc 
advor ti eing guido1ines, 
"With respect to HUD5 s and the Commission's recommendations 
that in—mu-ions be required to collect racial-, ethnic and property 
] oca t lor." d 3 ta, h as your Agency reconsidered its position m view of 
the results of the questionnaire? 
"Haa there been any cooperation with the other financial 
the issuance of now roquire-jents 
Ihe Board believe that aueh discriminatory Practice, 
as 
e x U t in residential real estate lending f. ,1 
three" broad categoric: 
I) refusal to make a 
= 
; 
/• !,• , - * i it ft rr\ 
re Li ci on 01 natx.«jact.«. 
annl i cant because of hi? i.ace, cprui., 
, . 
Siflnt 2) refusal to make a loan to a minority group memoc, 

1349 
-5-
for the purpose of purchasing a residence located in 
an area of low concentration of minority groups; 3) 
the "blocking out" of areas of high concentration of 
minority grorps from consideration for real estate loans. 
The Board'docs not believe tnat additional requirements 
which impose detailed recordkeeping responsibilities will 
give commensurate benefits in detecting or deterring 
discrimination against specific loan applicants. 
The 
Board believes that procedures to make members of minority 
groups increasingly aware of their rights under the Civil 
Rights Act of 1968, such as through the poster and 
advertising requirements, and adequate procedures to deal 
with such complaints as may be received is the most effec-
tive method of dealing with discrimination against che 
individual, 
As relates to the second type of discrimination 
mentioned, the Board believes racial data on borrowers 
would serve only to confirm what can already be observed 
from an analysis of residential patterns and would not 
offer any additional insight into lending patterns. 
The 
Board, therefore, believes that the most effective method 
of dealing with this type of discrimination is through the 
complaint mechanism previously discussed. 
With respect to the third type of discrimination, 
System examiners made strong follow-up investigations 
of all those banks whose, responses to the HUD questionnaire 
indicated a possible policy of "blocking out" areas of 
high concentrations of minority group members from con-
sideration for loans. Further, Federal Reserve examiners 
have been using a Civil Rights Questionnaire developed by 
the Board's staff (copy enclosed) in connection with all 
regular bank examinations since October 1971. 
The ques-
tionnaire seeks answers to such questions as how real, 
estate loans made to minority group members compare to the 
bank's total real estate loans relative to the proportion 
of minority group population in. the service area; and 
whether the bank'refuses to make loans in neighborhoods 
with high percentages of minority populations. 
The Board 
believes that these efforts coupled with the poster and 
advertising requirements aimed at increasing public awareness 
of nondiscrimination requirements and the availability of 

1950 
-6-
complaint procedures serve as an aid in eliminating 
discriminatory practices. Moreover, if the above 
procedures indicate that a more in-depth study or a 
particular lender is warranted, addresses appearing on ^ 
loan applications together with other information already 
available in the bank's files would be sufficient to 
indicate lending patterns. 
The Board now sees no meaningful 
purpose to be served by imposing unnecessary recordkeeping 
requirements on financial institutions. 
At the time the examiner's questionnaire was implemented 
the Board stated that it was experimental and that if 
experience revealed that it was ineffective some other 
approach would be considered. 
By late fall the questionnaire 
will have been in use for about one year and the posters 
will have been in the banks about six months. An in-dcpth 
analysis of the results of this approach will be mace at 
that time and a determination as to its effectiveness will 
be made. 
The Board has not; undertaken any joint effort with 
the other financial regulatory agencies on the subject of 
requiring financial institutions to collect racial or ecnnic 
data. 
Such an effort may be appropriate in the future as 
the results of present programs become more apparent. 
3 
"(c) Has your agency reconsidered its position with 
regard to the development of examination forms or special training 
for examiners in order to facilitate their determination of possible 
patterns or practices of discrimination, using the data presently 
maintained by institutions?" 
As previously stated System examiners have been utilizing 
a civil ri»hts questionnaire in connection with each examina-
tion of State member banks since October 1971. Answers to 
th* questionnaire came from the examiner's ooservations ot 
th» bank's conduct of. its affairs, and from information^ 
supplied by bank management. 
The Board has a l s o estabxisned 
a special course in Federal Unserve schools for ban, examiners. 
Tho course 
given to all examiners attending these scaools, 
has been aimed at acquainting them with the provisions of 
c t v n rights legislation as they apply to financial institutions, 
with tlie'objective of increasing their ability to encourage 
an d m on 1.1. or c omp 1 i. an eve. 

1951 
-7-
3 
"(d) With respect to HUD1s third recommendation 
has your agency developed any standards relating to an affirmative 
minority employment program to be used by member institutions. 
If so. please furnish us with any relevant materials^ it not, 
has your agency considered developing such a program £ 
In response to a request from the U. S. Treasury 
Department, at each bank examination, an inquiry is 
made by the bank examiner to determine whether all 
required Equal Employment Opportunity reports have been 
submitted to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission 
and the U. S. Department of the Treasury. 
Additionally, 
examiners determine if banks employing 50 or more persons 
have on file a written Affirmative Action Plan for 
minority group and female employment. 
Examiners forward 
copies of their report to the Director of Equal Employ-
ment Opportunity, U, S. Treasury. 
Copies of those reports 
that indicate questions as to compliance are rorwardeu 
to the Board's Director of Equal Employment Opportunity. 
4 
"Has vour agency reconsidered its position concerning 
its authority to require member institutions to impose nondiscrimination 
requirements on builders and developers with whom they have financial 
dealings? 
Has there been *vj cooperation among^the regulatory agencies 
on this question? 
If so, what are the results?" 
The staff Memorandum of Law dated April 8, 1971, which 
was submitted as a. supplement to the Board's response 
to the Commission of March 12, 1971. discussed both the 
legal and practical impediments to the attempted imposition 
of°p-roeedures by the Board which would require enforcement 
by S^ate member banks of nondiscrimination requirements 
directed to builders and developers. 
If you have any 
comments as to the legal or practical impediments discussed 
in the memorandum, the Board would be. anxious to benefit 
from them. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosures 

A f f i rma t i v e A c t i on 
One cf the overall goals of the Board's recruitment and 
promotion activities is to increase the number of minority group 
and women employees in the higher FR grades. To this end, employment 
percentage goals and time tables have been established in those FR 
grade levels where it is recognized that progress is necessary and 
where the number of minority and women employees is not what should 
reasonably be expected in view of the potential supply of qualified 
members of those groups in the work force. Other factors in the goal-
setting process are. the skills composition of the minority group 
population in the Board's recruiting area and the number and types of 
jobs within the Board's occupational structure. 
Since many of the 
Board positions, particularly those in the professional, upper level 
technical, and managerial categories are filled outside the Washington 
D. C. Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area (SMSA), minority population 
figures in the immediate geographic area have not been used as a rigid 
guideline in setting quantified objectives. Also, action items in this 
general, category include provisions for analyzing turnover, anticipated 
hiring, and other employment data tor each division according to the 
organizational levels and components within that division. 
1970 Census figures for the Washington D.C. SMSA show a. 2b.Tu 
minority group population (24.6% Negro and 1.17. other races). 
By comparison, 
the November 30, 1971 Minority Census figures for the Board indicate 22.4% 
of the total Board employment to be from minority -roups (21.5% Negro and 

- 2 -
1953 
9/10 of 1% other races). 
Of the 733 Board employees in grades FR-7 
and above as of November 30, 1971, 45 were from minority groups (41 Negro 
and 4 other minorities) representing 6% of all Board employees in grades 
FR-7 and above. The November 30 figures showed women employees numbering 
520 or 45% of the total Board employment. However, as of that dace they 
occupied only 19% of the positions at FR-11 and above, inclusive of official 
positions. There is a heavy concentration of these women employees at the 
FR-11 grade where 47% are located; 53% being dispersed in the grades FR-12 
through 15. Based on the above analysis, the following percentages have 
been projected with a target date of December 31, 1972: 
1. 
Minority employment to reach 23% of the total Board employment 
2. 
Minority employees in grades FR-7 and above to approximate 0% 
of the Board's total employment in grades FR-7 and above. 
3 v 
women employees in grades FR-11 and above to represent 20% of 
the total employees occupying those grades. 
4. 
Minority employees in grades FR-11 and above to represent 
5% of the total employees occupying those grades. 
In working toward the above numerical objectives, insofar as-
possible, minority individuals and women are to be considered candidates 
for vacancies on the basis not only of their present qualifications but ... 
of their potential ability, given a reasonable period of training, to 
fill specific, positions. 
In addition, where qualified minority candidates 
havebecome available for placement in grades FR-7 and above at the Board, 
special effort will be made to hirethem in anticipation of reasonable 
turnover, even though no suitable vacancy may exist at that time and the 
employment target ceiling may be breached temporarily as the result of 
ruch action. 

>f GOl 
1954 
B O A R D • F G G V E R N D R 5 
OF the 
item No. 15 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/27/72 
^//w ' . • 
WASHINGTON, D. C. ?.0ro51 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
^ V ' I J S
- ^ ^ 
T O T H E B O A R D 
July 27, 1972 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 1002.2 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of April 3, 1972, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation (:,FNC0IC") 
to purchase and hold up to 66 per cent of the shares of a money 
market company ('MMC") to be organized inMakati, Rizal, Philippines, 
at a cost of approximately Pesos 13,200,000 (about $2,050,000), 
provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of KMC by FNC'OIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions; 
(1) That FKCCIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in MMC if MMC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent, of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if MMC establishes any branch or agency 
or trices any action or undertakes any operation in 
the Philippines or elsewhere, in any manner, which at 
the time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOXG 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of MMC as it may require from time to 
time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by MMC be 
reported under .Section 2LI. 3(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner :v> it MMC were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, and 

First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(4) That MMC shall not furnish management consulting 
services with respect to the United States market 
to U.S. companies and that the provision of such 
services to foreigners shall be confined to those 
relating to the initial entry of foreign companies 
into that market. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by MMC in the 
Philippines in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of: New York, with copies of Articles of Asso-
ciation, Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of MMC. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
tha. the investment will be made, within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to First National City bank aiad its affil-
iates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1S5H 
B O A R D 
• F 
G D V E R N G R S 
' OR VOL',* • 
D P T H E 
Item No. 16 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
7/27/72 
Miliiui 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O. C. 201-51 
A D D R E E I A 
D F - ' I C I A L 
C N R R E S P D N D E N C E 
<<, 
T[J T H E 
A O A R D 
July 27, 1972 
Chase Manhattan Corporation 
1 Chase Ha nil a 11 a n Plaza 
New York, New York 
10015 
I 
Gentlemen; 
As requested in your letter dated May 12, 1972.5 the Board of 
Governors grants permission pursuant to Section 4(c)(13) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, and to Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, 
£or your Corporation to make an additional investment in the shares of 
Chase Mannaztan Consulting, Inc., at a cost not to exceed $30,000 and 
for that company to engage, at locations outside the United States, 
in the provision of financial advice and information on cash management 
and the utilization of funds by customers in their international and 
£creign bysi neas. 
It is understood that in addition to providing the afore-
mentioned requested services, Chase Manhattan Consulting, Inc. will, 
authorized in the Board's letter of March 23, .1972, acquire and hold 
Up to 40 per cent of the outstanding shares cf Mitsubishi-Chase Manhattan 
Corporate Services Limited, a company to be formed in Tokyo, Japan. 
In granting this request, the Board cypressed the view that 
the provision at locations outside the United States of management con-
sulting services relating to international and foreign operations by 
bank holding companies and their affiliates is in the public interest 
And not at variance with the purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
With regard to the provision of management consulting services by bank 
folding companies and their affiliates to foreigners relating to the 
United States market and their activities therein, the Board concluded 
that to conform to the purposes of the Act, such activities should be 
confined to services relating to the Initial entry of foreign companies 
into the United States market, 
The Board concluded further that the 
Provision of services relating to the United States market to 0. 3. 
companies would not be permissible, 
The Board's letter ot March 23, 
lcJ72. is amended accordingly. 
k 

1957 
To: 
Chase Manhattan Corporation 
-2-
It is understood that the additional investment will be 
made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply 
to The Chase Manhattan Bank National Association and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No, 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/27/72 
GUARANTY LOAN AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF TULSA, INC: 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank and 
Continuation of the Activities of an Industrial 
Loan Company and the Sale of Credit-related Insurance 
Guaranty Loan and Investment Corporation of Tulsa, Inc., 
Tulsa, Oklahoma, has applied for the Board's approval under sec-
tions 3(a)(1) and 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C, 
1042(a)(1) and 1843(c)(0)) to acquire 50 per cent of the voting 
shares of Republic National Bank of Tulsa ("Bank"), Tulsa, Oklahoma 
and to continue to engage in the operation of an industrial loan 
company and the sale of credit-related insurance, including 
succession to such insurance sales activity on the premises of 
Bank, both insurance agency activities to be carried on by Guaranty 
Agency, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Applicant to be formed. 
Pursuant to section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
notice of receipt of the application to acquire voting shares of 
Bank to the Comptroller of the Currency. The Comptroller has not 
commented to the Board on the application. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views on the public 
interest factors, has been duly published (37 Federal Register 
10620). The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
none have been received. 
Applicant is an industrial loan company operating in 
the manner authorized by Oklahoma law and does not accept demand 
deposits. As such, it engages in the business of making personal 

1S59 
loans secured, from time to time, by first and second mortgages 
on real estate or by durable consumer goods, and sells credit 
life, credit health, and credit accident insurance to its borrowers. 
Such activities have been determined by the Board to be closely 
related to banking or managing or controlling banks (12 CFR 225.4(a)(2) 
and (9) (ii) (a) ) • 
Applicant is an industrial loan company, with total assets 
of $3.1 million, operating out of one office in Tulsa. Bank, with 
total deposits of $15.2 million, holds .3 per cent of total deposits 
in commercial banks in Oklahoma and is the thirteenth largest of 
the 19 banks located in Tulsa and the 29 banks located in 
Tulsa County. The proposed transaction would have no significant 
adverse effect on existing competition in the market for lendable 
funds. Uhereas Bank offers the usual range of deposit services 
offered by commercial banks, Applicant offers "thrift certificates" 
which, though similar to certificates of deposit, represent a higher 
risk due to their uninsured character and a possible limitation on 
repayment to 50 per cent of the Applicant's net receipts for the 
previous month, than do the deposits received by Bank. This is 
reflected in higher interest rates paid by Applicant on such funds 
than are paid by Bank. Barriers to entry into the banking business 
and legal requirements that Bank, as a national bank, maintain the 
insured character of its deposits and comply with limitations upon 
the payment of interest on deposits established by the Board's 

-3 
1960 
Regulation Q (12 CFR 217) suggest that future significant development 
of competition between Applicant and Bank in the market for such 
lendable funds is unlikely. Seventy per cent of Applicant's loan 
portfolio is secured by second mortgages on real estate. Bank is 
generally prohibited by section 24 of the Federal Reserve Act 
(12 U.S.C. 371) from making loans in primary reliance on a second 
mortgage on real estate as security. However, a slight amount of 
competition may exist between Applicant and Bank in the making of 
some consumer loans. The five-mile distance between offices of 
Applicant and Bank and the relatively small size of the consumer 
loan portfolios of Applicant and Bank lessen the slight adverse 
effect that consummation of the proposed transaction would have 
on competition in the Tulsa consumer loan market. Further, since 
neither Applicant nor Bank solicit credit-related insurance sales 
from persons other than their borrowers, no competition would 
appear to exist between Applicant and Bank in the market for sale 
of credit-related insurance and consummation would therefore not 
foreclose any existing competition in that market. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of both Applicant and Bank appear 
satisfactory and consistent with approval of the applications. 
Although, upon consummation of the proposed transaction, Appli-
cant wi11 assume a relatively substantial amount of debt, 

1961 
its past earnings record and growth suggest that Applicant will 
be able to service that debt. We assume that this will be done 
without the payment of an unreasonable amount of dividends or 
management fees by Bank. Furthermore, Applicant will make a 
pro rata offer to all shareholders of Bank permitting minority 
shareholders to participate in the proposed transaction in an 
equitable manner. 
Applicant has stated its intention to increase consumer 
services offered by Bank. Considerations relating to convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served, as well as public benefits 
that may be expected to derive from the proposed affiliation, there-
fore lend weight toward approval. The slight possible adverse 
effect on competition in the market for consumer lending is out-
weighed by this expected benefit to the public. Other possible 
adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, unfair 
competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices 
do not appear to be presented by the proposed transaction. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) 
is favorable. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the pro-
posal would be in the public interest. Accordingly, the applications 
are hereby approved. This determination is subject to the conditions 
set forth in section 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's 
authority to require such modification or termination of the activities 
of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds 
necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of 

5-
1962 
the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, 
or to prevent evasion thereof. The transaction shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of G o v e r n o r s ^ effective July 28, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell 
and Brimmer. Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and 
Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Bucher. 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND SHEEHAN 
Scction 3(c) of the Act provides that 
In every case, the Board shall take into 
consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the com-
pany or companies and the banks concerned. . . . 
In compliance therewith, this Board has looked askance at the assump-
tion by a bank holding company of excessive debt, particularly when 
the debt is incurred to enable the holding company to acquire a 
subsidiary (see Order Denying Formation of Bank Holding Company by 
Firstbrook Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, 53 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin 162 (February, 1972)). However, where the Board has 
reviewed convincing evidence that a bank holding company \tfill be 
able to service its debt without adversely affecting the condition 
of its banks, the Board has not considered the acquisition debt 
to be such as to require denial of the application (see, for example, 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company by American Bancor-
poration, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, 57 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
347 (October, 1971)). 
In view of the serious interest of this Board in the 
financial resources and future prospects of bank holding companies 
and their subsidiaries, we do not believe that a conclusion regard-
ing a holding company's ability to service debt should be reached 
unless that ability is clearly demonstrated in the record before 
the Board. 

1964 
This is of even greater impotfc&tide Where, as here, the application 
represents the initial entry of an applicant into battkitig since an 
optimistic estimate of that ability may in effect contribute to 
serious future problems for the holding company before it has even 
begun its existence as a bank holding company. 
In the instant case, Applicant, already in a highly leveraged 
position, will, as a result of the proposed transaction, incur further 
substantial debt. Based on its past earnings growth and on the growth 
of Bank, the majority concludes that Applicant will be able to service 
this debt without unduly straining the resources of Bank. We are 
unconvinced given the fact that the majority's conclusion is based on 
Applicant's operating history of only four years and Bank's operating 
history of only eight years. Since there are now four new banks 
competing in Bank's service area, the speculative nature of projections 
of Bank's earnings needs to be especially emphasized. 
We are not opposed to acquisitions of banks by young organizations, 
or by industrial loan companies where, as in other cases, there is 
positive and convincing evidence that they are able to service debts 
they incur. Our objection is that the record in this case contains 
insufficient evidence of a positive and convincing nature that 
Applicant possesses that ability without placing an undue strain on 
Bank's earnings. 
We therefore would deny the application. 
July2f), 1972. 

IS 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 18 
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT, INC. 
7/27/72 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
and Retention of Brady Insurance Agency 
Capital Management, Inc., Aurora, Nebraska, has submitted an 
application for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of 80 per cent of the voting shares of Bank 
of Brady, Brady, Nebraska ("Bank"). 
At the same time, Applicant has submitted its application for 
the Board's approval under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of 
the Board's Regulation Y to engage in certain permissible insurance 
agency activities through the retention of assets of Brady Insurance 
Agency, Brady, Nebraska ("Agency"). 
Notice of receipt of these applications has been given in 
accordance with sections 3 and 4 of the Act, and the time for filing 
comments and views has expired. The Board has considered the applica-
tions and all comments received in light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act, and the considerations specified in § 4(c)(8) of 
the Act. 
Applicant's sole business activity is operating Agency. 
Bank (deposits of $2.1 million) is the only bank in a community of 
approximately 300 people. Bank is the smallest of seven banks in 
the towns of North Platte, Gothenburg, Arnold, and Brady, which 
approximates Bank's service area, 
(All banking data are as of 

1966 
- 2 -
June 30, 1971.) Since the transaction involves only a change from individual 
to corporate ownership, consummation of the proposal will have no adverse 
effects on existing or potential competition. 
The Board notes that Applicant's president acquired 34 shares of 
Bank for a lower sum than that paid for his majority shares. The Board has 
previously expressed the view that failure to make an equivalent offer to 
minority shareholders is considered as an adverse circumstance (57 F.R. 
Bulletin 415, 688). However, Applicant has agreed to compensate the former 
oxmers of these minority shares so that they will receive a sum equal to that 
paid the majority shareholders. Applicant further agreed to make an equal 
offer to all remaining minority shareholders. 
The Board's approval of these 
applications is subject to the condition that Applicant fulfill such agreements 
prior to consummation of the proposed transaction. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant, Bank and Agency are consistent with approval. Although Applicant 
will incur considerable debt in acquiring Bank, its income from Bank and 
Agency will provide sufficient revenue to adequately service the debt. 
(Appli-
cant 's projections concerning the earnings of both Bank and Agency are 
reasonable and possibly conservative.) In addition, Applicant's acquisition 
of Bank will assure continued operation of the only bank in Brady. Accord-
ingly, considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served, with respect to the acquisition of Bank, lend weight toward 
approval. 
It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the transaction 
Would be in the public interest and that the application to acquire Bank 
should be approved. 

1967 
-3-
Agency is the only general insurance agency in Brady, a town of 
approximately 300, and is located on the premises of Bank. The operation by 
a bank holding company of a general insurance agency in a community with a 
population of less than 5,000 is an activity that the Board has previously 
determined to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.A(a)(9)(iii)). 
There is no evidence in the record indicating consummation of the 
proposal would result in any undue concentration of resources, unfair compe-
tition, conflicts of interest, unsound banking practices or other adverse 
effects on the public interest, The acquisition would assure continuation 
of the only source of general insurance in the town of Brady. On the basis 
of the foregoing and other facts reflected in the record, the Board has 
determined that the considerations affecting the competitive factors under 
section 3(c) of the Act and the balance of the public interest factors the 
Board must consider under section 4(c)(8) in permitting a holding company 
to engage in an activity on the basis that it is closely related to banking 
both favor approval of the Applicant's proposal. 
Accordingly, the applications are approved for the reasons summarized 
above. The acquisition of Bank shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order, or (b) 
later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless such 
period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. The determination as to 
Agency's activities is subject to the Board's authority to require reports by, 
and make examinations of, holding companies and their subsidiaries and to 

1963 
-4-
require such modification or termination of the activities of a holding 
company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure 
compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's 
regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 4, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
.1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Bucher. 

19 
Item No. 19 
H21 111 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST CITY BANCORPORATION OF TEXAS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, 
a hank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under section 3(a)(3) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1342(a)(3)) to acquire an additional 29.7 per 
cent of the voting shares of United Bank Shares, Inc., El Paso, Texas 
("United"), a holding company owning 100 per cent (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the shares of Southwest National Bank of El 
Paso, El Paso, Texas ("Bank"). Applicant presently owns 24.5 per 
cent of United. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with section 3(b) of the Act. Time for filing comments and 
views has expired. The Board has considered the application and all 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) 
of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the third largest banking organization in Texas, 
controls eight banks with aggregate deposits of approximately $1.5 
billion, representing about 4.9 per cent of deposits in commercial 
II 
banks in the State. 
Consummation of the proposal would increase 
Applicant's share of deposits by only .2 percentage points and would 
1/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1971 and reflect bank 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
through June 30, 1972. 

1970 
-2-
not result in a significant increase in the concentration of banking 
resources in Texas. 
Bank (about $75 million in deposits) is the third largest of 
12 banking organizations in the El Paso area and controls approximately 
11 per cent of deposits there. However, two larger organizations domi-
nate El Paso with each controlling about 36 per cent of deposits in the 
area. As the Board recognized in its earlier Order approving Applicant's 
acquisition of 24.5 per cent of the voting shares of United Bank (1972 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 295), the acquisition of Bank by Applicant 
eventually may lead to some deconcentration in the El Paso area through 
the introduction of a strong effective organization that competes with 
the two dominant organizations. 
Competitive considerations are con-
sistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant and its subsidiary banks are regarded as generally satis-
factory. Applicant proposes to provide additional capital to Bank and 
to strengthen management. 
Banking considerations lend weight for ap-
proval of the application. Applicant proposes to enable Bank to provide 
expertise in petroleum financing. Considerations relating to the con-
venience and needs of the community to be served are consistent with 
approval. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
is in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 

1971 
-3-
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 28, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
Governors 
Daane and Bucher. 
