: 
> i • 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 15, 1968 

1976 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, March 15, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Wernick, 
Eckert, Keir, Baker, Ettin, Fry, Gekker, and 
Kelty of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Hersey, Katz, Wood, 
Bryant, and Stem of the Division of International 
Finance 
Discount rate. The Secretary reported that advice had been 
received of action by the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of San Francisco establishing a rate of 5 per cent (rather than 4-1/2 
Per cent) on discounts for and advances to member banks under sections 13 
and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act, a rate of 5-1/2 per cent on advances 

1080 
3 / 1 5 / 6 8 
- 2 -
under section 10(b) of the Act, and a rate of 6 per cent on advances 
to individuals, partnerships, and corporations other than member banks 
under the last paragraph of section 13 of the Act, subject to review 
and determination by the Board of Governors. 
The Board approved unanimously, effective March 15, 1968, the 
rates established by the directors of the San Francisco Bank, with the 
understanding that the usual press release would be issued and that 
appropriate notification and publication procedures would be followed. 
The Board also authorized the Secretary, upon receipt of advice 
from other Reserve Banks of action taken by the directors of such Banks 
to establish a rate of 5 per cent on discounts for and advances to 
member banks under sections 13 and 13a, along with appropriately 
corresponding secondary rates, to advise those Banks of approval of 
such rates by the Board of Governors, with the understanding that the 
usual press release would be issued and that appropriate notification 
and publication procedures would be followed. 
Secretary's Notes: Later in the day advice was 
received that the Board of Directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia had established, 
subject to review and determination by the Board 
of Governors, rates of 5 per cent on discounts for 
and advances to member banks under sections 13 
and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act, 5-1/2 per 
cent on advances under section 10(b) , and 6 per 
cent on advances to individuals, partnerships, 
and corporations other than member banks under 
the last paragraph of section 13. Pursuant to 
the authority granted by the Board of Governors, 
the Secretary advised the Philadelphia Bank of 
approval of such rates effective March 18, 1968, 
and an appropriate press release was issued. 

3 / 1 5 / 6 8 
- 3 -
On March 21, 1968, the New York Reserve Bank 
advised that its Board of Directors had 
established, subject to review and determi-
nation by the Board of Governors, rates of 
5 per cent on discounts for and advances to 
member banks under sections 13 and 13a of 
the Federal Reserve Act, 5-1/2 per cent on 
advances under section 10(b) , and 6-1/2 
per cent on advances to individuals, partner-
ships, and corporations other than member 
banks under the last paragraph of section 13. 
Pursuant to the authority given by the Board 
of Governors, the Secretary advised the 
New York Bank of approval of such rates 
effective March 22, 1968, and an appropriate 
press release was issued. 
Money market review. Reports were given on the Government 
securities market, bank credit developments, and foreign exchange 
market developments. Copies of the charts and tables distributed in 
connection with today's review have been placed in the Board's files. 
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions except Messrs. Brill, Partee, Gramley, Sammons, and 
Keir withdrew from the meeting, as did Messrs. Fauver and Bernard, and 
the following entered: 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Examinations 
Messrs. Eisenbeis and Wiles of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the 
Proposed consolidation of The Dime Savings Bank of Norwich, Norwich, 
Connecticut, with The Chelsea Savings Bank, also of Norwich, was 
2E££oveid unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation. The conclusion 
read as follows: 

1080 
3 / 1 5 / 6 8 
- 4 -
The proposed consolidation of The Dime Savings Bank of 
Norwich with The Chelsea Savings Bank, Norwich, would eliminate 
a significant amount of existing and potential competition and 
further increase the concentration of IPC time and savings 
deposits and mortgages in the New London-Groton-Norwich Standard 
Metropolitan Statistical Area. Overall, the competitive effect 
of the proposed consolidation would be substantially adverse. 
Private Pension Plan Act. In January the Board had agreed to 
join with other agencies in supporting a memorandum from the Secretary 
of Labor to the White House recommending that a set of legislative 
proposals developed by a task force of the President's Committee on 
Private Pension Plans, of which Chairman Martin was a member, be given 
a high priority in the Administration's 1968 legislative program. At 
that time legislative draft language had not been prepared, and the 
Board reserved the right to comment later on the specifics of the 
legislation. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum from the Division 
of Research and Statistics dated March 13, 1968, advising that the 
draft bill had been completed and the Board had been asked for comment. 
The memorandum commented on the various provisions of the draft bill 
and expressed the view that on balance the proposed legislation repre-
sented a carefully developed and useful program that deserved Federal 
Reserve support. Attached to the memorandum was a suggested letter 
to the Bureau of the Budget. 
After discussion, unanimous approval was given to a letter 
to the Bureau of the Budget in the form attached as Item No. 1. 

1080 
3 / 1 5 / 6 8 
- 5 -
Gold cover bill. Unanimous approval was given to a letter 
to the Bureau of the Budget recommending favorably on enrolled bill 
H.R. 14743, "To eliminate the reserve requirements for Federal Reserve 
notes and for United States notes and Treasury notes of 1890." A 
copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Chairman Martin referred to the joint release issued yesterday 
by the Secretary of the Treasury and himself in which it was announced 
that the central bank governors of the active gold pool countries had 
been invited to consult on coordinated measures to insure orderly 
conditions in the exchange markets and to support the present pattern 
of exchange rates based on the fixed price of $35 per ounce of gold. 
He then reviewed the arrangements that were being made for the weekend 
meeting, which would be held at the Federal Reserve Building. 
After discussion of the arrangements being made, Governor Brimmer 
commented that he had distributed a memorandum incorporating certain 
views with respect to Regulation Q ceilings and the Chairman indicated 
that the subject would be considered by the Board at the earliest 
opportunity. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: A letter was sent today to 
Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
Association, San Francisco, California, acknowl-
edging receipt of notice of its intent to 

3 / 1 5 / 6 8 
- 6 -
establish an additional branch in Guatemala, 
to be located in Plazuela Espana, Guatemala 
City. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 
Letter to Mr. Lawrence C. Levdahl, Sterling, Virginia, confirm-
ing arrangements for a course in effective listening as an activity 
of the Board's Employee Training and Development Program, with a 
fee of $75 to be paid for the course. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointment 
John Franklin McGehee as Analyst, Division of Data Processing, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $18,404, effective the date 
of entrance upon duty, it being understood that the Board would pay 
the cost of moving his household effects from South Merritt Island, 
Florida, to Washington, D. C., along with transportation expenses 
for Mr. McGehee and his immediate family. 
Salary increase 
Linda Lee Sink, Mailing List Clerk and Flexowriter Operator, 
Division of Administrative Services, from $4,108 to $4,466 per annum, 
effective March 24, 1968. 
Transfer 
Lucille E. Hoft, from the position of Secretary, Division of 
Personnel Administration, to the position of Secretary, Office of 
the Secretary, effective March 24, 1968. 
On March 15, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
as indicated: 

10s 
3 / 1 5 / 6 8 
- 7 -
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpo- 
3 
ration regarding the application of Deer Lodge 
Bank and Trust Company, Deer Lodge, Montana, for 
continuation of deposit insurance after withdrawal 
from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Letter to The Brooks Bank and Trust Company, 
4 
Torrington, Connecticut, granting an extension 
of time within which to establish an in-town 
branch. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to Forest City Bank & Trust Company, 
5 
Forest City, Iowa, granting an extension of 
time within which to establish an in-town 
branch (drive-in facility). 

1083 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE 5YSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
3/15/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 15, 1968. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Executive Office of the President, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in reply to your letter requesting comments from 
the Board of Governors on the proposed Private Pension Plan Act 
of 1968. 
The Board has reviewed the various provisions of the 
proposed Act. While it recognizes that some of the administrative 
provisions in Titles IV and V are still subject to revision through 
further inter-agency consultation, the Board believes that the 
proposed legislation provides a generally balanced and carefully 
developed program which should help to achieve the important social 
obj ectives sought by the President's Committee on Corporate Pension 
Funds. 
The Board, therefore, favors transmittal of the bill to 
Congress. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

1084 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
or the 
I t e m N o . 2 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
3/15/68 
WAjHINIjIQN, D.C. 2Q55I 
OFFICE OF THE 
CHAIRMAN 
March 15, 1968. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Executive Office Building, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to the telephone request from 
your office this morning for the Board's views on the enrolled 
bill, H.R. 14743, "To eliminate the reserve requirements for 
Federal Reserve notes and for United States notes and Treasury 
notes of 1890." 
The Board is in favor of the proposed legislation 
and recommends that the enrolled bill be approved by the 
President. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

of cow •. 
BOARD O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
10 85 
Item No. 3 
3/15/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
4L RES^\ • 
March 18, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
Division of Examinations, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Mr. DeHority: 
Reference is made %o your letter of March 6, 1968, con-
cerning the application of Deer Lodge Bank and Trust Company, Deer 
Lodge, Montana, for continuance of deposit insurance after with-
drawal from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Examinations has stated on behalf of the Board of 
Governors that the past several examinations of the subject bank 
have revealed an unsatisfactory condition. The bank has a fairly 
high volume of criticized loans, and management has been urged to 
strengthen weak loan and collection policies. In addition, manage-
ment of the bank has been viewed as poor. 
He also has stated that there have been no other correc-
tive programs urged upon the bank, or agreed to by it, which have 
not been fully consummated, and there are no programs that the Board 
would advise be incorporated as conditions of admitting the bank to 
membership in the Corporation as a nonmember of the Federal Reserve 
System. Nevertheless, you may wish to consider the above information 
in your review of this application. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item 
3/15/68 
FEDERAL 
RESERVE 
BANK OF 
BOSTON 
30 PEARL STREET 
- 
/ 
Board of Directors 
f 
fhe Brooks Bank and Truat Company 
Torrington, Connecticut 
Centl 
March 15, 1968 
n: 
On bahalf of the Board of Governors of the eeder.il Reserve 
sV*te«, acting under delegated authority, thla Bank extends to Hay 1, 
the time within which The BrooRallank and Truat Cowpan 
Torringtor>, 
Connecticut, outy establish a b r a t t V f Torrlugton Parkade Shopping 
c«nter, Torrlngton, Connectict 
Very truly youra, 
Luther M. Iloyle, Jr 
Vice President 
'pef 
rOEc^Vr 
r 
- f k :,'r * 
'•5 V < .J C 
;' 
C " I J' i 
;\To |8 ffl !0 

1087 
Item No. 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
3/15/68 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60690 
(312) HA 7-2320 
March 15, 1966 
Mr. Gordon L. Wold 
Vice President and Cashier 
Forest City Bank & Trust Company 
0. Boat 32 
Forest City, Iowa 50*66 
Dear Mr. Void: 
Cto behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
authority, this 
grants en extension to June 1, 1968, of the time 
In which your 
nay establish a branch (drive-in facility) on 
J Street, approximately 75 feet from the bank's bead office. 
We shall appreciate being advised of the date on which 
the facility is opened for business. 
Vary truly yours, 
Leland Rosa 
Vice President 
LR:rk 
cc . Board of Governors 
Iowa State Banking Department 
Examiner's file 
C O 
