Minutes for 
March 14, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
U ;; , ,-lr 
Governor Brimmer 
a clociuJua'tiCii ivKrUv,.;.;-! 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, March 14, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Mr. Bernard and Mrs. Winkler of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Williams, Keir, Baker, 
Burns, Ettin, Fry, Kelty, and Kichline of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Hersey, Norwood, Gemmill, Altmann, 
Bryant, Gekker, and Stem, and Mrs. Junz of 
the Division of International Finance 
Money market review. 
Today's review included reports by Mr. 
Baker on the Government securities market, by Mr. Fry on bank credit, 
and by Mr. Stem on the foreign exchange and gold markets. 
Copies of 
the documents distributed for the purpose of today's review have been 
placed in the Board's files. 
Ob.i •.•> 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Solomon, 
Partee, Axilrod, and Norwood then withdrew. 

. 
8 8 8 
3/14/69 
-2-
Discount rates. 
The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on March 10 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City 
on March 13, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The Chairman noted receipt by the Board of advice that the 
directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta had established, sub-
ject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, a discount 
rate of 6 (rather than 5-1/2) per cent. He proposed that this action, 
along with similar rate actions by several other Reserve Banks, be 
held over without action by the Board at this time, and no objection 
to such a procedure was indicated. 
Messrs. Axilrod and Bernard then withdrew and the following 
entered: 
Messrs. Hexter, O'Connell, Lynch, Noble, and Plotkin of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Egertson, Lyon, Burton, Donovan, and Goodfellow of 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Lawrence and Wiles and Miss Wickstead of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Application of Union Commerce Bank (Item No. 1). There had 
been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation regarding the application of Union Commerce Bank, Cleveland, 
Ohio, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas. 

8 8 3 
3/14/69 
-3-
Governor Brimmer stated that he would abstain from voting on 
this applicat ion. He then noted that the bank was over the ceiling 
established by the guidelines of the foreign credit restraint program. 
He also noted the bank's statement that the purpose of the proposed 
branch was to obtain Euro-dollars to lend to customers operating abroad. 
In his opinion, one of the objectives of such a facility should be to 
allow a bank to get below its ceiling, and he thought this statement 
should be made to the bank. 
There was agreement with language changes in the draft letter 
to the bank along the lines suggested by Governor Brimmer. 
The appli-
cation was then approved, Governor Robertson dissenting and Governor 
Brimmer abstaining. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The First National Bank of 
Bakerton, Bakerton, Pennsylvania, into Johnstown Bank and Trust Com-
pany, Johnstown, Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion stating 
that consummation of the proposed merger would have no adverse compet-
itive effects. 
Application of Hamilton National Associates. 
There had been 
distributed a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regula-
tion dated March 6, 1969, and other papers pertinent to the application 

883 
3/14/69 
-4-
of Hamilton National Associates, Incorporated, Chattanooga, Tennessee, 
to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting stock of The Hamilton 
National Bank of Chattanooga, Chattanooga, Tennessee. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that an appropriate order and statement would be drafted for the 
Board's consideration. 
Request of stockholder of Cleveland Trust Company (Item No. 2). 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to Mr. Edward C. Calvert of 
Willowick, Ohio, a stockholder of The Cleveland Trust Company, Cleve-
land, Ohio, again denying his request for a hearing concerning a 
proposal that Mr. Calvert wished to have included in the proxy state-
ment sent to stockholders of Cleveland Trust Company in connection with 
the forthcoming annual meeting. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

83-1 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/14/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 14, 1969 
Union Commerce Bank, 
Euclid Avenue at East Ninth Street, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44115 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Union Commerce Bank, Cleveland, Ohio, 
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Federal 
Re serve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to 
operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of 
such Sections and of Regulation M . 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business 
and not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in 
the United States. 
It is also understood that there is to be no 
contact with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, 
staff, and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under 
contract by another party. 
In view of the unusual character of 
this operation, the foregoing permission is granted subject to 
continuing special observation and review by the Board and after 
due notice may be withdrawn or modified. 
The foregoing permission 
is also granted on the condition that adequate information covering 
the branch's operations will be maintained at your head office 
and will be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly notified of any modification in the 
branch's methods of operation, including changes in any contract 
under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened 
for business on or before April 1, 1970, all rights granted 
hereby shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority 
hereby granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change 
in location of the branch in Nassau. 

892 
Union Commerce Bank 
-2-
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign 
assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In 
view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
with the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's opera-
tions maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside 
the United States. 
The Board notes that your bank, on January 31, 
1969, was in excess of its ceiling under the foreign credit restraint 
effort. 
In granting the foregoing consent to the proposed estab-
lishment of the branch, the Board does so on the understanding that 
the bank, at an early date, will be able to bring its outstanding 
foreign assets within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

8 3 3 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
3/14/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL C a R R E S P • N D E N C E 
TD THE BOARD 
March 14, 1969 
M r . Edward C. Calvert, 
30104 Barjode Road, 
Willowick, Ohio. 
44904 
Dear M r . Calvert: 
Reference is made to your letter of March 8, 1969, in which 
you request the Board of Governors to review its decision not to hold 
a hearing to determine whether a proposal that you submitted to The 
Cleveland Trust Company, Cleveland, Ohio, must be included in manage-
ment's proxy statement, sent to stockholders in connection with the 
forthcoming 1969 annual meeting. 
In the event that the Board refuses 
your request for a hearing you also request permission to appeal this 
matter to the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia or such 
other Federal court as the Board may designate. 
In order to put this matter into proper perspective, it 
appears appropriate to describe briefly the statutory and regulatory 
framework relating to the inclusion of stockholder proposals in proxy 
soliciting material of the managements of member State banks whose 
securities are registered pursuant to section 12 of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (United States Code, title 15, section 78j). 
Section 14 of said Act (15 U.S.C. 78n) makes it unlawful 
for any person to solicit proxies with respect to a registered security 
"in contravention of such rules and regulations as the [Board] may 
prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for 
the protection of investors . . 
Section 26 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78z) provides that 
"No action or failure to act by the [Securities and 
Exchange] Commission or the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, in the administration of this title 

M r . Edward C. Calvert 
- 2 -
shall be construed to mean that the particular authority 
has in any way passed upon the merits of, or given approval 
to, any security or any transaction or transactions therein, 
nor shall such action or failure to act with regard to any 
statement or report filed with or examined by such authority 
pursuant to this title or rules and regulations thereunder, 
be deemed a finding by such authority that such statement 
or report is true and accurate on its face or that it is 
not false or misleading. . . .". 
Federal Reserve Regulation F contains requirements with 
respect to information to be included in the proxy statements of 
member State banks that are subject to that regulation. A copy of 
Regulation F is enclosed for your convenient reference. 
Section 206.5(k) 
governs inclusion of stockholder proposals in managements' proxy state-
ments. 
Paragraph 4 of that subsection is designed to protect minority 
stockholder interests by requiring due notice to the stockholder and 
the Board, where management intends to omit from its proxy statement 
a stockholder proposal duly submitted to it for inclusion. 
It is 
general procedure for the administrative agency having jurisdiction 
(i.e., the Securities and Exchange Commission or appropriate bank 
supervisory agency) to review the sufficiency of the reasons advanced 
by management for omitting a stockholder's proposal, in order to 
determine compliance with its regulatory requirements. There is no 
statutory or regulatory requirement that the agency make such a 
determination, which is done solely to advise the parties concerned, 
on an informal basis, of the agency's views. Therefore, it is not 
believed that such an advice is an "order" of the agency from which 
an appeal would lie pursuant to section 25(a) of the 1934 Act (15 
U.S.C. 78y), but in any case permission from the Board to file an 
appeal is not necessary. 
You will also wish to note that the United States Supreme 
Court in J . I. Case Co. v . Borak (Volume 377, United States Reports, 
page 426 (1964)) has held that a stockholder has a private right of 
action under section 27 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78aa) for violations of 
section 14(a). As indicated by section 26, quoted above, the Board's 
views with respect to this matter are not a conclusive determination 
of your legal rights. Should you wish to pursue this matter further, 
you may wish to consult your attorney. 
In view of the above, and in the continued belief that a 
hearing would serve no useful purpose, the Board has again considered, 

835 
Mr. Edward C. Calvert 
-3-
and again denied, your request for a hearing. We regret that we 
cannot be of further assistance to you at this time. 
A copy of this letter is being sent to The Cleveland Trust 
Company. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
' O 
! 
. 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
W , . - . , \ . 
. 
r„. 
• 
. 
. ; 
;.>i.! . 
Enclosure 
