Minutes for 
November 7, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a Copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

4266 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, November 7, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Koch, Deputy Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Noble of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Shull and King of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Maguire, Lyon, Burton, and Kline of 
the Division of Examinations 
Applications of Charter New York Corporation. Applications by 
Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of 
Endicott Trust Company, Endicott, New York, and Dutchess Bank & Trust 
Company, Poughkeepsie, New York, were considered by the Board on 

4267 
11/7/67 
-2-
August 31, 1967. During the discussion several questions were raised 
concerning the earnings prospects of the holding company and its prin-
cipal subsidiary bank, Irving Trust Company of New York City. Board 
members expressed some concern with regard to the ability of the hold-
ing company to provide financial assistance to the proposed subsidiary 
banks and yet continue to pay the established dividend to stockholders 
in view of the substantial debt incurred to provide additional capital 
for Irving Trust Company. Since the latter's future earnings and divi-
dends had a direct bearing on the question, Board members also expressed 
concern about the trust company's prospects. 
A memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated November 3, 
1967, advised that at the request of the Board's staff Charter New York 
Corporation and Irving Trust Company had submitted earnings projections 
for 1967 and 1968. In addition, representatives of the Board and the 
New York Reserve Bank had met with representatives of the holding com-
pany and the trust company to discuss the material submitted, along 
with the trust company's current position and expectations with regard 
to capital, liquidity, and float. Submitted with the memorandum were 
schedules summarizing the earnings data submitted, together with infor-
mation previously available from the Board's files. Also submitted were 
a statement of the trust company's capital accounts, a schedule showing 
its share of various markets, and schedules with regard to float. 

aggros 
4 2 K 8 
11/7/67 
-3-
The memorandum noted that Irving Trust Company was currently 
being examined by the New York Reserve Bank and that, although a com-
plete evaluation of the bank's assets could not be made at this time, 
the bank was believed to have ample liquidity. Capital was expected 
to be close to 100 per cent of the requirement under the Reserve Bank's 
formula by early 1968. 
The Division believed that the earnings projections were reason-
able, and it considered the earnings prospects of the holding company 
and Irving Trust Company to be reasonably satisfactory. The staff 
believed the holding company would have adequate resources to service 
its debt, pay the established dividend, and provide financial assistance 
to the proposed subsidiary banks. The Division recommended that the 
applications be approved. 
At today's meeting Mr. Leavitt reviewed in some detail the 
information presented in the November 3 memorandum and responded to a 
number of questions raised by members of the Board. 
Governor Robertson then inquired whether it would not be appro-
priate to defer action on the applications until the results of the 
current examination of Irving Trust Company were available. In 
response, Messrs. Solomon and Leavitt stated reasons why they believed 
that the information currently at hand, taken together with indicated 
changes in the attitude of management with respect to operating policies, 
reflected sufficient improvement in the bank's present position and its 

42WJ 
11/7/67 
-4-
prospects to justify action on the two relatively minor proposed acqui-
sitions by the holding company without further delay. 
The members of the Board then expressed their views with 
respect to the applications, and all except Governor Robertson stated 
that they would approve. 
Governor Robertson stated that he would dissent from approval 
of both applications. The Endicott proposal involved a $50 million 
independent bank, and he saw no evidence in the record that the public 
would benefit from that bank's becoming a subsidiary of the bank hold-
ing company system. As to the smaller Poughkeepsie bank, he saw nothing 
in the record to indicate that it was not performing a service to the 
public as an independent institution. He understood that New York 
City banks had the ability under State law to branch into that area, 
and any additional facilities needed could be provided in such fashion. 
In summary, he saw no gain in terms of the public interest from per-
mitting the holding company system to expand through absorption of the 
two independent banks. 
The applications of Charter New York Corporation were then 
improved, Governor Robertson dissenting, with the understanding that 
appropriate papers implementing the decision would be prepared for the 
Board's consideration. 
The meeting continued from this point with the following staff 
attendance: Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, Brill, Holland, Solomon (Adviser), 
Molony, Fauver, Hackley, Johnson, and Koch. 

4270 
11/7/67 
-5-
Director appointment. Arthur G. Coons, President Emeritus of 
Occidental College, Newport Beach, California, was reappointed as a 
director of the Los Angeles Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco for the two-year term beginning January 1, 1968. 
Monetary policy. There has been placed in the Board's files a 
staff memorandum that had been prepared to assist the Board in consid-
ering alternative possibilities for the execution of monetary policy in 
the event it became necessary to deal in the forthcoming months with a 
situation where the economy was strong and adequate fiscal restraint 
was lacking. 
At the Board's request Mr. Brill reviewed the concepts developed 
in the memorandum and elaborated on considerations that the staff had 
had in mind in preparing the document. There followed a lengthy infor-
mal discussion, against the background of the memorandum, during which 
members of the Board expressed tentative views on the possible use of 
the several instruments of monetary policy over the period ahead in the 
light of existing and prospective economic and financial conditions. At 
the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the strategical 
considerations suggested in the memorandum would continue to be borne 
in mind as developments unfolded, and it was anticipated that there 
would be further discussion at next week's meeting of the Federal Open 
Market Committee. 

4271 
11/7/67 
-6-
The meeting continued from this point with the following staff 
members present: Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, Brill, Hackley, and Johnson. 
Reserve Bank salaries. Governor Mitchell, Chairman of the 
Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans, 
reported that the Committee had completed its series of meetings with 
Reserve Bank Presidents on salary increases proposed for officers of 
the respective Banks effective January 1968. He stated that, except 
in the case of the New York Bank, the proposals seemed generally con-
sistent with the Board's guidelines. In a few cases the salaries pro-
posed for officers in Group A were higher than the maximum of the range. 
However, the Committee believed that those cases could be handled sat-
isfactorily on an exception basis. It did not appear necessary to 
revise the salary ranges at this time, since there was sufficient 
leeway to accommodate all of the other salaries proposed for 1968. 
Governor Mitchell then turned to the problem with respect to 
salaries of First Vice Presidents, discussed situations where some 
Pressure was apparent, and outlined how the Committee believed that 
the problem could be met temporarily by a relaxation of the provision 
that the salaries of such officers be increased only at three-year 
intervals. 
Governor Mitchell continued by expressing the view that the 
Leonard survey seemed to provide a reasonable basis for further study 
looking toward an adjustment of officer salary ranges. As he had 

4272 
11/7/67 
-7-
indicated, however, no such adjustment appeared to be necessary at 
this particular time. Given this fact, along with the present economic 
climate and the consideration being given currently by the Administra-
tion and the Congress to the subject of Government salaries, it appeared 
to the Committee that it would be inadvisable to announce any changes in 
the officer salary ranges at present. Instead, the Committee felt that 
study should continue, with the objective of being prepared to announce, 
when conditions became more appropriate, adjusted officer salary ranges 
that would become effective at the beginning of 1969. This would also 
provide an opportunity for consideration of certain related questions 
that, in the opinion of the Committee, warranted attention. These 
questions had to do with matters such as the number of officers at the 
respective Reserve Banks, definition of officer assignments, the opti-
mum number of salary groups, and avoidance of undue compaction at cer-
tain levels. 
Further attention then was given to the questions presented by 
the New York Bank's salary proposals, and it was understood that no 
decision would be reached until after the meeting, to be held on 
November 14, that the directors of the New York Bank had requested 
with the members of the Board. 
The discussion then reverted to the broader question of officer 
salary ranges at the Reserve Banks generally. In response to questions 
by Governor Daane, Governor Mitchell offered reassurance that if certain 

g 
11/7/67 
-8-
exceptions were allowed along the lines previously indicated the Banks 
should be confronted with no significant problem in this area through 
1968. Mr. Johnson expressed a similar judgment. 
Governor Maisel commented that one possibility would be for 
the System to go along with whatever decisions might be reached with 
respect to higher-level Government salaries. This involved a major 
decision for the System. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the System study of salaries, 
based on the Leonard survey, proceed in a systematic way, with a view 
to reaching decisions as promptly as possible so that the Reserve Banks 
could plan ahead accordingly. 
It was his hope that it would be pos-
sible 
to draw up a new structure for the establishment of salaries 
that would introduce certain innovations, such as, for example, pro-
vision for a limited number of positions with the title of Senior Vice 
President, at a level of responsibility just below that of the First 
Vice President. Then there might be four basic categories of officers 
at each Reserve Bank below the level of First Vice President, including 
Senior Vice Presidents, Vice Presidents, Assistant Vice Presidents, and 
beginning 
officers. Within such a framework, and with job classifica-
tions better defined, he felt that considerable latitude for the fixing 
specific salaries could be left to the directors of the respective 
Banks. He hoped that such a revised structure could be placed in effect 
January 1, 1969. Under no circumstances, he added, would he be willing 

4274 
11/7/67 
-9-
to see Reserve Bank officer salaries tied directly to Civil Service 
scales, because obviously the Banks would then not be able to meet 
local market conditions. At best the Reserve Banks would be somewhat 
out of line with the local market when it came to the top positions, 
at least in New York and some other cities, but he visualized a struc-
ture that would allow the Banks to operate with considerably more flex-
ibility than at present. 
Governor Daane counseled proceeding with such a study in an 
orderly way, but with dispatch. 
Other Board members also spoke favorably with regard to the 
approach proposed by the Committee. The next step, it was understood, 
would be to meet with the New York directors. While it was agreed that 
no final decisions would be made pending that meeting, several Board 
members indicated that they would be reluctant to go along with so 
many salary increases as proposed by the New York Bank; they would not 
be too concerned about the size of the increases if the Bank exercised 
greater selectivity. 
It was agreed that it would be appropriate to 
Present to the directors information on the nature of the problem from 
a System standpoint, and to familiarize the directors with the Board's 
intent to proceed with a study of officer salary ranges with a view to 
announcing adjustments effective at the beginning of 1969. It was also 
agreed that discussion of the subject at the forthcoming meeting of the 
Conference of Chairmen of the Federal Reserve Banks would be appropriate. 

11/7/67 
-10-
Th e meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Joseph Debrew, Jr., as Laborer, Division of Administrative Ser-
vices, with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increase 
Theodore A. Veenstra, Chief, Financial Statistics Section, Divi-
sion of Data Processing, from $16,675 to $17,550 per annum, effective 
November 7, 1967. 
On November 7, 1967, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
aPproving the appointment of David Moore Graul 
a s assistant examiner. 
1 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
aPProving the appointment of Samuel Lamar 
Harrison as assistant examiner. 
2 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
4276 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
11/7/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E 3 P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 8, 1967 
Mr. Harry W. Huning, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
Dear Mr. Huning: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of November 2, 1967, the Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointment of David 
Moore Graul as an assistant examiner for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland. Please advise the effective 
date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

'•'6.7) 
1277 
BDARD OF GDVERNC3R5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
11/7/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E 9 P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 8, 1967 
Mr. R. M. Stephenson, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear Mr. Stephenson: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of October 31, 1967, the Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointment of Samuel Lamar Harrison as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
Please advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
