MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 19, 1972 

983 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, April 19, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:45 a.m. 
f',:. ,' 
V W. T. 
, 
(•> > 
• 
' . " ' . ' . • . 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 1/ 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr; Tuttle, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Ryan, Supervisory Review Examiner, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
V 0 ? 
D 
Fidelity Bank. In a memorandum dated April 18, 1972, the 
•• -: l". - . 
o 
i i • : ' 1 • i * i 
• 
.h 
-u. - , a. i: -
lvision of Supervision and Regulation recommended a proposed merger 
o f Fidelity Bank, Beverly Hills, California, with deposits of about 
. jx^.; • 
•)•'.' S-t ' A n : i - ; 
million, into a newly organized State member bank, Beverly Hills 
Bank, Beverly Hills, California, as the only immediately avail-
solution to preventing the bank's possible failure. 
(The trans-
t I 
o n would take the form of an acquisition of assets and assumption 
0 f labilities.) The proposed new bank would be organized by a group 
headed by Mr. C. Arnholt Smith, President and Chairman of the Board 
Wi," 
' - 1 ' . . 
; ' 
United States National Bank, San Diego, and was expected to be the 
^ 
Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

937 
4/19/72 
-9-
first step looking toward eventual acquisition of the new bank by 
United States National Bank. It was pointed out that the proposed 
,, » 
transaction had some undesirable features, including below average 
Capitalizat 
ion for the proposed new bank, but that it appeared this 
W a s the only available alternative to failure of the present Fidelity 
Bank. Failure of this bank would have significant adverse public 
consequences, particularly in view of its substantial volume--upward 
of $ 1 0 
million—of uninsured deposits. 
Governor Robertson pointed out that several steps would be 
taken to assure close surveillance of the proposed new bank including 
the following: 
(1) as conditions of membership in the Federal Reserve System, 
the prohibition of payment of cash dividends and of the prepayment of 
Che $ 1 . 9 
million capital debentures without prior approval of the 
scleral Reserve Bank of San Francisco; 
(2) examiner visits to the new bank at approximately 30-day 
*ntervals for a suitable period, and more frequently if necessary; and 
(3) the requirement that all insider loans be reported 
Promptly to the San Francisco Reserve Bank. 
It was also noted that the transaction might involve a tech-
nical violation of Regulation F (Securities of Member State Banks), 
the Board concluded--in view of the emergency and the fact that 

4/19/72 
-3-
the stockholders had no remaining equity and would not be damaged--
that no objection need be raised on that basis as long as the infor-
mation statement required by Regulation F was sent by Fidelity Bank 
t o its stockholders within a reasonable time after consummation of 
tlle transaction. 
After further discussion the Board unanimously approved, on 
a n emergency basis without competitive factor reports, the acquisition 
assets and assumption of liabilities of Fidelity Bank, Beverly 
H i U s , California, by Beverly Hills Fidelity Bank, Beverly Hills, 
^alifornia, a newly organized State bank; authorized issuance of an 
aer reflecting that dec i. s i on i 
anc* approved membership of the new 
kank in the Federal Reserve System subject to the special conditions 
membership indicated above. Copies of the order and letter sent to 
applicant are attached under Item No. 1; copies of supplemental 
Otters sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and the 
applicant are attached under Item No. 2. 
Messrs. Tuttle and Ryan then withdrew from the meeting and 
(.L e following entered: 
:. • 
; •, • • i • • 
' 
• 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 

4/19/72 
-4-
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ghiardi, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Irvine, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Katz, Adviser, Division of International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International Finance 
Mr. Wood, Adviser, Division of International Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Miss Key and Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistants, Office 
of the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff. 
International monetary reform. The Division of International 
^ a n c e presented briefings on various aspects of international monetary 
eform. Copies of the briefings have been placed in the Board's files. 

! 
9S3 
4/19/72 
-5-
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Margin requirements. In a memorandum dated April 17, 1972, 
the Division of Research and Statistics presented a review of recent 
stock market credit developments. The memorandum noted that since 
the lowering of margin requirements to 55 per cent in early December 
^971, margin credit extended by brokers had risen $1.7 billion, or 
dearly 35 per cent. Margin credit extended by banks had also risen 
considerably during the first quarter. To some extent the rapid 
expansion in stock market credit had stemmed from an increase in the 
number of margin accounts, which had risen by 20,000 in March and 
60)000 over the period since the last reduction in margin requirements. 
In response to a question from Chairman Burns, it was noted 
that historically the number of margin accounts had generally risen 
during periods of advancing stock prices. Mr. Partee expressed the 
view that the behavior of the stock market had recently taken on a 
m°re speculative character and in view of the expansion in credit use 
believed that the Board should consider the need for increasing 
margin requirements. 
Discussion then focused on the structure of margin debt, 
and Mr< partee noted that in a period of rising stock prices additional 
ing power was generated through the automatic increase of credit 

937 
4/19/72 
-9-
l n margin accounts without the need for more collateral being 
supplied by customers. He emphasized, however, that if margin 
requirements were increased by, say, 10 per cent, this self-generating 
credit effect would be significantly reduced. 
Discussion then turned to the subject of the same-day sub-
stitution rule. The rule had been a matter of concern to the Board 
and at its request staff was in the process of preparing a proposed 
modification, which would be submitted to the Board next week. 
Mr. Partee noted that while he felt it was important for the 
^°ard to consider changing the same-day substitution rule, he wanted to 
emphasize that such a change would accomplish a different objective 
than would an increase in margin requirements. In particular, the 
change would help to upgrade undermargined accounts but would not 
directly reduce the growth in stock market credit. 
There was a general feeling among Board members that an increase 
• Uift' • • 
margin requirements might be regarded by the market as a move toward 
a i 
less easy monetary policy. It was also noted that the market would 
Probably regard an increase in margin requirements as a more signifi-
cant move toward credit restriction than a modification of the same-day 
Substitution rule. 
Discussion indicated that while the Board generally felt a case 
be macje for an increase in margin requirements in the near future, 
>, • 

9S5 
4/19/72 
-7-
any such action should be preceded by a modification of the same-day 
substitution rule. There was a suggestion that the Securities and 
Exchange Commission should be contacted with respect to the proposed 
Modification, and also with regard to any plans they might have for 
changes in their own regulations. It was noted that in the past 
similar matters had been discussed by the Chairmen of the two agencies. 
It was therefore understood that the Board would consider next 
Week a proposed modification of the same-day substitution rule. 
Governor Brimmer withdrew from the meeting during the foregoing 
discussion. 
Employment ceilings. As recommended in a memorandum from 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated April 18, 1972, 
t-he Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve Banks 
requesting that certain manpower data be submitted with proposed 
k^gets for the second half of 1972. A copy of the letter is attached 
a s Item No. 3. 
jv.O , 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
eral 
Hin 
^e<3eral Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, 
neapolis, and Dallas on April 13 and by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Bo 
ston on April 14, 1972, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 

937 
4/19/72 
-9-
The Board unanimously approved the application of The Citizens 
Central Bank, Arcade, New York, to merge Citizens State Bank, Lyndon-
Vllle, New York, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First 
National City Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of 
the successor by merger to State Bank of Honeoye Falls, Honeoye Falls, 
N e w York, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Valley of 
Virginia Bankshares, Inc., Harrisonburg, Virginia, to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition of shares of the successors by 
merger to Rockingham National Bank, Harrisonburg, Virginia, and The 
Cotnmercial and Savings Bank, Winchester, Virginia, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Marshall & 
^Isley Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of Bank of 
certown, Watertown, Wisconsin, and Citizens American Bank, Merrill, 
Tj . 
Sconsin, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
^ c°Py of the order is attached as Item No. 7. 

937 
4/19/72 
-9-
As recommended in a memorandum from the Division of Supervi-
sion and Regulation dated April 13, 1972, the Board unanimously approved 
a letter to counsel for the American Stock Exchange regarding a viola-
tion of Regulation T, Credit by Brokers and Dealers. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 8. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis interposing no objection to the Bank proceeding 
with plans to develop a space program for the Helena Branch. A copy 
°f the letter is attached as Item No. 9. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

938 
Item No. 1 
4/19/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BEVERLY HILLS FIDELITY BANK 
Order Approving Acquisition of Assets 
Beverly Hills Fidelity Bank, Beverly Hills, California, 
a newly organized, member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, 
h a s applied, pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), 
f°r the Board's prior approval to acquire assets and assume 
labilities of Fidelity Bank, Beverly Hills, California ($85 million 
i n deposits), and as an incident thereto to operate its main office 
>! . 
ij 
a t the location of the present main office of Fidelity Bank in 
Beverly Hills and branch offices at the locations of two present 
Ranches of Fidelity Bank in Los Angeles and Manhattan Beach. 
Published notice of the proposed acquisition of assets 
atld assumption of liabilities and requests for reports on the com-
factors involved therein have been dispensed with as 
by the Bank Merger Act. 
The Board has considered all relevant material contained 
i n the record in the light of the factors set forth in the Act, 
Eluding the effect of the proposal on competition, the financial 
a n d Managerial resources and prospects of the banks involved, and 
>fch 
6 convenience and needs of the communities to be served and 
flr*s that: 
* ' ^ V 
' ; / r 
" 
t ^ 
^ 
; t , 
- I 

" 2" 
9 3 9 
On the basis of the information before the Board, including 
communications from the State Banking Department of the State of 
California, the Board finds that an emergency situation exists so as 
t o Require that the Board act immediately pursuant to the provisions 
the Bank Merger Act in order to safeguard depositors of Fidelity 
B
ank. 
Such anticompetitive effects as will be attributable to 
Coi*summation of the transaction will be clearly outweighed in the 
p uMic interest by considerations relating to and involved in the 
e®ergency situation found to exist. From the record in the case, it 
the Board's judgment that any disposition of the application other 
tllan approval would be inconsistent with the best interests of the 
dePositors of Fidelity Bank, and the Board concludes that the proposed 
tta 
faction should be approved on a basis that would not delay 
S u m m a t i o n of the proposal. 
It is hereby ordered, on the basis of the record, that the 
appi J 
Nation be and hereby is approved and that the acquisition of 
88ets and assumption of liabilities and the establishment of the 
at*ch offices may be consummated immediately but in no event 
e r than three months after the date of this Order unless such 
—-lod i s extended for good cause by the Board, or the Federal Reserve 
ft* • 
°t San Francisco pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
April 19, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
<sHAL) 
c£ t i n8 for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
e*l> Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. 

1000 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O r F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 20, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Beverly Hills Fidelity Bank 
9570 Wilshire Boulevard 
Beverly Hills, California 
90212 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
t h e application of Beverly Hills Fidelity Bank, Beverly Hills, California, 
f°r stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, effective if and 
v h cm t h e b a n k o p e n s f o r business under appropriate State authorization, 
Subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other cor-
porate responsibilities. 
At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $2,000,000, surplus of not less than $1,500,000, and 
capital'notes of $1,937,500. 
4. 
Such bank shall not pay or otherwise retire any principal 
amount of the $1,937,500 in capital notes except for the 
regularly scheduled principal payments as provided in the 
capital note agreements without the prior written approval 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 

1001 
Board of Directors 
-2-
5. 
Such bank shall not pay any cash dividends on its 
capital stock without the prior written approval 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
^egulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
l s made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
c°Pies of any documents involved in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
^tter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
irectors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to commence 
Usiness. A certified copy of such resolution, together with advice of 
c°mPliarice with the provisions of condition numbered 3, should be 
transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. Arrangements 
^ l l thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of 
^deral Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required reserve 
alance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock 
t 0 the bank. 
P 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
^serve System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
imited to 30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies 
0 the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is 
a^viSG(i {-hat- a n Qf the requirements have been complied with and that 
e appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
^nbership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
^ b e r s h ip in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
ar>k pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 

Board of Directors 
-3-
fco assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of 
bank means for uiaking the services of the System most useful 
to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A, Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
^closure 

B D A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
4/19/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D H F . r . S 
O F F I C I A L 
C t J R W E «3 f-> • N D £ N C E 
TCI T H E 
H O A R D 
April 21, 1972 
l'ir. A. B. Merritt, 
1?irst Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
S an Francisco, California 
94120. 
I " ' 
'''.•*.>* . ' . ' 
°ear Mr. Merritt: 
1 ' 
•'.•>.-V'-i •'> • ' 
Enclosed is a letter addressed to Beverly Hills Fidelity 
Beverly Hills, California, which was recently admitted to 
Membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
It will be appreciated if 
Von w i n forward the letter to the bank. 
As will be noted, the Board has requested the bank to 
advise the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco as to certain loans 
^ade by that bank. 
It is understood an examination of Beverly Hills 
fidelity Bank is to be undertaken by your examiners in approximately 
u-45 days. Please see that careful surveillance of the new bank, 
n°luding visits by an examiner at approximately thirty day intervals 
° r a period of time, will be maintained in order that possible areas 
concern will receive close attention. 
Very truly yours, 
u
m
e . 
r - i s • 
' • 
• 
' 
; 
i - W - m - h 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith, 
Secretary. 
C l o s u r e 

1004 
B D A R D D F 
G • V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C P R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
H O A R D 
April 21, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Beverly Hills Fidelity Bank 
Beverly Hills, California 90213 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to the Board's action on April 19, 1972, 
admitting Beverly Hills Fidelity Bank ("Bank") to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System and approving that bank's acquisition of 
assets and assumption of liabilities of Fidelity Bank. In taking 
this emergency action, the Board recognized that capitalization of 
the new bank was somewhat less than adequate and it noted that the 
loan portfolio acquired from Fidelity Bank includes substantial 
amounts of substandard credits. Accordingly, the Board felt it 
nGcessary to impose special conditions of membership whereby Bank 
^ay not pay cash dividends nor prepay its outstanding capital notes 
Without the prior written approval of the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
^"ancisco. It is also imperative that the collection and loan poli-
cies of Bank receive the close attention of the officers and directors 
a n d take full account of the considerable risks inherent in the 
Present assets. 
In the circumstances, it is essential that Bank be 
Specially circumspect as to any extensions of credit to any of its 
directors, principal stockholders or their interests. In 
°rder that the Board may be fully apprised in this respect, the Board 
requesto that until further notice prompt written advice be given to 
^ho Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco of any such direct or 
direct extension of credit by Bank. 
The Board sincerely hopes that within a reasonable period 
°f time progress may be noted in all phases of your bank's operations 
growth will continue on a sound basis. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

1005 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
• r THE 
• 
Item No. 3 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
4/19/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O T F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
v
,
; -
April 19, 1972 
confidential (FR) 
With the accomplishment of the Federal Reserve System's 
V n e 
1972 targeted manpower ceilings established in connection 
. " Phase II of the President's economic program, the Board wishes 
0 adopt a posture designed to effectuate continued careful scrutiny 
Reserve Bank employment levels during the planning and review 
o f Bank budgets for the last half of 1972. 
^ 
Personnel costs (salaries and fringe benefits) in the 
7^>SGrve Banks have been averaging about 55% of total expenses and 
0 
controllable operating expenses. Increases in Bank expense 
gemming from employment levels usually become known to the Board 
t er the fact as Banks hire to meet varying periodic situations. 
To provide the Board an effective means by which to 
excise control over rising costs, it is desirable to continue the 
ncept of a ceiling on Reserve Bank employment for the forthcoming 
1 Set period. The experience gained by Bank budgetary planning 
aff over the past months should be helpful in providing necessary 
nP°wer~related information with your forthcoming budget submission. 
t« 
In addition to the usual budget and supporting information, 
e following alternative manpower data is requested for Board 
Alternative 1; Current authorized Employment Ceilings 
and additional requested staffing for identified high 
Priority System projects. 
(Including staffing increments 
already approved for exemption from the June 30, 1972 
ceiling.) 

- 2 -
ioob 
Mternative 2: Aggregate manpower total arrived at under 
Alternative 1 plus additional warranted staff increases for 
essential System and Bank programs. 
Under each alternative, personnel increments should be 
Mtifie(] by department or function. Each increment should also be 
°.8ted in terms of associated salary and fringe benefit expense. 
°Uow Phase II are as yet not enunciated, the foregoing plan should 
Place the Federal Reserve System in a posture indicating adequacy 
. continued expenditure control. 
If 
Very truly yours, 
Though the outlines of a national economic program to 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
nr. 
f':VY 

1007 
Item No0 4 
4/19/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE CITIZENS CENTRAL BANK 
Order Approving Application for Merger of Banks 
The Citizens Central Bank, Arcade, New York ("Citizens 
Central"), a member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, has 
aPplied for the Board's approval pursuant to the Bank Merger Act 
U.S.C, 1828(c)) of the merger of that bank with Citizens State 
Bank, Lyndonville, New York ("State Bank"), under the charter and 
litle of Citizens Central. As an incident to the merger, the pres-
e n t office of State Bank would become a branch of the resulting 
b
ank. 
form j 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in 
approved by the Board, has been published, and the Board has 
guested reports on competitive factors from the Attorney General, 
Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
C°*POration. 
arid 
The Board has considered the application and all comments 
rePorts received in the light of the factors set forth in the 
Act ' and finds that: 
1/ 
Citizens Central ($42 million deposits), 
a subsidiary 
0 f Charter New York Corporation, New York City, operates six offices 
tn 
Ptr 
N e w York State's Ninth Banking District wherein it holds 1.2 
C ent of the District's commercial bank deposits as the eleventh 
banking data are as of December 31, 1971, except branch 
l 0 s lt data are as of June 30, 1970. 

AOO& 
-2-
largest of the District's 31 banks. State Bank ($5 million deposits) 
°Perates its only office in Lyndonville and is the only bank head-
bartered in Orleans County, the relevant market, where it controls 
aPproximately 9 per cent of commercial bank deposits. A large New 
banking organization operates four banking offices in the mar-
ket and controls the remaining 91 per cent of market deposits. State 
Bank ranks as the twenty-ninth largest bank in the Ninth Banking Dis-
t r i c t with 0.2 per cent of the District's total commercial bank deposits. 
The nearest offices of the merging banks are approximately 
miles apart and their service areas do not overlap. Consumma-
tion of the proposal would not significantly increase the concentra-
te 
of banking deposits in any relevant area. No meaningful existing 
competition 
would be eliminated by the proposal between the proposed 
^ g i n g banks nor between any of the banking offices of Charter New 
Y o r k Corporation and State Bank. 
Citizens Central is prohibited from de novo branching into 
Lynd< 
Uws 
°nville by home office protection afforded by New York State 
» and, absent this, the growth potentials of the Lyndonville 
a ? e a would limit somewhat de novo entry. State Bank, as a small 
U n i t bank, is not likely to expand into the area served by Citizens 
by de novo branching. Consequently, it appears unlikely that 
C°nsummation o f t h e proposed merger would foreclose any significant 
U n t Of potential competition between Citizens Central, State Bank 

iooy 
-3-
0 r between any of the banking offices of Charter New York Corporation. 
Based on the foregoing, and the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an ad-
Verse effect on competition in any relevant market; rather, the 
tePlacement of the small unit banking office by the subsidiary of 
a large State-wide holding company would likely increase competition 
wl-th the offices of the large New York State banking organization. 
The financial and managerial resources of Citizens 
Central and State Bank are satisfactory and the prospects for the 
^suiting bank would be favorable. Consequently, banking factors 
consistent with approval of the application. Consummation of 
th 
Proposed merger would improve the present banking services 
Mailable to customers of State Bank by increased lending capabili-
*es and improving the banking services to include the addition 
of _ 
redit card services, automatic saving plans, and personal and 
0rPorate trust services. Considerations relating to the convenience 
needs of the communities to be served are consistent with approval 
of u e application and lend some weight thereto. It is the Board's 
jud 
gment that consummation of the proposal would be in the public 
nterest, and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
°n3^n\tnated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
fo* the 

iolo 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
April 19, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1.1 Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Brimmer. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL CITY CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Item No. 
4/19/72 
First National City Corporation, New York, New York, a 
b a n k holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Com-
ity Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of 
t h e A ct (12 U.S.C, 1042(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting 
S h a r e s (less directors1 qualifying shares) of the successor by merger 
to State Bank of Honeoye Falls, Honeoye Falls, New York ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
vlews has expired. The Board has considered the application 
arid 
a ll comments received in the light of the factors set forth 
ltl 5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that; 
Applicant, the second largest banking organization in 
York, has three subsidiary banks that control deposits of 
$13 L 
billion, representing 14.1 per cent of the commercial bank 
eP°sits i n the State. (Unless otherwise noted, banking data are 
o f June 30, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding company formations 
and acquisitions 
to date.) Consummation of the proposal would not 
a nS e Applicant's present ranking nor significantly increase its 
h a r* o f State deposits. 
Bank, with deposits of $7.4 million, operates its sole 
C e in Honeoye Falls and is the twelfth largest of sixteen banks 
tt* th 
e Rochester banking market, controlling .4 per cent of deposits 

iOlkJ 
- 2 -
in that market.^ Applicant's nearest existing subsidiary bank 
is 102 miles from Bank. No significant existing competition would 
ke foreclosed by consummation of the proposal. 
In addition, the Rochester banking market is highly con-
Ceatrated (four of the sixteen banks control over 90 per cent of 
dePosits) and Applicant's acquisition of Bank will likely have a 
Competitive effect since Bank, with Applicant's support, should 
°mpete more aggressively with the larger organizations. 
Considerations related to the financial and managerial 
urces and future prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks 
are generally satisfactory and consistent with approval. 
°ugh the banking needs of the communities involved are already 
adequately met, Applicant proposes to provide, through bank, 
^ajor alternative source of specialized banking services. Accord-
ingly 
y> considerations relating to convenience and needs lend weight 
t0V7n>.j 
approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
^isition would be in the public interest and that the application 
8h°uld be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
f°r the v 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
Animated ( a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of 
date 
related to market share are as of June 30, 1970. 

1013-
-3-
tl»ls Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to 
legated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,-' April 19, 1972. 
?44 
. : 
... . ... 
. 
. 
. . . " 
8,i' i, 
-*»».{.,aj ,'i , 
..... 
.... j;-
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
2; voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
'-cheli 
kroner. 
% t K 
S 
R ^Chell, Daana, Maisel, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governor 

1014 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/19/72 
VALLEY OF VIRGINIA BANKSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Valley of Virginia Bankshares, Inc., Harrisonburg, Virginia, 
haa applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
H°lding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1) of formation of a bank 
h°lding company through acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting 
Q t G S (less directors' qualifying shares) of the successors by merger 
to R°ckingham National Bank, Harrisonburg, Virginia ("Rockingham 
Bank"\ 
'» and The Commercial and Savings Bank, Winchester, Virginia 
("Comme, 
'fcial Bank"). The banks into which Rockingham Bank and 
rc 
^ans 
mercial Bank are to be merged have no significance except as a 
°f acquiring all of the shares of Rockingham Bank and Coamercial 
a Accordingly, the proposed acquisitions of the shares of the 
8ucces 
° r organizations are treated herein as the proposed acquisitions 
of t h e 
e shares of Rockingham Bank and Commercial Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
*Ccc>rd 
C e with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
Qnd n e w « ^ 
8 has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
c*®ments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
of t h 
e
 Act (12 u.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant is a newly organized corporation. Consummation 
proposal herein would result in Applicant controlling approxi-
ely 9 / y million in deposits, representing 0.9 per cent of total 

. 1015 
-2-
c°mmercial bank deposits in the State, and Applicant would become the 
n*nth largest bank holding company in Virginia.-^ 
Rockingham Bank ($54,4 million in deposits), the proposed 
lGad b a nk, is headquartered in Harrisonburg and has six offices and two 
inches serving the southern part of Rockingham County and the north-
east n a 
HUadrant of Augusta County. Rockingham Bank controls about 
20 P e r 
cent of commercial bank deposits and is the third largest bank, 
n th*t market.2/ It competes with 10 other banks, six of which are 
anches or affiliates of organizations which rank among the seven 
ar8est banking organizations in Virginia. 
Commercial Bank ($24.4 million in deposits), centered in 
Wi 
ster, has a main office and four branches, and operates in the 
derick County banking market where it is the third largest of four 
k^nks 
2 / 
> controlling 21.5 per cent of deposits.- 
The largest bank in 
market is twice as large as Commercial Bank. 
The record indicates that Rockingham Bank and Commercial 
Bank <j0 
0 n°t compete with each other, and the development of such 
COlnPetiM n i n the future appears unlikely. The nearest offices of 
the t w 0 banks are 68 miles apart, and under Virginia's restrictive 
btQn ^ 
n8 laws this separation cannot be materially reduced. It 
Ousted 8 8 o t h e r w i s e noted, all banking data are as of June 30, 1971 
**Pto»T: 5° "fleet holding company formations and acquisitions 
d by the Board through February 29, 1972. 
^ 
Bankin 
i n8 data concerning market control are as of June 30, 1970. 

1016-
-3-
appears that the affiliation of the two banks in a holding company 
w°uld not have any adverse effects on other banks in these markets. 
Affiliation may actually promote competition by creating a larger 
institution which can then operate in an environment in which large 
kQnkirig systems are very prominent. On the basis of the record before 
fche Board concludes that consummation of the proposal would not 
a V e a n adverse effect on competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources of each bank appear 
sati8 f 
factory, it appears that Applicant would begin operations in 
Saticf 
factory condition and with competent management. In addition, 
capital accounts of both banks will be increased by a combined 
1 7 0 , 0 0 0 uPon affiliation. Applicant's future prospects, which are 
Ur« 
&ely dependent upon those of its two subsidiaries, also appear 
ro 
need 
v°rable. Although there is no evidence that the existing banking 
8 
the communities involved are not being met, affiliation of 
both K 
°anks with Applicant would lead to the availability of larger 
Unes of 
r credit than either bank could offer and other services 
°ffered K 
°y each bank would be expanded. These considerations relative 
to 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served lend 
Weight toward approval. It is the Board's judgment that the 
Prop0s , 
transaction is in the public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the Reason summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 

1017-
-3-
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
° r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
Such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Res r v e Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— April 19, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
« I. 
J5it 
for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Gov 
Daane, Maisel, and Siieehan. Absent and not voting: 
vernor Brimmer. 

1018 
Item No. 7 
4/19/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MARSHALL & ILSLEY CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Marshall & Ilsley Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has filed separate applications for the Board's approval under 
5 ^(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or 
m o r* of the voting shares of the following banks in Wisconsin: Bank 
o f Watertown, Watertown ("Watertown Bank"); and Citizens American Bank, 
M e m u ("Merrill Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
a n d views has expired. The Board has considered tha applications and 
all comments received in the. light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f ^ e Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the second largest bank holding company and 
banking organization in Wisconsin on the basis of commercial bank 
dePosits, controls 13 banks with aggregate deposits of approximately 
million, representing 6.8 per cent of total deposits held by all 
bat*s in Wisconsin. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved through 
March 31, 1972.) Upon acquisition of Watertown Bank ($15 million in 
posits) and Merrill Bank ($16 million in deposits), Applicant's share 

1 G 1 S 
-2-
State deposits would be increased by only .3 percentage points and 
*ts rank as the State's second largest banking organization would not 
change. 
Watertown Bank operates its only office in the City of 
Wat" 
ertown, approximately 46 miles west-northwest of Milwaukee. Although 
^atertown Bank is the largest of the three city banks and the 16 banks 
c°wpeting in the relevant market wherein it holds 14.8 per cent of 
deP03its j the second, third, and fourth largest banks in this market 
hold 
u> respectively, 14.6, 13.9, and 10.8 per cent of the total 
P°8its. it thus appears that Watertown Bank does not dominate bank-
n§ in the area and that consummation of the proposal would not 
advem i 
t3ely affect any of the area banks. 
The sole office of Merrill Bank is located in the City of 
e t r i U , approximately 210 miles northwest of Milwaukee. Merrill Bank 
1,8 
smaller of the two banks in Merrill and the fifth largest of 
13 
^anks competing in the relevant market wherein it holds 7,3 per 
cent of J 
deposits. The three largest banks hold 59 per cent of market 
dep0al 
Consummation of the proposal would not adversely affect 
any area banks. 
. Applicant's nearest subsidiaries are 30 miles northeast of 
tertown Bank and 75 miles southeast of Merrill Bank, respectively. 
1 8 no meaningful competition between any of Applicant's 

IQZG 
-3-
s and the proposed subsidiaries, nor between the Watertown 
and Merrill banks, and in view of the distances separating the banks, 
the numerous intervening banks, and State laws restricting branching, 
l t appears unlikely that significant competition would develop in the 
future. Consummation of the proposal would have no adverse effects 
° n existing or potential competition. 
The financial condition and management of Applicant and the 
Proposed subsidiaries are generally satisfactory, and prospects for 
^PPlicant appear favorable as do the prospects for the Merrill and 
Watertown banks under Applicant's control. Banking factors are, there-
^0tG» consistent with approval of the applications. 
Although the major banking needs of the areas involved appear 
to be satisfied by existing facilities, the control of the proposed 
Subsidiaries 
by Applicant would likely enhance their services to the 
Public through larger loans made available by participations with 
applicant's subsidiaries and through the addition to both Merrill and 
Wat ertown banks of new services which will include leasing, trust 
and computer services. Considerations relating to the convenience and 
n e e d s of the communities to be served are consistent with approval of 
the 
jud 
the 
aPPlication and lend some support thereto. 
It is the Board's 
8ment that consummation of the proposed acquisitions would be in 
Public interest, and that the applications should be approved. 

1021 
-4-
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
o f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
0rd*r, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
April 19, 1972. 
, 
!• t o; ; 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
• 
• 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
i/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^itchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Brimmer. 

^ p o * . 
P l l f e -
B
r 
S O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• 
F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
V N / A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
1 0 2 ; 
Item No. 8 
4/19/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
D Q K ^ E B P n N O t N 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
April 24, 1972 
G°rdon L. Nash, Esq., 
Forsythe, McGovern, Pearson & Nash, 
345 Park Avenue 
Now York, New York. 10022 
Dear Mr. Nash: 
This refers to your letter of November 23, 1971, in which 
you ask, on behalf of your client, the American Stock Exchange (AMEX), 
for an opinion whether the Board of Governors' Regulation T, "Credit 
ky Brokers and Dealers", would prohibit an officer of a brokerage 
firm from purchasing margin stock on instalments from 3 officers of 
the issuing corporation, a client of his firm, under the circumstances 
escribed below. For the reasons discussed herein, the Board believes 
the answer should be in the affirmative. 
In your letter you state that in November 1968, an officer 
°f a brokerage firm bought 10,000 shares of margin stock from three 
Private individuals (all three are officers of a corporation for which 
the brokerage firm acted as underwriter) at $35 per share, at a total 
°0st Of $350,000. The market value of the purchased stock was then 
about $500,000. The maximum loan value of stock under the current 
upplement to the regulation was 20 per cent. The stock became 
registcrcd on the AMEX shortly before the agreement was executed. 
, 
' 
The agreement between sellers and buyer provided that the 
'-lyer was to pay $175,000 (representing 1/2 of the purchase price) 
Q )0ut 1 month after the date of such agreement, and the remainder 6 
morU:hs later. Accordingly, the sellers extended credit to the buyer 
n excess of the maximum loan value of the purchased stock. 
Although the buyer maintained a securities account with his 
employer (the brokerage firm), the above-described purchase was not 
effected in that account, nor did the buyer inform his employer of 
purchase. However, you stated orally to the Board's staff on 
Pebruary 1} 1972., your understanding that the brokerage firm subse-
quently consented to the acts of its officer. 

Gordon L. Nash, Esq. 
- 
2 
-
1 0 2 3 
A second purchase for another 10,000 shares at $30, also on 
credit terms, was agreed to between the same parties in March 1969. 
Throughout the period in which the above transactions took 
Place, the buyer's brokerage firm was the principal investment banker, 
underwriter and financial adviser to the corporation of the sellers, 
having underwritten two of its public offerings in May and November 
1968. The buyer was also instrumental in maintaining the investment 
hanking and financial adviser relationship between the brokerage 
firm and the corporation of the sellers. 
Section 220.7(a) provides, with an exception not applicable 
ho re, that 
"A creditor may arrange for the extension or 
maintenance of credit to or for any customer 
of such creditor by any person upon the same 
terms and conditions as those upon which the 
creditor, under the provisions of this part, 
may himself extend or maintain such, credit to 
such customer, but only upon such terms and 
conditions . . . " 
since a creditor (broker or dealer) may not extend credit to purchase 
or carry securities in excess of the maximum loan value of the collat-
eral under the current Supplement to the regulation, he may not arrange, 
for credit to be extended in excess of such amount. 
The same individual may, under appropriate circumstances, 
function as both creditor and customer. In an early interpretation, 
(1938 Federal Reserve Bulletin 763), the Board pointed out that an 
individual who is a partner of an exchange member firm is himself a 
^creditor" under section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
'as incorporated in Regulation T". If the officer described in your 
letter occupies a position such that he would have been a partner, 
had the firm not been incorporated, it would follow that he arranged, 
"creditor", for credit to be extended to himself, as "customer", 
to purchase or carry a margin stock, in excess of the maximum loan 
Value of the collateral for the credit, in violation of section 220.7(a) 
°f the regulation. 
Alternatively, under the facts summarized above, he may be 
eonsidered to have functioned as both customerand representative of 
brokerage firm (see opinion by the SEC, In the Matter of Sutro 
^Oji.LiLCo.j> 41 SEC 443 (1963)). It would follow that as representative 
°f the firm7 he arranged for credit to be extended to himself as custo-
mer, resulting in a violation of section 220.7(a) on the part of the firm. 

Gordon L. Nash, Esq. 
- 3 - 
XOg'-dL 
Additionally, to the extent that the firm knew of the violation or 
ratified it, the firm was itself directly responsible. As a repre-
sentative of the firm, the officer would also himself be liable, 
under this view, for aiding and abetting such violation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan, 
Assistant Secretary. 

•Sr®?.-
r* 
B O A R D 
o f 
g o v e r n o r s 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 9 
4/19/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 19, 1972 
Bruce K. MacLaury, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
55480 
Dear Mr. MacLaury: 
The Board has considered your request of February 23, 1972, 
^ d will interpose no objection to engaging an architect and program 
consultant to survey the existing Helena Branch facility, to d e ^ l o p 
a space program fo/the Branch's immediate and future space nee 
and 
^ determine whether to expand the existing building or to construct 
new building at a new location. 
in the Bank's planning, (1) space and 
e m p l o y e e requirements 
should be projected, on the basis of detailed analysis 
to 30 >ears 
beyond the anticipated occupancy date, and (2) a target budget cost 
sl>ould be established. 
In line with the development of the space program and budget 
cost estimate a study should be made of the c u r r e n t and anticipated 
relationship between supply and demand for construction and the con 
^quent impact on the cost and scheduling of the new 
On the supply side, the major areas to be ana y f ^ - ^ l a b o ^ a v a i l a b i l ^ y ^ 
"ranch building project for contractor and subcontractor interest 
for 
'he supply of skilled tradesmen, availability of materials as well as the 
eenoral economic impact on the community. 
Very truly yours, 
%iJlh 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
