Minutes for 
January 16 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

1 i s 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, January 16, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Cloth of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Greenspun, Lawrence, Lougee, and Wiles 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller 
of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Merchantville National Bank & Trust Company, Merchantville, 
New Jersey, into Colonial National Bank, Haddonfield, New Jersey, was 
.approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclu-
sion read as follows: 

1 1 9 
1/16/68 
-4-
Some competition exists between Merchantville 
National Bank & Trust Company, Merchantville, New 
Jersey, and Colonial National Bank, Haddonfield, 
New Jersey. However, there would remain in the 
area several commercial banking alternatives, in-
cluding banks located in Philadelphia, and the 
overall effect of the proposal on competition would 
be slightly adverse. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Bucks County 
Bank and Trust Company, Perkasie, Pennsylvania, and The Chalfont 
National Bank, Chalfont, Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The 
Chalfont National Bank, Chalfont, Pennsylvania, 
into Bucks County Bank and Trust Company, Perkasie, 
Pennsylvania, would eliminate little present or 
potential competition. While it would eliminate 
one of the five banks headquartered in Bucks County, 
numerous alternative banking facilities would remain. 
It is concluded that the overall effect on competi-
tion would be slightly adverse. 
Messrs. Egertson, Greenspun, Lawrence, Lougee, and Wiles then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Credit life insurance (Item No. 1). In August 1967 Chairman 
Proxmire of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions of the Senate 
Committee on Banking and Currency requested information and comments 
from the Board regarding tie-in arrangements between banks and credit 
life insurance companies. In a letter of August 30, 1967, he was 
advised that the Federal Reserve Banks were being asked to develop 
information as a basis for a reply. 

130 
1/16/68 
-4-
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated January 9, 
1968, from the Legal Division, submitting a draft of letter to Chair-
man Proxmire to which would be attached a report prepared by the Board's 
staff summarizing information received from the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Since Chairman Patman of the House Committee on Banking and Currency 
had also inquired about the sale of credit life insurance by banks, 
among other questions in a letter he addressed to the Board on August 1, 
1967, the Legal Division proposed that a copy of the letter to Chairman 
Proxmire and its enclosure be sent also to Chairman Patman. 
Mr. Shay described the extent of investigation through which 
the Reserve Banks had developed the basic material. The information 
regarding pertinent State laws and regulations had been readily avail-
able, but there had been no investigation in depth regarding possible 
abuses. He brought out, as had the Legal Division's memorandum, that 
the Subcommittee on Antitrust and Monopoly Legislation of the Senate 
Committee on the Judiciary, of which Senator Hart was Chairman, had 
held hearings investigating practices relating to the sale of credit 
life insurance in connection with consumer loans. The report of the 
Subcommittee was not yet available. Presumably, however, that investi-
gation might lead to a request for views from the Board as to whether 
legislation was needed, and if so, what kind of legislation. That was 
a question that would require considerable study. 
Mr. Cardon then reviewed the status of the Hart Subcommittee's 
investigation and the purposes toward which the inquiries by Chairmen 

121 
1/16/68 
-4-
Proxmire and Patman appeared to have been directed. It was Mr. Cardon's 
view that the general approach of the draft letter was appropriate. 
Governor Brimmer expressed reservations with respect to whether 
the proposed letter and, more particularly, the attached summary were 
sufficiently responsive to the questions raised by Chairman Proxmire. 
He agreed that the summary of Federal and State laws or regulations 
dealing with the sale of credit life insurance by banks was responsive 
to the pertinent question in Senator Proxmire's letter. However, he 
was concerned that the remainder of the proposed reply did not reflect 
investigation in sufficient depth to permit a judgment on whether addi-
tional legislation would be advisable. 
Comments on the points raised by Governor Brimmer were directed 
principally to the fact that the Hart Subcommittee had not concluded 
its investigation or issued a report and recommendations. The view 
was expressed that further investigation and deliberation on the part 
of the Federal Reserve might well await examination of the records to 
be released by the Subcommittee. It was pointed out that the proposed 
reply to Senator Proxmire did go as far as to take the position that 
any remedial legislation should focus on credit life insurance as it 
affected the lending industry as a whole; that the rapid growth in 
credit life insurance in force did not necessarily indicate a need for 
Federal legislation that would single out banks from all other lenders. 
Moreover, it was suggested and agreed that the material transmitted to 

1/16/68 
-5-
Chairman Proxmire should emphasize that parts of the staff summary 
dealt with matters on which the Hart Subcommittee was understood to 
have developed comprehensive data. 
Other changes in the draft letter and the staff summary reflect-
ing the tone of the foregoing discussion also were agreed upon, and 
approval then was given to a letter to Chairman Proxmire in the form 
attached 
as Item No. 1. It was understood that a copy of the letter 
and attachment would be sent to Chairman Patman. 
Inquiry regarding Bank Service Corporation Act (Item No. 2). 
There had been distributed a memorandum dated January 11, 1968, from 
the Legal Division submitting a draft of reply to an inquiry from Sen-
ator Proxmire regarding administration of the Bank Service Corporation 
Act and the extent to which banks can organize the joint provision of 
computer services through devices other than the establishment of a 
bank service corporation. The memorandum summarized information 
gathered from the Federal Reserve Banks as a basis for a reply to Sen-
ator Proxmire, to whom an interim acknowledgement had been made. 
Discussion indicated that the reasons for Senator Proxmirefs 
inquiry were not completely clear. This difficulty of interpretation 
created some question as to the type of reply that would be appropriate. 
In the circumstances it was the consensus that the reply proposed to 
be made at this juncture was reasonable. 
Accordingly, the letter to Senator Proxmire was approved unani-
mously. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 

1 
J.« - U 
1/16/68 
-6-
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
January 11, 1968, requesting authorization to contract with the Social 
Science Research Council to continue research on the linkages between 
monetary policy and aggregate demand, at a cost of $84,800 for calendar 
1968. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
January 11, 1968, requesting authorization to contract with the Social 
Science Research Council to continue research on the impact of monetary 
policy, at a cost of $15,000 for calendar 1968. 
Memorandum from the Division of Examinations recommending that 
Kevin M. Raymond, Operations Analyst in the Division of Bank Operations, 
be transferred to the position of Assistant Federal Reserve Examiner in 
the Division of Examinations, with no change in basic annual salary at 
the rate of $8,861, effective January 29, 1968. 
On January 16, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
items, copies of which are attached under 
the respective numbers indicated: 
By the General Counsel of the Board 
Item No. 
Order granting the request of The Moody 
3 
Foundation, Galveston, Texas, for a 
determination under section 2(g)(3) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act. 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
4 
approving the appointment of Ronald James Pasco 
as assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
5 
approving the appointment of Robert Duane Ward as 
assistant examiner. 

1/16/68 
-5-
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Fran-
cisco approving the designation of 10 employees 
as special assistant examiners. 
_By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to Long Island Trust Company, Garden 
City, New York, approving the establishment 
of a branch in the Village of North Linden-
hurst, Town of Babylon, Suffolk County. 
Letter to Long Island Trust Company, Garden 
City, New York, approving an investment in 
bank premises. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, approving the establishment 
of a branch in Concord Township, Delaware 
County, and an investment in bank premises 
incident thereto. 
Item No. 
J? 
Secretary 
; 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
• F T H E 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No 
1/16/68 
January 23, 1968 
The Honorable William Proxmire, Chairman, 
Subcommittee on Financial Institutions, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in further reference to your letter of 
August 14, 1967, requesting information and comments concerning 
tie-in arrangements between banks and credit life insurance 
companies. 
In accordance with my letter of August 30, 1967, to 
you, the Federal Reserve Banks were requested to develop 
information concerning situations as to which they were familiar 
relevant to the sale of credit life insurance by or through 
State member banks in connection with their lending operations. 
From the information received from the Federal Reserve 
Banks, the Board's staff has prepared a report summarizing, 
briefly, State and Federal laws and regulations dealing 
specifically with the sale of credit life insurance by banks 
and bank-affiliated persons. The report also summarizes the 
information so received concerning certain practices in the 
sale of credit life insurance by banks, the incidence of 
banks requiring credit life insurance as a condition to 
making consumer loans, and the existance of practical 
alternatives to purchasing such insurance from bank-related 
insurers. It is hoped that the staff report, a copy of which 
is enclosed, will be of assistance to you. 

l-^'O 
The Honorable William Proxmire 
- 2 -
As you will recall, your Truth in Lending bill, S. 5, 
as passed by the Senate last June, requires the itemization of 
charges for credit life insurance, and, if so itemized and 
disclosed by the creditor to the customer, such charges need 
not be included in the "finance charge". Governor Robertson 
supported this treatment of the matter when he testified 
before your Subcommittee on May 10, 1967, and before Mrs. Sullivan's 
Subcommittee on August 7, 1967. However, the bill recently reported 
by the House Committee on Banking and Currency (H.R. 11601) would 
include such charges in the "finance charge". 
While the Board at this time is not prepared to recommend 
additional legislation as mentioned in your letter, the following 
comments may be of interest. 
Insuring the life of a debtor for the benefit of his 
creditor, so as to make payment certain if the debtor dies, is 
a practice which may benefit both the borrowers and lenders. 
Lenders have learned that credit life insurance can be a potent 
factor in attracting borrowers and can create good will. When 
an insured borrower dies his obligation is discharged through 
the insurance and need not be collected from his estate. Moreover, 
an individual who desires a personal loan may have no security to 
offer other than his earning power, which death terminates. As a 
result, sound lending decisions may frequently turn on whether such 
coverage is provided. 
Credit life insurance in force has, in the last twenty 
years, increased from coverage of 4 per cent to 85 per cent of all 
consumer debts. Although this rapid growth in such a relatively 
short period of time may have been accompanied by abuses, this 
does not necessarily indicate a need for Federal legislation that 
would single out banks from all other lenders. Rather, it is the 
Board's vfew that any proposed remedial legislationshoudfocus 
on credit life insurance as it affects the lending industry as 
a whole. 
Determination as to whether legislation is needed and 
the terms of such legislation, should await conclusion of the 
Hart Subcommittee's investigation and issuance of that body s 
report and recommendations. 

127 
The Honorable William Proxmire 
- 3 -
In view of the interest in this matter expressed recently 
by Chairman Patman, we are forwarding to him copies of this letter 
and our staff report. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure 

via 
REPORT ON THE SALE OF CREDIT LIFE INSURANCE BY 
OR THROUGH BANKS IN CONNECTION WITH 
THEIR LENDING OPERATIONS 
I* Laws and regulations dealing specifically with the sale of credit 
life insurance by banks, their officers, or affiliated companies 
in connection with the banW 
lending operations. 
A. State Level 
Most States do not have statutes or administrative regulations 
either authorizing or prohibiting the sale by banks of credit life insurance 
in connection with their lending operations. As far as can be determined, 
only New York, New Jersey, and Massachusetts give banks specific statutory 
authority to sell credit life insurance.-^ Conversely, only 14 States 
were found to have statutes prohibiting banks from acting as agents for 
the sale of life insurance. In some jurisdictions, this prohibition is 
absolute; U 
in others, the prohibition is limited to cities where the 
Population is in excess of a stated figure (usually 5,000).-^ In some 
States, the prohibition against acting as agent for the sale of life 
insurance specifically applies to banks, while in others, the prohibition 
applies to all corporations which, of course, include banks. 
In jurisdictions where banks are prohibited from selling insur-
ance, officers, employees, and other bank affiliated persons (such as 
directors' agencies) usually act as agent for the sale of credit life 
insurance. The bank does not share in the commission or fees earned by 
such agent. In Massachusetts, however, where banks are permitted to sell 
credit life insurance, bank affiliated persons are prohibited from obtaining 
a commission or fee for any credit life insurance offered to the debtor. 

- 
2 
- 
123 
While most States have some laws or administrative regulations 
regarding credit life insurance,*' and over thirty have enacted variations 
. 
of the "Model Act for the Regulation of Oredit Life Insurance and Credit 
Health and Accident Insurance",5/ such laws are invariably part of the 
State's insurance code and apply equally to all institutional lenders, 
rather than to banks in particular. 
B. Federal Level 
Section 5136 of the Revised Statutes (12 O.8.C. 24) provides, 
in part, that "Except as hereinafter provided or otherwise permitted by 
law, nothing herein contained shall authorize the purchase by [a national 
bank] . . . for its own account of any shares of stock of any corporation." 
This statutory prohibition is applicable also to State member banks by 
virtue of paragraph 20, section 9, of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 335). 
Section 5136 provides no exception for insurance company stock, nor does any 
other Federal statute specifically permit the purchase of such stock by 
a member bank. However, a bank and an insurance agency £/ may become 
affiliated through common ownership of their stock, and under section 4(c) (8) 
Of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)), a registered 
bank holding company is permitted to own shares of any company all the 
activities of which are of a "financial, fiduciary, or insurance nature 
and which the Board [after formal hearing] . . . has determined to be so 
closely related to the business of banking . . . as to be a proper incident 
thereto . . .". (Emphasis added.) 

1 3 0 
- 3 -
In all proceedings under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, the Board has conditioned favorable determination upon, 
among other factors, receiving satisfactory assurances that the non-banking 
subsidiary to be acquired would have sufficient expertise and financial 
resources profitably, and without undue risk to the holding company and 
1ts subsidiary banks, to engage in the proposed activities. 
H * 
Practices noted in the sale of credit life insurance by banks, their 
officers, or affiliated organizations in connection with their lending 
operations. 
Most of the Federal Reserve Banks reported that no specific 
situations had come to their attention involving questionable practices 
in the sale of credit life insurance by banks, their officers, or affiliated 
°rganizations in connection with loans by the banks. However, the 
information received from the Reserve Banks disclosed some situations 
that may be of interest. 
A partnership, which acquired stock control of the bank and was 
Managing the bank's operations and receiving fee for its services, has 
taken over the business of providing credit life insurance coverage for 
the bank's loans. 
A bank was experiencing noticeable losses in small, unsecured loans. 
Upon further investigation it was discovered that the loan officer seldom 
turned down a loan application because he felt that they were "protected" 
by 
credit life insurance coverage. This insurance was sold by a director 
°f the bank who operated an insurance agency across the street from the 

- ^ - 
1 3 1 
bank's premises. While there was no evidence that the director was splitting 
commissions with the loan officer, the other directors were not aware of 
this arrangement. 
In a State where banks are not permitted to sell insurance, 
the principal loan officer was selling credit life insurance as agent, in 
a personal capacity. It was evident that the commissions influenced the 
terms of the. loans. This officer is no longer connected with the bank. 
In a State where banks are not permitted to sell insurance, 
the president of the bank had been selling credit life insurance, in a 
Personal capacity, on nearly all of the bank's loans. The commissions 
from these loans constituted an important supplement to his salary. 
In addition to the above-mentioned situations reported by the 
Federal Reserve Banks, it is possible that abuses, common to all varieties 
°f lenders, might also be practiced by banks. 
Where a borrower, covered by a bank's policy of group credit life 
insurance, discharges his indebtedness prior to its maturity, a refund of 
the "unearned" part of the premium or fee paid by the borrower should be 
forthcoming. However, in some situations it is retained by the lender 
rather than paid or credited to the borrower. Although the Model Act 
contains a provision which purports to cure this abuse, variations from 
State to State in the wording of this provision may permit the continuation 
°f this practice. For example, whereas the version enacted by New York 
[Banking Law § 108.4(e)(1) and Insurance Regulations § 185.8] provides for 
the refund of unearned premiums to be "paid or credited promptly to the 

- 
5 
-
debtor", in Texas [Art. 3.53 § 8], Arizona [§ 20-1611], and elsewhere, the 
recipient of the unearned premium is designated only as "the person 
entitled thereto". This wording could permit a lender to provide, in 
its contract with the insurer, that any such unearned premium be retained 
by the lender, rather than refunded to the debtor. 
Most versions of the Model Act contain provisions to the effect 
that when credit insurance coverage is required as a condition to a loan 
as additional security, the debtor shall have the option of satisfying 
such requirement with existing policies, or by procuring the required 
insurance coverage elsewhere. However, because of the inferior bargaining 
Position of the debtor, he may be susceptible to the loan officer's 
"suggestions" concerning choice of coverage, premium rates, insurer and 
agent. As a result, the debtor easily may receive the impression that 
his loan application may be more favorably considered if he follows such 
suggestions. 
The Model Act's provision that the amount charged the debtor by 
the lender cannot exceed the amount of actual premiums charged the lender 
by the insurer has not prevented the lender from receiving, if justified by 
claims experience, a premium refund, dividend, or retrospective rate credit. 
In 
the absence of appropriate regulation of credit life insurance, premium 
rates tend in many instances to be set at levels determined by the rate of 
return to the creditor (in the form of such "allowances") instead of on the 
basis of reasonable cost. Such "reverse competition" results in insurance 

charges to debtors which are unreasonable in relation to the benefits 
thereby provided to them. 
XXX. Requirement of credit life insurance as a condition of making consumer 
loans; practical alternative to purchasing such insurance from bank-
related insurers where insurance is required. 
The extent to which credit life insurance is required as a 
i 
condition for making consumer loans varies from State to State and from 
bank to bank. It is understood that this is one of the matters on which 
Senator Hart's Subcommittee has developed comprehensive data. The 
information received from the Federal Reserve Banks disclosed that the 
requirements of credit life insurance for direct, unsecured, installment 
consumer loans exists in one or another of the following patterns: 
(1) Credit life insurance covers all such loans; the 
charge is "built-in" to the total finance charges and is not 
disclosed as a separate identifiable cost to the borrower. 
(2) Credit life insurance is required on all such loans; 
solicitation occurs after the decision to grant the loan is 
made. The borrower has the option of furnishing existing policy 
protection or obtaining coverage elsewhere. 
(3) Credit life insurance is not required unless the 
existence of insurance is a significant factor in granting the 
loan. As in (2), above, the borrower has the option of furnishing 
existing policy protection or obtaining coverage elsewhere. 
VfTS" 

(4) Credit life insurance is not required; it is made 
available by the bank as a service,1at no separate cost to 
the borrower, but no reduction is made where he does not want 
the insurance. The total finance charge is usually set so as 
.3 
to defray the cost to the bank. 
(5) Credit life insurance, while not required, is 
considered pretty much part of the "package" to which 
installment borrowers have become accustomed in large city 
banks. In small banks, however, the decision to purchase 
credit insurance is more consciously made. 
Where the cost of credit life insurance covering direct unsecured 
installment consumer loans constitutes an identifiable charge, and where 
credit insurance is required as additional security for the making of a 
secured loan, most versions of the Model Act provide that the debtor must 
have the option of furnishing the required insurance through an existing 
Policy or of obtaining the coverage elsewhere than through the lender. 
Such alternatives, however, may not be practical. In the first 
Pi ace, most insurers who specialize in writing group credit life insurance 
use banks and other lenders as their outlets, bypassing the ordinary 
insurance agent. Secondly, in the typical credit insurance transaction, 
the borrower is not primarily interested in the insurance; the amount of 
Premium is small in relation to the balance of the transaction, the coverage 
is readily available only through the lender, and there is no evidence of 
the existence of any competition between lenders as to the insurance charge. 

Under these conditions, the borrower could not be expected to determine 
the value of the insurance to himself. He has little incentive to "shop" 
for this minor element of the total cost of the transaction. Together with 
the loan officer's "suggestions" mentioned above in Part II, this would 
seem to eliminate any practical alternative to obtaining coverage through 
' 11 
; •; 
the lender with whom one is negotiating a loan. 
' 
.A 
Board of Governors of 
The Federal Reserve System 
January 23, 1968 

1 3 b 
FOOTNOTES 
1/ 
statutory authority given to banks to sell credit life insurance: 
Massachusetts [ALM ch. 167 § 56 B] 
New Jersey [N.J.S.A. §§ 17:9A-70.1, 17:9A-70.2] 
New York [Banking Law § 108.4(c)(iv)] 
2/ 
Absolute prohibition against banks acting as agent for the sale of 
life insurance: 
Connecticut [Gen. Stat, of Conn. § 36-60] 
Hawaii [R.L. § 178-22.5] 
Kansas [articles of incorporation] 
Nevada [N.R.S. § 662.190] 
New Mexico [articles of incorporation] 
Oklahoma [articles of incorporation] 
Texas [Ins. Code Art. 21.05] 
Wisconsin [W.S.A. § 209.04; 43 Op. Atty. Gen. 181 (1954)] 
Wyoming [articles of incorporation] 
3/ 
Prohibition, in cities where population is in excess of certain figure, 
against banks acting as agent for the sale of life insurance: 
Arkansas [Ark. State. Ann. §§ 66-2810, 66-2811] 
California [Financial Code § 1208] 
Colorado [CRS § 14-3-1(2)] 
Nebraska [R.R.S. § 44-392] 
Washington [RCWA § 30.08.140] 
4/ 
As far as can be determined, Delaware and Missouri are the only States 
without statutes or administrative regulations pertaining to credit lite 
insurance. 
5/ 
The following are most, if not all of the States which have enacted, 
with variations, the "Model Act for the Regulation of Credit Life 
Insurance and Credit Health and Accident Insurance" which was 
promulgated by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners: 
Alaska [Alaska Statutes §§ 21.57.010 to 21.57.170] 
Arizona [A.R.S. §§ 20-1601 to 20-1616] 
Arkansas [Ark. Stat. Ann. §§ 66-3801 to 66-3819] 
California [Insurance Code §§ 779.1 to 779.25] 
Connecticut [Gen. Stat, of Conn. §§ 38-249 to 38-261] 
District of Columbia [D.C. Code §§ 35-1601 to 35-1612] 
Florida [F.S.A. §§ 627.0700 to 627.0709] 
Georgia [Ga. Code Ann. §§ 56-3301 to 56-3312] 
Idaho [Idaho Code §§ 41-2301 to 41-2316] 
Illinois [S.H.A. ch. 73 §§ 767.51 to 767.65] 
Indiana [Burns Stat. Ann. §§ 39-5601 to 39-5614] 
Maine [M.R.S.A. Tit. 24 §§ 1201 to 1214] 
Michigan [Mich. Stat. Ann. §§ 24.568(1) to 24.568(24)] 

1 3 7 
Montana [Rev. Codes §§ 40-4201 to 40-4217] 
Nebraska [R.R.S. §§ 44-1701 to 44-1713] 
Nevada [N.R.S. §§ 690.310 to 690.45Q] 
New Hampshire [R.S.A. §§ 408-A: 1 to 408-A:15] 
New Jersey [N.J.S.A. §§ 17:38A-1 to 17:38A-15] 
New Mexico [N.M.S.A. §§ 58-26-1 to 58-26-15] 
New York [Insurance Regulations §§ 185.1 to 185.11] 
Ohio [Page's Rev. Code Ann. §§ 3918.01 to 3918.99] 
Oregon [ORS §§ 739.565 to 739.620] 
Pennsylvania [P.S. Tit. 40 §§ 1007.2 to 1007.15] 
Rhode Island [Gen. Laws §§ 27-30-1 to 27-30-17; §§ 27-31-1 to 27-31-18] 
South Dakota [SDC 1960 Supp. §§ 31-36A 01 to 31.36A 14] 
Texas [Insurance Code Art. 3.53] 
Utah [Utah Code Ann. §§ 31-34-1 to 31-34-15] 
Vermont [U.S.A. t 8 §§ 4101 to 4115] 
Virginia [Va. Code §§ 381-482.1 to 38.1-482.16] 
Washington [RCWA §§ 48.34.010 to 48.34.910] 
Wyoming [W.S. &§ 26-151.1 to 26rl51.15] 
While affiliation between banks and insurance companies occur 
occasionally, interrelationships between banks and insurance 
agencies are, by far, more common. 

1 3 8 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 D 5 5 I 
• 
F T H E 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No. 2 
1/16/68 
January 18, 1968 
The Honorable William Proxmire, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Senator Proxmire: 
This is in further reference to your letter of December 12, 
1967, in which you asked for a review concerning the administration of 
the so-called Bank Service Corporation Act, particularly section 4 of 
the Act. You also inquired concerning the extent to which banks can 
organize the joint provision of computer services through devices 
other than the establishment of a bank service corporation. 
Finally, 
you invited any recommendations concerning the adequacy of the Act 
and the desirability of any additional legislation. 
It may be recalled, briefly, that the Bank Service Corpora-
tion Act of 1962 (12 U.S.C. 1861-1865) relaxed impediments in the 
Federal banking laws to the investment by banks subject to Federal 
supervision in corporations organized to perform "bank services" for 
banks. The legislative history makes it clear that the purpose of the 
measure was to enable banks, and especially small and medium sized 
banks, "to make use of modern automated equipment by means of stock 
ownership in a jointly owned bank service corporation". 
(S. Rept. 
No. 2105 on H.R. 8874, September 18, 1962, page 1) As indicated in 
your letter, a bank service corporation is prohibited by section 4 of 
the Act from engaging in any activity "other than the performance of 
bank services for banks". Section 3 of the Act is designed to prevent 
any unfair or anticompetitive use of a bank service corporation to the 
disadvantage of a non-stockholding bank applying for service from the 
corporation. In addition, section 5 of the Act -- as noted more fully 
below -- conditions the performance of bank services for Federally 
supervised banks, either by a bank service corporation or by others, 
upon the furnishing of assurances that the performance thereof will be 
subject to regulation and examination by the appropriate Federal super-
visory agency. 

23 
The Honorable William Proxmire - 3 -
Upon approval on October 23, 1962, of the Bank Service Corpora-
tion Act, which was effective immediately, the Board issued to all State-
chartered member banks an explanatory statement concerning the new law. 
The Board !s statement, published in the 1962 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
1428, was prompted princioally by section 5 of the Act and set forth 
procedures for compliance by State member banks with that section. 
Under section 5 of the Act "No bank subject to examination by 
a Federal supervisory agency may cause to be performed, by contract or 
otherwise, any bank services for itself, whether on or off its premises, 
unless assurances satisfactory to the agency . . . are furnished to such 
agency by both the bank and the party performing such services that the 
performance thereof will be subject to regulation and examination by 
such agency to the same extent as if such services were being performed 
by the bank itself on its own premises". Section 5 £oes on to specify 
that the required assurances with respect to regulation and examination 
shall be furnished to the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board, or the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, depending on whether the bank for 
which the services are to be performed is a national, State member, or 
nonmember insured banic. 
Section 5 of the Act was later implemented as to State member 
banks through the issuance by the Board, effective April 3, 1963, of its 
Regulation S (12 CFR 219). Essentially, Regulation S superseded, but 
without much change, that part of the Board's 196? statement relating to 
the required assurances with respect to regulation and examination. A 
pamphlet copy of the Regulation, entitled "Bank Service Arrangements", is 
enclosed. 
The only reference in the Act to the Board or other bank super-
visory agency is in section 5, as noted above. Most of the questions that 
the Board has received concerning the Act have related to section 5. None 
°f these questions has involved serious problems. 
As you were advised by my interim reply of January 2, 1968, we 
asked the Federal Reserve Banks for assistance in connection with your 
inquiry as to the joint provision by banks of computer services through 
devices or means other than bank service corporations. Replies of the 
Reserve Banks, based on information presently available at their offices, 
have now been received. 
The information so available suggests that there are not many 
instances of banks having arrangements for the joint provision of computer 
services as described in your letter. Five Federal Reserve Banks reported 
that they knew of no such instances. It has been assumed that you did not 
have in mind the fairly frequent instances of individual banks with computer 
equipment processing data for other banks, or to data processing for banks 
by independent data processing centers. 

1 4 0 
The Honorable William Proxmire - 3 -
In a few situations banks are reported to have entered into 
joint ventures pursuant to contractual arrangements for their coopera-
tive use of data processing equipment. Reported also was the establish-
ment and operation of a nonstock, nonprofit service organization to 
perform computerized services for several banks in connection with their 
regional credit card plan. This situation was the subject of the Board's 
interpretation published at 1967 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1912, a copy 
of which is enclosed. 
There are some instances of incorporated computer centers the 
stock of which is owned by officers of the banks for whom the center does 
data processing, rather than by the banks. Joint provision for computer 
services might also be made for groups of banks by means of incorporated 
computer centers the stock of which would be owned by stockholders of 
the banks involved, although no such situation not involving a bank hold-
ing company was reported. 
Finally, a few bank holding companies have established computer 
center subsidiaries through which subsidiary banks of the holding company 
are provided data processing service. An instance of this is covered in 
the enclosed copy of the Board's interpretation published at 1964 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 1137. 
As already noted, your letter made particular reference to 
section 4 of the Bank Service Corporation Act, which provides that "No 
bank service corporation may engage in any activity other than the per-
formance of bank services for banks". Although not concerned specifically 
with section 4, the Board's interpretation (published at 1964 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 1137) of a similar limitation in the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956 may be of interest. As the enclosed copy of the interpreta-
tion indicates, section 4(c)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1843) exempts from the prohibition in that section against the 
ownership of nonbanking companies by a bank holding company, the owner-
ship of shares in "any company engaged solely in the business of furnish-
ing services to or performing services for" the bank holding company or 
its subs-idiary banks. 
Section 4 of the Bank Service Corporation Act was commented on 
specifically by the Board in its unfavorable report of August 2, 1967, a 
copy of which is enclosed, to the House Committee on Banking and Currency 
°n two bills (H.R. 924 and H.R. 948) designed to restrict the data process-
ing activities of banks. In its comment concerning section 4, the Board 
said that "If a single bank owning data processing equipment may use its 
excess capacity for other than its own individual needs, . . . [bank] 
service corporations should likewise have that authority. To the extent 
that section 4 might be susceptible of an interpretation denying such 
authority, the section should be either clarified to make the existence 
of such authority unmistakably clear or repealed". As you are no doubt 

1 4 1 
The Honorable William Proxmire - 3 -
aware, the question of the power of national banks, individually, to 
process data for other banks and bank customers is the subject of pending 
litigation. We are not aware of any similar litigation involving State 
member banks. 
The Board at this time has no other recommendations concerning 
the adequacy of the Bank Service Corporation Act or for other legislation 
relative to the subject of your inquiry. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
'••••' . 
•• •• • 
•'.* -• - c 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosures 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, Da C. 
Item No. 3 
1/16/68 
In the Matter of the Request by 
THE MOODY FOUNDATION, 
Galveston, Texas, 
for a determination pursuant to 
section 2(g)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956, as amended. 
ORDER GRANTING DETERMINATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
The Moody Foundation, Galveston, Texas, a bank holding company 
within the meaning of section 2(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
( 1 2 U.S.C. 1841(a)), on the basis of ownership of (1) 49.6 per cent of the 
voting shares of The Moody National Bank of Galveston, Galveston, Texas, 
and (2) a one-half partnership interest in W. L. Moody & Co. Bank, Galveston, 
Texas, seeks to terminate said bank holding company status by selling and 
transferring the Foundation's interest in W. L. Moody & Co. Bank to 
ShearnMoody, Jr. It is contemplated that Mr. Moody will also acquire 
the other one-half partnership interest and will thereby become the sole 
Proprietor of W. L. Moody & Co. Bank. 
Under the provisions of section 2(g)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1841(g)(3)), shares transferred after January 1, 1966 by any bank holding 

113 
- 2 -
company to a transferee that has one or more officers, directors, trustees, 
or beneficiaries in common with or subject to control by the transferor are 
deemed to be owned or ontrolled by the transferor unless the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, after opportunity for hearing, 
determines that the transferor is not in fact capable of controlling the 
transferee. The Board has taken the position that a presumption of control 
within the meaning of section 2(g)(3) attaches where the transferor is a 
trust (as is the Foundation) and the transferee is one of its trustees. 
On this basis, and because Mr. Shearn Moody, Jr., the proposed 
transferee of the Foundation's interest in W. L. Moody & Co. Bank, is a 
trustee of the Foundation, the Board advised the Foundation that, in the 
°Pinion of the Board, consummation of the proposed transfer would not 
terminate the Foundation's ownership and control of its one-half interest 
i n W. L. Moody & Co. or the Foundation's bank holding company status, unless 
the Board, after opportunity for hearing, made a determination of the kind 
described in section 2(g)(3). The Foundation has requested such a deter-
mination, and it has submitted to the Board documentary evidence to support 
its contention that Mr. Shearn Moody, Jr. cannot in fact be controlled by 
the Foundation. 
Notice of an opportunity for hearing with respect to the 
Foundation's request for a determination under section 2(g)(3) was pub-
lished in the Federal Register on Tuesday, December 19, 1967 (32 F.R. 18126). 
^he time provided for requesting a hearing expired on January 8, 1968. 
No such request has been received by the Board, nor has any evidence been 

received to show that the Foundation is in fact capable of controlling 
Mr. Shearn Moody, Jr. 
IT IS HEREBY DETERMINED that The Moody Foundation is not in fact 
capable of controlling Mr. Shearn Moody, Jr. This determination is based 
uPon the evidence of record in this matter, including (1) a copy of a 
Memorandum of Agreement executed October 23, 1967, between The Moody 
Foundation and The Moody National Bank, Trustee, as Sellers and Shearn 
Moody, Jr., as Buyer, covering the sale of both one-half partnership 
interests in W. L. Moody & Co. Bank, (2) an affidavit by Mr. Shearn Moody, 
Jr., dated December 6, 1967, (3) a certified copy of a resolution of the 
Board of Trustees of The Moody Foundation adopted December 5, 1967, and 
fa) a certified copy of a resolution of the Trust Committee of The Moody 
National Bank of Galveston adopted December 6, 1967. 
Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that The Moody Foundation's request 
f°r a determination pursuant to section 2(g)(3) be and hereby is granted. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 16th day of January 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors, acting by its General Counsel 
Pursuant to delegated authority (12 CFR 265.2). 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL] 

B O A R D 
O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 4 
1/16/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N D t N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 16,- 1968 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
Dear Mr. Galusha: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of January 11, 1968, the Director of the Division of 
Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the appointment of Ronald James Pasco as 
an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
effective January 29, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

\
\ 2*. 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• 
F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
J 
Item No. 5 
1/16/68 
1 E! 
- 4 o 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 16, 1968 
Mr. Maurice J. Swords, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64198 
Dear Mr. Swords: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of January 11, 1968, the Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointment of Robert 
Duane Ward as an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City. Please advise the salary rate and 
the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1 4 7 
joTGOw.^ 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
COPY item No. 7 
1/16/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 16, 1968 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of January 12, 1968, the Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the designation of each of the following employees as a special 
assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco: 
E. L. Cook 
D. J. Christerson 
D. L. Gentile 
D. R. Gillespie 
R. W. Grambusch 
R. M. Ryan 
A. A. Horvay 
G. P. Ansell 
D. J. Phillips 
S. J. Kearny 
Appropriate notations have been made of the names to be 
deleted from our list of special assistant examiners. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1 4 8 
C
O
P
Y 
item No. 7 
1/16/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
New York, New York 10045 
January 16, 1968 
Mr. Frederick Hainfeld, Jr. 
President 
Long Island Trust Company 
82 Seventh Street 
Garden City, New York 
Dear Mr. Hainfeld: 
We refer to your bank's application requesting per-
mission to establish a branch in the immediate neighborhood 
of Wellwood and Gear Avenues, Unincorporated Village of North 
Lindenhurst, Town of Babylon, Suffolk County, New York. After 
reviewing the application in the light of the factors enumerated 
in Section 265.2(f)(1) of the Rules Regarding Delegation of 
Authority issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, we have concluded that your application should be 
approved. Accordingly, on behalf of the Board of Governors, 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, acting under delegated 
authority, approves the establishment by your bank of a branch 
office at the above-mentioned location, provided it is established 
within one year of the date of this letter. 
We shall appreciate your advising us when the branch 
is actually established and opened for business, giving the 
effective date of opening, the name, if any, by which it will 
be known, and the official postal address, including the zip 
code number. 
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter by signing 
and returning the enclosed copy to us. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Fred W. Piderit, Jr. 
Fred W. Piderit, Jr. 
Vice President 
Enclosure 

C O P Y 
149 
Item No. 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
1/16/68 
January 16, 1968 
Mr. Frederick Hainfold, Jr. 
President 
Long Island Trust Company 
82 Seventh Street 
Garden City, New York 
Dear Mr. Hainfold: 
We refer to your bank's application dated November 15, 
1967, requesting permission, pursuant to Section 24A of the 
Federal Reserve Act, to invest an additional $300,000 in bank 
premises. This investment would be in addition to the bank's 
present aggregate investment, as of November 15, 1967, of 
$3,460,384 which exceeds by $145,184 the amount that your bank 
is permitted by Section 24A to invest in bank premises. 
We have reviewed your bank's application in the light 
of the factors enumerated in Section 265.2(f)(7) of the Rules 
Regarding Delegation of Authority issued by the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System and, notwithstanding the existing 
over-investment in the bank premises account, we have concluded 
that your bank's application should be approved. Accordingly, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors, the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York, acting under delegated authority, approves under the pro-
visions of Section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act an additional 
investment in bank premises by Long Island Trust Company of an 
amount not to exceed $300,000 for the purposes set forth in your 
supplementary letter of November 24, 1967. 
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter by signing 
and returning the enclosed copy to us. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) F. W. P. Jr. 
Fred W. Piderit, Jr. 
Vice President 
Enclosure 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F 
Item No, 
« . . . 
1/16/68 
P H I L A D E L P H I A 
P o s t a l 
Z o n e 
1 
January 16, 1968 
Board of Directors 
The Fidelity Bank 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19109 
Dear Sirs: 
\ 
On behalf of the Bo 
Reserve System, acting under 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia^ app 
The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
on the northeast corner of Bait 
Conchester Road (Route^-322), Concdrd 
County, Pennsylvania; provided the 
in one year from yie d/ffis^ of\his letS 
This 
and factors: 
o^Goverhors of the Federal 
ated /authority, the Federal 
.oves/the/establishment by 
ania, of a branch 
e (Route l) and 
^nship, Delaware 
is established with-
lore 
ir^iew of the following opinions 
esently is regarded as 
Capital o3 
adequate. 
\
7 
Manageipa^t of your bank is regarded as adequate 
ived the convenience and needs of the 
11 be better served if the pro-
is established. 
iV-ie^believed the establishment of the pro-
posed branch will not tend to create an un-
desirable competitive situation (either actual 
or potential). 
5- It is believed there are good prospects for 
profitable operations of the proposed branch 
within a reasonable time and the bank's earn-
ings are adequate to sustain the operational 
losses of the proposed branch until it becomes 
profitable. 

E DERAL RESERVE B A N K OF P H I L A D E L P H I A 
-
li)l 
NO. 2 
To 
B o a r d o f Directors 
1/16/66 
6. Your bank's investment in bank premises after 
the expenditure for the proposed branch will 
"be reasonable. 
7. Counsel for this Reserve Bank considers that 
'establishment of the branch would be iti con-
formity with the provisions of section\20a.8 
of Regulation H and section 
oflTfre^ Re J 
vised Statutes. 
8. 
Establishment of the br* 
the Pennsylvania 
date of January 5, 
In connection with<the 
contemplates an expenditure oJ 
your bank's investment in bank 
bank's capital stock 
this expenditure. 
It is 
estate includes 
does not intend 
ing parking. It i 
of acquiring the land' 
the 10.3/^cresNfor $100") 
it is further understood 
good $roiyit tVthe ftank. 
approved by" 
Banking under 
oposed branch your bank 
real estate. Since 
exceeds the amount of your 
to obtain approval for 
sum or $175,000 for real 
tcres of land and that the bank 
and for bank premises, includ-
st^od that the bank had the choice 
out three acres) for $65,000 or 
elected to do the latter. And 
acres will be sold off at a 
This office has no delegated power to approve any ex-
penditure ror yourytank on land not to be used for bank premises. 
Accordingly, ^ppn^val/can only be granted for land ($65,000) on 
which the wcancn wUd be placed and for .the branch building 
($75,000) ors£or^artotal of $1^0,000. ±J 
Under the provisions of section 2^A of the Federal Re-
serve Act (12 U.S.C. 371(d)) the Federal Reserve Bank of Phila-
delphia, on behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System and acting under delegated authority from said Board, ap-
proves an investment of $lU0,000 by The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, in bank premises in connection with the establishment 
of the subject branch. This approval is granted in view of the 
following factors: 
1/ This is not to say necessarily that acquisition of the additional 
land would be illegal. It is to say that authority for such ad-
ditional acquisition does not rest on the provisions of section 
2UA of the Federal Reserve Act. 

J bV& 
P E DERAL RESERVE B A N K OF P H I L A D E L P H I A 
PAqE NO -> 
Tr. 
•3 
1 0 
Board of Directors 
1/16/68 
152 
1. 
2. 
The capitalization of The Fidelity Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, at present is 
considered adequate in relation to the 
character, and condition of its assets/arid to 
its deposit liabilities and other coriorXte 
responsibilities, including the volume\of\its 
risk assets and of its marginal/^md initeribr 
quality assets, all considerec^ln relationxto 
the strength of the bank's manager! 
Upon completion of the pr 
the bank's aggregate 
indirect) in bank 
of any wholly-owne 
will not exceed W pe 
capital funds (inci 
tures) plus valuation 
urs ver 
sed investment, 
(direct and 
the indebtedness 
subsidiary 
ie bank's total 
notes and deben-
R/ Campbell 
esident 
