FR 609 
Minutes for August 2, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the 'entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
i 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, August 2, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Carcjon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Eaton, Open Market Secretariat Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Smith, Eckert, 
Keir, Baker, Burns, Ettin, Fry, Kelty, and 
Kichline of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Reynolds, Ghiardi, Hersey, Bradshaw, 
Grimwood, Pizer, and Stem of the Division 
of International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Keir discussed developments in the 
Government securities market and Mr. Fry commented on bank credit 
conditions, after which Mr. Stem summarized foreign exchange market 
activities. Copies of the charts and tables used during the presenta-
tions have been placed in the Board's files. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Kenyon, 
Forrestal, Molony, Coyne, Solomon, Partee, Reynolds, Hersey, Leavitt, 

8/2/68 
-2-
Grimwood, and Pizer, and Mrs. Semia and the following entered the 
room: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Harris, Coordinator of Defense Planning 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Messrs. Doyle and Noble of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Shull, Lawrence, and King of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Goodfellow, Poundstone, Rumbarger, 
and Sanford of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on July 29 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and San Francisco on 
August 1, 1968, of the rates on discounts and advances in their exist-
ing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Reports on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to a report, for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion, on the competitive factors involved in the proposed acquisition 
of a portion of the assets and assumption of a portion of the liabili-
ties of the Sacramento branch of Bank of Trade of San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 
of California, also of San Francisco. The conclusion read as follows: 

K.. 
8/2/68 
-3-
There appears to be little, if any, competition 
existing between The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 
Corporation of California, San Francisco, and the 
Sacramento branch of the Bank of Trade, San Francisco. 
However, because of the opportunity for de novo branch-
ing in the State, there is potential for competition 
between them. The overall competitive effect of the 
proposal is slightly adverse. 
The Board recognizes that there is a question 
whether the ancillary agreement between Hongkong Bank 
and Bank of Trade not to compete in Sacramento is 
reasonable within the meaning of Section 1 of the 
Sherman Act. However, the Board expresses no opinion 
on this point. 
Discussion of a report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpo-
ration on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of 
Pittsfield Savings Bank, Pittsfield, New Hampshire, with New Hampshire 
Savings Bank, Concord, New Hampshire, resulted in agreement that the 
competitive effect should be described as "substantially adverse" 
rather than "adverse." The report was then approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Corporation in a form in which the conclusion read 
as follows: 
The proposed merger of Pittsfield Savings Bank and 
New Hampshire Savings Bank, Concord, would eliminate 
existing competition and further increase the concentra-
tion of time and savings deposits in the Concord-Pittsfield-
Suncook area. The competitive effect of the proposed merger 
would be substantially adverse. 
Application of United Virginia Bankshares. There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated July 26, 1968, from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation, with other pertinent papers, regarding 
the application of United Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Richmond, 

O O * 1 
8/2/68 
-4-
Virginia, to acquire at least 90 per cent of the voting shares of 
Staunton Bank, N.A., Staunton, Virginia, a proposed new bank into 
which would be merged The National Valley Bank of Staunton, Staunton, 
Virginia, under the charter of the former and the title of the latter. 
The Division recommended approval, as did the Banking Markets Section 
and the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
Comments by Mr. Lyon were followed by a discussion, at Governor 
Robertson's request, of the question of the point to which banking 
concentration should be allowed to proceed in any particular area 
before a halt was called. Comment was made that in some States con-
centration was already beyond the level where any further increase 
should ordinarily be permitted by supervisory authorities. It was 
difficult to generalize, however, because the economic profile of one 
State might warrant a degree of concentration that would not be appro-
priate in another. One important consideration was the number of 
smaller banking organizations that provided a potential for deconcen-
tration through entrance into local markets. 
Each of the members of the Board present then expressed himself 
in favor of the application except Governor Robertson, who said he 
would vote for denial because he believed it was necessary to give some 
indication that there were stopping points. The Bank Holding Company 
Act had been designed to control bank expansion, not encourage it. 
United Virginia Bankshares was the largest banking organization in the 

8/2/68 
-5-
State and controlled 14.3 per cent of total deposits in the State. 
Additional services were not needed in the Staunton area, and National 
Valley Bank was a sound institution. Although it had a management 
problem, that was not of sufficient importance to justify approving 
this acquisition. 
The application was thereupon approved, Governor Robertson 
di ssenting. It was understood that an order and statement reflecting 
th is decision would be drafted for the Board's consideration, and that 
a di ssenting statement also would be prepared. 
Messrs. Lyon, Noble, Shull, King, Lawrence, Burton, and 
Rumbarger then withdrew from the meeting. 
Armored car service (Item No. 1). There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated July 30, 1968, from the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations regarding a report prepared in response to a January 
1968 request by the Board to the Conference of Presidents for a study 
of the feasibility of obtaining contracts from armored car companies 
under which the System would assume the risks of loss on money ship-
ments with appropriate reduction in the cost of armored car services. 
The pertinent report by the Executive Committee of the Insurance Com-
mittee was approved at the June 1968 meeting of the Conference. 
The Committee, after a survey of armored car services and 
insurance coverage and discussion with representatives of the National 
Armored Car Association, concluded that it would not be feasible or 

/<.<o O 
8/2/68 
-6-
practical to obtain contracts under which the Reserve Banks would 
assume the risks of loss on shipments. The Committee therefore recom-
mended that no further action be taken. It noted that armored car 
companies carry blanket insurance coverage for their own protection 
and for all of their customers. The Federal Reserve Banks were only-
one of many customers covered by the blanket insurance, and such cov-
erage could not be segregated as to liability and cost. Even if the 
Reserve Banks assumed liability as self insurers, their contractual 
rate would not be reduced since armored car companies would continue 
to purchase and carry the same amount of insurance. Also, assumption 
of the risks of loss would require the Reserve Banks to undertake many 
functions such as supervising, inspecting, and prescribing minimum 
safeguards with respect to the armored carriers' equipment, guards, 
and vaults, and to undertake the settlement of losses. Moreover, 
public policy as expressed in the Interstate Commerce Act and various 
State laws contemplates that a shipper should not assume responsibility 
for the negligence or misconduct of a carrier. 
The Division recommended that the Board concur in the action 
of the Conference approving the report. A draft of letter to the 
Chairman of the Conference was attached. 
Governor Brimmer expressed concern about the System's incurring 
insurance costs unnecessarily. Obviously, the Reserve Banks could 
cover the risks involved here; instead they were paying premiums for a 

£338 
8/2/68 
-7-
service they really did not need. He had thought the cost of armored 
car service was a negotiated cost comprised of several elements, and 
if insurance was an element the Reserve Banks did not need, it should 
be possible to negotiate trade-offs so as to get some cost benefit. 
Governors Robertson and Daane expressed sympathy with Governor 
Brimmer's view, but observed that the matter appeared to be at an 
impasse since the armored car industry took the position that the 
insurance it must carry would-be the same with or without Federal 
Reserve contracts. 
After further discussion Governor Brimmer asked that he be 
recorded as not approving the findings of the Committee. He could not 
willingly acquiesce in continuing to pay for unnecessary insurance 
coverage. He felt that the Committee's exploration had been inadequate. 
The discussion then turned to the question of acknowledging 
the action taken by the Conference. Governor Brimmer spoke in favor 
°f noting the action with regret, but in no event indicating approval 
or concurrence. Governors Robertson and Daane suggested noting the 
report, with expression of regret that there seemed to be no alterna-
tive to paying for the insurance. Governors Maisel and Sherrill 
remarked that it did not seem advisable to use language that implied 
an expectation of further study. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
draft letter would be modified in line with the views expressed by the 

8/2/68 
-8-
majority. A copy of the letter subsequently transmitted is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
Equipment for relocation site. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated July 31, 1968, from Mr. Kelleher raising a question, 
in view of the Board's June 28, 1968, budget letter to the Federal 
Reserve Banks, whether the Richmond Bank should proceed at this time 
with the purchase of equipment (at an estimated cost of $250,000) 
necessary to make the Culpepet site operational for emergency reloca-
tion purposes. Construction was expected to be completed in September 
or October, and a delay in the purchase of equipment would mean that 
the site would not be fully operational until the spring of 1969. The 
Richmond Bank's opinion was that this item could and should be post-
poned unless the Board was anxious to push ahead. On the other hand, 
the equipment expenditure was small in relation to the overall cost. 
If the whole concept of the relocation site was valid, the view might 
be taken that the relocation area should be made operational as soon 
as possible. Therefore, Mr. Kelleher recommended that the Board 
request the Reserve Bank to proceed promptly to make the site opera-
tional. 
Governor Sherrill expressed agreement with the Reserve Bank's 
recommendation of deferral. Governor Daane inquired what effect the 
delay might have, and Mr. Kelleher referred to the prospect of higher 
prices. Governor Daane commented that that was not as relevant as the 

2940 
8/2/68 
_g_ 
question of how important it was to make the site operational. From 
the latter point of view, he believed there might be reason to go 
ahead. Governor Brimmer expressed agreement. The Board had spent a 
great deal of money on the site and should finish the project. 
Mr. Harris suggested that completion of the relocation area 
could be justified on the ground that the project was so near com-
pletion and that the budgetary restraint called for by the Administra-
tion was intended to apply principally to new starts rather than to 
nearly finished projects. Mr. Grimwood commented on the Federal Gov-
ernment's policy with respect to its own relocation facilities and 
expressed the view that it would seem consistent therewith if the 
Board went ahead to complete its relocation site. 
Governor Robertson observed that the site could be used for 
relocation purposes without full equipment and that postponement of 
the expenditure in a sense represented a gamble—one he would be 
willing to take--that the need for relocation would not arise within 
the next few months. 
Governor Maisel said he agreed with the view that the facility 
should be made operational as soon as possible. However, he thought 
it would be worth while to explore the possibility of postponing the 
Purchase of some items that were less urgent. 
After further discussion there was agreement with a suggestion 
that the staff separate the items of equipment according to the urgency 

8/2/68 
-io-
of the need for them, for discussion with Governor Maisel. It was 
understood that the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond would then be 
v 
informed, on the basis of that analysis and Governor Maisel's concur-
rence, which purchases should be made promptly and which should be 
deferred. 
Messrs. Harris and Ring then withdrew from the meeting. 
"Shell" facilities. On July 17, 1968, the Board discussed the 
implications of pending applications for foreign branches or overseas 
subsidiaries to be located in the Bahamas or elsewhere in the West 
Indies, the offices to be in essence "shell" facilities consisting 
typically of an address, a set of books, and a part-time manager sup-
plied in most cases by some institution currently operating in the 
area. The subject was held over for further study. Among the ques-
tions raised were the effect of the operation of such facilities on 
the U.S. balance of payments and the problem of defining a foreign 
"branch.11 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated July 29, 
1968, from Messrs. Sammons and Reynolds setting forth reasons in 
support of a conclusion that denial, on balance of payments grounds, 
°f aPplications to organize new foreign branches of U.S. banks, either 
o r the "shell" or of the more conventional variety, did not appear to 
be warranted, it seemed highly unlikely that the direct effect of 
branch operations on the balance of payments, calculated either on the 

O f ) 
/O J' 
8/2/68 
_u_ 
liquidity basis or on the official settlements basis, would be adverse 
Moreover, the activities of foreign branches and, more generally, the 
existence of the Euro-dollar market (which would continue even without 
participation by U.S. bank branches) probably had favorable indirect 
effects on the U.S. balance of payments. They enhanced the efficiency 
of foreign capital markets, for example, by facilitating the issuing 
of Euro-bonds by U.S. corporations and their foreign subsidiaries, and 
they probably encouraged the holding by foreigners of larger aggregate 
amounts of dollar assets than would otherwise be held. 
Also distributed was a memorandum of July 30, 1968, from the 
Legal Division stating that it seemed doubtful that a set of criteria 
could be devised that would satisfactorily determine what was or was 
not a foreign "branch" for all purposes. However, the memorandum set 
forth the following possible criteria: 
(1) At least one full-time officer with independent 
discretionary authority to conduct normal banking opera-
tions, including receipt of deposits and extension of 
credit, within policy guidelines and amount limitations 
generally similar to those applicable to comparable domes-
tic or foreign branches of such bank. 
(2) Independent physical facilities with direct 
public access. 
(3) The realistic prospect of being able to develop 
or more adequately serve a significant amount of foreign 
business, such as foreign affiliates or business connec-
tions of the bank's customers in the United States. 
Governor Brimmer remarked that there appeared to him to be two 
main issues. The first was whether the operation of shell offices 

O Q 
I n 
^ u ' i O 
8/2/68 
-12-
would be harmful or helpful to the U.S. balance of payments, and he 
noted the conclusions reached by Messrs. Sanations and Reynolds. Never-
theless, he believed caution was necessary to avoid using such a 
balance of payments analysis as a shield under which unsound banking 
practices could be tucked. If serious banking problems were involved, 
he was prepared to give balance of payments considerations second 
place. 
The next issue, Governor Brimmer said, was the definition of 
a foreign branch, and he believed that the Board should define minimum 
characteristics. The Legal Division's memorandum said in effect that 
the Board had authority to adopt any definition it wished, and the 
criteria suggested in the memorandum would, he believed, go a long way 
toward establishing appropriate ground rules. It would not seem desir-
able, however, for the Board to specify a minimum investment in facil-
ities . 
Governor Robertson inquired whether it might not be well to 
specify a full-time staff rather than "at least one full-time officer," 
and Governor Brimmer said he thought that might be in order. However, 
he did not believe the Board knew its ground well enough at present 
to adopt specific requirements, and he doubted that too much detail 
should be included. 
Governor Maisel said it seemed to him that the requirements 
should be sufficiently flexible to permit a bank to try to justify its 

2 3 4 4 
8/2/68 
-13-
particular set of proposed operating conditions, since they might vary 
from one location to another. 
Governor Robertson observed that if the Board did not give some 
indication of its requirements, there could be numerous applications 
from banks to establish facilities in the West Indies simply for the 
purpose of operating beyond the reach of reserve requirements and 
interest rate limitations. 
Mr. Shay observed that an argument could be made that the 
proposed "shell" facilities were not branches, and therefore there was 
no reason for the Board either to approve or disapprove them. On the 
other hand, he believed the context of the statutes centering foreign 
operations of U.S. banks in the Board provided ample support for the 
Board to regard these facilities as branches, and certainly the banks 
concerned had so regarded them in submitting their applications. 
Governor Maisel suggested that perhaps the advantages the 
applying banks hoped to gain could not be obtained unless the offices 
were regarded as foreign branches. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that any definition should 
be sufficiently comprehensive to put the offices in the branch cate-
gory, but should not be conclusive at the present time. 
Governor Brimmer remarked that he was not prepared to determine 
that the foreign offices were not branches. He was convinced that a 
mere post office drop should not appropriately be regarded as a branch, 

2345 
8 / 2 / 6 8 
- 1 4 -
but he would not require the kind of financial commitment that had to 
be made in establishing London branches. He was looking for a rule 
somewhere in between, with some minimum commitment, which could be 
made known so that banks would be aware of the criteria in presenting 
their applications. 
Governor Maisel suggested that a statement of criteria might 
be published in the Federal Reserve Bulletin, and Governor Daane 
inquired whether the Board should not have the benefit of an exchange 
of views with the Federal Reserve Banks and perhaps the Federal Advi-
sory Council. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that it should not be 
possible for a bank to have its business at any foreign location 
handled by another organization. 
If a bank was actually going into 
foreign business, it should do so at least through a unit of its own 
organization. 
Governor Sherrill commented that he could agree with the 
undesirability of a mail drop arrangement, yet he could not proceed 
from there to the view that a bank must spend all of the additional 
money necessary to establish and maintain a full-service branch. He 
noted that a requirement that a complete unit be established would 
only make the bank pay more to perform the same functions. He needed 
more weight of argument to persuade him that such a requirement should 
be imposed. 

8/2/68 
-15-
Governor Daane again expressed reluctance to publish any 
criteria until the questions had been clarified. He would like to 
know to what extent the applicant banks believed their own interests 
and those of the public would coincide, and how the applicants would 
take into account criteria such as had been suggested. 
After some discussion of the types of licenses available to 
banks operating in the Bahamas, Governor Brimmer stated that it was 
important to keep in mind the "foreign credit restraint program. Up 
to now there had been no controversy over allowing foreign branches 
°f U.S. banks to operate outside the program. However, it appeared 
obvious that the business of the proposed facilities in the Bahamas 
would actually be conducted at the head offices of U.S. banks. There-
fore, the guidelines of the program could be circumvented and the 
program could disintegrate. 
Governor Robertson then suggested that two choices appeared 
open to meet the immediate problem. One would be to inform the appli-
cants that the Board was not in a position at present to determine 
what attributes a foreign office must have to be approved as a branch, 
ask the staff to study the matter of definition further, and confer 
with the Federal Reserve Bank Presidents and other System groups. The 
other alternative would be to adopt minimum requirements such as the 
staff had suggested and inform banks that if they wanted to submit 
applications on that basis the Board would consider them, although the 
whole question was under study and the requirements might be changed. 

2347 
8/2/68 
-16-
Comments by Board members reflected a tentative preference for 
the first alternative, but it was understood that the subject would be 
discussed further at an early date before any decision was reached. 
Call report form. Governor Robertson said he was attending 
today a meeting of representatives of the Federal bank supervisory 
agencies looking toward the possibility of agreement on a proposed 
uniform call report form, on which comments from banks would be 
invited. There were a number -of questions still to be resolved, 
however. Before any proposed form was published, he would bring those 
questions to the Board for consideration. 
The meeting then adiourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On August 1, 1968, 
Governor Sherrill approved on behalf of 
the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
ugust 1, 1968, recommending the establishment of a new administrative 
Position in the truth in lending function of that Division. 
I q 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointmprn-g 
Milton W. Schober as Assistant to the Director, Division of 
fP^9n1Si°n a n d R eS u l a t i o n> with basic annual salary at the rate 
o t $20,439, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Roberta M. Bakke as Secretary, Office of the Secretary, with 
sic annual salary at the rate of $7,166, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Salary inrrPagn 
fr 
<!?Tid H u l e t t> Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
om ? 1 4> 8 8 9 to $15,849 per annum, effective August 11, 1968. 

2948 
8/2/68 
-17-
Permission to engage in outside activity 
Thomas A. Burnett, Guard, Division of Administrative Services, 
to work as a bus operator on a part-time basis. 
Governor Sherrill today approved on 
behalf of the Board memoranda recom-
mending the following actions relat-
ing to the Board's staff: 
Appointmpnf 
Cora L. Hall as Cashier, Cafeteria, Division of Administrative 
ervices, with annual salary at the rate of $2,186 (4-hour day), 
ettective the date of entrance'upon duty. 
Transfer 
th n D i a n? a R u t h T* W a l l a c e > from the position of Clerk-Typist in 
e Division of Personnel Administration to the position of Clerk-
ypist in the Division of Data Processing, with no change in basic 
salary at the rate of $4,231, effective August 11, 1968. 
On the dates shown, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
telegram and letters, copies of which 
are attached as indicated: 
•2a.August 
1Q 6ft 
% the Acting Director of the Division of 
^£ervision and Regulation 
item No. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
2 
^pproving the appointment of Jorge Brathwaite, 
ert J. Miller, John Nagelhout, and Michael A. 
A l e t t e as assistant examiners. 
j^-the Federal 
Bank of New York 
Rin!^ t 0 T h e Industrial Bank of Binghamton, 
3 
Binghamton, New York, granting an extension 
In lu 
** t h l n which to accomplish membership 
in the Federal Reserve System. 

294S 
8/2/68 
_18. 
On August 1, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
item No 
Letter to The Provident Bank, Cincinnati, 
4 
Ohio, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Montgomery. 
On August 2. 1968 
} F ' . - ' J 
. . . . 
By the Acting Director of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
5 
City approving the appointment "of David W. 
Major as assistant examiner. 
Letter to Marine Midland Trust Company of 
6 
Western New York, Buffalo, New York, approv-
ing the establishment of branches in Lockport 
and in Lewiston. 
-
By the Fedpral Reserve Bank of New York 
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
—
— 
Letter to The Amalgamated Bank of New York, 
7 
New York, New York, granting an extension of 
time within which to establish a branch in 
tne Bronx. 
•g^L-the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
8 
ennsylvania, approving the establishment of 
^ branch at 2301 North 29th Street and an 
nvestment in bank premises incident thereto. 
-gX-the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Letter to The Winters State Bank, Winters, 
9 
exas, waiving the requirement of six months' 
P n , 
withdrawal from membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 
Deputy Secretary 

.•.oO* GOV^'. 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
8/2/68 
A D D R E S S 
• FFI C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 5, 1968 
viU i: 
Mr. George H. Clay, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents, 
c/o Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64198 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
The Board understands that the Conference of Presidents, 
at its meeting on June 17, 1968, considered the report dated 
May 31, 1968, of the Executive Committee of the Insurance Com-
mittee, concerning a study of the possible assumption by Federal 
Reserve Banks of the risks of loss on armored car shipments. 
The Board notes that the Executive Committee was unable 
to find a feasible or practical solution to this problem, and 
that the Presidents' Conference accepted the report and approved 
the recommendation of the Executive Committee that no further 
action be taken on this matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
V 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

c 
c 
p 
0 
OiO 
Y 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
Item No. 3 
New York, New York 10045 
8/2/68 
August 1, 1968 
Mr. Richard N. Darpino 
Assistant Vice President 
The Industrial Bank of Binghamton 
Binghamton, New York 
13902 
Dear Mr. Darpino: 
We refer to your letter of July 24, 1968, requesting 
* 
extension of the time within which your bank may complete 
membership in the Federal Reserve System as approved by the 
Board of Governors on May 9, 1968. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors pf the* Federal 
serve Sy s t e m> the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, acting 
under delegated authority, has approved your request and 
xcends to October 8, 1968, the time with in which your bank may 
complete membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Kindly acknowledge receipt by signing and returning 
cne enclosed copy of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
\ 4 
' f 
a 
' ! 
. b i ' i ; , , . 
(s) Robert C. Thoman 
Robert C. Thoman 
Assistant Vice President 
Enclosure 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND 
Item No. 4 
8/2/68 
August 1, 1968 
Carl H. Lindner. 
President 
Provident Bank 
Cincinnati. Ohio 
»Jear Mr. 
Lindner: 
The application of your bank, dated May 7. 1968, for per-
suasion t o establish an out-of-town branch at 9751 Montgomery Road, 
Montgomery, Hamilton County, Ohio, has been reviewed by this bank. 
uPon investigation, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland finds that 
«*e capital of the bank is adequate, that its management is satisfactory. 
the proposed branch will serve the convenience and needs of the 
community, and that it will not tend to create an undesirable, 
com-
petitive situation. 
Accordingly, on behalf of the Board of Governors 
° 
t h e f e d e r a l Reserve System, acting under delegated authority, the 
A e c * e r * l Reserve Bank of Cleveland hereby approves the establishment 
* branch by your bank at 9751 Montgomery Road, provided the branch 
1 8 e®Ubllehed within one year from the date of this letter. 
On the day operations a r e started, will you please wire us that 
• branch has been officially opened for business. 
Very truly yours, 
H. W. Huning 
Vice President 

V 
2* 
I : 
ft* 
B D A R D 
D F 
G C 3 V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 5 
8/2/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S B 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 2, 1968 
Mr, Maurice J. Swords, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64198 
Dear Mr. Swords: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
Mr. Scott's letter of July 29, 1968, the Acting Director of 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation, on behalf of the 
Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointment of David W. Major as an assistant examiner for 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. Please advise the 
salary rate and the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

OTGOV^.. 
^LRES^;. 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
8/2/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 2, 1968. 
Board of Directors, 
Marine Midland Trust Company of 
Western New York, 
Buffalo, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation, on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the establishment of branches by Marine Midland 
g S t Company of Western New York, Buffalo, New York, at 21 Cottage 
treet, Lockport, New York, and at the northeast corner of the 
intersection of Cayuga and South Seventh Streets, Lewiston, New 
ork, provided the branches are established within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
. 
I n considering these applications, it has been deter-
n e 
that your bank's management is satisfactory, that the 
c
r ° p o S e d branches will serve the convenience and needs of the 
^ommunities, and that establishment of the branches will not tend 
c a
 c r e a t e an undesirable competitive situation. Your bank's 
Pital position deserves your continuing close attention. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 7 
8/2/68 
AUG 2 
" 
I l c h e l u X.. Afnito 
Jaeoutive n e t frtil««Bi 
A w l g m t t d Btak of V«v York 
H - 1 5 Onion Square 
Torh, lev York 
1000J 
* Mr* A g a H t i 
Ve refer to your lottor of July aj, 1968, requesting 
•^tension of the tine within which your bonk aoy establish 
r m n o h in Shopping Coator So. 1, Co-Op City, Bronx, low York 
Beserve Bank of Bev York, noting 
u n a ® r *«legeted authority, on Oetober 19,1967. 
On hohalf of tho Board of Governors, tho Federal 
• # r r® 
of lav York, acting undor delegated authority, 
v
i
y
Q
m
r 
'•tuest end extends to April 19, 1969 tho tine 
location*1** y ° U r 
*mjr 
• branch at tha above 
Wo shall approolato your advising us vhon tho branch 
•stablishod and oponod for business, giving tho offoctivo 
«B«»ing, tho nana, if any, by vhleh It vill bo known, 
* 
official poatal addross, including tho tip oodo nunber 
an* ^ 
Please ncknowledge receipt of this lottor by signing 
** returning the enclosed copy to us. 
•cry truly yours, 
*»Kivg 
Robert C. Thcaan 
Assistant flee President 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA 
1 9 1 0 1 
Item No. 8 
8/2/68 
August 2, 1968 
Board of Directors 
The Fidelity Bank 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
Dear Sirs: 
On behalf of the Board of Gp^ernoS of the 
Reserve System, acting under delejfate^-a*rth6rity, the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philad^3^hij^r>r,r\v-ei the establish-
ment by The Fidelity Bank, Ph^adei^hia/Ten/isylvania, of 
a branch at 2301 North 29th Stx^t^Xl^adplphia, Pennsylvania, 
provided the branch is ^a^abliBheH, vithtrf six months of the 
date of this letter. 
This act/on 
and factors: 
view ofcthK following opinions 
5. 
6. 
CanitaX oAyour barjk lk regarded as adequate. 
naremen^ofV^ur/Hank is regarded as Adequate. 
believeTTthe convenience and needs of the 
will be better served if the proposed 
s established. 
believed the establishment of the proposed 
^ 
ch will not tend to create an undesirable 
competitive situation (either actual or potential), 
It is believed there are good prospects for 
profitable operations of the proposed branch 
within a reasonable time and the bank's earnings 
are adequate to sustain the operational losses 
of the proposed branch until it becomes profitable, 
Your bank's investment in bank premises after the 
expenditure for the proposed branch will be 
reasonable. 

o n 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK o r 
PHILADELPHIA 
PAGE NO 
~ 
M 
2 
T O Board of Directors 
0 / 2 / 6 8 
7. Counsel for this Reserve Bank considers that 
establishment of the branch would be in con-
formity with the provisions of section 205.8 
of Regulation H and section 5155 of the 
Revised Statutes. 
8. Establishment of the branch was approved by/th\ 
Pennsylvania Department of Banking under daie 
of July 30, 1968. 
In connection with the proposed branch 
banfc^on-tamplates 
*** expenditure of $lUo,000 in bank premises. Since youT-bam^s i W s t m e n t 
in bank premises exceeds the amount of your bank's capital stocKitVill 
b e necessary to obtain approval for this expenditure. 
Under the provisions of sectio 
Act (12 U.S.C. 371(d)the Federal Rese 
behalf of the Board of Governors of the , 
^der delegated authority from said Boar,*, 
1^0,000 by The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia> 
in connection with the establishm^nt-^of the 
1 8 granted in view of the following fa 
1. The capitali/ati 
Philadelphia!, P^nnsvlvan 
adequate in 
condition of i 
liabilities and b<he 
bili€ies ,\includinXvthe' vo 
of its mar 
ua^ity a!sset 
to(the stren 
Federal Reserve 
adelphia, on 
System and acting 
investment of 
lvania, in bank premises 
branch. This approval 
delity 3£nk, 
considered 
character and 
to/its deposit 
rirte responsi-
ie of its risk 
and inferior 
all considered in relation 
the bank's management. 
2. 
m Completion or the proposed investment, 
the^aniKs aftgrwate investment (direct and 
indir^t) In bink premises plus the 
indebtedneas^of any wholly-owned bank premises 
subsidiary will not exceed 1*0 percent of the 
bank's total capital funds (including capital 
notes and debentures) plus valuation reserves. 
Yours sincerely, 
f. Ik CsafcaAl 
Joseph R. Campbell 
Vice President 

C O P Y 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS 
DALLAS. TEXAS 75222 
Item No. 9 
8/2/68 
Adjust 2, 1968 
of Directors 
J 1 0 inters State Bank 
0. Box 127 
Winters, Texas 79567 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to President Wood ow F. Watts' letters of 
1
U S 
^ 
July 26, 1968, to gether with the resolution dated July 22, 
RIo ' 
your intention to i/ithdraj from membership in the Federal 
.f®rva System and requesting; jaiver of the six months1 notice of such 
withdrawal. 
. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
t h l s ^ ^ 
h a" w a i v e d the requirement of si:: months1 notice of 
RE 1 
/al# 
U n d e r t h G provisions of Section 2J8.1>(C) of the Board's 
mixtion H, your institution may accomplish termination of its membe . -
tion ^ ^ 
tiraG w i t h l n eibllt months from the date that notice of inten-
^toekt0 ^ ^ d r a w fr0in membership was ^iven. Upon surrender to this bank 
" 
k issued to your institution, such stock will be cancelled and aporo-
i l a t e refund will be made thereon. 
Co • 
When you have been advised by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
£ o r ^ I a t i 0 n 0:f 
c°ntinuance of deposit insurance, pieese forward us 
o t . refund the stock of this bank held by you and also your certificate 
iaenibe-3rBhlp i n t h e F o d Q r a l Reserve System, thereby terminating your 
tionsI 3iliP* 
Y 0 U i l e t t e r transmitting this stock should contain instruc-
fa-. 
* S 
^ke disposition of your reserve account balance ;jJid the trans-
- of securities, if any, ,/hich are held in safekeeninr for the account 
^ u r bank by us. 
can be of any further assistance, please feel free to 
-ail on us. 
Sincerely, 
Thomas R. Sullivan 
Vice President 
c : Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 
